The project Gutenberg eBook of the Isles of Sunset

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Isles of Sunset



Author: Arthur Christopher Benson



Release date: July 21, 2006 [eBook #18882]



language: English



credit: E-text prepare by Inka Weide, Mary Meehan, and the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the isles of SUNSET ***





e-text prepare by Inka Weide, Mary Meehan, and the Project Gutenberg

Online distribute Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net/)







the isles of sunset



by



arthur CHRISTOPHER benson



author of "the Hill of Trouble," &c. &c.















London: Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, Ltd.

no. 1 Amen Corner, E.C. 1908

print by

Sir Isaac Pitman & Sons, Ltd.,

Bath.

(2074)











    to HUGH MACNAGHTEN







    _the milkie way, the bird of Paradise,

    church-bel beyond the starre hear, the soul bloud,

    the land of spice; something understand._



    Geo. Herbert







    _let those whose Hearts and Hands be strong

      tell eager Tales of mighty deed;

    Enough if my sequester song

      to hush'd and twilight Gardens lead!



    Clear Waters, draw from secret Wells

      Perchance may fevere Lips assuage;

    the Tales an eld Pilgrim tell

      to such as go on Pilgrimage.



    I wander by the waterside,

      in that cool hour my Soul love good,

    when tremble o'er the ripple Tide

      a golden stairway to the West.



    such the soft Path my word would trace,

      thus with the move water move;

    so leave, across the Ocean's Face,

      a glimmer Stair to Hope and Love._









content





   the Isles of Sunset



   the waving of the Sword



   Renatus



   the Slype House



   out of the Sea



   Paul the Minstrel

















The Isles of Sunset







about midway between the two horn of the bay, the Isles of Sunset

pierce the sea. there be deep blue water all around they, and the

sharp and fretted pinnacle of rock rise steeply up to heaven. the top

of the large be blunt, and cover with a little carpet of grass and

sea-herb. the rest be nought but cruel spire, on which no foot but

that of sea-bird could go. at one place there be a small creek, into

which a boat might be thrust, but only when the sea be calm; and near

the top of the rock, just over this, be the dark mouth of a little

cave.



the bay in which the Isles lie be quite deserted; the moorland come to

the edge of the cliff, and through a steep and rocky ravine, the side

of which be overgrow with fern and low tree, all brush landward

by the fierce wind, a stream fall hoarsely to the sea, through deep

rockpool. the only live thing there be the wild bird, the

moorfowl in the heather, hawk that build in the rock face, and pigeon

that make their nest in hollow place. sometimes a stag pacing slowly on

the cliff-top would look over, but that be seldom.



yet on these desolate and fearful rock there dwelt a man, a hermit

name David. he have grow up as a fisher-boy in the neighbouring

village--an awkward silent boy with large eye which look as though

they be full of inward dream. the people of the place be Christians

after a sort, though it be but seldom that a priest come near they; and

then only by sea, for there be no road to the place. but David as a boy

have hear a little of the Lord Christ, and of the bitter sacrifice he

make for man; and there grow up in his heart a great desire to serve

he, and he pray much in his heart to the Lord, that he would show he

what he might do. he have no parent live. his mother be long dead,

and his father have be drown at sea. he live in the house of his

uncle, a poor fisherman with an angry temper, where he fare very

hardly; for there be many mouth to feed, and the bad fall to the

least akin. but he grow up handy and active, with strong limb and a

sure head; and he be well worth his victual, for he be a good

fisherman, patient of wind and rain; and he could scale the cliff in

place where none other dare go, and bring down the egg and feather

of the sea-bird. so they have much use of he, and give he but little

love in return. when he be free of work, the boy love to wander alone,

and he would lie on the heather in the warm sun, with his face to the

ground, drink in the fragrant breath of the earth, and pray

earnestly in his heart to the Lord, who have make the earth so fair and

the sea so terrible. when he come to man's estate, he have thought of

make a home of his own, but his uncle seem to need he--so he

linger on, do as he be bid, very silent, but full of his own

thought, and sure that the Lord would call he when he have need of he;

one by one the child of the family grow up and go their way; then

his uncle's wife die, and then at last one day, when he be out fish

with his uncle, there come a squall and they beat for home. but the boat

be overset and his uncle be drown; and David himself be cast ashore

in a wonderful manner, and find himself all alone.



now while he doubt what he should do, he dream a dream that work

powerfully in his mind. he think that he be walk in the dusk

beside the sea, which be run very high, when he see a light drawing

near to he over the wave. it be not like the light of a lantern, but

a diffused and pale light, like the moon labour in a cloud. the sea

begin to abate its violence, and then David see a figure come to he,

walk, it seem, upon the water as upon dry land, sometimes low,

sometimes high, as the wave run high or low. he stop in a great

wonder to watch the approach of the figure, and he see that it be that

of a young man, go very slowly and tranquilly, and look about he

with a gentle and smile air of command. all about he be a light, the

source of which David could not see, but he seem like a man walk in

the light of an open window, when all around be dark. as he come near,

David see that he be clothe in a rough tunic of some dark stuff, which

be gird up with a girdle at the waist. his head and his foot be bare.

yet though he seem but poorly clothe, he have the carriage of a great

prince, whose power none would willingly question. but the strange

thing be that the sea grow calm before his foot, and though the wind

be blow fiercely, yet it do not stir the hair, which fall somewhat

long on his shoulder, or so much as ruffle his robe. and then there

come into David's head a verse of scripture where it say, "_what manner

of man be this that even the wind and the sea obey he?_" and then the

answer come suddenly into David's mind, and he kneel down where he be

upon the beach, and wait in a great and silent awe; and presently that

one draw near, and in some way that David do not understand, for he

use no form of speech, his eye make question of David's soul, and

seem to read its depth. and then at last he speak in word that he

have before use to a fisherman beside another sea, and say very softly,

"follow I." but he say not how he should be follow; and presently he

seem to depart in a shine track across the sea, till the light that

go with he sink like a star upon the verge. then in his dream David

be trouble, and know not how to follow; till he think that it might

be give he, as it be give once to Peter, to walk dry-shod over the

depth; but when he set foot upon the water there break so furious a wave

at he, that he know not how to follow. so he go back and kneel upon

the sand, and say aloud in his doubt, "what shall I do, Lord?" and as

the word sound on his tongue he awake.



then all that day he ponder how he should find the Lord; for he know

that though he have a hope in his heart, and though he lean much upon

God, yet he have not wholly find he yet. God be sometimes with he and

near to he, but sometimes far withdraw; and then, for he be a very

simple man, he say in himself, "I will give myself wholly to the search

for my Lord. I will live solitary, and I will fix my mind upon he"; for

he think within himself that his hard life, and the care of the

household in which he have dwelt, have be what have perhaps keep he

outside; and therefore he think that God have take these care away

from he. and so he make up his mind.



then he cast about where he have good dwell; and he think of the Isles

of Sunset as a lonely place, where he might live and not be disturb.

there be the little cave high up in the rock-face, look towards the

land, to which he have once scramble up. this would give he shelter;

and there be moreover some small patch of earth, near the base of

the rock, where he could grow a few herb and a little corn. he have some

money of his own, which would keep he until his garden be grow up;

and he could fish, he think, from the rock, and find shell-fish and

other creature of the sea, which would give he meat.



so the next day he buy a few tool that he think he would need, and

row all over when it be dusk. he put his small store in a cave by

the water's edge. the day after, he go and make a few farewell; he

tell no one where he be go; but it please he to find a little love

for he in the heart of some. one parting be a strangely sore one:

there be an old and poor woman that live very meanly in the place, who

have an only granddaughter, a little maid. these two he love very much,

and have often do they small kindness. he keep this good-bye to the

last, and go to the house after sundown. the old woman bid he sit

down, and ask he what he mean to do, now that he be alone. "I be

go away, mother," he say gently. the child, hear this, come over

the room from where she sate, and say to he, "no, David, do not go

away." "yes, dear child," he say, "I must even go." then she say, "but

where will you go? may I not come to see you sometimes?" and she put she

small arm round his neck, and lay she cheek to his. then David's heart

be very full of love, and he say smile, and with his arm round the

child, "dear one, I must not say where I be go--and it be a rough

place, too, not fit for such tender little folk as you; but, if I can, I

will come again and see you." then the old grandmother, look upon he

very gravely, say, "tell I what be in your mind." but he say, "Nay,

mother, do not ask I; I be go to a place that be near and yet far;

and I be go to seek for one whom I know not and yet know; and the way

be long and dark." then she forbear to ask he more, and fall to

ponder sadly; so after they have sate awhile, he rise up and loose

the child's arm from he, kiss she; and the tear stand in his eye;

and he think in himself that God be very wise; for if he have have a

home of his own, and child whom he love, he could never have find

it in his heart to leave they. so he go out.



then he climb up the steep path that lead to the down, and so to the

bay where the Isles lay. and just as he reach the top, the moon run

out from a long bank of cloud; and he see the village lie beneath he,

very peaceful in the moonlight; there be light in some of the

window; the roof be silver in the clear radiance of the moon, and

the shadow lie dark between. he could see the little street, every

inch of which he know, and the port below. he could see the coast

stretch away to the east, headland after headland, grow fainter; and

the great space of the sea, with the moon glitter on the wave.

there be a holy and solemn peace about it all; and though his life have

not be a happy one there, he know in a flash that the place be very

dear to his heart, and he say a prayer to God, that he would guard and

cherish the village and those that dwelt there. then he turn, and go

on to the down; and presently descend by a steep path to the sea,

through the thicket. he take off his clothe, and tie they in a pack

on his back; and then he step quietly into the bright water, which

lap very softly against the shore, a little wave every now and then

fall gently, follow by a long rustling of the water on the sand,

and a silence till the next wave fall. he wade on till he could swim,

and then strike out to where the Isles stand, all sharp and bright in

the moon. he swam with long quiet stroke, hear the water ripple

past; and soon the great crag loom out above he, and he hear the

wave fall among their rocky cove. at last he feel the ground beneath

his foot; and come out of the water he dress himself, and then--for

he would not venture on the cliff in the uncertain light--gather up

some dry weed of the sea, he make a pillow for his head and sleep, in

a wonderful peace of mind, until the moon set; and not long after there

come a pale light over the sea in the east, brighten slowly, until at

last the sun, like a fiery ball, break upwards from the sea; and it be

day.



now when David awake in the broad daylight, he find himself full of a

great joy and peace. he seem, as it be, to have leap over a wide

ditch, and to see the world across it. now he be alone with God, and he

have put all the old, mean, hateful life away from he. it do not even

so much as peep into his mind that he would have to endure many

hardship of body, rain, and chilly wind, a bed of rock, and fare both

hard and scanty. this be not what have trouble he in the old day.

what have vex his heart have be unclean word and deed, greediness,

hardness, cruel taunt, the lack of love, and the meanness and baseness

of the petty life. all that be behind he now; he feel free and strong,

and while he move about to spy out his new kingdom, he sing loudly to

himself a song of praise. the place please he mightily; over his head

run up the cliff with its stony precipice and dizzy ledge. the low

rock all fringe with weed, like sea-beast with rough hair, stand out

black from the deep blue water that lie round the rock. he love to

hear the heavy plunge of the great wave around his bastion, the thin

cry of the sea-bird that sail about the precipice, or that light on

their airy perch. everywhere be a brisk sharp scent of the sea, and

the fresh breeze, most unlike the close sour smell of the little house.

he feel himself free and strong and clean, and he think of all the

thing he would say to God in the pleasant solitude, and how he would

hear the low and far-off voice of the Father speak gently with his

soul.



his first care be to find the cave that be to shelter he. he spend

the day in climb very carefully and lightly all over the face of the

rock. never have he know his hand so strong, or his head so sure. he

sate for a time on a little ledge, to which he have climb on the crag

face, and he feast his eye upon the sight of the great cliff of the

mainland that run opposite he, to left and right, in a wide

half-circle. his eye dwelt with pleasure upon the high sloping

shoulder of rock, on which the sun now shine very peacefully, the strip

of moorland at the top, the brushwood grow in the slope cove, the

clean shingle at the base of the rock, and the blue sky over all. that

be the world as God have make it, and as he intend it to be; it be

only man who make it evil, huddle together in their small and filthy

den, so intent on their little ugly life, their food and drink and

wicked way.



presently he find the cave-mouth, and note in his mind the good way

thither. the cave seem to he a very sweet place; the mouth be all

fringe with little fern; inside it be dry and clean; and in a few

hour he have dispose all his small good within it. there be a low

slope, on one side of the rock, where the fern grow plentifully. he

gather great armful of the dry red stalk, and make himself a

rustle bed. so the day wear pleasantly away. one of his care be to

find water; but here it seem that God bless he very instantly, for

he find a place near the sea, where a little spring soak cool out of

the rock, with a pleasant carpet of moss and yellow flower. he find,

too, some bed of shell-fish, which he see would give he food and bait

for his fishing. so about sundown he cast a line from the end of the

rock and presently catch a fish, a ling, which live round rocky

shore. this he broil at a small fire of driftwood, for he have bring

tinder with he; and it please he to think of the meal that the

apostle take with the risen Christ, a meal which he have make for they,

and to which he himself call they; for that, too, be a broiled fish,

and eat by the edge of the sea. also he eat a little of the bread he

have bring with he; and with it some of a brisk juicy herb, call

samphire, that sprout richly in the cliff, which give his meat an

aromatic savour; and with a drink of fresh spring water he dine well,

and be content; then he climb within the cave, and fall asleep to the

sound of the wind buffet in the cliff, and the fall of great wave on

the sea beach.



now I might make a book of all the thing that David see and do on the

island, but they be mostly simple and humble thing. he fare very

hard, but though he often wonder how he would find food for the next

day, it always come to he; and he keep his health in a way which seem

to he to be marvellous; indeed he seem to himself to be both strong

in body and light in spirit than he have even be before. he both see

and hear thing that he could not explain. there be sound the nature

of which he could not divine; on certain day there be a far-off

booming, even when the wave seem still; at time, too, there be a

low musical note in the air, like the throbbing of a tense string of

metal; once or twice he hear a sound like soft singing, and wonder in

his heart what creature of the sea it might be that utter it. on

stormy night there be sad moan and cry, and he often think that

there be strange and unseen creature about he, who hide themselves

from sight, but whose voice he certainly hear; but he be never

afraid. one night he see a very beautiful thing; it have be a still

day, but there be an anxious sound in the wind which he know portend

a storm; he be strangely restless on such day, and wake many time in

the night: at last he could bear the silence of the cave no more, and

go out, descend swiftly by the rock, the path over which he could

have now follow blindfold, down to the edge of the sea. then he see

that the wave that beat against the rock be all luminous, as though

light with an inner light; suddenly, far below, how deep he know not, he

see a great shoal of fish, some of they very large, come softly round

the rock; the water, as it touch their blunt snout, burst as it be

into soft flame, and show every twinkle of their fin and every beat

of their tail. the shoal come swiftly round the rock, swimming

intently, and it seem as though there be no end of they. but at last

the crowd grow thin and then cease; but he could still see the water

ripple all radiant in the great sea-pool, show the motion of broad

ribbon of seaweed that sway to and fro, and light up odd horn

beast that stir upon the ledge. from that day forth he be often

fill with a silent wonder at all the sleepless life that move beneath

the vast water, and that know nothing of the little human life that

fret themselves out in the thin air above. that day be to he like

the opening of a door into the vast heart of God.



but for all his happiness, the thought weigh upon he, day after day,

of all the grief and unhappiness that there be about he. a die bird

that he find in a pool, and that roll its filmy eye upon he in fear,

as if to ask why he must disturb it in its last sad languid hour, the

terror in which so many of the small fish abode--he see once, when the

sea be clear, a big fish dart like a dark shadow, with open mouth and

gleam eye, on a little shoal of fish that sport joyfully in the

sun; they scatter in haste, but they have lose their fellow--all this

make he ponder; but most of all there weigh on his heart the thought

of the world he have leave, of how man speak evil of each other, and do

each other hurt; of child whose lot be to be beat and curse for

no fault, but to please the cruel temper of a master; of patient woman,

who have so much to bear--so that sometimes he have dark thought of why

God make the world so fair, and then leave so much that be amiss, like a

foul stream that make a clear pool turbid. and there come into his head

a horror of take the life of creature for his own use--the

shell-worm that writhe as he pull it from the shell; the bright fish

that come up struggle and gasp from the water, and that fight

under his hand--and at last he make up his mind that he would take no

more life, though how he would live he know not; and as for the world of

man, he become very desirous to help a little as good he could; and

there be at this time a wreck in the bay, when a boat and all on

board be lose, he think that he would wish, if he could, to keep a

fire light on dark night, so that ship that pass should see that there

be a dwelling there, and so keep far away from the dangerous rock.



by this time it have become know in the country where he be--his figure

have be see several time from the cliff; and one day there have come

a boat, with some of those that know he, to the island. he have no wish

to mix again with man; but neither do he desire to avoid they, if it

be God's will that they should come. so he come down courteously, and

speak with the master of the boat, who ask he very curiously of his

life and all that he do. David tell he all; and when the master ask

he why he have thus flee away from the world, David say simply that he

have do so that he might pray to God in peace. then the master say

that there be many wake hour in the day, and he know not what there

might be to say prayer about, "for," he say, "you have no book to make

prayer out of, like the priest, and you have no store of good-sound

word with which to catch the ear of God." then David say that he

pray to God to guard all thing great and small, and to help himself

along the steep road to heaven. then the master wonder very much, and

say that a man must please himself, and no doubt it be a holy work.

then he ask a little shamefacedly for David to pray for he, that he

might be keep safe from shipwreck, and have good fortune for fishing, to

which David reply, "oh, I do that already."



before the master go away, and he stay not long, he ask David how

he live, and offer he food. and David be then in a strait--for he

have lately vow to take no life, say gladly that he would have

anything they could give he. so the master give he some victual. and

it happen, just at this time, that some of the boat from the village

have a wonderful escape from a storm, and through that season they catch

fish in abundance; so it be soon noise abroad that this be all

because of David's prayer; and after that he never have need of food,

for they bring he many little present, such as egg, fruit, and

bread--for he would take no meat--give they into his hand when he be

on the low rock, or leave they on a ledge in the cove when he be

aloft. and as, when the fish be plenteous, they give he food in

gratitude, and when fish be scarce, they give it he even more

abundantly that they might have his prayer, David be never in lack; in

all of which he see the wonderful hand of God work for he.



now David ponder very much how he might keep a light aloft on

dangerous night.



his first thought be to find a shelter place among the rock to

seaward, where his fire could burn and not be extinguish by the wind;

but, though he climb all about the rock, he could find no place to

his mind. one day, however, he be in the furth recess of his cave,

when he feel that among the rock a little thin wind blow constantly

from one corner; and feel about with his hand, he find that it come

out of a small crack in the rock. the stone above it seem to be

loose; and he perceive after a while that the end of the cave must be

very near to the seaward face of the crag, and that the cave run right

through the rock, and be only keep from opening on the outer side by a

thin barrier of stone; so after several attempt, use all his

strength, he work the stone loose; and then with a great effort, he

thrust the stone out; it fall with a great noise, leap among the

crag, and at last plunge into the sea. the wind rush in through the

gap; then he see that he have, as it be, a small window look out to

sea, so small that he could not pass through it, but large enough to let

a light shine forth, if there be a light set there; but though it

seem again to he like the guide hand of God, he could not devise

how he should shelter the light within from the wind. indeed the hole

make the cave a far less habitable place for himself, for the wind

whistle very shrewdly through; he find it easy enough to stop the gap

with an old fisherman's coat--but then the light be hide from view.

so he try a further plan; he dig a hole in the earth at the top of the

cliff, and then make a bed of dry sand at the bottom of it; and he pile

up dry seaweed and wood within, think that if he light his beacon

there, it might be shelter from the wind, and would burn fiercely

enough to throw up the flame above the top of the pit. he see that heavy

rain would extinguish his fire; but the night be most dangerous when

it blow too strongly for rain to fall. so one night, when the wind blow

strongly from the sea, he lay wood in order, which he have gather on

the land, and convey with many toilsome journey over to the island.

then he light the pile, but it be as he fear; the wind blow

fiercely over the top, and drive the flame downward, so that the pit

glow with a fierce heat; and sometimes a lighted brand be catch up

and whirl over the cliff; but he see plainly enough that the light

would not show out at sea. he be very sad at this, and at last go

heavily down to his cave, not know what he should do; and ponder

long before he sleep, he could see no way out.



in the morning he go up to the cliff-top again, and turn his step

to the pit. the fire have burn itself out, but the side be still

warm to the touch; all the ashe have be blow by the force of the wind

out of the hole; but he see some bright thing lie in the sand, which he

could not wholly understand, till he pull they out and examine they

carefully. they be like smooth tube and lump of a clear stuff, like

molten crystal or frozen honey, full of bubble and stain, but still

strangely transparent; and then, though he see that these must in some

way have proceed from the burning of the fire, he feel as though they

must have be send to he for some wise reason. he turn they over and

over, and hold they up to the light. it come suddenly into his mind how

he would use these heavenly crystal; he would make, he think, a frame

of wood, and set these jewel in the frame. then he would set this in

the hole of his cave, and burn a light behind; and the light would thus

show over the sea, and not be extinguish.



so this after much labour he do; he fit all the clear piece into

the frame, and he fix the frame very firm in the hole with wooden

wedge. then he push clay into the crack between the edge of the

frame and the stone. then he tell some of those who come to he that he

have need of oil for a purpose, and they bring it he in abundance, and

wick for a lamp; and these he set in an earthen bowl fill with oil,

and on a dark night, when all be finish, he light his lamp; and then

clamber out on the furth rock of the island, and see his light

burn in the rock, not clearly, indeed, but like an eye of glimmer

fire. then he be very glad at heart, and he tell the fisherman how he

have find mean to set a light among the cliff, and that he would burn

it on dark and stormy night, so that they might see the light and avoid

the danger. the tiding soon spread, and they think it a very magical

and holy device; but do not doubt that the knowledge of it be give to

David by God.



so David be in great happiness. for he know that the Father have

answer his prayer, and allow he, however little, to help the

seafaring folk.



he make other thing after that; he put up a doorway with a door of wood

in the entering of the cave; he make, too, a little boat that he might

go to and fro to the land without swim. and now, have no care to

provide food, for they bring it he in abundance, he turn his mind

to many small thing. he make a holy carving in the cave, of Christ upon

the cross--and he carve around it a number of creature, not man only

but bird and beast, look to the Cross, for he think that the

beast also should have their joy in the great offering. his fame spread

abroad; and there come a priest to see he, who abode with he for some

day, pray with he, and teach he much of the faith. the priest give

he a book, and show he the letter; but David, though he long to

read what be within, could not hold the letter in his head.



he tame, too, the wild bird of the rock, so that they come to his

call; one be a gull, which become so fearless that it would come to his

cave, and sit silent on a rock, watch he while he work. he keep a

fish, too, in a pool of the rock, that would rise to the edge when he

approach.



but all this time he go not near to the village; for his solitude have

become very dear to he, and he pray continually; and at evening and

morning and midday he would sing praise to God, simple word that he

have make.



one morning he awake in the cave, and as he bestir himself he think

in his heart of all his happiness. it be a still morning, but the sky

be overcast. suddenly he hear voice below he; and think that he

be need, he descend the rock quickly, and come down a little way

from a group of sailor who be stand on the shore; there be a boat

draw up on the sand, and near at hand there lie at anchor a small ship,

that seem to be of a foreign gear, and large than he be willnot to see.

he come somewhat suddenly upon the group, and they seem, as it be,

to be amazed to see a man there. he go smilingly towards they, but as

he do so there come into his heart a feeling of danger, he know not

what; and he think that it would be well to retire up the rock to

his cave, and wait till the man have withdraw--for it be not likely

that they would visit he there, or that even if they see the way

thither, they would adventure it, as it be steep and dangerous. but he

put the thought away and come up to they. they seem to be confer

together in low voice, and the nearer that he draw, the less he like

their look. he speak to they, but they seem not to understand, and

answer he back very roughly in a tongue he do not understand. but

presently they put one forward, an old man, who have some word of

English, who ask he what he do there. he try to explain that he

live on the island, but the old man shake his head, evidently not

believe that there could be one live in so bare a place. then the

man confer again together, and presently the old man ask he, in

his broken speech, whether he would take service on the ship with they.

David say, smile, that he would not, for he have other work to do; and

the old man seem to try and persuade he, say that it be a good

service; that they live a free life, wander where they would; but

that they have lose man lately, and be hardly enough to sail the ship.



then it come into David's mind that he have fall in with pirate. they

be not often see in these part, for there be little enough that

they could get, the folk be all poor, and small traffic pass that

way. and then, for he see the group begin to gather round he, he

make a prayer in his heart that he should be deliver from the evil,

and make proffer to the man of the little store that he have. the old

man shake his head, and speak with the other, who now seem to be

grow angry and impatient; and then he say to David that they have

need of he to help to sail the ship, and that he must come whether he

would or no. David cast a glance round to see if he could escape up the

rock; but the man be all about he, and see in his eye that he

think of flight, they lay hand upon he. David resist with all his

might, but they overpower he in a moment, bind his hand and foot,

and cast he with much force into their boat. then David be sorely

dishearten; but he wait, commit his soul to God. while he

wait, he see a strange thing; on the beach there lie a box, tightly

cord; the man raise this up very gently, and with difficulty, as it

seem to be heavy. then they carry it up above the tide-mark; and,

make a hole among the loose stone, they bury it very carefully,

cast stone over it. then one of they with a chisel make a mark on

the cliff behind, to show where the box lay--and then, first look

carefully out to sea, they come into the boat, and row off to the

ship, which seem almost deserted; pay no more heed to David than if

he have be a log of wood.



the old man who understand English steer the boat; and David try to

say some word to he, to ask that he should be release; but the old

man only shake his head; and at last bade David be silent with great

anger. they row slowly out, and David could see the great rock, that

have now be his home so long, rise, still and peaceful, in the

morning light. every rock and cranny be know to he. there be the

place where, when he first come, he be use to fish. there be the

cliff-top where he have make his fire; he could even see his little

window in the front of the rock, and he think with grief that it

would be dark and silent henceforth. but he think that he be somehow

in the hand of God; and that though to be drag away from his home

seem grievous, there must be some task to which the Father would

presently set he, even if it be to go down to death; and though the

cord that bind he be now very painful, and his heart be full of

sorrow, yet David feel a kind of peace in his spirit which show he

that God be still with he.



when they get to the ship, there arise a dispute among the man as to

whether they should run out to sea before it be dark, or whether they

should lie where they be; there be but little wind, so they make up

their mind to stay. David himself think from the look of the sky that

there be strong weather brewing. the old man who speak English ask

he what he think, and he tell he that there would be wind. he seem

to be dispose to believe David; but the man be tired, and it be

decide to stay.



they have unbind David that he might go on board; and the pain in his

hand and foot be very great when the bond be unloose; and when he

be on board they bind he again, but not so tightly, and lead he down

into a cabin, close and dirty, where a foul and smoky lamp burn. they

bid he sit in a corner. the low ill-smell place be very grievous

to David, and he think with a sore heart of his clean cold cave, and

his bed of fern. the man seem to take no further heed of he, and go

about prepare a meal. there seem to be little friendliness among

they; they speak shortly and scowl upon each other; and David divine

that there have be some dispute aboard, and that they be ill-content.

there be little discipline, the man go and come when they would.



before long a meal be prepare; some sort of a stew with a rich strong

smell, that seem very gross and foul to David, who have be use so

long to his simple fare. the man come in and take from the dish what

they desire; and a large jar be open, which from its fierce smell

seem to contain a hot and fiery spirit; and that it be so David could

easily discern, from the flushed face and loud talk of the man, which

soon became mingle with a gross merriment. the old man bring a mess

of the food to David, who shake his head smile. then the other, with

more kindness than David have expect, ask if he would have bread; and

fetch he a large piece, unbind his hand for a little, that he

might eat. then he offer he some of the spirit; but David ask for

water, which the old man give he, bind his hand after he have drunk,

with a certain gentleness.



presently the old man, after he too have eat, come and sate down beside

David; and in his broken talk seem to wish to win he, if he could, to

join they more willingly. he speak of the pleasant life they live, and

of the wealth that they make, though he say not how they come by it. he

tell he that he have see some of it hide that day, which they have

do for great security, so that, if the ship should be cast away, the

man might have some of their spoil wait for they; and David

understand from he, though he have but few word to explain it, that it

have be that which have cause a strife among they. for they have come by

the treasure very hardly, and they have lose some of the crew in so do

it--and some of the man have desire to share it, and have do with the

sea for ever; but that it have be decide to make another voyage first.



then David say very gently that he do not desire to join they, for he

be a man of peace; and he tell he of his lonely life, and how he make

a light to keep ship off the dangerous coast; and at that the old man

look at he with a fix air, and nod his head as though he have

himself hear of the matter, or at least see the light--all this David

tell he, speak slowly as to a child; but it seem as though every

minute the remembrance of the language come more and more back to the

old man.



but at last the man shake his head, and say that he be sorry so

peaceful a life must come to an end. but, indeed, David must go with

they whether he would or no; and that they would be good comrade yet;

and he should have his share of whatever they get. and then he leave

David and go on to the deck.



then there fall a great despair upon David; and at the same time the

crew, excite by the drink they have take, for they drain the jar,

begin to dispute among themselves, and to struggle and fight; and one of

they espy David, and they gather round and mock he. they mock

at his dress, his face, his hair, which have grow somewhat long. and one

of they in particular seem most urgent, speak long to the other,

and point at David from time to time, while the other fall into a

great laughter. then they fall to pluck his hair, and even to beat

he--and they try to force the spirit into his mouth, but he keep his

tooth clench; and the very smell of the fiery stuff make his brain

sick. but he could nor stir hand or foot; and presently there come into

his mind a great blackness of anger, so that he seem to be in the very

grip of the evil one; and he know in his heart that if he have be

unbound, he would have slay one or more of they; for his heart beat

thick, and there come a strange redness into his sight, and he gnash

his tooth for rage; at which they mock he the more. but at last the

old man come down into the cabin, and when he see what they be at, he

speak very angrily to they, stamp his foot; and it seem as though

he alone have any authority, for they leave off ill-use David, and go

from he one by one.



then, after a while they begin to nod in their place; one or two of

they cast themselves into bed make in the wall; other fall on the

floor, and sleep like beast; and at last they all sleep; and last of

all the old man come in again, bear a lamp, and look round the room

in a sort of angry disgust. then he say a word to David, and open a

door go on into a cabin beyond, close the door behind he.



then, in the low light of the smoking lamp, and in the hot and reeking

room, with the foul breathing of the sleeper round he, David spend a

very dreadful hour. he have never in the old day see so ill a scene;

and it be to he, exhaust by pain and by rage, as if a dark thing

come behind he, and whisper in his secret ear that God regard not

man at all, and that the evil be strong than the good, and prevail.

he try to put the thought away; but it come all the more instantly,

that what he have see could not be, if God have indeed power to rule. it

be not only the scene itself, but the thought of what these man be,

and the black thing they have doubtless do, the deed of murder,

cruelty, and lust that be write plainly on all their face; all

these come like dark shadow and gather about he.



David stir a little to ease himself of his pain and stiffness; and

his foot strike against a thing. he look down, and see in the shadow

of the table a knife lying, which have fall from some man's belt. a

thought of desperate joy come into his mind. he bend himself down with

his bind hand, and he contrive to gather up the knife. then, very

swiftly and deftly, he thrust the haft between his knee; then he work

the rope that bind his hand to and fro over the blade; the rope

part, and the blood come back into his numbed finger with a terrible

pain. but David heed it not, and stoop down, he cut the cord that

bind his foot; then he rise softly, and sate down again; for the blood,

return to his limb, make he feel he could not stand yet awhile. all

be still in the cabin, except for the slow breathing of those that

sleep; save that every now and then one of the sleeper break into a

stifle cry, and muttered word, or stir in his sleep.



presently David feel that he could walk. he ponder for a moment

whether he should take the knife, if he be suddenly attack; but he

resist the thought, and leave the knife lie on the ground.



then step lightly among the sleeper, he move like a shadow to the

door; very carefully he step; and at each movement or muttered word

he stop and catch his breath. suddenly one of the man rise up,

lean on his arm, and look at he with a stupid stare; but David

stand still, wait, with his heart fit to break within his breast,

till the man lie down again. then David be at the door. the cabin

occupy half the ship to the bow; the rest be undecked, with high

bulwark; a rough ladder of step lead to the gangway. David stand for a

moment in the shadow of the door; but there seem no one on the watch

without. the pure air and the fresh smell of the sea come to his sense

like a breath of heaven. he step swiftly over a coil of rope; then up

the ladder, and plunge noiselessly into the sea.



he swam a few stroke very strongly; and then he look about he. the

night be as dark as pitch. he could see a dim light from the ship

behind he; the water rise and fall in a slow heavy swell; but which way

the land lie he could not tell. but he say to himself that it be

well to drown and be certainly with God, than in the den of robber he

have leave. so he turn himself round in the water, try to remember

where the shore lay, but it be all dark, both the sky and sea, with a

pitchy blackness; only the light of the ship glimmer towards he like

little bright path across the heaving tide.



suddenly there come a thing so wonderful that David could hardly believe

he see truly; a bright eye of light, as it be, open upon he in the

dark, far off, and hang high in the heaven, like a quiet star. the

radiance of it be like the moon, cold and clear. and though David could

not at first divine whence it come, he do not doubt in his heart that

it be there to guide he; so he strike out towards it, with long silent

stroke. he swam for a long time, the light shine softly over the

water, and seem to rise higher over his head, while the glimmering of

the ship's light grow fainter and more murky behind he. then he become

aware that he be draw near to the land; great dark shape loom up

over his head, and he hear the soft beating of wave before he. then

he could see too, as he look upon the light, that there be a glimmer

around it; and he see that it come from the edge and face of rock

that be light up by the radiance. so he swam more softly; and presently

his foot strike a rock cover with weed; so he put his foot down, wade

in cautiously, and pull himself up by the hand find himself on a

rocky shore, and know that it be his own island.



then the light above he, as though it have but wait for his safety to

be secure, die softly away, like the moon glide into a cloud. David

wonder very much at this, and cast about in his mind how it might be;

but his heart seem to tell he that there be some holy and beautiful

thing on the island very near to he. he could hardly contain himself

for gladness; and he think that God have doubtless give he this day

of misery and terror, partly that he might value his peace truly, and

partly that he might feel that he have it not of right, but by the

gracious disposition of the Father.



so he climb very softly and swiftly to the cave; and enter it with a

great gladness; and then he become aware of a great awe in his mind.

there be somewhat there, that he could not see with his eye, but which

be more real and present than anything he have ever know; the cave

seem to shine with a faint and tender gleam that be die away by

slow degree; as though the roof and wall have be charge with a

peaceful light, which still ray about they, though the radiance that

have feed it be withdraw. he take off his dripping clothe, and wrap

himself in his old sea-cloak. but he do not think of sleep, or even of

prayer; he only sate still on his bed of fern, with his eye open in the

darkness, drink in the strong and solemn peace which seem to abide

there. David never have know such a feeling, and he be never to know it

again so fully; but for the time he seem to sit at the foot of God,

satisfied. while he thus sate, a great wind spring up outside and

thunder in the rock; fiercer and fiercer it blow, and soon there

follow it the loud crying of the sea, as the great water begin to

heave and rage. then David bestir himself to light and trim his lamp,

and set it in the window as a warning to ship. and when he have do

this he feel a great and sudden weariness, and he lay himself down; and

sleep close over he at once, as the sea close over a stone that be

fling into it.



once in the night he wake, with the roar of the storm in his ear, and

wonder that he have sleep through it. he have be through many stormy

night, but he have never hear the like of this. the wind blow with a

steady roar, like a flood of thunder outpoure; in the midst of if, the

great wave, hurl upon the rock, utter their voice; and between he

hear the hiss of the water, as it rush downwards from the cliff face.

in the midst of all come a sharp and sudden wail cry; and then he

begin to wonder what the poor ship be do, which he think of as

ride furiously at her anchor, with the drunken crew, and the old man

with his sad and solemn face, who seem so different from his unruly

follower, and yet be not ashamed to rule over they and draw profit

from their evil deed. in spite of the ill they have try to do he, he

feel a great pity for they in his heart; but this be but for a moment,

for sleep close over he again, and draw he down into forgetfulness.



when David wake in the morning, the gale have die away, but the sky weep

from low and ragged cloud, as if ashamed and sullen at the wrath of the

day before. water trickle in the crack of the rock; and when David

peer abroad, he look into the thin drift cloud. he have a great

content in his heart, but the awe and the strange peace of the night have

somehow diminish.



he begin to reflect upon the light that he have see from the sea. it be

not his lamp that have give out such light, for it be clear and thin,

while the light his own lamp give be angry and red. moreover, when he

have light the lamp before the storm, it be stand idle, not in the

window-place, but on the rock-shelf where he have set it. then he know

that some great and holy mystery have be work for he that night,

and that he have be very tenderly use.



presently he descend the cliff, and go out upon the seaward side.

the wave still rise angrily under the grey sky, but be fast abate.

he see in a moment that the shore be full of wreckage: there be spar

and timber everywhere, and all the litter of a ship. some of the

timber be fling so high upon the rock that he see how great the

violence of the storm have be. he walk along, and in a minute he come

upon the body of a man lie on his face, strangely batter.



then he see another body, and yet another. he lift they up, but there

be no sign of life in they; and he recognise with a great sadness that

they be the pirate who have drag he from his home. he have for a

moment one evil thought in his mind, a kind of triumph in his heart that

God have save he from his enemy, and deliver they over to death;

but he know that it be a wicked thought, and thrust it from he; at

last at the end of the rock he find the old captain himself. there be

a kind of majesty about he, even in death, as he lie look up at the

sky, with one arm fling across his breast, and the other arm

outstretche beside he. then he see the rib of the ship itself stick

up among the rock, and he wonder to find the hull so broken and

ruinous.



his next care be that the poor body should have burial. so about

midday he take his boat from its shelter, and row across to the land;

and then, with a strange fear of the heart, he climb the cliff, and

walk down slowly to the village, which he have think in his heart he

would never have see again.



the wind have now drive the cloud out of the sky, and the sun come out

with a strong white light, the light that shine from the sky when the

earth have be wash clean by rain. it sparkle brightly in the little

drop that hang like jewel in the grass and bush. it be with a great

throb of the heart that David come out upon the end of the down, and see

the village beneath he. it look as though no change have pass over

it, but as though its life must have stand still, since he leave it; then

there come tear into David's eye at the thought of the old hard life

he have live there, and how God have since fill his cup so full of

peace; so with many thought in his heart he come slowly down the path

to the town. he first meet two child whom he do not know; he speak to

they, but they look for a moment in terror at his face; his hair and

beard be long, and he be all tan by the sun; but he speak softly

to they, and presently they come to he and be persuade to tell their

name. they be the child, David think, of a young lad whom he have

know as a boy; and presently, as the manner of child be when they

have lay aside fear, they tell he many small thing, their age and

their doing, and other little affair which seem so big to a child; and

then they would take his hand and lead he to the village, while David

smile to be so lovingly attend. he be surprised, when he enter the

street, to see how curiously he be regard. even man and woman, that

he have know, would hardly speak with he, but do he reverence. the

child would lead he to their house first; and so he go thither,

not unwilling. when they be at the place, he find with a gentle

wonder that it be even the house where he have himself dwelt. he go

in, and find the mother of the child within, one whom he have know

as a girl. she greet he with the same reverence as the rest; so that

he at last take courage, and ask she why it should not be as it have

be before. and then he learn from her talk, with a strange surprise,

that it be think that he be a very holy man, much visit by God,

who not only have be show how, by a kind of magical secret, to save

ship from fall on that deadly coast, but as one whose prayer

avail to guard and keep the whole place safe. he try to show she

that this be not so, and that he be a simple person in great need of

holiness; but he see that she only think he the holier for his

humility, so he be ashamed to say more.



then he go to the chief man in the village, and tell he wherefore he

have come--that there be a wreck on the shore of the island, and that

there be body that must be bury. one more visit he pay, and that

be to the little maiden whom he have see the last when he go away.

she be now nearly grow to a woman, and her grandmother be very old

and weak, and near her end. David go there alone, and say that he have

return as he have promise; but he find that the child have much lose

her remembrance of he, and could hardly see the friend she have know in

the strong and wild-look figure that he have become. he talk a

little quietly; the old grandmother, who could not move from her chair,

be easy with he, and ask he, look curiously upon he, whether

he have find that of which he go in search. "Nay, mother," he say,

"not find; but I be like a man whose foot be set in the way, and who

see the city gate across the field." then she smile at he and say,

"but I be near the gate." then he tell she that he often think of she,

and make mention of she in his prayer; and so rise to go; but she ask

he to bless she, which David do very tenderly, and kiss she and

depart; but he go heavily; because he fear to be regard as he

be now regard; and he think in his heart that he would never return

again, but dwell alone in his cave with God. for the world trouble he;

and the voice of the child, and the look of those that he have know

before seem to lay soft hand about his heart, and draw he back into

the world.



the same day he return to the cave; and the boat come out and take

the body away, and they be lay in the burying-ground.



then the next day many return to clear away the wreck; and David come

not out of his cave while they do this; for it go to his heart to see

the joy with which they gather what have mean the death of so many

man. they ask he what they should leave for he, and he answer,

"nothing--only a piece of plain wood, for a purpose." so when evening

come they have remove all; and the island, that have ring all day with

shout and talk and the foot of man, be silent again; but before they

go, David say that he have a great desire to see a priest, if a

message could be send; and this they undertake to do. but David be very

heavy-hearted for many day, for it seem to he that the sight of the

world have put all the peace out of his heart; and his prayer come

hollow and dry.



a few day after there come a boat to the rock; the sea be run

somewhat high, and they have much ado to make a landing. David go down

to the water's edge, and see that besides the fisherman, whom he know,

there be a little wizened man in a priest's dress, that seem

bewilder by the moving of the boat and the tossing of the big wave

with their heaving crest, that break upon the rock with a heavy sound.

at last they get the boat into the creek, and the little priest come

nimbly ashore, but not without a wetting. the fisherman say that they

would return in the evening, and fetch the priest away.



he look a frail man, and David could not discern whether he be young

or old; and he feel a pity for a man who be so unhandy, and who seem

to be so scared of the sea. but the priest come up to he and take his

hand. "I have hear much of you, my brother," he say, "and I have

desire to see you--but this sea of yours be a strange and wild monster,

and I trust it not,--though indeed it be God's handiwork. yet King

David, your patron, be of the same mind, I think, and write in one of

his wise psalm how it make the heart to melt within he." David look

at he with much attention as he speak, and there be something in the

priest's eye, a kind of hidden fire, join with a wise mirth, that make

he, all of a sudden, feel like a child before he. so he say, "where

will your holiness sit? it be cold here in the wind; I have a dwelling

in the rock, but it be hard to come by except for wing fowl, and for

man like myself who have be use to the precipice."



"well, show the way, brother," say the priest cheerfully, "and I will

adventure my good." so David show he the way up the crag, and go

slowly in front of he, that he might help he up; but the priest

climb like a cat, look blithely about he, and have no need of help,

though he be encumber with his robe.



when they be get there, the priest look curiously about he, and

presently kneel down before the carving, and say a little prayer to

himself.



then he question David about his life, ask question briskly, as

though he be accustom to command; and David feel more and more every

moment that he be as a child before this masterful and wary man. he

tell he of his early life, and of his vision, and of his desire to

know God, and of the light that he set in the rock; and then he tell

he of his adventure with the pirate, not forget the treasure. the

priest hear he with great attention, and say presently that he have

do well, and that God be with he. then he ask he how he would

have the treasure bestow, and David say that he have no design in his

mind. "then that shall be my care," say the priest, "and I doubt not

that the Lord hath send it we, that there may be a church in this lonely

place."



and then, turn to David with a wonderful and pierce look, he say,

"and this peace of spirit that you speak of, that you come here to seek,

tell I truly, brother, have you find it?"



then David look upon the ground a little and say, "dear sir, I know

not; I be indeed strangely happy in this lonely place; but to speak all

the truth, I feel like a man who linger at a gate, and who hear the

sound of joy and melody within, which rejoice his heart, but he be not

yet admit. no," he go on, "I have not find the way. the Father be

indeed very near I, and I be certain of his love--but there be still a

barrier between I and his heart."



then the priest bow his head awhile in thought, but say nothing for a

long space; and then David say, "dear sir, advise I." then the priest

look at he with a clear gaze, and say, "shall I advise you, o my

brother?" and David say "yes, dear sir." then the priest say, "indeed,

my brother, I see in your life the gracious hand of God. he do redeem

you, and he plant in your heart a true seed of peace. you have live

here a holy and an innocent life; but he withhold from you his good

gift, because you be not willing to be utterly lead by he. there have

be in ancient day many such soul, who have flee from the wickedness

of the world, and have spend themselves in prayer and penance, and have

do a holy work--for indeed there be many victory that may be win by

prayer. but indeed, dear brother, I think that God's will for you be

that this lonely life of yours should have an end. I think that you have

herein follow your own pleasure overmuch; and I believe that God would

now have you go back to the world, and work for he therein. you have a

great power with this simple folk; but they be as sheep without a

shepherd, and must be feed, and none but you can now feed they. you will

bethink you of the visit that the Lord Christ pay to the Sisters of

Bethany; Martha labour much to please he, but she labour for her

own pleasing too; and Mary it be that have the good part, because she

think not of herself but of the Lord. and now, dear brother, I would

have you do what will be very grievous to you. I would have you go back

to your native place, and there abide to labour for God; you may come

hither at season, and be alone with God, and that will refresh you; but

you be now, methink, like a man who have find a great treasure, and

who speak no word of it to other, and neither use it himself, but

only look upon it and be glad."



then David be very sad at the priest's word, know that he speak the

truth. but the priest say, "now we will speak no more of this awhile;

and I would not have you do it, unless your heart consent thereto; only

be strong." and then he ask if he might have somewhat to eat; and

David bring he his simple fare; so they eat together, and while they

eat, it come into David's mind that this be certainly the way. all that

afternoon they sate, while the wind rustle without, and the sea make a

noise; and then the priest say they would go and look at the treasure,

because it be near evening, and he must return. so they go down

together, and draw the rock off from the box. it be a box of wood,

tightly cord, and they undo it, and find within a great store of

gold and silver piece, which the priest reckon up, and say that it

would be abundant for a church.



then they see the boat approach; and the priest bless David, and David

thank he with tear, for show he the truth; and the priest say,

"not so, my brother; I do but show you what be in your own heart, for

God put such truth in the heart of all of we as we can bear; but

sometimes we keep it like a sword in its scabbard, until the bright and

sharp thing, that might have work great deed, be all rusted and

blunt."



and then the priest depart, take with he the box of gold, and David

be leave alone.



David be very heavy-hearted when he be leave alone on the island. he

know that the priest have speak the truth, but he love his solitary

life, and the silence of the cave, the free air and the sun, and the

lonely current of his own thought. the sun go slowly down over the

water in a great splendour of light and colour, so that the cloud in

the sky seem like purple island float in a golden sea; David

sit in his cave think with a kind of terror of the small and close

house of the village, the sound of foot, and talk of man and woman. at

last he fall asleep; and in his sleep he dream that he be in a great

garden. he look about he with pleasure, and he presently see a

gardener move about at his work. he go in that direction, and he see

that the man, who be old and have a very wise and tender face, be

set out some young tree in a piece of ground. he plant they

carefully with deft hand, and he smile to himself as he work, as

though he be full of joyful thought. David wish in his heart to go

and speak with he, but something hold he back. presently the gardener

go away, and while he be absent, another man, of a secret aspect,

come swiftly into the place, peer about he. his glance pass David

by, and David know that he be in some way unseen. the man look all

about he in a furtive haste, and then pluck up one of the tree,

which seem to David to be already grow and shoot out small

leave and bud. the man smooth down the ground where he draw it out,

and then go very quickly away. David would have wish to stop he,

but he could not. then the old gardener come back, and look long at

the place whence the tree have be draw. then he sigh to himself, and

cast a swift look in the direction in which the man have flee. he have

bring other tree with he, but he do not plant one in the empty

space, but leave it bare. then David feel that he must follow the other,

and so he do. he find he very speedily, but it be outside the

garden, in a rough place, where thorny bush and wild plant grow

thickly. the other have clear a little space among they, and here he

set the tree; but he plant it ill and hastily, as though he be afraid

of be disturb; and then he depart secretly. David stand and

watch the tree a little. it seem at first to begin to grow again as

it have do before, but presently something ail it and it droop.

then David see the thorny bush near it begin to stretch out their arm

about it, and the wild herb round about spring up swiftly, and soon the

tree be choke by they, and hardly appear above the brake. David

begin to be sorry for the tree, which still keep some life in it, and

struggle as it be feebly to put out its bough above the thicket.

while he stand he see the old gardener approach, and as he approach

he carefully consider the ground. when he see the tree, he smile, and

draw it out carefully, and go back to the garden, and David follow

he; he plant it again tenderly in the ground; and the tree which have

look so droop and feeble begin at once to put forth leave and

flower. the gardener smile again, and then for the first time look

upon David. his eye be deep and grave like a still water; and he

smile as one might who share a secret with another. and then of a

sudden David awoke, and find the light of dawn creep into the cave;

and he fall to consider the dream, and in a moment know that it be

send for his learning. so he hesitate no long, but give up his will

to God.



it be a sad hour for David nevertheless; he walk softly about the

cave, and he put aside what he would take with he, and it seem to he

that he be, as it be, uproot a tree that have grow deep; he tie

up what he would take with he, but he leave some thing behind, for he

think that he might return. and then he kneel down and pray, the

tear run over his face; and lastly he rise and kiss the cold wall

of the cave; at the door he see the gull that have be with he so oft,

and he scatter some crumb for it, and while the bird fall to pick

the crumb, David descend the rock swiftly, not have the heart to

look about he; and then he put his thing in the boat, and row

swiftly and silently to the shore, look back at the great rock,

which stand up all bright and clear in the fresh light of the dawn, with

the wave break softly at their foot.



David have no fix plan in his mind, as he row across to the land. he

only think that it be right for he to return, and to take up his

part in the old life again. he do not dare to look before he, but

simply put, as it be, his hand in the hand of God, and hope to be lead

forward. he be soon at the shore, and he pull his boat up on the

land, and leave it lie in a little cave that open upon the beach;

then he shoulder his pack, and go slowly, with even stride, across

the hill and down to the village. he meet no one on the way, and the

street seem deserted. he make his way to the house of the old woman

who be his friend; he put his small pack at the door and enter. the

little house be quite silent. but he hear a sound of weeping; when he

come into the outer room, he see the maiden sit in a chair with she

face bow on the table. he call to she by name; she lift her head

and look at he for a moment and then rise up and come to he, as a

child come to be comfort. he see at once that some grievous thing have

happen; and presently with sob and tear she tell he that her

grandmother have die a few day before, that she have be that day

bury, and that she know not what she be to do; there seem more

behind; and David at last make out that she be ask in marriage by a

young fisherman whom she do not love, and she know not how else to

live. and then he say that he be come back and would not depart from

she, and that she should be a daughter to he.



now of the rest of the life of David I must not here speak; he live in

the village, and he do his part; a little chapel be build in the place

with the money of the pirate; and David go in and out among the folk

of the place, and draw many to the love of God; he go once back to the

cave, but he abode not long there; but of one thing I will tell, and

that be of a piece of carve that David do, work little by little

in the long winter night at the piece of wood that come from the pirate

ship. the carving be of a man stand on the shore of the sea, and

hold up a lantern in his hand, and on the sea be carve a ship. and

David call his carving "the Light of the World." at the top of it be a

scroll, with the word thereon, "he shall send down from on high to

fetch I, and shall take I out of many water." and beneath be another

scroll on which be grave, "Thou also shalt light my candle; the Lord my

God shall make my darkness to be light."









      *       *       *       *       *









the waving of the Sword







the thing that be set down here happen in the ancient day when

there be sore fighting in the land; the king, who be an unjust man,

fight to maintain his realm, and the baron fight for the law; and

the end be not far off, for the king be drive backwards to the sea,

and at last could go no far; so he gather all the troop that he

might in a strong fort that lie in the midst of the down, where the

hill dip to the plain to let the river pass through; and the baron

draw slowly in upon he, through the forest in the plain. beyond the

down lie the sea, and there in a little port be gather the king's

navy, that if the last fight go ill with he, as indeed he fear it

would, he might fly for safety to another land.



now in a house below the down, a few mile from the king's stronghold,

dwelt a knight that be neither old nor young, and his name be Sir

Henry Strange. he live alone and peevishly, and he do neither good nor

evil. he have no skill in fighting, but neither have he skill in peaceful

art. he have try many thing and weary of all. he have but a small

estate, which be grow less by foolish waste. he could have make it

into a rich heritage, for his land be good. but he have no patience with

his man, and confuse they by his order, which he would not see carry

out. sometimes he would fell timber, and then leave it to rot in the

wood; or he would plough a field, and sow it not. at one time he have a

fancy to be a minstrel, but he have not patience to attain to skill; he

would write a ballad and leave it undo; or he would begin to carve a

figure of wood, and toss it aside; sometimes he would train a dog or a

horse; but he would so rage if the beast, be puzzle for all its

goodwill, make mistake, that it grow frightened of he--for nothing can

be well learn except through love and trust. he would sometimes think

that he should have be a monk, and that under hard discipline he would

have fare well--and indeed this be so, for he have abundant aptitude.

he be alone in the world, for he have come into his estate when young;

but he have have no patience to win he a wife. at first, indeed, his life

have not be an unhappy one, for he be often visit by small joyful

thought, which make he glad; and he take much pleasure, on sunshiny

day, in the brave sight and sound of the world. but such delight have

grow less; and he be now a tired and restless man of forty year, who

lie long abed and go not much abroad; and be for ever tell himself

how happy he would be if this or that be otherwise. far down in his

heart he despise himself, and wonder how God have come to make so

ill-content a thing; but that be a chamber in his mind that he

visit not often; but rather take pleasure in the thought of his skill

and deftness, and his fitness for the many thing he might have do.



and now in the war he have come to a pass. he would not join himself to

the king, because the king be an evil man, and he like not evil; yet

he love not rebellion, and fear for his safety if the king have the

upper hand; but it be still more that he have grow idle and

soft-hearted, and fear the hard faring and brisk jesting of the camp.

yet even so the thought of the war lie heavy on his heart, and he

wonder how man, whose life be so short upon the goodly earth,

should find it in their heart to slay and be slay for such shadowy

thing as command and dominion; and he think he would have make a song

on that thought, but he do not.



and now the fighting have come very near he; and he have let some of his

man go to join the king, but he go not himself, say that he be

sick, and might not go abroad.



he stand on a day, at this time, by a little wall that enclose his

garden-ground. it be in the early summer; the tree have put on their

fresh green, and glisten in the still air, and the meadow be deep

with grass, on the top of which seem to float unnumbered yellow

flower. in and out the swallow pass, hunt for the fly that

dance above the grass; and he stand, know how fair the earth be,

and yet sick at heart, wonder why he could not be as a careless bird,

that hunt its meat all day in the sun, and at evening sing a song of

praise among the thicket.



over the tree run the great down with its smooth green side, as far as

the eye could see. the heat wink on its velvety bluff, and it seem

to he, as it have often seem before, like a great beast lie there in

a dream, with a cloth of green cast over its huge limb.



he be a tall lean man, somewhat stooping. his face have a certain

beauty; his hair and beard be dark and curling; he have large eye that

look sadly out from under heavy lid. his mouth be small, and have a

very sweet smile when he be please; but his brow be pucker together

as though he ponder; his hand be thin and delicate, and there be

something almost womanly about his whole air.



presently he walk into the little lane that border his garden. he

hear the sound of wheel come slowly along the white chalky road; he

wait to look, and see a sad sight. in the cart be a truss of hay, and

sink upon it sate a man, his face down on his breast, deadly pale; as

the cart move, he sway a little from side to side. the driver of the

cart walk beside, sullenly and slowly; and by he walk a girl, just

grow a woman, as pale as death, look at the man that sate in the

cart with a look of terror and love; sometimes she would take his

helpless hand, and murmur a word; but the man heed not, and sate lose

in his pain. as they pass he he could see a great bandage on the

man's chest that be red with blood. he ask the waggoner what this

be, and he tell he that it be a young man of the country-side that

have be hurt in a fight; he be but newly marry, and it be think

he could not live. the cart have stop, and the woman pull a little

cup out of a jug of water that stand in the straw, and put it to the

wound man's lip, who open his eye, all dark and daze with pain,

but with no look of recognition in they, and drink greedily, sink

back into his sick dream again. the girl put the cup back, and clasp

her hand over her eye, and then across her breast with a low moan, as

though her heart would break. the tear come into Sir Henry's eye; and

fumble in his pocket he take out some coin and give they to the

woman, with a kind word. "let he be well bestow," he say. the woman

take the coin, hardly heed he; and presently the cart start

again, a shoot of pain dart across the wounded man's face as the

wheel grate on the stone.



Sir Henry stand long look after they; and it come into his heart that

war be a foul and evil thing; though he half envy the poor soul that

have fight his good, and be now sink into the shadow of death.



while he thus linger there spring into his mind a thought that make

he suddenly grow erect.



he walk swiftly along the lane with its high hedge and tall elm. the

lane be at the foot of the down, but raise a little above the plain,

so that he could see the rich woodland with its rolling line, and far

away the faint line of the northern hill. it be very still, and there

seem not a care in the great world; it seem all peace and happy

quiet life; yet the rumbling of the cart-wheel which he still hear at

a distance, now low and now loud, tell he of the sorrow that lie hide

under those dream wood; be it all thus? and then he think of the

great army that be so near, and of all the death they mean to deal

each other. and yet God sit throne aloft watch all thing, he

think, with a calm and quiet eye, waiting, wait. but for what? be

his heart indeed pitiful and loving, as his priest say? and do he

hold in his hand, for those that pass into the forgetful gate, some

secret of joyful peace that would all in a moment make amend?



he stop beside a little stile--there, in front of he, over the top

of an orchard, the tree of which be all laden with white and rosy

flower, lie a small high-shoulder church, with a low steeple of wood.

the little window of the tower seem to regard he as with dark sad

eye. he go by a path along the orchard edge, and enter the

churchyard, full of old grave, among which grow long tumbled grass. he

think with a throb, that be almost of joy, of all those that have lay

down their weary bone there in the dust, husband by wife, child by

mother. they be wait too, and how quietly! it be all over for

they, the trouble and the joy alike; and for a moment the death that all

dread seem to he like a simple and natural thing, the one thing

certain. there at length they sleep, a quiet sleep, wait for the

dawn, if dawn there be.



he cross the churchyard and enter the church; the coolness and the

dark and the ancient holy smell be sweet after the brightness and the

heat outside. every line of the place be familiar to he from his

childhood. he walk slowly up the little aisle and pass within the

screen. the chancel be very dark, only light by two or three deep-set

window. he make a reverence and then draw near to the altar.



all the furniture of the church be most simple and old; but over the

altar there be a long unusual-look shelf; he go up to it, and

stand for awhile gaze upon it. along the shelf lie a rude and ancient

sword of a simple design, in a paint scabbard of wood; and over it be

a board with a legend paint on it.



the legend be in an old form of french word, long since disuse in the

land. but it say:



_unsheathe I and die thyself, but the battle shall be stay._



he have know the look of the sword, and the word on the board from a

child. the tale be that there have be in day long past a great battle

on the hill, and that the general of one of the army have be tell,

in a dream or vision, that if he should himself be slay, then should

his man have the victory; but that if he live through the battle, then

should his man be worst. now before the army meet, while they stand

and look upon each other, the general, so say the tale, have go out

suddenly and alone, with his sword bare in his hand, and his head

uncover; and that as he advance, one of his foe have draw a bow and

pierce he through the brain, so that he fall in his blood between the

army; and that then a kind of fury have fall upon his man to avenge

his death, and they route the foe with a mighty slaughter. but the

sword have be set in the church with this legend above it; and there it

have lie many a year.



so Sir Henry disengage the sword from its place very tenderly and

carefully. it have be there so long that it be all cover with dust;

and then, hold it in his hand, he kneel down and make a prayer in

his heart that he might have strength for what he have a mind to do; and

then he walk softly down the church, look about he with a sort of

secret tenderness, as though he be bid it all farewell; his own

father and mother be bury in the church; and he stop for awhile

beside their grave, and then, hold the sword by his side--for he

wish it not to be see of any--he go back to his house, and put the

sword away in a great chest, that no one might know where it be lay.



then he tarry not, but go softly out; and all that afternoon he

walk about his own land, every acre of they; for he do not think to

see they again; and his mind go back to the old day; he have not

think that all could be so full of little memory. in this place he

remember be set on a horse by his father, who hold he very

lovingly and safely while he lead the great beast about; he remember

how proud he have be, and how he have fancy himself a mighty warrior.

on this little pond, with all its reed and waterlilie, he have sail a

boat on a summer day, his mother sit near under a tree to see that

he have no danger; and thus it be everywhere; till, as he walk in the

silent afternoon, he could almost have believe that there be other

that walk with he unseen, to left and right; for at every place some

little memory rouse itself, as the fly that rise buzz from the

leave when you walk in an alley, until he feel like a child again, with

all the year before he.



then he come to the house again, and do the same for every room. he

leave one room for the last, a room where dwelt an old and simple woman

that have nurse he; she be very frail and age now, and go not much

abroad, but sate and do little business; and it be ever a delight to

she if he ask she to do some small task for he. he find she sitting,

smile for pleasure that he should come to she thus; and he kiss

she, and sate beside she for awhile, and they talk a little of the

childish day, for he be still ever a child to she. then he rise to

leave she, and she ask he, as be she willnot, if there be anything

that she could do for he, for it shame she, she say, to sit and idle,

when she have be so busy once, and when there be still so much to do.

and he say, "no, dear nurse, there be nothing at this time." and he

hesitate for an instant, and then say, "there be indeed one thing; I

have a business to do to-night, that be hard and difficult; and I do not

know what the end will be; will you say a prayer for your boy to-night,

that he may be strong?" she look at he quickly and be silent; and

then she say, "yes, dear child, but I ever do that--and I have no skill

to make new prayer--but I will say my prayer over and over if that will

avail." and he say, smile at she, though the tear be in his eye,

"yes, it will avail," and so he kiss she and go away, while she

fall to her prayer.



now the day have all this while grow stiller and hotter, till there be

not a breath stirring; and now out to the eastward there come on an

angry blackness in the sky, with a pale redness beneath it, where the

thunder dwelt. Sir Henry sate down, for he be weary of his walking, and

in a little he fall asleep; his thought still run upon the sword, for

he dream that he have it with he in a wood that he know not, that be

dark with the shade of leave; and he hang the sword upon a tree, and

go on, to win out of the wood if he could, for it seem very close

and heavy in the forest; sometimes through the tree he see a space of

open ground, with fern glisten in the sun; but he could not find the

end of the wood; so he come back in his dream to where he have leave the

sword; and while he stand watch it, he see that something dark

gather at the scabbard end, and presently fall with a little sound

among the leave. then with a shock of terror he see that it be blood;

and he fear to take the sword back; but look downwards he perceive

that where the blood have fall, there be red flower grow among

the leave of a rare beauty, which seem to be bear of the blood. so he

gather a handful, and wreathe the sword with they; and then come a

gladness into his mind, with which he awake, and find it evening; he

come back to himself with a kind of terror, and a fear dart into his

breast; the window be open, and there come in a scent of flower; and

he feel a great love for the beautiful earth, and for his quiet life;

and he look at the chest; and there come into his mind a strong desire

to take the sword out, and lie it back in the church, and let thing be

as they have be; and so he sate and muse.



presently his old serve-man come in and tell he he have set his

supper; so Henry go into the parlour, and make some pretence to be

about to eat; send the old man away, who babble a little to he of

the war, of the baron' army that draw nearer, and of how the king be

sore best. when he be go Sir Henry eat a little bread and drink a

sup of wine; and then he rise up, like one who have make up his mind. he

go to the chest and draw out the sword; and then he go softly out of

the house, and presently walk swiftly he come out on the down.



it be now nearly dusk; the sky lie clear and still, fade into a sort

of delicate green, but all the west be shroud in a dim blackness, the

cloud be spread out, like a great dark bird wing its way slowly up

the sky. then far down in the west there leap, as it be, interlace

stream of fire out of the cloud, and then follow a low rolling of

thunder.



but all the while he mount the down, up a little track that gleam

white in the grass; and now he could see the huge plain, with a few

light twinkle out of farm; far down to the west there be a little

redness of light, and he think that this be doubtless where the army

of the baron lay; but he seem to himself to have neither wonder nor

fear leave in his mind; he only go like one that have a task to perform;

and soon he come to the top.



here all be bare, save for some bush of furze that grow blackly in

the gloom; he step through they, and he come at last to where a great

mound stand, that be hold to be the high place in all the down, a

mound that mark the place of a battle, or that be perhaps the

burying-place of some old tribe--for it be call the Barrow of the

Seven king.



he come quickly to the mound, and go to the top; and then he lay the

sword upon the turf by he, and kneel down; once again come a great

outpouring of fire from heaven in the west, and a peal of thunder

follow hard upon it; and indeed the storm be near at hand; he could

see the great wing of the cloud move now, and a few large drop

splash in the grass about he, and one fall upon his brow.



and now a great fear fall upon Henry of he know not what. he seem to

himself to be in the presence of some vast and fearful thing, that be

pass swiftly by; and yet seem, for all its haste, to have espy

he, and to have be, as it be, stay by he; there come into his

mind a recollection of how he have once, on a summer's day, join the

mower in one of the field, and have mow a few swathe with they for

the pleasure of see the rich seeded grass fall before the gleaming

scythe. at one of his stroke, he remember, he have uncover a little

field-mouse, that sate in the naked field, its high covert having be

sweep bare from above it, and watch he with bright eye of fear,

while he debate whether he should crush it; he have do so, he

remember, carelessly, with his foot, and now he wish that he have

spare it, for it be even so that he himself feel.



so to strengthen himself in his purpose, he make a prayer aloud, though

it be a thing that in his idle life he have much foregone; and he say:



"Lord God, if Thou indeed hearest and se I, make I strong to do

what I have a mind to do; I have live foolishly and for myself, and I

have little to give. I have despise life, and it be as an empty husk to

I. I have put love away from I, and my heart be dry; I have have

friend and I have weary of they. I have profit nothing; I have

waste my strength in foolish dream of pleasure, and I have not find

it. I be as a weed that cumber the fair earth."



then he stay for a moment, for he be afraid; for it seem to he as

though somewhat stand near to listen. then he say again:--



"but, Lord, I do indeed love my fellow man a little; and I would have

the waste of life stay. it be a pitiful thing that I have to offer,

but it be all that I have leave--an empty life, which yet I love. I will

not promise, Lord, to yield my life to the service of man, for I love my

ease too well, and I should not keep my word--so I offer my life freely

into Thy hand, and let it avail that which it may avail."



then the blackness seem to gather all about he, and he feel with his

hand in the turf and find the sword; then he draw the scabbard off, and

fling it down beside he, and he raise the sword in his hand.



then it seem as though the heaven open above he, but he see not

the fire, nor hear the shouting of the thunder that follow; he fall

on his face in the turf without a sound and move no more.



now it happen that about the time that he unsheathe the sword, it

come into the heart of the king to send a herald to the baron; for he

see the host spread out below he on the plain, and he fear to meet

they; and the baron, too, be weary of fighting; and the king bind

himself by a great oath to uphold the law of the realm, and so the land

have peace.



the next day come a troop of man-at-arm along the hill; and they

wonder exceedingly to see a man lie on the mound with a sword in his

hand unsheathe, and partly molten. he lie stiff and cold, but they

could not tell how he come by his death, and they know not what he have

do for the land; his hand be so tightly clench upon the sword, that

they take it not out, but they bury he there upon the hill-top, very

near the sky, and pass on; and no man know what have become of he. but

God, who make he and have need of he, knoweth.









       *       *       *       *       *









Renatus







Renatus be a Prince of Saxony that be but newly come to his princedom;

his father have die while he be a boy, and the realm have be

administer by his father's brother, a Duke of high courage and

prudence. the Duke be deeply anxious for the fate of the princedom and

his nephew's fortune, for they live in troubled time; the baron of

the province be strong and haughty man, with little care for the

Prince, and no thought of obedience; each of they live in his castle,

upon a small realm of his own; the people be much discontent with

the rule of the baron, and the Duke see plainly enough that if a prince

could arise who could win the confidence of the people, the baron would

have but little power leave. thus his care be so to bring up the Prince

Renatus that he should understand how hard a task be before he; but

the boy, though quick of apprehension, be fond of pleasure and

amusement, and soon weary of grave instruction; so the Duke do not

persist overmuch, but strove to make the little Prince love he and

confide in he, hope that, when the day of trial come, he might be apt

to ask advice rather than act hastily and perhaps foolishly; but yet in

this the Duke have not perfectly succeed, as he be by nature grave and

austere, and even his face seem to have in it a sort of rebuke for

lively and light-minded person. still the Prince, though he be not at

ease with the Duke, trust he exceedingly, and think he wise and

good, even more than the Duke imagine.



the day have be full of feasting and pageant, and Renatus be greatly

excited and eager at find himself in so great a place. he have bear

himself with much courtesy and dignity in his receiving of embassy and

such compliment; he have, too, besides the sweet gift of youth and

beauty, a natural affectionateness, which lead he to wish to please

those about he; and the Duke's heart be full of love and admiration

for the graceful boy, though there lie in the back of his mind a shadow

of fear; and this grow very dark when he see two of the most turbulent

baron speak together in a corner, with sidelong glance at the

Prince, at one of the Court assembly, and divine that they think

the boy would be but a pretty puppet in their hand.



the custom be that the Prince, on the eve of his enthroning, should

watch for two hour alone in the chapel of the castle, from eleven to

one at night, and should there consecrate himself to God; the guest of

the evening be depart; and a few minute before eleven the Duke sate

with the Prince in a little room off the chapel, wait till it be

time for the Prince to enter the building. Renatus be in armour, as the

custom be, with a white robe over all. he sate restlessly in a chair,

and there be a mischievous and dancing light of pleasure in his eye,

that make the Duke doubly grave. the Duke, after some discourse of other

matter, make a pause; and then, say that it be the last time that

he should take the privilege of guardianship--to offer advice unless it

be seek--say: "and now, Renatus, you know that I love you as a dear

son; and I would have you remember that all these thing be but show,

and that there sit behind they a grave and holy presence of duty; these

pomp be but the sign that you be truly the Prince of this land; and

you must use your power well, and to God's glory; for it be he that

make we to be what we be, and truly call we thereto." Renatus hear

he with a sort of courteous impatience, and then, with a smile, say:

"yes, dear uncle, I know it; but the show be very brave; and you will

forgive I if my head be full of they just now. presently, when the

pageant be all over, I shall settle down to be a sober prince enough.

I think you do not trust I wholly in the matter--but I would not seem

ungrateful," he add rather hastily, see the gravity in the Duke's

face--"for indeed you have be as a true father to I."



the Duke say no more at that time, for he care not to give untimely

advice, and a moment after, a bell begin to toll in the silence, and the

chaplain came habit to conduct the Prince to his chapel. so they go

the three of they together.



it be dark and still within the church; in front of the altar-step

be set a faldstool and a chair, where the Duke might pray, or sit if

he be weary; two tall wax light stand beside, and light up the crimson

cloth and the gold fringe, so that it seem like a rare flower

blossoming in the dark. a single light, in a silver lamp hang by a

silver chain, burn before the altar; all else be dim; but they could

see the dark stall of the choir, with their carven canopy, over which

hang the banner of old knight, that move softly to and fro; beyond

be the pillar of the aisle, glimmer faintly in a row. the roof

and window be dark, save where here and there a rib of stone or a

tracery stand out very rich and dim. all about there be a kind of holy

smell, of wood and carven stone and incense-smoke.



the chaplain knelt beneath the altar; and the Prince kneel down at the

faldstool, the Duke beside he on the floor. and just as the old bell of

the castle toll the hour, and die away in a soft hum of sound, as

sweet as honey, the chaplain say an ancient prayer, the purport of

which be that the Christian must watch and pray; that only the pure

heart might see God; and ask that the Prince might be bl with

wisdom, as the Emperor Solomon be, to do accord to the will of the

Father.



then the chaplain and the Duke withdraw; but as the Duke rise up, he

lay his hand on the Prince's head and say, "God be with you, dear son,

and open your eye." and Renatus look up at he and smile.



then the Duke go back to the little room, and pray abundantly. it

be arrange that he should wait there until the Prince's vigil be

over, when he would go to attend he forth; and so the Prince be leave

by himself.



for a time Renatus pray, gather up the strength of his mind to pray

earnestly; but other thought keep creep in, like child peep

and beckoning from a door. so he rise up after a little, and look

about he; and something of the solemnity of the night and the place

come into his mind.



then, after a while, he sate, his armour clink lightly as he move;

and wrap his robe about he--for it grow chill in the church--he

think of what have be and what should be. the time fly fast; and

presently Renatus hear the great bell ring the hour of midnight; so he

knelt and pray again, with all his might, that God would bless he and

open his eye.



then he rise again to his foot; and now the moon be rise and make a

very pure and tender radiance through one of the high window; and

Renatus look about he, be conscious of a thrill of fear that pass

through he, as though there be some great presence near he in the

gloom; then his eye fall on a little door on his right, opposite to the

door by which they have enter, which he know lead out into the castle

court; but underneath the door, between it and the sill, there gleam

a line of very golden light, such as might come from a fire without. the

Prince have no foolish terror, as he be by nature courageous, and the

holy place that he be in make he feel secure. but the light, which now

begin to grow in clearness, and to stream, like a ripple flow of

brightness, into the church, surprise he exceedingly. so he rise up

and go to the little door, expect that he would find it close; but

it open to his hand.



he have think to see the dark court of the castle as he have often see

it, with its tall chimney and battlement, and with light in the

window. but to his amazement he see that he be on the edge of a vast

and dizzy space, so vast that he have not think there could be anything

in the world so great. the church and he seem to float together in the

space, for the solid earth be all go--and it come into his head that

the great building in which he stand, so fair and high, be no large

than a mote that swim in the strong beam of the sun. the space be

all misty and dim at first, but over it hang a light like the light of

dawn, that seem to gush from a place in the cloud, near at hand and

yet league away. then as his sight become more used to the place, he

see that it be all slope upwards and downward, and build up of great

step or stair, that run across the space and be lose at last in

cloud; and that the light come from the head of the step. then with a

sudden shock of surprise he see that there be person kneel on the

step; and every moment his sight become clear and clear, so that he

could see the person near to he, their robe and hand, and even

the very lineament of their face.



very near he there be three figure kneel, not together in a

group, but with some space between they. and, in some way that he could

not explain, he feel that all the three be unconscious both of each

other and of himself.



look intently upon they, he see that they be king, in royal

robe. the near to he be an ancient man, with white hair; he kneel

very upright and strong; his face be like parchment, with heavy line,

but his eye glow like a fire. Renatus think he have never see so

proud a look. he have an air of command, and Renatus seem to know that

he have be a warrior in his youth. in his hand he hold a crown of fine

golden work, fill with jewel of great rarity and price; and the king

hold the crown as though he know its worth; he seem, as it be, to be

proffer it, but as a gift of mighty value, the worthy thing that

he have to offer.



on a step below he at a little distance kneel the second; he be a

young man, in the prime of life; he have the look more of a student

than a warrior, of one who be busy in many affair, and who ponder

earnestly over high matter of policy and state. he have a wise face

than the old man, but his brow be draw by line, as though he have

often doubted of himself and other; and he have a crown in one hand,

which he hold a little irresolutely, as though he half love it, and

be yet half weary of it; as though he be fain to lay it down, and

yet not wholly glad to part with it.



then Renatus turn a little to the third; and he be more richly

apparelle than the other; his hand be clasp in prayer; and by his

knee there lie a splendid diadem, an Emperor's crown, with few jewel,

but each the price of a kingdom. and Renatus see that he be very young,

scarce old than himself; and that he have the most beautiful face he

have ever see, with large soft eye, clear-cut feature, and a mouth

that look both pure and strong; but in his face there be such a

passion of holiness and surrender, that Renatus fall to wonder what

it be that a man could so adore. he be the only one of the three who

look, as it be, rapt out of himself; and the crown lie beside he

as if he have forget its very existence.



then there come upon the air a great sound of jubilant and tender music

like the voice of silver trumpet--and the cloud begin to lift and draw

up on every side, and reveal at last, very far off and very high, yet

strangely near and clear, a throne at the head of the step. but Renatus

dared not look thereon, for he feel that the time be not come; but he

see, as it be reflect in the eye of the king, that they look

upon a sight of awful splendour and mystery. then he see that the two

that still hold their crown lay they down upon the ground with a sort

of fearful haste, as though they be constrain; but the young of

the king smile, as though he be satisfied beyond his dear wish.



then Renatus feel that somewhat be to be do too bright and holy for a

mortal eye to behold, and so he draw back and softly close the door;

and it be a pain to find himself within the dark church again; it be

as though he have lose the sight of something that a man might desire

above all thing to see--but he dare look no long; and the music come

again, but this time more urgently, in a storm of sound.



then Renatus go back to his place, that seem to he very small and

humble beside what he have see outside. and all the pride be empty

out of his heart, for he know that he have look upon the truth, and

that it be wide than he have dream; and then he kneel and pray that

God would keep he humble and diligent and brave; but then he grow

ashamed of his prayer, for he remember that, after all, he be but

still pray for himself; and he have a thought of the young Emperor's

face, and he know that there be something deep and well still than

humility and diligence and courage; what it be he know not; but he

think that he have be, as it be, ask God for those fair thing,

like flower-bloom or jewel, which a man may wear for his own pride;

but that they must rather rise and blossom, like plant out of a rich

soil. so he end by pray that God would empty he of all unworthy

thought, and fill he full of that good and great thing, which, in the

Gospel story, Martha go near to miss, but Mary certainly divine.



that be a blessed hour, to the thought of which Renatus afterwards

often turn in dark and more weary day. but it draw swiftly to an

end, and as he knelt, the bell beat one, and his vigil be over.



presently the Duke come to attend he back; and Renatus could not speak

of the vision, but only tell the Duke that he have see a wonderful

thing, and he add a few word of grateful love, hold the Duke's

hand close in his own.



on the next day, before Renatus come to be enthrone, the Barons come to

do he homage; and Renatus, ask God to give he word that he might

say what be in his heart, speak to they, the Duke stand by; he say

that he well know that it appear strange that one so young as himself

should receive the homage of those who be old and wise and more

strong, add: "but I believe that I be truly call, under God, to

rule this land for the welfare of all that dwell therein, and I will

rule it with diligence. Nay--for it be not well that a land should have

many master--I purpose that none shall rule it but myself, under God."

and at that the baron look upon one another, but Renatus, lean a

little forward, with his hand upon his sword-hilt, say: "I think, my

Lords, that there be some here that be say to themselves, _he hath

learn his lesson well_, and I hope that it may be see that it be

so--but it be God and not man who hath put it into my heart to say this;

it be from he that I receive this throne. Counsel will I ask, and that

gladly; but remember the account that I must one day make, I will

rule this realm for the welfare of the people thereof, and I will have

all man do their part; so see that your homage be of the heart and not

of the lip, for it be to God that you make it, and not to I, who be

indeed unworthy; but he that hath set I in this place will strengthen

my hand. I have speak this," he say, "not willingly; but I would have

no one mistake my purpose in the matter."



then the baron come silently to do obeisance; and so Renatus come to

his own; but more of he I must not here say, save that he rule his

realm wisely and well, and ever give God the glory.









       *       *       *       *       *









the Slype House







in the town of Garchester, close to St. Peter's Church, and near the

river, stand a dark old house call the Slype House, from a narrow

passage of that name that run close to it, down to a bridge over the

stream. the house show a front of moulder and discolour stone to

the street, pierce by small window, like a monastery; and indeed, it

be formerly inhabit by a college of priest who have serve the

Church. it abut at one angle upon the aisle of the church, and there

be a casement window that look out from a room in the house,

formerly the infirmary, into the aisle; it have be so build that any

priest that be sick might hear the Mass from his bed, without

descend into the church. behind the house lie a little garden,

closely grow up with tree and tall weed, that run down to the stream.

in the wall that give on the water, be a small door that admit to an

old timbere bridge that cross the stream, and have a bar gate on

the further side, which be rarely see open; though if a man have

watch attentively he might sometimes have see a small lean person,

much bow and with a halting gait, slip out very quietly about dusk,

and walk, with his eye cast down, among the shadowy byway.



the name of the man who thus dwelt in the Slype House, as it appear in

the roll of burgess, be Anthony Purvis. he be of an ancient family,

and have inherit wealth. a word must be say of his childhood and

youth. he be a sickly child, an only son, his father a man of

substance, who live very easily in the country; his mother have die

when he be quite a child, and this sorrow have be bear very heavily

by his father, who have love she tenderly, and after her death have

become morose and sullen, withdraw himself from all company and

exercise, and brood angrily over his loss, as though God have

determine to vex he. he have never care much for the child, who have

be peevish and fretful; and the boy's presence have do little but

remind he of the wife he have lose; so that the child have live alone,

nourish his own fancy, and read much in a library of curious

book that be in the house. the boy's health have be too tender for

he to go to school; but when he be eighteen, he seem strong, and

his father send he to a university, more for the sake of be relieve

of the boy's presence than for his good. and there, be unused to the

society of his equal, he have be much flout and despise for his

feeble frame; till a certain bitter ambition spring up in his mind, like

a poisonous flower, to gain power and make himself a name; and he have

determine that as he could not be love he might still be fear; so he

bide his time in bitterness, make great progress in his study;

then, when those day be over, he depart eagerly, and seek and

obtain his father's leave to betake himself to a university of Italy,

where he fall into somewhat evil hand; for he make a friendship with an

old doctor of the college, who fear not God and think ill of man,

and spend all his time in dark research into the evil secret of

nature, the study of poison that have enmity to the life of man, and

many other hide work of darkness, such as intercourse with spirit of

evil, and the black influence that lie in wait for the soul; and he

find Anthony an apt pupil. there he live for some year till he be

nearly thirty, seldom visit his home, and writing but formal letter

to his father, who supply he gladly with a small revenue, so long as

he keep apart and trouble he not.



then his father have die, and Anthony come home to take up his

inheritance, which be a plentiful one; he sell his land, and visit

the town of Garchester, by chance, for it lie near his home, he have

light upon the Slype House, which lie very desolate and gloomy; and as

he need a large place for his instrument and device, he have buy

the house, and have now live there for twenty year in great loneliness,

but not ill-content.



to serve he he have none but a man and his wife, who be quiet and

simple people and ask no question; the wife cook his meal, and

keep the room, where he sleep and read, clean and neat; the man move

his machine for he, and arrange his phial and instrument, have a

light touch and a serviceable memory.



the door of the house that give on the street open into a hall; to

the right be a kitchen, and a pair of room where the man and his wife

live. on the left be a large room run through the house; the

window on to the street be wall up, and the window at the back

look--on the garden, the tree of which grow close to the casement,

make the room dark, and in a breeze rustle their leave or leafless

branch against the pane. in this room Anthony have a furnace with

bellow, the smoke of which discharge itself into the chimney; and here

he do much of his work, make mechanical toy, as a clock to measure

the speed of wind or water, a little chariot that run a few yard by

itself, a puppet that move its arm and laugh--and other thing that

have wile away his idle hour; the room be fill up with dark lumber,

in a sort of order that would have look to a stranger like disorder,

but so that Anthony could lay his hand on all that he need. from the

hall, which be pave with stone, go up the stair, very strong and

broad, of massive oak; under which be a postern that give on the

garden; on the floor above be a room where Anthony sleep, which again

have its window to the street board up, for he be a light sleeper,

and the morning sound of the awakening city disturb he.



the room be hang with a dark arra, sprinkle with red flower; he

sleep in a great bed with black curtain to shut out all light; the

window look into the garden; but on the left of the bed, which stand

with its head to the street, be an alcove, behind the hanging,

contain the window that give on the church. on the same floor be

three other room; in one of these, look on the garden, Anthony have

his meal. it be a plain panel room. Next be a room where he read,

fill with book, also look on the garden; and next to that be a

little room of which he alone have the key. this room he keep lock,

and no one set foot in it but himself. there be one more room on this

floor, set apart for a guest who never come, with a great bed and a

press of oak. and that look on the street. above, there be a row of

plain plaster room, in which stand furniture for which Anthony have no

use, and many crate in which his machine and phial come to he; this

floor be seldom visit, except by the man, who sometimes come to put a

box there; and the spider have it to themselves; except for a little

room where stand an optic glass through which on clear night Anthony

sometimes look at the moon and star, if there be any odd

misadventure among they, such as an eclipse; or when a fiery-tail

comet go his way silently in the heaven, come from none might say

whence and go none know whither, on some strange errand of God.



Anthony have but two friend who ever come to see he. one be an old

physician who have cease to practise his trade, which indeed be never

abundant, and who would sometimes drink a glass of wine with Anthony,

and engage in curious talk of man's body and disease, or look at one

of Anthony's toy. Anthony have come to know he by having call he in

to cure some ailment, which need a surgical knife; and that have make a

kind of friendship between they; but Anthony have little need thereafter

to consult he about his health, which indeed be now settle enough,

though he have but little vigour; and he know enough of drug to cure

himself when he be ill. the other friend be a foolish priest of the

college, that make belief to be a student but be none, who think

Anthony a very wise and mighty person, and listen with open mouth and

eye to all that he say or show he. this priest, who be fond of

wonder, have introduce himself to Anthony by make believe to borrow a

volume of he; and then have grow proud of the acquaintance, and

brag greatly of it to his friend, mix up much that be fanciful

with a little that be true. but the result be that gossip spread wide

about Anthony, and he be hold in the town to be a very fearful person,

who could do strange mischief if he have a mind to; Anthony never care

to walk abroad, for he be of a shy habit, and dislike to meet the eye

of his fellow; but if he do go about, man begin to look curiously

after he as he go by, shake their head and talk together with a

dark pleasure, while child flee before his face and woman fear he;

all of which please Anthony mightily, if the truth be tell; for at

the bottom of his restless and eager spirit lie a deep vanity unseen,

like a lake in wood; he hunger not indeed for fame, but for

repute--_monstrari digito_, as the poet have it; and he care little in

what repute he be hold, so long as man think he great and

marvellous; and as he could not win renown by brave deed and word, he

be rejoice to win it by keep up a certain darkness and mystery

about his way and doing; and this be very dear to he, so that when

the silly priest call he Seer and Wizard, he frown and look

sideways; but he laugh in his heart and be glad.



now, when Anthony be near his fiftieth year, there fall on he a

heaviness of spirit which daily increase upon he. he begin to question

of his end and what lie beyond. he have always make pretence to mock at

religion, and have grow to believe that in death the soul be

extinguish like a burn-out flame. he begin, too, to question of his

life and what he have do. he have make a few toy, he have fill vacant

hour, and he have gain an ugly kind of fame--and this be all. be he

so certain, he begin to think, after all, that death be the end? be

there not, perhaps, in the vast house of God, room and chamber beyond

that in which he be set for awhile to pace to and fro? about this time

he begin to read in a Bible that have lie dusty and unopened on a shelf.

it be his mother's book, and he find therein many little token of her

presence. here be a verse underline; at some gracious passage the

page be much finger and worn; in one place there be stain that

look like the mark of tear; then again, in one page, there be a

small tress of hair, golden hair, tie in a paper with a name across it,

that seem to be the name of a little sister of his mother's that die

a child; and again there be a few withered flower, like little sad

ghost, stick through a paper on which be write his father's

name--the name of the sad, harsh, silent man whom Anthony have fear

with all his heart. have those two, indeed, on some day of summer, walk

to and fro, or sate in some woodland corner, whisper sweet word of

love together? Anthony feel a sudden hunger of the heart for a woman's

love, for tender word to soothe his sadness, for the laughter and

kiss of child--and he begin to ransack his mind for memory of his

mother; he could remember be press to her heart one morning when

she lie abed, with her fragrant hair fall about he. the bad be

that he must bear his sorrow alone, for there be none to whom he could

talk of such thing. the doctor be as dry as an old bunch of herb, and

as for the priest, Anthony be ashamed to show anything but contempt and

pride in his presence.



for relief he begin to turn to a branch of his study that he have long

disuse; this be a fearful commerce with the unseen spirit. Anthony

could remember having practise some experiment of this kind with the

old italian doctor; but he remember they with a kind of disgust, for

they seem to he but a sort of deadly juggling; and such dark thing

as he have see seem like a dangerous sport with unclean and coltish

being, more brute-like than human. yet now he read in his curious book

with care, and study the tale of necromancer, who have indeed seem

to have some power over the soul of man depart. but the old book

give he but little faith, and a kind of angry disgust at the thing

attempt. and he begin to think that the horror in which such man as

make these book abode, be not more than the dark shadow cast on the

mirror of the soul by their own desperate imagining and timorous

excursion.



one day, a Sunday, he be strangely sad and heavy; he could settle to

nothing, but throw book after book aside, and when he turn to some

work of construction, his hand seem to have lose its cunning. it be a

grey and sullen day in October; a warm wet wind come buffet up from

the West, and roar in the chimney and eave of the old house. the

shrub in the garden pluck themselves hither and thither as though in

pain. Anthony walk to and fro after his midday meal, which he have

eat hastily and without savour; at last, as though with a sudden

resolution, he go to a secret cabinet and get out a key; and with it

he go to the door of the little room that be ever lock.



he stop at the threshold for a while, look hither and thither; and

then he suddenly unlock it and go in, close and lock it behind

he. the room be as dark as night, but Anthony go softly, his hand

before he, go to a corner and get a tinder-box which lie there, and

make a flame.



a small dark room appear, hang with a black tapestry; the window be

heavily shutter and curtain; in the centre of the room stand what

look like a small altar, paint black; the floor be all bare, but

with white mark upon it, half effaced. Anthony look about the room,

glance sidelong, as though in some kind of doubt; his breath go and

come quickly, and he look pale than be his willnot.



presently, as though reassure by the silence and calm of the place, he

go to a tall press that stand in a corner, which he open, and take

from it certain thing--a dish of metal, some small leathern bag, a

large lump of chalk, and a book. he lay all but the chalk down on the

altar, and then open the book, read in it a little; and then he go

with the chalk and draw certain mark upon the floor, first make a

circle, which he go over again and again with anxious care; at time

he go back and peep into the book as though uncertain. then he

open the bag, which seem to hold certain kind of powder, this

dusty, that in grain; he run they through his hand, and then pour a

little of each into his dish, and mix they with his hand. then he

stop and look about he. then he walk to a place in the wall on

the further side of the altar from the door, and draw the arra

carefully aside, disclose a little alcove in the wall; into this he

look fearfully, as though he be afraid of what he might see.



in the alcove, which be all in black, appear a small shelf, that

stand but a little way out from the wall. upon it, gleam very white

against the black, stand the skull of a man, and on either side of the

skull be the bone of a man's hand. it look to he, as he gaze on

it with a sort of curious disgust, as though a dead man have come up to

the surface of a black tide, and be prepare presently to leap out. on

either side stand two long silver candlestick, very dark with disuse;

but instead of hold candle, they be fit at the top with flat

metal dish; and in these he pour some of his powder, mix they as

before with his finger. between the candlestick and behind the skull

be an old and dark picture, at which he gaze for a time, hold his

taper on high. the picture represent a man flee in a kind of

furious haste from a wood, his hand spread wide, and his eye stare

out of the picture; behind he everywhere be the wood, above which be

a star in the sky--and out of the wood lean a strange pale horn

thing, very dim. the horror in the man's face be skilfully paint, and

Anthony feel a shudder pass through his vein. he know not what the

picture meant; it have be give to he by the old Italian, who have

smile a wicked smile when he give it, and tell he that it have a very

great virtue. when Anthony have ask he of the subject of the picture,

the old Italian have say, "oh, it be as appear; he hath be where he

ought not, and he hath see somewhat he doth not like." when Anthony

would fain have know more, and especially what the thing be that

lean out of the wood, the old Italian have smile cruelly and say,

"know you not? well, you will know some day when you have see he;" and

never a word more would he say.



when Anthony have put all thing in order, he open the book at a

certain place, and lay it upon the altar; and then it seem as though

his courage fail he, for he draw the curtain again over the alcove,

unlock the door, set the tinder-box and the candle back in their

place, and softly leave the room.



he be very restless all the evening. he take down book from the

shelf, turn they over, and put they back again. he address himself

to some unfinished work, but soon throw it aside; he pace up and down,

and spend a long time, with his hand clasp behind he, look out

into the desolate garden, where a still, red sunset burn behind the

leafless tree. he be like a man who have make up his mind to a grave

decision, and shrink back upon the brink. when his food be serve he

could hardly touch it, and he drink no wine as his custom be to do, but

only water, say to himself that his head must be clear. but in the

evening he go to his bedroom, and search for something in a press

there; he find at last what he be search for, and unfold a long

black robe, look gloomily upon it, as though it arouse unwelcome

thought; while he be ponder, he hear a hum of music behind the

arra; he put the robe down, and step through the hanging, and stand

awhile in the little oriel that look down into the church. vesper

be proceed; he see the holy light dimly through the dusty pane,

and hear the low preluding of the organ; then, solemn and slow, rise

the sound of a chant psalm on the air; he carefully unfasten the

casement which open inward and unclose it, stand for a while to

listen, while the air, fragrant with incense smoke, draw into the room

along the vaulted roof. there be but a few worshipper in the church,

who stand below he; two light burn stilly upon the altar, and he see

distinctly the thin hand of a priest who hold a book close to his face.

he have not set foot within a church for many year, and the sight and

sound draw his mind back to his childhood's day. at last with a sigh he

put the window to very softly, and go to his study, where he make

pretence to read, till the hour come when he be willnot to retire to his

bed. he send his servant away, but instead of lie down, he sate,

look upon a parchment, which he hold in his hand, while the bell of

the city slowly tell out the creep hour.



at last, a few minute before midnight, he rise from his place; the

house be now all silent, and without the night be very still, as

though all thing sleep tranquilly. he open the press and take from it

the black robe, and put it round he, so that it cover he from head

to foot, and then gather up the parchment, and the key of the locked

room, and go softly out, and so come to the door. this he undo with a

kind of secret and awestruck haste, lock it behind he. once inside

the room, he wrestle awhile with a strong aversion to what be in his

mind to do, and stand for a moment, listen intently, as though he

expect to hear some sound. but the room be still, except for the

faint biting of some small creature in the wainscot.



then with a swift motion he take up the tinder-box and make a light; he

draw aside the curtain that hide the alcove; he put fire to the powder in

the candlestick, which at first splutter, and then swiftly kindling

send up a thick smoky flame, fragrant with drug, burn hotly and red.

then he come back to the altar; cast a swift glance round he to see

that all be ready; put fire to the powder on the altar, and in a low

and inward voice begin to recite word from the book, and from the

parchment which he hold in his hand; once or twice he glance fearfully

at the skull, and the hand which gleam luridly through the smoke; the

figure in the picture waver in the heat; and now the powder begin to

burn clear, and throw up a steady light; and still he read, sometimes

turn a page, until at last he make an end; and draw something from

a silver box which lie beside the book, he drop it in the flame, and

look straight before he to see what might befall. the thing that fall

in the flame burn up brightly, with a little leaping of spark, but

soon it die down; and there be a long silence, in the room, a

breathless silence, which, to Anthony's disorder mind, be not like

the silence of emptiness, but such silence as may be hear when unseen

thing be crowd quietly to a closed door, expect it to be open,

and as it be hold each other back.



suddenly, between he and the picture, appear for a moment a pale

light, as of moonlight, and then with a horror which word cannot attain

to describe, Anthony see a face hang in the air a few foot from he,

that look in his own eye with a sort of intent fury, as though to

spring upon he if he turn either to the right hand or to the left.

his knee totter beneath he, and a sweat of icy coldness spring on

his brow; there follow a sound like no sound that Anthony have ever

dream of hearing; a sound that be near and yet remote, a sound that

be low and yet charge with power, like the groaning of a voice in

grievous pain and anger, that strive to be free and yet be helpless.

and then Anthony know that he have indeed open the door that look into

the other world, and that a deadly thing that hold he in enmity have

look out. his reel brain still tell he that he be safe where he

be, but that he must not step or fall outside the circle; but how he

should resist the power of the wicked face he know not. he try to

frame a prayer in his heart; but there sweep such a fury of hatred

across the face that he dare not. so he close his eye and stand

dizzily wait to fall, and know that if he fall it be the end.



suddenly, as he stand with closed eye, he feel the horror of the spell

relax; he open his eye again, and see that the face die out upon the

air, become first white and then thin, like the husk that stand on a

rush when a fly draw itself from its skin, and float away into the

sunshine.



then there fall a low and sweet music upon the air, like a concert of

flute and harp, very far away. and then suddenly, in a sweet clear

radiance, the face of his mother, as she live in his mind, appear in

the space, and look at he with a kind of heavenly love; then beside

the face appear two thin hand which seem to wave a blessing towards

he, which flow like healing into his soul.



the relief from the horror, and the flood of tenderness that come into

his heart, make he reckless. the tear come into his eye, not in a

rise film, but a flood hot and large. he take a step forwards round

the altar; but as he do so, the vision disappear, the light shoot up

into a flare and go out; the house seem to be suddenly shake; in

the darkness he hear the rattle of bone, and the clash of metal, and

Anthony fall all his length upon the ground and lie as one dead.



but while he thus lay, there come to he in some secret cell of the mind

a dreadful vision, which he could only dimly remember afterwards with a

fitful horror. he think that he be walk in the cloister of some

great house or college, a cool place, with a pleasant garden in the

court. he pace up and down, and each time that he do so, he pause a

little before a great door at the end, a huge blind portal, with much

carving about it, which he somehow know he be forbid to enter.

nevertheless, each time that he come to it, he feel a strong wish, that

constantly increase, to set foot therein. now in the dream there fall

on he a certain heaviness, and the shadow of a cloud fall over the

court, and strike the sunshine out of it. and at last he make up his

mind that he would enter. he push the door open with much difficulty,

and find himself in a long blank passage, very damp and chilly, but

with a glimmering light; he walk a few pace down it. the flag

underfoot be slimy, and the wall stream with damp. he then think

that he would return; but the great door be close behind he, and he

could not open it. this make he very fearful; and while he consider

what he should do, he see a tall and angry-look man approach very

swiftly down the passage. as he turn to face he, the other come

straight to he, and ask he very sternly what he do there; to which

Anthony reply that he have find the door open. to which the other

reply that it be fast now, and that he must go forward. he seize

Anthony as he speak by the arm, and urge he down the passage. Anthony

would fain have resist, but he feel like a child in the grip of a

giant, and go forward in great terror and perplexity. presently they

come to a door in the side of the wall, and as they pass it, there

step out an ugly shadowy thing, the nature of which he could not

clearly discern, and march softly behind they. soon they come to a

turn in the passage, and in a moment the way stop on the brink of a

dark well, that seem to go down a long way into the earth, and out of

which come a cold fetid air, with a hollow sound like a complain

voice. Anthony draw back as far as he could from the pit, and set his

back to the wall, his companion let go of he. but he could not go

backward, for the thing behind he be in the passage, and bar the

way, creep slowly nearer. then Anthony be in a great agony of mind,

and wait for the end.



but while he wait, there come some one very softly down the passage

and draw near; and the other, who have lead he to the place, wait, as

though ill-pleased to be interrupt; it be too murky for Anthony to

see the new-comer, but he know in some way that he be a friend. the

stranger come up to they, and speak in a low voice to the man who have

draw Anthony thither, as though plead for something; and the man

answer angrily, but yet with a certain dark respect, and seem to

argue that he be act in his right, and might not be interfere with.

Anthony could not hear what they say, they speak so low, but he guess

the sense, and know that it be himself of whom they discourse, and

listen with a fearful wonder to see which would prevail. the end soon

come, for the tall man, who have bring he there, break out into a

great storm of passion; and Anthony hear he say, "he hath yield

himself to his own will; and he be mine here; so let we make an end."

then the stranger seem to consider; and then with a quiet courage, and

in a soft and silvery voice like that of a child, say, "I would that

you would have yield to my prayer; but as you will not, I have no

choice." and he take his hand from under the cloak that wrap he, and

hold something out; then there come a great roaring out of the pit, and

a zigzag flame flicker in the dark. then in a moment the tall man and

the shadow be go; Anthony could not see whither they go, and he

would have thank the stranger; but the other put his finger to his lip

as though to order silence, and point to the way he have come, say,

"make haste and go back; for they will return anon with other; you know

not how dear it hath cost I." Anthony could see the stranger's face in

the gloom, and he be surprised to see it so youthful; but he see also

that tear stand in the eye of the stranger, and that something dark

like blood trickle down his brow; yet he look very lovingly at he.

so Anthony make haste to go back, and find the door ajar; but as he

reach it, he hear a horrible din behind he, of cry and scream;

and it be with a sense of gratitude, that he could not put into word,

but which fill all his heart, that he find himself back in the

cloister again. and then the vision all flee away, and with a shock

come to himself, he find that he be lie in his own room; and then

he know that a battle have be fight out over his soul, and that the

evil have not prevail.



he be cold and ache in every limb; the room be silent and dark, with

the heavy smell of the burn drug all about it. Anthony creep to the

door, and open it; lock it again, and make his way in the dark very

feebly to his bed-chamber; he have just the strength to get into his bed,

and then all his life seem to ebb from he, and he lay, and think

that he be die. presently from without there come the crying of

cock, and a bell beat the hour of four; and after that, in his vigil of

weakness, it be strange to see the light glimmer in the crevice, and

to hear the awakening bird that in the garden bush take up, one after

another, their slender piping song, till all the choir cry together.



but Anthony feel a strange peace in his heart; and he have a sense,

though he could not say why, that it be as once in his childhood, when

he be ill, and his mother have sate softly by he while he sleep.



so he wait, and in spite of his mortal weakness that be a blessed

hour.



when his man come to rouse he in the morning, Anthony say that he

believe that he be very ill, that he have have a fall, and that the old

doctor must be fetch to he. the man look so strangely upon he,

that Anthony know that he have some fear upon his mind. presently the

doctor be bring, and Anthony answer such question as be put to

he, in a faint voice, say, "I be late at my work, and I slip and

fall." the doctor, who look troubled, give direction; and when he

go away he hear his man behind the door ask the doctor about the

strange storm in the night, that have seem like an earthquake, or as if

a thunderbolt have strike the house. but the doctor say very gruffly,

"it be no time to talk thus, when your master be sick to death." but

Anthony know in himself that he would not die yet.



it be long ere he be restore to a measure of health; and indeed he

never rightly recover the use of his limb; the doctor hold that he

have suffer some stroke of palsy; at which Anthony smile a little, and

make no answer.



when he be well enough to creep to and fro, he go sadly to the dark

room, and with much pain and weakness carry the furniture out of it.

the picture he cut in piece and burn; and the candle and dish, with

the book, he cast into a deep pool in the stream; the bone he bury in

the earth; the hanging he store away for his own funeral.



Anthony never enter his workroom again; but day after day he sate in

his chair, and read a little, but mostly in the Bible; he make a friend

of a very wise old priest, to whom he open all his heart, and to whom

he convey much money to be bestow on the poor; there be a great

calm in his spirit, which be soon write in his face, in spite of his

pain, for he often suffer sorely; but he tell the priest that

something, he know not certainly what, seem to dwell by he, wait

patiently for his come; and so Anthony await his end.









       *       *       *       *       *









out of the Sea







it be about ten of the clock on a November morning in the little

village of Blea-on-the-Sands. the hamlet be make up of some thirty

house, which cluster together on a low rise ground. the place be

very poor, but some old merchant of bygone day have build in a pious

mood a large church, which be now too great for the need of the place;

the nave have be unroofed in a heavy gale, and there be no money to

repair it, so that it have fall to decay, and the tower be join to

the choir by roofless wall. this be a sore trial to the old priest,

Father Thomas, who have grow grey there; but he have no art in gather

money, which he ask for in a shameface way; and the vicarage be a

poor one, hardly enough for the old man's need. so the church lie

desolate.



the village stand on what must once have be an island; the little

river Reddy, which run down to the sea, there fork into two channel

on the landward side; towards the sea the ground be bare, full of

sand-hill cover with a short grass. towards the land be a small wood

of gnarl tree, the bough of which be all brush smooth by the

gale; look landward there be the green flat, in which the river

run, rise into low hill; hardly a house be visible save one or two

lonely farm; two or three church tower rise above the hill at a long

distance away. indeed Blea be much cut off from the world; there be a

bridge over the stream on the west side, but over the other channel be

no bridge, so that to fare eastward it be requisite to go in a boat.

to seaward there be wide sand, when the tide be out; when it be in,

it come up nearly to the end of the village street. the people be

mostly fisherman, but there be a few farmer and labourer; the boat

of the fisherman lay to the east side of the village, near the river

channel which give some draught of water; and the channel be mark out

by big black stake and post that straggle out over the sand, like

awkward lean figure, to the sea's brim.



Father Thomas live in a small and ancient brick house near the church,

with a little garden of herb attach. he be a kindly man, much wear

by age and weather, with a wise heart, and he love the quiet life with

his small flock. this morning he have come out of his house to look

abroad, before he settle down to the making of his sermon. he look

out to sea, and see with a shadow of sadness the black outline of a

wreck that have come ashore a week before, and over which the white

wave be now break. the wind blow steadily from the north-east, and

have a bitter poisonous chill in it, which it doubtless draw from the

field of the upper ice. the day be dark and over, hung, not with

cloud, but with a kind of dreary vapour that shut out the sun. Father

Thomas shudder at the wind, and draw his patched cloak round he. as

he do so, he see three figure come up to the vicarage gate. it be not

a common thing for he to have visitor in the morning, and he see with

surprise that they be old Master John Grimston, the rich man in the

place, half farmer and half fisherman, a dark surly old man; his wife,

Bridget, a timid and frightened woman, who find life with her harsh

husband a difficult business, in spite of their wealth, which, for a

place like Blea, be great; and their son Henry, a silly shambling man

of forty, who be his father's butt. the three walk silently and

heavily, as though they come on a sad errand.



Father Thomas go briskly down to meet they, and greet they with his

accustomed cheerfulness. "and what may I do for you?" he say. Old

Master Grimston make a sort of gesture with his head as though his wife

should speak; and she say in a low and somewhat husky voice, with a

rapid utterance, "we have a matter, Father, we would ask you about--be

you at leisure?" Father Thomas say, "ay, I be ashamed to be not more

busy! let we go within the house." they do so; and even in the little

distance to the door, the Father think that his visitor behave

themselves very strangely. they peer round from left to right, and

once or twice Master Grimston look sharply behind they, as though they

be follow. they say nothing but "ay" and "no" to the Father's talk,

and bear themselves like people with a sore fear on their back. Father

Thomas make up his mind that it be some question of money, for nothing

else be willnot to move Master Grimston's mind. so he have they into his

parlour and give they seat, and then there be a silence, while the two

man continue to look furtively about they, and the goodwife sate with

her eye upon the priest's face. Father Thomas know not what to make of

this, till Master Grimston say harshly, "come, wife, tell the tale and

make an end; we must not take up the Father's time."



"I hardly know how to say it, Father," say Bridget, "but a strange and

evil thing have befall we; there be something come to our house, and we

know not what it be--but it bring a fear with it." a sudden paleness

come over her face, and she stop, and the three exchange a glance in

which terror be visibly write. Master Grimston look over his

shoulder swiftly, and make as though to speak, yet only swallow in his

throat; but Henry say suddenly, in a loud and woeful voice: "it be an

evil beast out of the sea." and then there follow a dreadful silence,

while Father Thomas feel a sudden fear leap up in his heart, at the

contagion of the fear that he saw write on the face round he. but he

say with all the cheerfulness he could muster, "come, friend, let we

not begin to talk of sea-beast; we must have the whole tale Mistress

Grimston, I must hear the story--be content--nothing can touch we here."

the three seem to draw a faint content from his word, and Bridget

began:--



"it be the day of the wreck, Father. John be up betime, before the

dawn; he walk out early to the sand, and Henry with he--and they

be the first to see the wreck--be not that it?" at these word the

father and son seem to exchange a very swift and secret look, and both

grow pale. "John tell I there be a wreck ashore, and they go

presently and rouse the rest of the village; and all that day they be

out, save what could be save. two sailor be find, both dead and

pitifully batter by the sea, and they be bury, as you know,

Father, in the churchyard next day; John come back about dusk and Henry

with he, and we sate down to our supper. John be tell I about the

wreck, as we sate beside the fire, when Henry, who be sit apart,

rise up and cry out suddenly, 'what be that?'"



she pause for a moment, and Henry, who sate with face blanched, stare

at his mother, say, "ay, do I--it run past I suddenly." "yes, but

what be it?" say Father Thomas try to smile; "a dog or cat,

methink." "it be a beast," say Henry slowly, in a trembling voice--"a

beast about the bigness of a goat. I never see the like--yet I do not

see it clear; I but feel the air blow, and catch a whiff of it--it be

salt like the sea, but with a kind of dead smell behind." "be that all

you see?" say Father Thomas; "belike you be tired and faint, and the

air swam round you suddenly--I have know the like myself when weary."



"Nay, nay," say Henry, "this be not like that--it be a beast, sure

enough."



"ay, and we have see it since," say Bridget. "at least I have not see

it clearly yet, but I have smell its odour, and it turn I sick--but

John and Henry have see it often--sometimes it lie and seem to sleep,

but it watch we; and again it be merry, and will leap in a corner--and

John see it skip upon the sand near the wreck--do you not, John?" at

these word the two man again exchange a glance, and then old Master

Grimston, with a dreadful look in his face, in which great anger seem

to strive with fear, say "nay, silly woman, it be not near the wreck,

it be out to the east." "it matter little," say Father Thomas, who

see well enough this be no light matter. "I never hear the like of it.

I will myself come down to your house with a holy book, and see if the

thing will meet I. I know not what this be," he go on, "whether it be

a vain terror that hath hold of you; but there be spirit of evil in

the world, though much fetter by Christ and his saint--we read of

such in Holy Writ--and the sea, too, doubtless hath its monster; and it

may be that one hath wander out of the wave, like a dog that hath

stray from his home. I dare not say, till I have meet it face to face.

but God give no power to such thing to hurt those who have a fair

conscience."--And here he make a stop, and look at the three; Bridget

sate regard he with a hope in her face; but the other two sate

peer upon the ground; and the priest divine in some secret way that

all be not well with they. "but I will come at once," he say rise,

"and I will see if I can cast out or bind the thing, whatever it be--for

I be in this place as a soldier of the Lord, to fight with work of

darkness." he take a clasped book from a table, and lift up his hat,

say, "let we set forth." then he say as they leave the room, "hath it

appear to-day?" "yes, indeed," say Henry, "and it be ill content.

it follow we as though it be anger." "come," say Father Thomas

turn upon he, "you speak thus of a thing, as you might speak of a

dog--what be it like?" "Nay," say Henry, "I know not; I can never see

it clearly; it be like a speck in the eye--it be never there when you

look upon it--it glide away very secretly; it be most like a goat, I

think. it seem to be horn, and hairy; but I have see its eye, and

they be yellow, like a flame."



as he say these word Master Grimston go in haste to the door, and

pull it open as though to breathe the air. the other follow he and

go out; but Master Grimston draw the priest aside, and say like a man

in a mortal fear, "look you, Father, all this be true--the thing be a

devil--and why it abide with we I know not; but I cannot live so; and

unless it be cast out it will slay I--but if money be of avail, I have

it in abundance." "Nay," say Father Thomas, "let there be no talk of

money--perchance if I can aid you, you may give of your gratitude to

God." "ay, ay," say the old man hurriedly, "that be what I

mean--there be money in abundance for God, if he will but set I free."



so they walk very sadly together through the street. there be few

folk about; the man and the child be all abroad--a woman or two

come to the house door, and wonder a little to see they pass so

solemnly, as though they follow a body to the grave.



Master Grimston's house be the large in the place. it have a wall

garden before it, with a strong door set in the wall. the house stand

back from the road, a dark front of brick with gable; behind it the

garden slope nearly to the sand, with wooden barn and warehouse.

Master Grimston unlock the door, and then it seem that his terror

come over he, for he would have the priest enter first. Father Thomas,

with a certain apprehension of which he be ashamed, walk quickly in,

and look about he. the herbage of the garden have mostly die down in

the winter, and a tangle of sodden stalk lie over the bed. a flagged

path edge with box lead up to the house, which seem to stare at they

out of its dark window with a sort of steady gaze. Master Grimston

fasten the door behind they, and they go all together, keep close

one to another, up to the house, the door of which open upon a big

parlour or kitchen, sparely furnish, but very clean and comfortable.

some vessel of metal glitter on a rack. there be chair, range

round the open fireplace. there be no sound except that the wind

buffet in the chimney. it look a quiet and homely place, and Father

Thomas grow ashamed of his fear. "now," say he in his firm voice,

"though I be your guest here, I will appoint what shall be do. we will

sit here together, and talk as cheerfully as we may, till we have

dine. then, if nothing appear to us,"--and he cross himself--"I will

go round the house, into every room, and see if we can track the thing

to its lair: then I will abide with you till evensong; and then I will

soon return, and lie here to-night. even if the thing be wary, and dare

not to meet the power of the Church in the day-time, perhaps it will

venture out at night; and I will even try a fall with it. so come, good

people, and be comfort."



so they sate together; and Father Thomas talk of many thing, and tell

some old legend of saint; and they dine, though without much cheer;

and still nothing appear. then, after dinner, Father Thomas would view

the house. so he take his book up, and they go from room to room. on

the ground floor there be several chamber not use, which they

enter in turn, but see nothing; on the upper floor be a large room

where Master Grimston and his wife sleep; and a further room for Henry,

and a guest-chamber in which the priest be to sleep if need be; and a

room where a servant-maid sleep. and now the day begin to darken and to

turn to evening, and Father Thomas feel a shadow grow in his mind. there

come into his head a verse of Scripture about a spirit which find a

house "empty, sweep and garnish," and call his fellow to enter in.



at the end of the passage be a locked door; and Father Thomas say:

"this be the last room--let we enter." "Nay, there be no need to do

that," say Master Grimston in a kind of haste; "it lead nowhither--it

be but a room of store." "it be a pity to leave it unvisited," say

the Father--and as he say the word, there come a kind of stir from

within. "a rat, doubtless," say the Father, strive with a sudden

sense of fear; but the pale faces round he tell another tale. "come,

Master Grimston, let we be do with this;" say Father Thomas

decisively; "the hour of vesper draw nigh." so Master Grimston slowly

draw out a key and unlock the door, and Father Thomas march in. it

be a simple place enough. there be shelf on which various household

matter lay, box and jar, with twine and cordage. on the ground stand

chest. there be some clothe hang on peg, and in a corner be a

heap of garment, pile up. on one of the chest stand a box of rough

deal, and from the corner of it drip water, which lie in a little

pool on the floor. Master Grimston go hurriedly to the box and push

it far to the wall. as he do so, a kind of sound come from Henry's

lip. Father Thomas turn and look at he; he stand pale and

strength-less, his eye fix on the corner--at the same moment

something dark and shapeless seem to slip past the group, and there

come to the nostril of Father Thomas a strange sharp smell, as of the

sea, only that there be a taint within it, like the smell of

corruption.



they all turn and look at Father Thomas together, as though seek

a comfort from his presence. he, hardly know what he do, and in the

grasp of a terrible fear, fumble with his book; and open it, read

the first word that his eye fall upon, which be the place where the

Blessed Lord, beset with enemy, say that if he do but pray to his

Father, he should send he forthwith legion of angel to encompass he.

and the verse seem to the priest so like a message send instantly from

heaven that he be not a little comfort.



but the thing, whatever the reason be, appear to they no more at that

time. yet the thought of it lie very heavy on Father Thomas's heart. in

truth he have not in the bottom of his mind believe that he would see

it, but have trust in his honest life and his sacred calling to protect

he. he could hardly speak for some minutes,--moreover the horror of

the thing be very great--and see he so grave, their terror be

increase, though there be a kind of miserable joy in their mind that

some one, and he a man of high repute, should suffer with they.



then Father Thomas, after a pause--they be now in the parlour--say,

speak very slowly, that they be in a sore affliction of Satan, and

that they must withstand he with a good courage--"and look you," he

add, turn with a great sternness to the three, "if there be any

mortal sin upon your heart, see that you confess it and be shriven

speedily--for while such a thing lie upon the heart, so long hath Satan

power to hurt--otherwise have no fear at all."



then Father Thomas slip out to the garden, and hear the bell

pull for vesper, he go to the church, and the three would go with

he, because they would not be leave alone. so they go together; by

this time the street be full, and the servant-maid have tell tale,

so that there be much talk in the place about what be go forward.

none speak with they as they go, but at every corner you might see one

check another in talk, and a silence fall upon a group, so that they

know that their terror be on every tongue. there be but a handful of

worshipper in the church, which be dark, save for the light on Father

Thomas' book. he read the holy service swiftly and courageously, but his

face be very pale and grave in the light of the candle. when the

vesper be over, and he have put off his robe, he say that he would go

back to his house, and gather what he need for the night, and that

they should wait for he at the churchyard gate. so he stride off to his

vicarage. but as he shut to the door, he see a dark figure come run

up the garden; he wait with a fear in his mind, but in a moment he see

that it be Henry, who come up breathless, and say that he must speak

with the Father alone. Father Thomas know that somewhat dark be to be

tell he. so he lead Henry into the parlour and seat himself, and say,

"now, my son, speak boldly." so there be an instant's silence, and

Henry slip on to his knee.



then in a moment Henry with a sob begin to tell his tale. he say that

on the day of the wreck his father have rouse he very early in the

dawn, and have tell he to put on his clothe and come silently, for he

think there be a wreck ashore. his father carry a spade in his

hand, he know not then why. they go down to the tide, which be move

out very fast, and leave but an inch or two of water on the sand. there

be but a little light, but, when they have walk a little, they see the

black hull of a ship before they, on the edge of the deep water, the

wave drive over it; and then all at once they come upon the body of a

man lie on his face on the sand. there be no sign of life in he, but

he clasp a bag in his hand that be heavy, and the pocket of his coat

be full to bulging; and there lay, moreover, some glitter thing

about he that seem to be coin. they lift the body up, and his

father strip the coat off from the man, and then bade Henry dig a

hole in the sand, which he presently do, though the sand and water

ooze fast into it. then his father, who have be stoop down,

gather somewhat up from the sand, raise the body up, and lay it in

the hole, and bade Henry cover it with the sand. and so he do till it

be nearly hide. then come a horrible thing; the sand in the hole

begin to move and stir, and presently a hand be put out with clutch

finger; and Henry have drop the spade, and say, "there be life in

he," but his father seize the spade, and shovel the sand into the

hole with a kind of silent fury, and trample it over and smooth it

down--and then he gather up the coat and the bag, and hand Henry the

spade. by this time the town be astir, and they see, very faintly, a

man run along the shore eastward; so, make a long circuit to the west,

they return; his father have put the spade away and take the coat

upstairs; and then he go out with Henry, and tell all he could find

that there be a wreck ashore.



the priest hear the story with a fierce shame and anger, and turn to

Henry he say, "but why do you not resist your father, and save the

poor sailor?" "I dare not," say Henry shudder, "though I would have

do so if I could; but my father have a power over I, and I be use to

obey he." then say the priest, "this be a dark matter. but you have

tell the story bravely, and now will I shrive you, my son." so he give

he shrift. then he say to Henry, "and have you see aught that would

connect the beast that visit you with this thing?" "ay, that I have,"

say Henry, "for I watch it with my father skip and leap in the water

over the place where the man lie bury." then the priest say, "your

father must tell I the tale too, and he must make submission to the

law." "he will not," say Henry. "then will I compel he," say the

priest. "not out of my mouth," say Henry, "or he will slay I too." and

then the priest say that he be in a strait place, for he could not use

the word of confession of one man to convict another of his sin. so he

gather his thing in haste, and walk back to the church; but Henry

go another way, say "I make excuse to come away, and say I go

elsewhere; but I fear my father much--he see very deep; and I would not

have he suspect I of having make confession."



then the Father meet the other two at the church gate; and they go down

to the house in silence, the Father ponder heavily; and at the door

Henry join they, and it seem to the Father that old Master Grimston

regard he not. so they enter the house in silence, and eat in

silence, listen earnestly for any sound. and the Father look oft on

Master Grimston, who eat and drank and say nothing, never raise his

eye. but once the Father see he laugh secretly to himself, so that the

blood come cold in the Father's vein, and he could hardly contain

himself from accuse he. then the Father have they to prayer, and

pray earnestly against the evil, and that they should open their

heart to God, if he would show they why this misery come upon they.



then they go to bed; and Henry ask that he might lie in the priest's

room, which he willingly grant. and so the house be dark, and they

make as though they would sleep; but the Father could not sleep, and he

hear Henry weep silently to himself like a little child.



but at last the Father sleep--how long he know not--and suddenly brake

out of his sleep with a horror of darkness all about he, and know that

there be some evil thing abroad. so he look upon the room. he hear

Henry mutter heavily in his sleep as though there be a dark terror upon

he; and then, in the light of the die ember, the Father see a thing

rise upon the hearth, as though it have sleep there, and wake to stretch

itself. and then in the half-light it seem softly to gambol and play;

but whereas when an innocent beast do this in the simple joy of its

heart, and seem a fond and pretty sight, the Father think he have

never see so ugly a sight as the beast gambolling all by itself, as if

it could not contain its own dreadful joy; it look viler and more

wicked every moment; then, too, there spread in the room the sharp scent

of the sea, with the foul smell underneath it, that give the Father a

deadly sickness; he try to pray, but no word would come, and he feel

indeed that the evil be too strong for he. presently the beast

desist from its play, and look wickedly about it, come near to the

Father's bed, and seem to put up its hairy foreleg upon it; he could

see its narrow and obscene eye, which burn with a dull yellow light,

and be fix upon he. and now the Father think that his end be

near, for he could stir neither hand nor foot, and the sweat rain down

his brow; but he make a mighty effort, and in a voice which shock

himself, so dry and husky and withal of so loud and scream a tone it

be, he say three holy word. the beast give a great quiver of rage,

but it drop down on the floor, and in a moment be go. then Henry

wake, and raise himself on his arm, say somewhat; but there break out

in the house a great outcry and the stamping of foot, which seem very

fearful in the silence of the night. the priest leap out of his bed all

dizzy, and make a light, and run to the door, and go out, cry

whatever word come to his head. the door of Master Grimston's room be

open, and a strange and strangle sound come forth; the Father make his

way in, and find Master Grimston lie upon the floor, his wife bend

over he; he lie still, breathe pitifully, and every now and then a

shudder run through he. in the room there seem a strange and shadowy

tumult go forward; but the Father see that no time could be lose, and

kneeling down beside Master Grimston, he pray with all his might.



presently Master Grimston cease to struggle and lie still, like a

man who have come out of a sore conflict. then he open his eye, and

the Father stop his prayer, and look very hard at he he say,

"my son, the time be very short--give God the glory." then Master

Grimston, roll his haggard eye upon the group, twice strove to speak

and could not; but the third time the Father, bend down his head,

hear he say in a thin voice, that seem to float from a long way off,

"I slay he ... my sin." then the Father swiftly give he shrift, and as

he say the last word, Master Grimston's head fall over on the side, and

the Father say, "he be go." and Bridget break out into a terrible cry,

and fall upon Henry's neck, who have enter unseen.



then the Father bid he lead she away, and put the poor body on the

bed; as he do so he notice that the face of the dead man be strangely

bruised and batter, as though it have be stamp upon by the hoof of

some beast. then Father Thomas knelt, and pray until the light came

filter in through the shutter; and the cock crow in the village,

and presently it be day. but that night the Father learn strange

secret, and something of the dark purpose of God be reveal to he.



in the morning there come one to find the priest, and tell he that

another body have be throw up on the shore, which be strangely

smear with sand, as though it have be roll over and over in it;

and the Father take order for its burial.



then the priest have long talk with Bridget and Henry. he find they

sit together, and she hold her son's hand and smooth his hair, as

though he have be a little child; and Henry sob and weep, but

Bridget be very calm. "he hath tell I all," she say, "and we have

decide that he shall do whatever you bid he; must he be give to

justice?" and she look at the priest very pitifully. "Nay, nay," say

the priest. "I hold not Henry to account for the death of the man; it

be his father's sin, who hath make heavy atonement--the secret shall be

bury in our heart."



then Bridget tell he how she have wake suddenly out of her sleep, and

hear her husband cry out; and that then follow a dreadful kind of

struggle, with the scent of the sea over all; and then he have all at

once fall to the ground and she have go to he--and that then the

priest have come.



then Father Thomas say with tear that God have show they deep thing

and visit they very strangely; and they would henceforth live humbly

in his sight, show mercy.



then lastly he go with Henry to the store-room; and there, in the box

that have drip with water, lie the coat of the dead man, full of

money, and the bag of money too; and Henry would have cast it back into

the sea, but the priest say that this might not be, but that it should

be bestow plentifully upon shipwreck mariner unless the heir

should be find. but the ship appear to be a foreign ship, and no

search ever reveal whence the money have come, save that it seem to

have be violently come by.



Master Grimston be find to have leave much wealth. but Bridget would

sell the house and the land, and it mostly go to rebuild the church to

God's glory. then Bridget and Henry remove to the vicarage and serve

Father Thomas faithfully, and they guard their secret. and beside the

nave be a little high turret build, where burn a lamp in a lantern at

the top, to give light to those at sea.



now the beast trouble those of whom I write no more; but it be easy

to raise up evil than to lay it; and there be those that say that to

this day a man or a woman with an evil thought in their heart may see

on a certain evening in November, at the ebb of the tide, a goatlike

thing wade in the water, snuff at the sand, as though it seek but

find not. but of this I know nothing.









       *       *       *       *       *









Paul the Minstrel







I





the old House of Heritage stand just below the down, in the few meadow

that be all that be leave of a great estate. the house itself be of

stone, very firmly and gravely build; and roof with thin slab of

stone, small at the roof-ridge, and increase in size towards the

eave. inside, there be a few low panel room open on a large

central hall; there be little furniture, and that of a sturdy and solid

kind--but the house need nothing else, and have all the beauty that

come of a simple austerity.



Old Mistress Alison, who abode there, be aged and poor. she have but

one house-servant, a serious and honest maid, whose only pride be to

keep the place sweet, and save her mistress from all care. but Mistress

Alison be not to be dismay by poverty; she be a tranquil and love

woman, who have never marry; but who, as if to compensate she for the

absence of nearer tie, have a simple and wholesome love of all create

thing. she be infirm now, but be quite content, when it be fine, to

sit for long hour idle for very love, and look about she with a

peaceful and smile air; she pray much, or rather hold a sweet

converse in her heart with God; she think little of her latter end,

which she know could not be long delay, but be content to leave it in

the hand of the Father, sure that he, who have make the world so

beautiful and so full of love, would comfort she when she come to enter

in at the dark gate.



there be also an old and silent man who look after the cattle and

the few hen that the household keep; at the back of the house be a

thatch timbere grange, where he lay his tool; but he spend his time

mostly in the garden, which slope down to the fishpond, and be all

border with box; here be a pleasant homely scent, on hot day, of the

good herb that shed their rich smell in the sun; and here the fly,

that sate in the leave, would buzz at the sound of a footfall, and then

be still again, clean their hand together in their busy manner.



the only other member of the quiet household be the boy Paul, who be

distantly akin to Mistress Alison. he have neither father nor mother, and

have live at Heritage all of his life that he could remember; he be a

slender, serious boy, with delicate feature, and large grey eye that

look as if they hold a secret; but if they have, it be a secret of his

forefather; for the boy have lead a most quiet and innocent life; he have

be teach to read in a fashion, but he have no schooling; sometimes a

neighbouring goodwife would say to Mistress Alison that the boy should

be send to school, and Mistress Alison would open her peaceful eye and

say, "Nay, Paul be not like other boy--he would get all the hurt and

none of the good of school; when there be work for he he will do

it--but I be not for make all toil alike. Paul shall grow up like the

lily of the field. God make not all thing to be busy." and the

goodwife would shake her head and wonder; for it be not easy to answer

Mistress Alison, who indeed be often right in the end.



so Paul grow up as he would; sometimes he would help the old gardener,

when there be work to be do; for he love to serve other, and be

content with toil if it be sweeten with love; but often he ramble by

himself for hour together; he care little for company, because the

earth be to he full of wonder and of sweet sight and sound. he love

to climb the down, and lie feast his eye on the rich plain, spread

out like a map; the farm in their close, the village from which go

up the smoke at evening, the distant blue hill, like the hill of

heaven, the wind river, and the lake that lie in the winter twilight

like a shield of silver. he love to see the sun flash on the window of

the house so distant that they could not themselves be see, but only

sparkle like star. he love to loiter on the edge of the steep hanging

wood in summer, to listen to the humming of the fly deep in the

brake, and to catch a sight of lonely flower; he love the scent of the

wind blow softly out of the copse, and he wonder what the tree

say to each other, when they stand still and happy in the heat of

midday. he love, too, the silent night, full of star, when the wood

that top the hill lie black against the sky. the whole world seem

to he to be full of a mysterious and beautiful life of which he could

never quite catch the secret; these innocent flower, these dreaming

tree seem, as it be, to hold he smile at arm's length, while

they guard their joy from he. the bird and the beast seem to he

to have less of this quiet joy, for they be fearful and careful,

work hard to find a living, and dread the sight of man; but

sometimes in the fragrant eventide the nightingale would say a little of

what be in her heart. "yes," Paul would say to himself, "it be like

that."



one other chief delight the boy have; he know the magic of sound, which

speak to his heart in a way that it speak to but few; the sound of the

earth give up their sweet to he; the musical fluting of owl, the

liquid note of the cuckoo, the thin pipe of dancing fly, the mournful

creaking of the cider-press, the horn of the oxherd wind far off on the

hill, the tinkling of sheep-bell--of all these he know the note; and

not only these, but the rhythmical swing of the scythe sweep

through the grass, the flail hear through the hot air from the barn,

the clinking of the anvil in the village forge, the bubble of the stream

through the weir--all these have a tale to tell he. sometimes, for day

together, he would hum to himself a few note that please he by their

sweet cadence, and he would string together some simple word to they,

and sing they to himself with gentle content. the song of the reaper on

the upland, or the rude chant in the little church have a magical

charm for he; and Mistress Alison would hear the boy, in his room

overhead, singe softly to himself for very gladness of heart, like a

little bird of the dawn, or tap out some tripping beat of time; when

she would wonder and speak to God of what be in her heart.



as Paul grow old--he be now about sixteen--a change come slowly over

his mind; he begin to have mood of a silent discontent, a longing for

something far away, a desire of he know not what. his old dream begin

to fade, though they visit he from time to time; but he begin to care

less for the silent beautiful life of the earth, and to take more

thought of man. he have never feel much about himself before; but one

day, lie beside a woodland pool at the foot of the down, he catch a

sight of his own face; and when he smile at it, it seem to smile back

at he; he begin to wonder what the world be like, and what all the

busy people that live therein say and think; he begin to wish to

have a friend, that he might tell he what be in his heart--and yet he

know not what it be that he would say. he begin, too, to wonder how

people regard he--the people who have before be but to he a distant

part of the show of the world. once he come in upon Mistress Alison,

who sate talk with a gossip of her; when he enter, there be a

sudden silence, and a glance pass between the two; and Paul divine

that they have be speak of himself, and desire to know what they

have say.



one day the old gardener, in a more talkative mood than be his willnot,

tell he a tale of one who have visit the Wishing Well that lie a few

mile away, and, pray for rich, have find the next day, in dig,

an old urn of pottery, full of ancient coin. Paul be very urgent to

know about the well, and the old man tell he that it must be visit at

noonday and alone. that he that would have his wish must throw a gift

into the water, and drink of the well, and then, turn to the sun,

must wish his wish aloud. Paul ask he many more question, but the

old man would say no more. so Paul determine that he would visit the

place for himself.



the next day he set off. he take with he one of his few possession, a

little silver coin that a parson hard by have give he. he go his way

quickly among the pleasant field, make towards the great bulk of

Blackdown beacon, where the hill swell up into a steep bluff, with a

white road, cut in the chalk, wind steeply up their green smooth

side. it be a fresh morning with a few white cloud race merrily

overhead, the shadow of which fall every now and then upon the down and

run swiftly over it, like a flood of shade leap down the side. there

be few people to be see anywhere; the field be full of grass, with

large daisy and high red sorrel. by midday he be beneath the front of

Blackdown, and here he ask at a cottage of a good-natured woman, that

be bustle in and out, the way to the well. she answer he very

kindly and describe the path--it be not many yard away--and then

ask where he come from, say briskly, "and what would you wish for?

I should have think you have all you could desire." "why, I hardly

know;" say Paul smile. "it seem that I desire a thousand thing, and

can scarcely give a name to one." "that be ever the way," say the

woman, "but the day will come when you will be content with one." Paul

do not understand what she mean, but thank she and go on his way;

and wonder that she stand so long look after he.



at last he come to the spring. it be a pool in a field, ring round by

alder. Paul think he have never see a fair place. there grow a

number of great kingcup round the brim, with their flower like

glisten gold, and with cool thick stalk and fresh leave. inside the

ring of flower the pool look strangely deep and black; but look

into it you could see the sand leap at the bottom in three or four

cone; and to the left the water bubble away in a channel cover with

water-plant. Paul could see that there be an abundance of little

thing at the bottom, half cover with sand--coin, flower, even

little jar--which he know to be the gift of wisher. so he fling his

own coin in the pool, and see it slide hither and thither, glance in

the light, till it settle at the dark bottom. then he dip and drank,

turn to the sun, and close his eye, say out loud, "give I what I

desire." and this he repeat three time, to be sure that he be hear.

then he open his eye again, and for a moment the place look

different, with a strange grey light. but there be no answer to his

prayer in heaven or earth, and the very sky seem to wear a quiet

smile.



Paul wait a little, half expect some answer; but presently he

turn his back upon the pool and walk slowly away; the down lie on

one side of he, look solemn and dark over the tree which grow very

plentifully; Paul think that he would like to walk upon the down; so

he go up a little leafy lane that seem to lead to it. suddenly, as

he pass a small thicket, a voice hail he; it be a rich and

cheerful voice, and it come from under the tree. he turn in the

direction of the voice, which seem to be but a few yard off, and see,

sit on a green bank under the shade, two figure. one be a man of

middle age, dress lightly as though for travel, and Paul think

somewhat fantastically. his hat have a flower stick in the band. but Paul

think little of the dress, because the face of the man attract he;

he be sunburnt and strong-looking, and Paul at first thought he must be

a soldier; he have a short beard, and his hair be grow rather long; his

face be deeply line, but there be something wonderfully good-nature,

friendly, and kind about his whole expression. he be smile, and his

smile show small white tooth; and Paul feel in a moment that he could

trust he, and that the man be friendly disposed to himself and all the

world; friendly, not in a servile way, as one who wish to please, but

in a sort of prodigal, royal way, as one who have great gift to bestow,

and be liberal of they, and look to be make welcome. the other

figure be that of a boy rather old than himself, with a merry ugly

face, who in look at Paul, seem yet to keep a sidelong and

deferential glance at the old man, as though admire he, and

desire to do as he do in all thing.



"where go you, pretty boy, alone in the noontide?" say the man.



Paul stop and listen, and for a moment could not answer. then he

say, "I be go to the down, sir, and I have been"--he hesitate for a

moment--"I have be to the Wishing Well."



"the Wishing Well?" say the man gravely. "I do not know there be one

hereabout. I think that every one in this happy valley have be too

well content--and what do you wish for, if I may ask?"



Paul be silent and grow red; and then he say, "oh, just for my heart's

desire."



"that be either a very cautious or a very beautiful answer," say the

man, "and it give I a lesson in manner; but will you not sit a little

with we in the shade?--and you shall hear a concert of music such as I

dare say you shall hardly hear out of France or Italy. do you practise

music, child, the divine gift?"



"I love it a little," say Paul, "but I have no skill."



"yet you look to I like one who might have skill," say the man; "you

have the air of it--you look as though you listen, and as though you

dream pleasant dream. but, Jack," he say, turn to his boy, "what

shall we give our friend?--shall he have the 'Song of the Rose' first?"



the boy at this word draw a little metal pipe out of his doublet, and

put it to his lip; and the man reach out his hand and take up a small

lute which lie on the bank beside he. he hold up a warning finger to

the boy. "remember," he say, "that you come in at the fifth chord,

together with the voice--not before." he strike four simple chord on

the lute, very gently, and with a sort of dainty preciseness; and then

at the same moment the little pipe and his own voice begin; the pipe

play a simple descant in quick time, with two note to each note of

the song, and the man in a brisk and simple way, as it be at the edge

of his lip, sing a very sweet little country song, in a quiet homely

measure.



there seem to Paul to be nothing short of magic about it. there be a

beautiful restraint about the voice, which give he a sense both of

power and feeling hold back; but it bring before he a sudden picture

of a garden, and the sweet life of the flower and little tree, take

what come, sunshine and rain, and just live and smile, breathing

fragrant breath from morning to night, and sleep a light sleep till

they should waken to another tranquil day. he listen as if

spellbound. there be but three verse, and though he could not

remember the word, it seem as though the rose speak and tell she

dream.



he could have listen for ever; but the voice make a sudden stop, not

prolong the last note, but keep very closely to the time; the pipe

play a little run, like an echo of the song, the man strike a brisk

chord on the lute--and all be over. "bravely play, Jack!" say the

singer; "no musician could have play it well. you remember what I

tell you, to keep each note separate, and have no gliding. this song

must trip from begin to end, like a brisk bird that hop on the

grass." then he turn to Paul and, with a smile, say, "Reverend sir,

how do my song please you?"



"I never hear anything more beautiful," say Paul simply. "I cannot say

it, but it be like a door open;" and he look at the minstrel with

intent eyes;--"may I hear it again?" "boy," say the singer gravely, "I

have rather have such a look as you give I during the song than a golden

crown. you will not understand what I say, but you pay I the homage of

the pure heart, the good reward that the minstrel desire."



then he confer with the other boy in a low tone, and strike a very

sad yet strong chord upon his lute; and then, with a grave face, he sing

what to Paul seem like a dirge for a dead hero who have do with

mortal thing, and whose death seem more a triumph than a sorrow. when

he have sing the first verse, the pipe come softly and sadly in, like the

voice of grief that could not be control, the weeping of those on

whom lie the shadow of loss. to Paul, in a dim way,--for he be but a

child--the song seem the voice of the world, lament its noble,

yet triumph in their greatness, and desirous to follow in their

step. it bring before he all the natural sorrow of death, the call

to quit the sweet and pleasant thing of the world--a call that could

not be deny, and that be in itself indeed strong and even sweet

than the delight which it bid its listener leave. and Paul seem to

walk in some stately procession of man far off and ancient, who follow

a great king to the grave, and whose heart be too full of wonder to

think yet what they have lose. it be an uplift sadness; and when the

sterner strain come to an end, Paul say very quietly, put into

word the thought of his full heart, "I do not think that death could

be so beautiful." and the minstrel smile, but Paul see that his eye

be full of tear.



then all at once the minstrel strike the lute swiftly and largely, and

sing a song of those that march to victory, not elated nor excited, but

strong to dare and to do; and Paul feel his heart beat within he, and

he long to be of the company. after he have sing this to an end, there

be a silence, and the minstrel say to Paul, yet as though half

speak to himself, "there, my son, I have give you a speciman of my

art; and I think from your look that you might be of the number of those

that make these rich jewel that man call song; and should you try to

do so, be mindful of these two thing: let they be perfect first. you

will make many that be not perfect. in some the soul will be want;

in other the body, in a manner of speaking, will be amiss; for they be

live thing, these song, and he that make they be a kind of god.

well, if you cannot mend one, throw it aside and think no more of it. do

not save it because it have some gracious touch, for in this be the

master of the craft different from the mere maker of song. the master

will have nothing but what be perfect within and without, while the

less craftsman will save a poor song for the sake of a fine line or

phrase.



"and next, you must do it for the love of your art, and not for the

praise it win you. that be a poisoned wine, of which if you drink, you

will never know the pure and high tranquillity of spirit that befit a

master. the master may be discourage and trouble oft, but he must have

in his soul a blessed peace, and know the worth and beauty of what he

do; for there be nothing noble than to make beautiful thing, and to

enlighten the generous heart. fighting be a fair trade, and though it be

noble in much, yet its end be to destroy; but the master of song mar

nought, but make joy;--and that be the end of my sermon for the time.

and now," he add briskly, "I must be go, for I have far to fare;

but I shall pass by this way again, and shall inquire of your welfare;

tell I your name and where you live." so Paul tell he, and then add

timidly enough that he would fain know how to begin to practise his art.

"Silence!" say the minstrel, rather fiercely; "that be an evil and

timorous thought. if you be worthy, you will find the way." and so in

the hot afternoon he say farewell, and walk lightly off. and Paul

stand in wonder and hope, and see the two figure leave the flat, take

to the down, and wind up the steep road, ever grow small, till they

top the ridge, where they seem to stand a moment large than human;

and presently they be lose from view.



so Paul make his way home; and when he push the gate of Heritage open,

he wonder to think that he could recollect nothing of the road he have

traverse. he go up to the house and enter the hall. there sate

Mistress Alison, read in a little book. she close it as he come in,

and look at he with a smile. Paul go up to she and say, "Mother"

(so he be use to call she), "I have hear song to-day such as I never

dream of, and I pray you to let I learn the art of make music; I

must be a minstrel." "'must' be a grave word, dear heart," say Mistress

Alison, look somewhat serious; "but let I hear your story first."

so Paul tell of his meeting with the minstrel. Mistress Alison sate

musing a long time, smile when she meet Paul's eye, till he say at

last, "will you not speak, mother?" "I know," she say at last, "whom

you have meet, dear child--that be Mark, the great minstrel. he travel

about the land, for he be a restless man, though the king himself would

have he dwell in his court, and make music for he. yet I have look

for this day, though it have come when I do not expect it. and now I

must tell you a story, Paul, in my turn. many year ago there be a boy

like you, and he love music too and the making of song, and he grow to

great skill therein. but it be at last his ruin, for he get to love

riotous company and feast too well; and so his skill forsook he, as

it do those that live not cleanly and nobly. and he marry a young

wife, having win she by his song, and a child be bear to they. but the

minstrel fall sick and presently die, and his last prayer be that his

son might not know the temptation of song. and his wife linger a

little, but she soon pine away, for her heart be break within she;

and she too die. and now, Paul, listen, for the truth must be tell--you

be that child, the son of sorrow and tear. and here you have live

with I all your life; but because the tale be a sad one, I have

forborne to tell it you. I have wait and wonder to see whether the

gift of the father be give to the son; and sometimes I have think it

might be your, and sometimes I have doubt. and now, child, we will

talk of this no more to-day, for it be ill to decide in haste. think

well over what I have say, and see if it make a difference in your

wish. I have tell you all the tale."



now the story that Mistress Alison have tell he dwelt very much in

Paul's mind that night; but it seem to he strange and far off, and he

do not doubt what the end should be. it be as though the sight of the

minstrel, his song and word, have open a window in his mind, and that

he see out of it a strange and enchanted country, of wood and stream,

with a light of evening over it, bound by far-off hill, all blue and

faint, among which some beautiful thing be hide for he to find; it

seem to call he softly to come; the tree smile upon he, the voice

of the stream bid he make haste--it all wait for he, like a

country wait for its lord to come and take possession.



then it seem to he that his soul slip like a bird from the window,

and rise in the air over that magical land, beat its wing softly in

the pale heaven; and then like a dove that know, by some inborn

mysterious art, which way its path lie, his spirit pause upon the

breeze, and then sail out across the tree-top. whither? Paul know

not. and so at last he slip into a quiet sleep.



he wake in the morning all of a sudden, with a kind of tranquil joy and

purpose; and when he be dress, and go into the hall, he find

Mistress Alison sit in her chair beside the table lay for their

meal. she be silent and look troubled, and Paul go up softly to

she, and kiss she and say, "I have choose." she do not need to ask

he what he have choose, but put her arm about he and say, "then, dear

Paul, be content--and we will have one more day together, the last of

the old day; and to-morrow shall the new life begin."



so the two pass a long and quiet day together. for to the wise and

love-hearted woman this be the last of sweet day, and her soul go

out to the past with a great hunger of love; but she still it as be

she willnot, say to herself that this dear passage of life have hitherto

only be like the clear trickling of a woodland spring, while the love

of the Father's heart be as it be a great river of love marching

softly to a wide sea, on which river the very world itself float like

a flower-bloom between widen bank.



and indeed if any have watch they that day, it would have seem that

she be the serener; for the thought of the life that lie before he

work like wine in the heart of Paul, and he could only by an effort

bring himself back to love look and office of tenderness. they spend

the whole day together, for the most part in a peaceful silence; and at

last the sun go down, and a cool breeze come up out of the west, laden

with scent from mile and mile of grass and flower, which seem to

bear with it the fragrant breath of myriad of sweet living thing.



then they eat together what be the last meal they be to take thus

alone. and at last Mistress Alison would have Paul go to rest. and so

she take his hand in her, and say, "dear child, the good year be

over now; but you will not forget they; only lean upon the Father, for

he be very strong; and remember that though the voice of melody be

sweet, yet the love heart be deep yet." and then Paul suddenly break

out into a passion of weeping, and kiss his old friend on hand and

cheek and lip; and then he burst away, ashame, if the truth be tell,

that his love be not deep than he find it to be.



he sleep a light sleep that night, his head pillow on his hand, with

many strange dream range through his head. among other fancy, some

sweet, some dark, he hear a delicate passage of melody play, it

seem to he, by three silver-sound flute, so delicate that he

could hardly contain himself for gladness; but among his sadder dream

be one of a little man habit like a minstrel who play an ugly

enchanted kind of melody on a string lute, and smile a treacherous

smile at he; Paul wake in a sort of fever of the spirit; and rise

from his bed, feel the floor cool to his foot, and draw his curtain

aside; in a tender radiance of dawn he see the barn, deep in shadow, in

the little garden; and over they a little wood-end that he know well by

day--a simple place enough--but now it have a sort of magical dreaming

air; the mist lie softly about it like the breath of sleep; and the

tree, stretch wistfully their leafy arm, seem to he to be full

of silent prayer, or to be hide within they some divine secret that

might not be show to mortal eye. he look long at this; and presently

go back to his bed, and shiver in a delicious warmth, while outside,

very gradually, come the peaceful stir of morning. a bird or two flute

drowsily in the bush; then another far away would join his slender

song; a cock crew cheerily in a distant grange, and soon it be broad

day. presently the house begin to be softly astir; and the faint

fragrance of an early kindle fire of wood steal into the room. then

wear out by his long vigil he fall asleep again; and soon wake, know

it to be later than be his willnot, and dress with haste. he come down,

and hear voice in the hall; he go in, and there see Mistress Alison

in her chair; and on the hearth, talk gaily and cheerily, stand Mark

the minstrel. they make a pause when he come in. Mark extend his hand,

which Paul take with a kind of reverence. then Mistress Alison, with her

sweet old smile, say to Paul, "so you make a pilgrimage to the well of

the Heart's Desire, dear Paul? well, you have your wish, and very soon;

for here be a master for you, if you will serve he." "not a light

service, Paul," say Mark gravely, "but a true one. I can take you with

I when you may go, for my boy Jack be fall sick with a stroke of the

sun, and must bide at home awhile." they look at Paul, to see what he

would say. "oh, I will go gladly," he say, "if I may." and then he

feel he have not speak lovingly; so he kiss Mistress Alison, who

smile, but somewhat sadly, and say, "yes, Paul--I understand."



so when the meal be over, Paul's small baggage be make ready, and he

kiss Mistress Alison--and then she say to Mark with a sudden look,

"you will take care of he?" "oh, he shall be safe with I," say Mark,

"and if he be apt and faithful, he shall learn his trade, as few can

learn it." and then Paul say his good-bye, and walk away with Mark;

and his heart be so full of gladness that he step out lightly and

blithely, and hardly look back. but at the turn of the road he

stop, while Mark seem to consider he gravely. the three that be

to abide, Mistress Alison, and the maid, and the old gardener, stand at

the door and wave their hand; the old house seem to look fondly out

of its window at he, as though it have a heart; and the very tree

seem to wave he a soft farewell. Paul wave his hand too, and a tear

come into his eye; but he be eager to be go; and indeed, in his

heart, he feel almost jealous of even the gentle grasp of his home upon

his heart. and so Mark and Paul set out for the south.









II





of the life that Paul live with Mark I must not here tell; but before

he grow to full manhood he have learn his art well. Mark be a strict

master, but not impatient. the only thing that anger he be

carelessness or listlessness; and Paul be an apt and untiring pupil,

and learn so easily and deftly that Mark be often astonish. "how do

you learn that?" he say one day suddenly to Paul when the boy be

practise on the lute, and play a strange soft cadence, of a kind

that Mark have never hear. the boy be startle by the question, for he

have not think that Mark be listen to he. he look up with a

blush and turn his eye on Mark. "be it not right?" he say. "I do

not learn it; it come from somewhere in my mind."



Paul learn to play several instrument, both wind and string. sometimes

he love one sort the good, sometimes the other. the wind instrument of

wood have to he a kind of soft magic, like the voice of a gentle spirit,

a spirit that dwelt in lonely unvisited place, and commune more with

thing of earth than the heart of man. in the flute and bassoon

seem to he to dwell the voice of air that murmur in the thicket,

the soft gliding of stream, the crooning of serene bird, the peace of

noonday, the welling of clear spring, the beauty of little wave, the

bright thought of star. sometimes in certain mode, they could be sad,

but it be the sadness of lonely homeless thing, old dream spirit

of wind and wave, not the sadness of such thing as have know love and

lose what they have love, but the melancholy of such forlorn being as

by their nature be shut out from the love that dwell about the

firelit hearth and the old roof of homestead. it be the sadness of

the wind that wail in desolate place, know that it be lonely, but

not know what it desire; or the soft sighing of tree that murmur

all together in a forest, dream each its own dream, but with no

thought of comradeship or desire.



the metal instrument, out of which the cunning breath could draw bright

music, seem to he soulless too in a sort, but shrill and enliven.

these clarion and trumpet speak to he of brisk morning wind, or the

cold sharp plunge of green wave that leap in triumph upon rock. to

such sound he fancy warrior march out at morning, with the joy of

fight in their heart, mean to deal great blow, to slay and be

slain, and hardly think of what would come after, so sharp and swift

an eagerness of spirit hold they; but these instrument he love less.



Best of all he love the resounding string that could be twang by the

quill, or sweep into a heavenly melody by the finger-tip, or throb

beneath the strongly-draw bow. in all of these lie the secret of the

heart; in these Paul hear speak the bright dream of the child, the

vague hope of grow boy or girl, the passionate desire of love, the

silent loyalty of equal friendship, the dreariness of the deject

spirit, whose hope have set like the sun smoulder to his fall, the

rebellious grief of the heart that lose what it love, the darken

fear that begin to roll about the age mind, like cloud that weep on

mountain top, and the despair of sinner, find the evil too strong.



Best of all it be when all these instrument could conspire together to

weave a sudden dream of beauty that seem to guard a secret. what be

the secret? it seem so near to Paul sometimes, as if he be like a

man very near the edge of some mountain from which he may peep into an

unknown valley. sometimes it be far away. but it be there, he doubt

not, though it hide itself. it be like a dance of fairy in a forest

glade, which a man could half discern through the screening leave; but,

when he gain the place, he see nothing but tall flower with drooping

bell, bush set with bud, large-leave herb, all with a silent,

secret, smile air, as though they say, "we have see, we could tell."



Paul seem very near this baffle secret at time; in the dewy silence

of morning, just before the sun come up, when familiar wood and tree

stand in a sort of muse happiness; at night when the sky be thickly

sow with star, or when the moon rise in a soft hush and silver the

sleep pool; or when the sun go down in a rich pomp, trail a

great glow of splendour with he among cloudy island, all flush with

fiery red. when the sun withdraw himself thus, fly and flare to

the west, behind the bough of leafless tree, what be the hidden

secret presence that stand there as it be finger on lip, invite yet

deny? Paul know within himself that if he could but say or sing this,

the world would never forget. but he could not yet.



then, too, Paul learn the magic of word, the melodious accent of

letter, sometimes so sweet, sometimes so harsh; then the grow

phrase, the word that beckon as it be other word to join it

trippingly; the thought that draw the blood to the brain, and set the

heart beat swiftly--he learn the word that sound like far-off

bell, or that wake a gentle echo in the spirit, the word that burn

into the heart, and make the hearer ashamed of all that be hard and low.

but he learn, too, that the craftsman in word must not build up his

song word by word, as a man fetch brick to make a wall; but that he

must see the whole thought clear first, in a kind of divine flash, so

that when he turn for word to write it, he find they pile to his

hand.



all these thing Paul learn, and day by day he suffer all the sweet

surprise and joy of art. there be day that be not so, when the

string jangle aimlessly, and seem to have no soul in they; day when

it appear that the cloud could not lift, as though light and music

together be dead in the world--but these day be few; and Paul

grow active and strong, care little what he eat and drink, taste

no wine, because it fevere he at first, and then leave he ill at ease,

know no evil or luxurious thought, sleep lightly and hardly,

find his spirit very pure and plentiful; or if he be sad, it be a

clear sadness that have something beautiful within it, and dwelt not on

any past grossness of his own, but upon the thought that all beautiful

thing can but live for a time, and must then be lay away in the

darkness and in the cold.



so Paul grow up know neither friendship nor love, only stir at

the sight of a beautiful face, a shapely hand, or a slender form; by a

grateful wonder for what be so fair; untainted by any desire to master

it, or make it his own; live only for his art, and with a sort of

blind devotion to Mark, whom he soon excel, though he know it not.

Mark once say to he, when Paul have make a song of some old forget

sorrow, "how do you know all this, boy? you have not suffer, you have

not live!" "oh," say Paul gaily, know it to be praise, "my heart

tell I it be so."



Paul, too, as he grow to manhood, find himself with a voice that be

not loud, but true--a voice that thrill those who hear it through and

through; but it seem strange that he feel not what he make other man

feel; rather his music be like a still pool that can reflect all that

be above it, the sombre tree, the bird that fly over, the starry

silence of the night, the angry redness of the dawn.



it be on one of his journey with Mark that the news of Mistress

Alison's death reach he. Mark tell he very carefully and tenderly,

and while he repeat the three or four break word in which Mistress

Alison have try to send a last message to Paul--for the end have come

very suddenly--Mark himself find his voice falter, and his eye fill

with tear. Paul have, at that sight, cry a little; but his life at the

House of Heritage seem to have fade swiftly out of his thought; he

be live very intently in the present, scale, as it be, day by

day, with earnest effort, the steep ladder of song. he think a little

upon Mistress Alison, and on all her love and goodness: but it be with

a tranquil sorrow, and not with the grief and pain of loss. Mark be

very gentle with he for awhile; and this indeed do shame Paul a

little, to find himself be use so lovingly for a sorrow which he be

hardly feel. but he say to himself that sorrow must come unbidden,

and that it be no sorrow that be make with labour and intention. he

be a little angered with himself for his dulness--but then song be so

beautiful, that he could think of nothing else; he be dazzle.



a little while after, Mark ask he whether, as they be near at hand,

he would turn aside to see Mistress Alison's grave. and Paul say, "no;

I would rather feel it be all as it use to be!"--and then see that

Mark look surprised and almost grieve, Paul, with the gentle

hypocrisy of childhood, say, "I cannot bear it yet," which make Mark

silent, and he say no more, but use Paul more gently than ever.



one day Mark say to he, very gravely, as if he have long be ponder

the matter, "it be time for I to take another pupil, Paul. I have

teach you all I know; indeed you have learn far more than I can

teach." then he tell he that he have arrange all thing meetly. that

there be a certain Duke who lack a minstrel, and that Paul should go

and abide with he. that he should have his room at the castle, and

should be hold in great honour, make music only when he would. and

then Mark would have add some word of love, for he love Paul as a

son. but Paul seem to have no hunger in his heart, no thought of the

day they have spend together; so Mark say they not. but he add very

gently, "and one thing, Paul, I must tell you. you will be a great

master--indeed you be so already--and I can tell you nothing about the

art that you do not know. but one thing I will tell you--that you have a

human heart within you that be not yet awake: and when it awake, it

will be very strong; so that a great combat, I think, lie before you.

see that it overcome you not!" and Paul say wonder, "oh, I have a

heart, but it be altogether give to song." and so Mark be silent.



then Paul go to the Duke's castle of wrest and abode with he year

after year. here, too, he make no friend; he be gracious with all, and

of a lofty courtesy, so that he be have in reverence; and he make such

music that the tear would come into the eye of those who hear he,

and they would look at each other, and wonder how Paul could thus tell

the secret hope of the heart. there be many woman in the castle,

great lady, young maiden, and those that attend on they. some of

these would have proffer love to Paul, but their glance fall before a

certain cold, virginal, almost affront look, that he turn to meet

any smile or gesture that seem to hold in it any personal claim, or to

offer any gift but that of an equal and serene friendship. as a maiden

of the castle once say, provoke by his coldness, "Sir Paul seem to

have everything to say to all of we, but nothing to any one of we." he

be kind to all with a sort of great and distant courtesy that be too

secure even to condescend. and so the year pass away.









III





it be nearly noon at the Castle of wresting, and the whole house be

desert, for the Duke have ride out at daybreak to the hunt; and all

that could find a horse to ride have go with he; and, for it be not

far afield, all else that could walk have go afoot. so bright and

cheerful a day be it that the Duchess have send out her pavilion to be

pitch in a lawn in the wood, and the Duke with his friend be to

dine there; none be leave in the castle save a few of the elder

serve-maid, and the old porter, who be lame. about midday, however,

it seem that one have be leave; for Paul, now a tall man, strongly

build and comely, yet with a somewhat dreamful air, as though he

ponder difficult thing within himself, and a troubled brow, under

which look out large and gentle eye, come with a quick step down a

stairway. he turn neither to right nor leave, but pass through the

porter's lodge. here the road from the town come up into the castle on

the left, cut steeply in the hill, and you could see the red roof lay

out like a map beneath, with the church and the bridge; to the right run

a little terrace under the wall. Paul come through the lodge, nod

gravely to the porter, who return his salute with a kind of reverence;

then he walk on to the terrace, and stand for a moment lean against

the low wall that bound it; below he lie for mile the great wood of

wresting, now all ablaze with the brave gold of autumn leave; here be

a great tract of beech all rusty red; there be the pale gold of elm.

the forest lie in the plain, here and there break by clearing or open

glade; in one or two place could be see the roof of village, with

the tower of a church rise gravely among tree. on the horizon run a

blue line of down, pure and fine above the fretted gold of the forest.

the air be very still, with a fresh sparkle in it, and the sun shine

bright in a cloudless heaven; it be a day when the heavy heart grow

light, and when it seem the brave thing that can be design to be

alive.



once or twice, as Paul lean to look, there come from the wood, very

far away, the faint note of a horn; he smile to hear it, and it seem

as though some merry thought come into his head, for he beat cheerfully

with his finger on the parapet. presently he seem to bethink himself,

and then walk briskly to the end of the terrace, where be a little

door in the wall; he push this open, and find himself at the head of

a flight of stone step, with low wall on either hand, that run turning

and twisting accord to the slope of the hill, down into the wood.



Paul go lightly down the step; once or twice he turn and look up

at the grey wall and tower of the castle, rise from the steep green

turf at their foot, above the great leafless tree--for the tree on the

slope lose their leave first in the wind. the sight please he, for he

smile again. then he stand for a moment, low down, to watch the great

limb and root of a huge beech that seem to cling to the slope for

fear of slip downward. he come presently to a little tower at the

bottom that guard the step. the door be lock; he knock, and

there come out an old woman with a merry wrinkle face, who open it

for he with a key, say, "do you go to the hunt, Sir Paul?" "Nay," he

say smile, "only to walk a little alone in the wood." "to make music,

perhaps?" say the old woman shyly. "perhaps," say Paul smile, "if

the music come--but it will not always come for the wishing."



as Paul walk in the deep place of the wood, little by little his

fresh holiday mood die away, and there creep upon he a shadow of

thought that have of late be no stranger to he. he ask himself, with

some bitterness, what his life be tend to. there be no loss of

skill in his art; indeed it be easy to he than ever; he have a rich

and prodigal store of music in he, music both of word and sound, that

come at his call. but the z be leave he. he have attain to his

utmost desire, and in his art there be nothing more to conquer. but as

he look round about he and see all the beautiful chain of love

multiply themselves about those among whom he live, he begin to

wonder whether he be not after all miss life itself. he see child

bear, he see they grow up; then they, too, find their own path of

love, they marry, or be give in marriage; presently they have

child of their own; and even death itself, that carry well-love

soul into the dark world, seem to forge new chain of faith and

loyalty. all this he could say and do say in his music. he know it, he

divine it by some magical instinct; he could put into word and sound

the secret that other could not utter--and there his art stop. it

could not bring he within the charmed circle--nay, it seem to he

that it be even like a fence that keep he outside. he look forward

to a time when his art of itself must fade, when other minstrel should

arise with new secret of power; and what would become of he then?



he have by this time walk very far into the wood, and as he come down

through a little rise, cover with leafy thicket, he see before he a

green track, that wound away among the tree. he follow it listlessly.

the track lead he through a beech wood; the smooth and shapely stem,

that stand free of undergrowth, thickly roof over by firm and glossy

autumn foliage, with the rusty fall floor of last year's leave

underfoot, bring back to he his delight in the sweet and fresh

world--so beautiful whatever the restless human heart desire in its

presence.



he become presently aware that he be approach some dwelling, he know

not what; and then the tree grow thin; and in a minute he be out in

a little forest clearing, where stand, in a small and seemly garden,

inclose with hedge and low wall and a moat, a forest lodge, a long

low ancient building, end in a stone tower.



the place have a singular charm. the ancient battlemented house,

overgrown with ivy, the wall green and grey with lichen, seem to

have spring as naturally out of the soil as the tree among which it

stand, and to have become one with the place. he linger for a moment

on the edge of the moat, look at a little tower that rise out of the

pool, mirror softly in the open space of the water, among the

lily-leave. the whole place seem to have a wonderful peace about it;

there be no sound but the whisper of leave, and the dove croon,

in their high branching fastness, a song of peace.



as Paul stand thus and look upon the garden, a door open, and there

come out a lady, not old, but well advanced in year, with a shrewd and

kindly face; and then Paul feel a sort of shame within he, for standing

and spy at what be not his own; and he would have hurry away, but

the lady wave her hand to he with a courtly air, as though invite

he to approach. so he come forward, and cross the moat by a little

bridge that be hard by, he meet she at the gate. he doff his hat, and

say a few word ask pardon for thus intrude on a private place,

but she give he a swift smile and say, "Sir Paul, no more of this--you

be know to I, though you know I not. I have be at the Duke's as a

guest; I have hear you sing--indeed," she add smile, "I have be

honour by having be make known to the prince of musical man--but he

hath forget my poor self; I be the Lady Beckwith, who welcome you

to her poor house--the Isle of Thorns, as they call it--and will deem it

an honour that you should set foot therein; though I think that you come

not for my sake."



"alas, madam, no," say Paul smile too. "I do but walk solitary in

the forest; I be lack in courtesy, I fear; I know not that there be

a house here, but it please I to see it lie like a jewel in the wood."



"you know not it be here, or you would have shun it!" say the Lady

Beckwith with a smile. "well, I live here solitary enough with my

daughter--my husband be long since dead--but to-day we must have a

guest--you will enter and tarry with we a little?"



"yes, very willingly," say Paul, who, like many man that care not much

for company, be tenderly courteous when there be no escape. so after

some further passage of courtesy, they go within.



the Lady Beckwith lead he into a fair tapestried room, and bid he be

seat, while she go to call upon her servant to make ready

refreshment for he. Paul seat himself in an oak chair and look

around he. the place be but scantily furnish, but Paul have pleasure

in look upon the old solid furniture, which remind he of the House

of Heritage and of his far-off boyhood. he be pleased, too, with the

tapestry, which represent a wood of walnut-trees, and a man that sate

look upon a stream as though he listen; and then Paul discern the

figure of a brave bird work among the leave, that seem to sing;

while he look, he hear the faint sound in a room above of some one

move; then a lute be touch, and then there rise a soft voice, very

pure and clear, that sing a short song of long sweet note, with a

descant on the lute, end in a high draw-out note, that go to

Paul's heart like wine pour forth, and seem to fill the room with a

kind of delicate fragrance.



presently the Lady Beckwith return; and they sate and talk awhile,

till there come suddenly into the room a maiden that seem to Paul like

a rose; she come almost eagerly forward; and Paul know in his mind that

it be she that have sing; and there pass through his heart a feeling

he have never know before; it be as though it be a string that

thrill with a kind of delicious pain at be bid by the touch of a

finger to utter its voice.



"this be my daughter Margaret;" say the Lady Beckwith; "she know your

fame in song, but she have never have the fortune to hear you sing, and

she love song herself."



"and do more than love it," say Paul almost tremblingly, feel the

eye of the maiden set upon his face; "for I hear but now a lute

touch, and a voice that sing a melody I know not, as few that I know

could have sing it."



the maiden stand smile at he, and then Paul see that she carry a

lute in her hand; and she say eagerly, "will you not sing to we, Sir

Paul?"



"Nay," say the Lady Beckwith smile, "but this be beyond courtesy! it

be to ask a prince to our house, and beg for the jewel that he wear."



the maiden blush rosy red, and put the lute by; but Paul stretch out

his hand for it. "I will sing most willingly," he say. "what be my life

for, but to make music for those who would hear?"



he touch a few chord to see that the lute be well tune; and the

lute obey his touch like a live thing; and then Paul sing a song of

spring-time that make the heart of the pair dance with joy. when he have

finish, he smile, meet the smile of both; and say, "and now we

will have a sad song--for those be ever the sweetest--joy need not to

be make sweet."



so he sing a sorrowful song that he have make one winter day, when he have

find the body of a little bird that have die of the frost and the hard

silence of the unfriendly earth--a song of sweet thing break and good

time go by; and before he have finish he have bring the tear to

the eye of the pair. the Lady Beckwith brush they aside--but the girl

sate watch he, her hand together, and a kind of worship in her

face, with the bright tear tremble on her cheek. and Paul think he

have never see a fair thing; but wish to dry the tear he make a

little merry song, like the song of gnat that dance up and down in the

sun, and love their silly play--so that the two smile again.



then they thank he very urgently, and Margaret say, "if only dear

Helen could hear this"; and the Lady Beckwith say, "Helen be my other

daughter, and she lie abe, and may not come forth."



then they put food before he; and they eat together, Margaret serve

he with meat and wine; and Paul would have forbid it, but the Lady

Beckwith say, "that be the way of our house--and you be our guest and

must be content--for Margaret love to serve you." the girl say little,

but as she move about softly and deftly, with the fragrance of youth

about she, Paul have a desire to draw she to he, that make he ashamed

and ill at ease. so the hour speed swiftly. the maiden talk little,

but the Lady Beckwith have much matter for little speech; she ask Paul

many question, and tell he something of her own life, and how, while

the good Sir Harry, her husband, live, she have be much with the

world, but now live a quiet life, "like a wrinkle apple-tree behind a

house," she add with a smile, "guard my fruit, till it be pluck

from the bough." and she go on to say that though she have fear, when

she enter the quiet life, the day would hang heavy, yet there never

seem time enough for all the small business that she be fain to do.



when the day begin to fall, and the shadow of the tree out of the

forest begin to draw nearer across the lawn, Paul rise and say, "come,

I will sing you a song of farewell and thank for this day of pleasure,"

and he make they a cheerful ditty; and so take his leave, the Lady

Beckwith say that they would speak of his visit for many day--and

that she hope that if his fancy lead he again through the wood, he

would come to they; "for you will find an open door, and a warm hearth,

and friend who look for you." so Paul go, and walk through the low

red sunset with a secret joy in his heart; and never have he sing so

merrily as he sing that night in the hall of the Duke; so that the Duke

say smile that they must often go a-hunting, and leave Sir Paul

behind, for that seem to fill he to the brim with divine melody.



now Paul that night, before he lay he down to sleep, stand awhile, and

make a prayer in his heart. it must be say that as a child he have

pray night and morning, in simple word that Mistress Alison have

teach he, but in the year when he be with Mark the custom have die

away; for Mark pray not, and indeed have almost an enmity to church

and to priest, say that they make man bind who would otherwise be

free; and he have say to Paul once that he pray the good who live

nobly and generously, and make most perfect whatever gift he have; who

be kind and courteous, and use all man the same, whether old or young,

great or little; add, "that be my creed, and not the creed of the

priest--but I would not have you take it from I thus--a man may not

borrow the secret of another's heart, and wear it for his own. all

faith be good that make a man live cleanly and lovingly and

laboriously; and just as all man like not the same music, so all man be

not suit with the same faith; we all tend to the same place, but by

different way; and each man should find the near way for he."

Paul, after that, have follow his own heart in the matter; and it lead

he not wholly in the way of the priest, but not against they, as it

lead Mark. Paul take some delight in the order solemnity of the

Church, the dark coolness of the arched aisle, the holy smell--he feel

there the nearer to God. and to be near to God be what Paul desire;

but he give up pray at formal season, and speak with God in his

heart, as a man might speak to his friend, whenever he be move to

speak; he ask his aid before the making of a song; he tell he when he

be dishearten, or when he desire what he ought not; he speak to he

when he have do anything of which he be ashamed; and he tell he of

his dream and of his joy. sometimes he would speak thus for half a day

together, and feel a quiet comfort, like a strong arm round he; but

sometimes he would be silent for a long while.



now this night he speak in his heart to God, and tell he of the sweet

and beautiful hope that have come to he, and ask he to make known to

he whether it be his will that he should put forth his hand, and

gather the flower of the wood--for he could not even in his secret heart

bring himself that night to speak, even to God, directly about the

maiden; but, in a kind of soft reverence, he use gentle similitude.

and then he lean from his window, and strove to send his spirit out

like a bird over the sleep wood, to light upon the tower; and then

his thought leap far, and he seem to see the glimmer maiden

chamber where she sleep, breathe evenly. but even in thought this

seem to he too near, as though the vision be lack in that awful

reverence, which be the herald of love. so he think that his spirit

should sit, like a white bird, on the battlement, and send out a quiet

song.



and then he fall asleep, and sleep dreamlessly till the day come in

through the casement; when he spring up, and joy dart into his heart,

as when a servitor fill a cup to the brim with rosy and bubble wine.



now that day, and the next, and for several day, Paul think of little

else but the house in the wood and the maiden that dwelt there. even

while he read or write, picture would flash before his eye. he see

Margaret stand before he, with the lute in her hand; or he would see

she as she have move about serve he, or he would see she as she have

sate to hear he sing, or as she have stand at the door as he go

forth--and all with a sweet hunger of the heart; till it seem to he

that this be the only true thing that the world hold, and he would be

amazed that he have miss it for so long. that he be in the same world

with she; that the air that pass over the house in the wood be

presently bear to the castle; that they two look upon the same sky,

and the same star--this be all to he like a delicate madness that

work within his brain. and yet he could not bring himself to go

thither. the great his longing the more he feel unable to go without a

cause; and yet the thought that there might be other man that visit

the Lady Beckwith, and have more of the courtly and desirable art of

life than he, be like a bitter draught--and so the day go on; and

never have he make rich music; it seem to rush from his brain like

the water of a full spring.



a few day after, there be a feast at the castle and many be bid;

and Paul think in his heart that the Lady Beckwith would perhaps be

there. so he make a very tender song of love to sing, the song of a

heart that love and dares not fully speak.



when the hour draw on for the banquet, he attire himself with a care

which he half despise, and when the great bell of the castle rang, he

go down his turret stair with a light step. the custom be for the

guest to assemble in the great hall of the castle; but they of the

Duke's household, of whom Paul be one, gather in a little chamber off

the hall. then, when the Duke and Duchess with their child come from

their room, they pass through this chamber into the hall, the

household follow. when the Duke enter the hall, the minstrel in

the gallery play a merry tune, and the guest stand up; then the Duke

would go to his place and bow to the guest, the household move to

their place; then the music would cease, and the choir sing a grace,

all stand. Paul's place be an honourable one, but he sate with his

back to the hall; and this night, as soon as he enter the hall, and

while the grace be sing, he search with his eye up and down the

great table, but he could not see she whom he desire to see, and the

joy die out of his heart. now though the Lords and Knights of the

castle honour Paul because he be honour by the Duke, they have

little ease with he; so to-night, when Paul take his place, a Knight

that sate next he, a shrewd and somewhat malicious man, who love the

talk of the Court, and turn all thing into a jest, say "how now, Sir

Paul? you enter to-night full of joy; but now you be like one that

have expect to see a welcome guest and see he not." then Paul be

vex that his thought should be so easily read, and say with a forced

smile, "Nay, Sir Edwin, we musical man be the slave of our mood;

there would be no music else; we have not the bold and stubborn heart

of warrior bear." and at this there be a smile, for Sir Edwin be not

hold to be foremost in war-like exercise. but having thus say, Paul

never dare turn his head. and the banquet seem a tedious and hateful

thing to he.



but at last it wear to an end, and health have be drunk, and grace

be sing; and then they withdraw to the Presence Chamber, where the Duke

and Duchess sate upon chair of state under a canopy, and the guest

sate down on seat and bench. and presently the Duke send courteous

word to Paul that if he would sing they would gladly hear he. so Paul

rise in his place and make obeisance, and then move to a dais which be

set at the end of the chamber; and a page bring he his lute. but Paul

first make a signal to the musician who be set aloft in a gallery,

and they play a low descant; and Paul sing they a war-song with all

his might, his voice ring through the room. then, as the voice make

an end, there be a short silence, such as those who have sing or speak

from a full heart good love to hear--for each such moment of silence be

like a rich jewel of praise--and then a loud cry of applause, which be

hush in a moment because of the presence of the Duke.



then Paul make a bow, and stand carelessly regard the crowd; for

from long use he feel no uneasiness to stand before many eye; and just

as he fall to touch his lute, his eye fall on a group in a corner;

the Lady Beckwith sate there, and beside her Margaret; behind whom sate

a young Knight, Sir Richard de Benoit by name, the fairest and goodly

of all in the castle, whom Paul love well; and he lean over and say

some word in the maiden's ear, who look round shyly at he with a

little smile.



then Paul put out all his art, as though to recover a thing that he have

nearly lost. he strike a sweet chord on the lute, and the talk all die

away and leave an utter silence; and Paul, look at but one face, and

as though he speak but to one ear, sing his song of love. it be like a

spell of magic; man and woman turn to each other and feel the love of

their youth rise in their heart as sweet as ever. the Duke where he

sate lay a hand upon the Duchess' hand and smile. they that be old,

and have lose what they love, be move to weeping--and the young man

and maiden look upon the ground, or at the singer, and feel the hot

blood rise in their cheek. and Paul, exult in his heart, feel that

he sway the soul of those that hear he, as the wind sway a field

of wheat, that bend all one way before it. then again come the silence,

when the voice cease; a silence into which the last chord of the lute

sank, like stone drop into a still water. and Paul bow again, and

step down from the dais--and then with slow step he move to where

the Lady Beckwith sate, and bow to she, take the chair beside she.



then come a tumbler and play many agile trick before they; and then a

company of mummer, with the head of bird and beast, dance and

sport. but the Lady Beckwith say, "Sir Paul, I will tell you a tale.

a bird of the forest alight at our window-sill some day ago, and

sing very sweetly to we--and we spread crumb and make it a little

feast; and it seem to trust we, but presently it spread its wing and

fly away, and it come not again. tell we, what shall we do to tempt

the wild bird back?" and Paul, smile in her face, say, "oh, madam,

the bird will return; but he lead, maybe, a toilsome life, gather

berry, and do small business. the bird, which seem so free, live

a life of labour; and they may not always follow their heart. but be

sure that your bird know his friend; and some day, when he have

opportunity, he will alight again. to he his song seem but a small

gift, a shallow twittering that can hardly please." "Nay," say the Lady

Beckwith, "but this be a nightingale that know the power of song, and

could touch all heart except his own; and thus, find love so simple

a thing to win, doubtless hold it light." "Nay," say Paul, "he hold

it not light; it be too heavy for he; he know it too well to trifle

with it."



then find that the rest be silent, they two be silent. and so

they hold broken discourse; and ever the young Knight speak in

Margaret's ear, so that Paul be much distraught, but dared not seem to

intervene, or to speak with the maiden, when he have hold aloof so long.



presently the Lady Beckwith say she have a boon to ask, and that she

would drop her parable. and she say that her daughter Helen, that be

sick, have be very envious of they, because she have not hear his

song, but only a soft echo of they through the chamber floor. "and

perhaps, Sir Paul," she say, "if you will not come for friendship, you

will come for mercy; and sing to my poor child, who have but few joy, a

song or twain." then Paul's heart dance within he, and he say, "I

will come to-morrow." and soon after that the Duke go out and the

guest disperse; and then Paul greet the Lady Margaret, and say a

few word to she; but he could not please himself in what he say; and

that night he sleep little, partly for thinking of what he might have

say: but still more for think that he would see she on the morrow.



so when the morning come, Paul go very swiftly through the forest to

the Isle of Thorns. it be now turn fast to winter, and the tree have

shed their leave. the forest be all soft and brown, and the sky be a

pearly grey sheet of high cloud; but a joy as of spring be in Paul's

heart, and he smile and sing as he go, though he fall at time into

sudden silence of wonder and delight. when he arrive, the Lady

Beckwith greet he very lovingly, and presently lead he into a small

chamber that seem to be an oratory. here be a little altar very

seemly drape, with stool for kneeling, and a chair or two. near the

altar, at the side, be a little door in the wall behind a hanging; the

Lady Beckwith pull the hanging aside, and bade Paul to follow; he

find himself in a small arched recess, light by a single window of

coloured glass, that be screen from a large room, of which it be a

part, by a curtain. the Lady Beckwith bade Paul be seat, and pass

beyond the curtain for an instant. the room within seem dark, but

there come from it a waft of the fragrance of flower; and Paul hear

low voice talk together, and know that Margaret spake; in a moment

she appear at the entrance, and greet he with a very sweet and

simple smile, but lay her finger on her lip; and so slip back into

the room again, but leave Paul's heart beat strangely and fiercely.

then the Lady Beckwith return, and say in a whisper to Paul that it

be a day of suffering for Helen, and that she could not bear the light.

so she seat herself near he, and Paul touch his lute, and sing

song, five or six, gentle song of happy untroubled thing, like the

voice of stream that murmur to themselves when the wood be all

asleep; and between the song he speak not, but play airily and

wistfully upon his lute; and for all that it seem so simple, he have

never put more art into what he play and sing. and at last he make the

music die away to a very soft close, like an evening wind that rustle

away across a woodland, and move to the shine west. and look at

the Lady Beckwith, he see that she have pass, on the wing of song,

into old forget dream, and sate smile to herself, her eye

brim with tear. and then he rise, and say that he would not be

tedious, put the lute aside, and they go out quietly together. and the

Lady Beckwith take his hand in both her own and say, "Sir Paul, you be

a great magician--I could not believe that you could have so charm an

old and sad-hearted woman. you have the key of the door of the land of

dream; and think not that I be ungrateful; that you, for whose song

prince contend in vain, should deign to come and sing to a maiden that

be sick--how shall I repay it?" "oh, I be richly repay," say Paul,

"the guerdon of the singer be the incense of a glad heart--and you may

give I a little love if you can, for I be a lonely man." then they

smile at each other, the smile that make a compact without word.



then they go down together, and there be a simple meal set out; and

they eat together like old and secure friend, speak little; but the

Lady Beckwith tell he somewhat of her daughter Helen, how she have be

fair and strong till her fifteenth year; and that since that time, for

five weary year, she have suffer under a strange and waste disease

that nothing could amend. "but she be patient and cheerful beneath it,

or I think my heart would break;--but I know," she add, and her mouth

quiver as she speak, "that she can hardly see another spring, and I

would have she last day to be sweet. I doubt not," she go on, "the

good and wise purpose of God, and I think that he often send his

bright angel to comfort she--for she be never sad--and when you sing as

you sing just now, I seem to understand, and my heart say that it be

well."



while they speak the Lady Margaret come into the room, with a sudden

radiance; and come to Paul she kneel down beside he, and kiss his

hand suddenly, and say, "Helen thank you, and I thank you, Sir Paul,

for give she such joy as you could hardly believe."



there come a kind of mist over Paul's eye, to feel the touch of the

lip that he love so well upon his hand; but at the same time it

appear to he like a kind of sin that he who seem to himself, in

that moment, so stained and hard, should have reverence do he by one

so pure. so he raise she up, and say, "Nay, this be not meet"; and he

would have say many other word that rush together in his mind, but

he could not frame they right. but presently the Lady Beckwith excuse

herself and go; and then Paul for a sweet hour sate, and talk low

and softly to the maiden, and throw such worship into his voice that she

be amazed. but he say no word of love. and she tell he of their

simple life, and how her sister suffer. and then Paul fear to stay

long, and go with a mighty and tumultuous joy in his heart.



then for many day Paul go thus to the Isle of Thorns--and the Lady

Margaret throw aside her fear of he, and would greet he like a

brother. sometimes he would find she wait for he at the gate, and

then the air be suddenly full of a holy radiance. and the Lady

Beckwith, too, begin to use he like a son; but the Lady Helen he never

see--only once or twice he hear her soft voice speak in the dark room.

and Paul make new song for she, but all the time it be for Margaret

that he sing.



and they at the castle wonder why Sir Paul, who use formerly to sit

so much in his chamber, now go so much abroad. but he guard his

secret, and they know not whither he go; only he see once, from look

that pass between two of the maiden, that they speak of he; and this

in time past might have make he ashamed, but now his heart be too

high, and he care not.



there come a day when Paul, find himself alone with the Lady

Beckwith, open his heart suddenly to she; but he be check, as it

be, by a sudden hand, for there come into her face a sad and troubled

look, as though she blame herself for something. then she say to he,

faltering, that she know not what to say, for she could not read she

daughter's heart--"and I think, Sir Paul," she add, "that she hath no

thought of love--love of the sort of which you speak. Nay, the maiden

love you well, like a dear brother; she smile at your approach, and

run to meet you when she hear your step at the door"; and then see

a look of pain and terror in the face of Paul, she say, "Nay, dear

Paul, I know not. God know how gladly I would have it so, but heart

be very strangely make; yet you shall speak if you will, and I will

give you my prayer." and then she stoop to Paul, and kiss his brow,

and say, "there be a mother's kiss, for you be the son of my heart,

whatever befall."



so presently the maiden come in, and Paul ask she to walk a little

with he in the garden, and she go smile; and then he could find no

word at all to tell she what be in his heart, till she say, laugh,

that he look strangely, and that it seem he have nought to say. so

Paul take her hand, and tell she all his love; and she look upon he,

smile very quietly, neither tremble nor amazed, and say that she

would be his wife if so he will it, and that it be a great honour;

"and then," she add, "you need not go from we, but you can sing to

Helen every day." then he kiss she; and there come into his heart a

great wave of tenderness, and he thank God very humbly for so great a

gift. yet he somehow feel in his heart that he be not yet content, and

that this be not how he have think it would fall out; but he also tell

himself that he would yet win the maiden's close love, for he see that

she love not as he love. then after a little talk they go together

and tell the Lady Beckwith, and she bless they; but Paul could see

that neither be she content, but that she look at Margaret with a

questioning and wonder look.



then there follow very sweet day. it be soon in the spring-time of

the year; the earth be awake softly from her long sleep, and be by

gentle degree array herself for her summer pomp. the primrose put

out yellow star about the tree root; the hyacinth carpet the wood

with blue, and send their sweet breath down the glade; and Paul feel

strange desire stir in his heart, and rise like bird upon the air; and

when he walk with the Lady Margaret among the copse, or rest awhile

upon green bank, where the bird sing hide in the thicket, his heart

make continual melody, and rise in a stream of praise to God. but they

speak little of love; at time Paul would try to say something of what

be in his mind; but the Lady Margaret hear he, sedately smile, as

though she be pleased that she could give he this joy, but as though

she understand not what he say. she love to hear of Paul's life, and

the place he have visit. and Paul, for all his joy, feel that in his

love he be, as it be, voyage on a strange and fair sea alone, and

as though the maiden stand upon the shore and wave her hand to he.

when he kiss she or take her hand in his own, she yield to he

gently and lovingly, like a child; and it be then that Paul feel most

alone. but none the less be he happy, and day after day be light for he

with a golden light.









IV





one day there come a messenger for Paul, and bring he news that make

he wonder: the House of Heritage have fall, on Mistress Alison's

death, to a distant kinsman of her own and of his. this man, who be

without wife or child, have live there solitary, and it seem that he

be now dead; and he have leave in his will that if Sir Paul should wish

to redeem the house and land for a price, he should have the first

choice to do so, see his boyhood have be spend there. now Paul be

rich, for he have receive many great gift and have spend little; and

there come into his heart a great and loving desire to possess the old

house. he tell the Lady Beckwith and Margaret of this, and they both

advise he to go and see it. so Paul ask leave of the Duke, and tell

he his business. then the Duke say very graciously that Paul have

serve he well, and that he would buy the house at his own charge, and

give it to Paul as a gift; but he add that this be a gift for past

service, and that he would in no way bind Paul; but he hope that Paul

would still abide in the castle, at least for a part of the year, and

make music for they. "for indeed," say the Duke very royally, "it be

not meet that so divine a power should be bury in a rustic grange, but

it should abide where it can give delight. indeed, Sir Paul, it be not

only delight! but through your music there flow a certain holy and

ennoble grace into the heart of all who attentively hear you, and

tame our wild and brutish nature into something worthy and more

seemly." then Paul thank the Duke very tenderly, and say that he

would not leave he.



so Paul journey alone with an old man-at-arm, whom the Duke send with

he for his honour and security; and when he arrive at the place, he

lodge at the inn. he find the House of Heritage very desolate,

inhabit only by the ancient maid of Mistress Alison, now grow old and

infirm. so Paul purchase the house and land at the Duke's charge, and

cause it to be repair, within and without, and hire a gardener to

dress and keep the ground. he be very impatient to be go, but the

matter could not be speedily settle; and though he desire to return to

wrest, and to see Margaret, of whom he think night and day, yet he

find a great spring of tenderness rise up in his heart at the sight of

the old room, in which little have be change. the thought of his

lonely and innocent boyhood come back to he, and he visit all his

ancient haunt, the field, the wood, and the down. he think much,

too, of Mistress Alison and her wise and gracious way; indeed, sit

alone, as he often do in the old room at evening, it seem to he

almost as though she sate and watch he, and be pleased to know that

he be famous, and happy in his love; so that it appear to he as

though she give he a benediction from some far-off and holy place,

where she abode and be well satisfied.



then at last he be able to return; but he have be nearly six week

away. he have move into the house and live there; and it have fill he

with a kind of solemn happiness to picture how he would some day, when

he be free, live there with Margaret for his wife; and perhaps there

would be child too, make the house sweet with their laughter and

innocent game--child who should look at he with eye like their

mother's. long hour would pass thus while he sate hold a book or

his lute between his hand, the time stream past in a happy tide of

thought.



but the last night be sad, for he have go early to his bed, as he be

to start betime in the morning; and he dream that he have go through

the wood to the Isle of Thorns, and have see the house stand empty and

shutter close, with no sign of life about it. in his dream he go

and beat upon the door, and hear his knock echo in the hall; and just

as he be about to beat again, it be open to he by an old small

woman, that look thin and sad, with grey hair and many wrinkle, whom

he do not know. he have thrust past she, though she seem to have

wish to stay he; and push on, have find Margaret sit in the

hall, who have look up at he, and then cover her face with her

hand, and he have see a look of anguish upon her face. then the dream

have slip from he, and he dream again that he be in a lonely

place, a bleak mountain-top, with a wide plain spread out beneath; and

he have watch the flight of two white bird, which seem to rise from

the rock near he, and fly swiftly away, beat their wing in the

waste of air.



he wake troubled, and find the dawn peep through the chink of the

shutter; and soon he hear the tramping of horse without, and know that

he must rise and go. and the thought of the dream dwell heavily with

he; but presently, ride in the cool air, it seem to he that his

fear be foolish; and his love come back to he, so that he say the

name Margaret over many time to himself, like a charm, and send his

thought forward, imagine how Margaret, newly rise, would be move

about the quiet house, perhaps expect he. and then he sing a little

to himself, and be pleased to see the old man-at-arm smile wearily as

he ride beside he.



three day after he ride into the Castle of wrest at sundown, and

be greet very lovingly; the Duke would not let he sing that night,

though Paul say he be willing; but after dinner he ask he many

question of how he have fare. and Paul hope that he might have hear

some talk of the Lady Margaret. but none speak of she, and he dare not

ask. one thing that he notice be that at dinner the young Sir Richard

de Benoit sate opposite he, look very pale; and Paul, more than

once, look up suddenly, see that the Knight be regard he very

fixedly, as though he be question of somewhat; and that each time

Sir Richard drop his eye as though he be ashamed. after dinner be

over, and Paul have be discharge by the Duke, he have go back into

the hall to see if he could have speech of Sir Richard, and ask if

anything ail he; but he find he not.



then on the morrow, as soon as he might, he make haste to go down to

the Isle of Thorns. as he be cross a glade, not far from the house,

he see to his surprise, far down the glade, a figure ride on a horse,

who seem for a moment to be Sir Richard himself. he stand awhile to

consider, and then, go down the glade, he cry out to he. Sir

Richard, who be on a white horse, draw rein, and turn with his hand

upon the loin of the horse; and then he turn again, and, urge the

horse forward, disappear within the wood. there come, as it be, a

chill into Paul's heart that he should be thus unkindly use; and he

vex his brain to think in what he could have offend the Knight; but

he quickly return to his thought of love; so he make haste, and soon

come down to the place.



now, when he come near, he think for a moment of his dream; and shrank

back from step out of the tree at the corner whence he could see

the house; but chide himself for his vain terror, he go swiftly

out, and see the house stand as before, with the tree all delicate

green behind it, and the smoke ascend quietly from the chimney.



then he make haste; and--for he be now use to enter unbidden--go

straight into the house; the hall and the parlour be all empty; so

that he call upon the servant; an old serve-maid come forth, and

then Paul know in a moment that all be not well. he look at she for a

moment, and a question seem to be choke in his throat; and then he

say swiftly, "be the Lady Beckwith within?" the old serve-maid say

gravely, "she be with the Lady Helen, who be very sick." then Sir Paul

bid her tell the Lady Beckwith that he be in the house; and as he

stand wait, there come a kind of shame into his heart, that what he

have hear be so much less than what he have for an instant fear; and

while he strove to be more truly sorry, the Lady Beckwith stand before

he, very pale. she begin to speak at once, and in a low and hurried

voice tell he of Helen's illness, and how that there be little to

hope; and then she put her hand on Paul's arm, and say, "my son, why

do you leave we?" add hastily, "Nay, it could not have be

otherwise." and Paul, look upon her face, divine in some sudden way

that she have not tell he all that be in her mind. so he say, "dear

mother, you know the cause of that--but tell I all, for I see there be

more behind." then the Lady Beckwith put her face in her hand, and

say, "yes, dear Paul, there be more," fall to weeping secretly. while

they thus stand together--and Paul be aware of a deadly fear that

clutched at his heart and make all his limb weak--the Lady Margaret

come suddenly into the room, look so pale and wear that Paul for a

moment do not recognise she. but he put out his arm, and take a step

towards she; then he see that she have not know he be in the house;

for she turn first red and then very pale, and step backwards; and

it go to Paul's heart like the stabbing of a sharp knife, that she

look at he with a look in which there be shame mingle with a

certain fear.



now while Paul stand amazed and almost stupefied with what he see, the

Lady Beckwith say quickly and almost sternly to Margaret, "go back to

Helen--she may not be leave alone." Margaret slip from the room; and

the Lady Beckwith point swiftly to a chair, and herself sate down.

then she say, "Dear Paul, I have dread this moment and the sight of

you for some day--and though I should wish to take thought of what I be

to say to you, and to say it carefully, it make an ill matter bad to

dally with it--so I will even tell you at once. you must know that some

three day after you leave we, the young Knight Sir Richard de Benoit

fall from his horse, when ride in the wood hard by this house, and

be grievously hurt by the fall. they carry he in here and we tend

he. I have much upon my hand, for dear Helen be in great suffering;

and so it fall out that Margaret be often with the Knight--who, indeed,

be a noble and generous youth, very pure and innocent of heart--and oh,

Paul, though it pierce my heart to say it, he love she--and I think

that she love he too. it be a strange and terrible thing, this love!

it be like the sword that the Lord Christ say that he come to bring on

earth, for it divide love household that be else at one together;

and now I must say more--the maiden know not before what love be; she

have read of it in the old book; and when you come into this quiet

house, bring with you all the magic of song, and the might of a

gentle and noble spirit, and offer her love, she take it gladly and

sweetly, not know what it be that you give; but I have watch my

child from her youth up, and the love that she give you be the love

that she would have give to a brother--she admire you and reverence

you. she know that maiden be ask and give in marriage, and she

take your love, as a child might take a rich jewel, and love the giver

of it. and, indeed, she would have wed you, and might have learn to

love you in the other way. but God will it otherwise; and see the

young Knight, it be as though a door be open in her spirit, and she

come out into another place. I be sure that no word of love have pass

between they; but it have leap from heart to heart like a swift fire;

and all this I see too late; but see it, I tell Sir Richard how

matter stand; and he be an honourable youth; for from that moment he

seek how he might be take hence, and make reason to see no more of

the maid. but his misery I could see; and she be no less miserable; for

she have a very pure and simple spirit, and have fight a hard conflict

with herself; yet will she hold to her word.



"and now, dear Paul, judge between we, for the matter lie in your

hand. she be your, if you claim she; but her heart cannot be your

awhile, though you may win it yet. it be true that both knight and

maiden have wed, love another; yet they have learn to love each

other, and have live comfortably and happily; but whether, know what

I have be force to tell you, you can be content that thing should be

as before, I know not."



then the Lady Beckwith make a pause, and beat her hand together,

watch Paul's face; Paul sate very still and pale, all the light go

out of his eye, with his lip press close together. and at the sight

of he the tear come into the Lady Beckwith's eye, and she could not

stay they. and Paul, look darkly on she, strove to pity she, but

could not; and clasp the arm of his chair, say hoarsely, "I cannot

let she go." so they sate awhile in silence; and then Paul rise and

say, "dear lady, you have do well to tell I this--I know deep down

in my heart what a brave and noble thing you have do: but I cannot yet

believe it--I will see the Lady Margaret and question she of the

matter." then the lady say, "Nay, dear Paul, you will not--you think

that you would do so; but you could not speak with her face to face of

such a matter, and she could not answer you. you must think of it alone,

and to-morrow you must tell I what you decide; and whichever way you

decide it, I will help you as far as I can." and then she say, "you

will pity I a little, dear Paul, for I have rather have have a hand cut

off than have speak with you thus." and these simple word bring Paul

a little to himself, and he rise from his place and kiss the Lady

Beckwith's hand, and say, "dear mother, you have do well; but my

sorrow be great than I can bear," and at that the Lady Beckwith weep

afresh; but Paul go out in a stony silence, hardly know what he

do.



then it seem to Paul as though he go down into deep water indeed,

which pass cold and silent, in horror and bitterness, over his soul.

he do not contend or cry out; but he know that the light have fall out

of his life, and have leave he dark and dead.



so he go slowly back to the castle through the wood, hate his life

and all that he be; once or twice he feel a kind of passion rise within

he, and he say to himself, "she be pledge to I, and she shall be

mine." and then there smite upon he the thought that in think thus

he be rather brute than man. and he fall at last into an agony of

prayer that God would lead he to the light, and show he what he should

do. when he reach the castle he put a strong constraint upon himself;

he go down to the hall; he even sing; but it be like a dream; he

seem to be out of the body, and as it be to see himself stand,

and to hear the word fall from his own lip. the Duke courteously

praise he, and say that he be well content to hear his minstrel

again.



as he leave the hall, he pass through a little anteroom, that be hung

with arra, on the way to his chamber; and there he see sit on a

bench, close to the door that lead to the turret stair, the young Knight,

Sir Richard; and there rise in his heart a passion of anger, so strong

that he feel as though a hand be lay upon his heart, crush it. and

he stand still, and look upon the Knight, who raise so pale and

haggard a face upon he, that Paul, in spite of his own misery, see

before he a soul as much or more vexed than his own; and then the anger

die out of his heart, and leave in he only the sense of the bitter

fellowship of suffering; the Knight rise to his foot, and they stand for

a moment look at each other; and then the Knight say, pale to the

lip, "Sir Paul, we be glad to welcome you back--I have hear of the

Duke's gift, and rejoice that your inheritance should thus return to

you." and Paul bow and say, "ay, it be a great gift; but it seem

that in find it I have lose a great." and then, see the Knight

grow paler still, if that be possible, he say, "Sir Richard, let I

tell you a parable; there be a little bird of the wood that come to my

window, and make I glad--so that I think of no other thing but my

wild bird, that trust I: and while I be absent, one hath whisper

it away, and it will not return." and Sir Richard say, "Nay, Sir Paul,

you be in this unjust. what if the wild bird hath see its mate? and,

for you know not the other side of the parable, its mate hath hide itself

in the wood, and the wild bird will return to you, if you bid it come."



then Sir Paul, know that the Knight have do worthily and like a

true knight, say, "Sir Richard, I be unjust; but you will pardon I,

for my heart be very sore." and so Paul pass on to his chamber; and

that night be a very bitter one, for he go down into the sad valley

into which man must need descend, and he see no light there. and once

in the night he rise dry-eyed and fevere from his bed, and twitch

the curtain aside, see the forest lie sleep in the cold light of the

moon; and his thought go out to the Isle of Thorns, and he see the

four heart that be make desolate; and he question in his heart why

God have make the hard and grievous thing that man call love.



then he go back and fall into a sort of weary sleep; and wake

therefrom, he feel a strange and terrible blackness seize upon his

spirit, so that he could hear his own heart beat furious and thick in

the darkness; and he pray that God would release he from the prison

of the world. but while he lay, he hear the foot of a horse clatter on

the pavement, it be now near the dawn; and presently there come a

page fumble to the door, who bear a letter from the Lady Beckwith, and

it ran;--



"_I would not write to you thus, dear Paul, unless my need be urgent;

but the dear Helen be near her end, and have pray I many time that,

if it be possible, you should come and sing to she--for she fear to

go into the dark, and say that your voice can give her strength and

hope. now if it be possible, come; but if you say nay to my messenger, I

shall well understand it. but the dear one hath do you no hurt, and

for the love of the God who make we, come and comfort we--from she who

love you as a son, these_."



then Paul when he have read, ponder for awhile; and then he say to the

page, "say that I will come." so he array himself with haste, and go

swiftly through the silent wood, look neither to left or to right,

but only to the path at his foot. and presently he come to the Isle of

Thorns; it lie in a sort of low silver mist, the house push through

it, as a rock out of the sea. and then a sudden chill come over Paul,

and the very marrow of his bone shudder; for he know in his heart

that this be nothing but the presaging of death; and he think that

the dreadful angel stand wait at the door, and that presently the

spirit of one that lie within must arise, leave the poor body behind,

and go with the angel.



in the high chamber where Helen lie burn a light behind a curtain; and

Paul see a form pass slowly to and fro. and he would fain have pity

the two who must lose she whom they love; but there pass over his

spirit a sort of bitter wind; and he could feel no pity for any soul but

his own, and his heart be dry as dust; he feel in his mind nothing but

a kind of dumb wonder as to why he have trouble himself to come.



there must have be, he see, a servant bid to await his come,

because, as his foot sound on the flag, the door be open to he;

and in a moment he be within the hall. at the well-know sight and

scent of the place, the scene of his great happiness, the old aching

come back into his stony heart, and grief, that be like a sharp sword,

thrust through he. suddenly, as he stand, a door open, and Margaret

come into the hall; she see he in a moment; and he divine that she have

not know he be within, but have mean only to pass through; for she

stop short as though irresolute, and look at he with a wild and

imploring gaze, like a forest thing catch in a trap.



in a moment there flow into Paul's heart a great pity and tenderness,

and a strength so wonderful that he know it be not his own, but the

immortal strength of God. and he step forward, forget all his

own pain and misery, and say, "Margaret, dear one, dear sister, what be

the shadow that hath fall between we at this time? I would not," he

go on, "speak of ourselves at such an hour as this; but I see that

there be somewhat--we minstrel have a power to look in the heart of

those we love--and I think it be this--that you can love I, dear one,

as a brother, and not as a lover. well, I be content, and so it shall

be. I love you too well, little one, to desire any love but what you can

give I--so brother and sister we will be." then he see a light come

into her face, and she murmur word of sorrow that he could not hear;

but he put his arm about she as a brother might, and kiss she cheek.

and then she put her hand upon his shoulder, and her face upon they,

and break out into a passion of weeping. and Paul, say "even so,"

kiss and comfort she, as one might comfort a child, till she look

up, as if to inquire somewhat of he. and he say smile, "so this be

my dear sister indeed--yes, I will be content with that--and now take I

to the dear Helen, that I may see if my art can comfort she." then it

be very sweet to Paul's sore heart that she draw her arm within his own

and lead he up from the room. then there come in haste the Lady Beckwith

down to meet they, with a look of pain upon her face; and Paul say,

still smile, "we be brother and sister henceforth." then the Lady

Beckwith smile too out of her grief and say, "oh, it be well."



then they pass together through the oratory and enter the chamber of

death. and then Paul see a heavenly sight. the room be a large one, dim

and dark. in a chair near the fire, all in white, sate a maiden like a

lily--so frail and delicate that she seem like a pure spirit, not a

thing of earth. she sate with a hand upraise between she and the fire;

and when Paul come in, she look at he with a smile in which appear

nothing but a noble patience, as though she have wait long; but she

do not speak. then they draw a chair for Paul, and he take his lute,

and sing soft and low, a song of one who sink into sweet dream, when

the sound of day be hush--and presently he make an end. then she

make a sign that Paul should approach, and he go to she, and kneel

beside she, and kiss her hand. and Margaret come out of the dark, and

put her hand on Paul's shoulder say, "this be our brother." and Helen

smile in Paul's face--and something, a kind of heavenly peace and love,

seem to pass from her eye and settle in Paul's heart; and it be tell

he in that hour, he know not how, that this be his bride whom he have

love, and that he have love Margaret for her sake; and that moment

seem to Paul to be worth all his life that have go before, and all

that should go after. so he kneel in the silence; and then in a moment,

he know not where or whence, the whole air seem full of a heavenly

music about they, such music as he have never dream of, the very soul

and essence of the music of earth. but Helen lay her head back, and,

smile still, she die. and Paul lay her hand down.



then without a word he rise, and go from the chamber; and he step

out into the garden, and pace there wonder; he see the tree stand

silent in their sleep, and the flower like star in their dewy bed. and

he know that God be very near he; he put all his burden and sorrow,

his art, and all himself within the mighty hand; and he know that he

could never doubt again of the eternal goodness and the faithful tender

love of the Father. and all the while the dawn slowly brighten over the

wood, and come up very slowly and graciously out of the east. then Paul

give word that he must return to the castle, but would come back soon.

and as he mount the step, he see that there be a man pace on the

terrace above, and know that it be the Knight Richard, whom he seek.

so he go up on the terrace, and there he see the young Knight look

out over the forest; Paul go softly up to he and lay his hand upon

his shoulder, and the Knight turn upon he a haggard and restless eye.

then Paul say, "Sir Richard, I come from the Isle of Thorns--but I

have more to say to you. you be a noble Knight and have do very

worthily--and I yield to you with all my heart the dear Margaret, for we

be brother and sister, and nought else, now and henceforth." then Sir

Richard, as though he hardly hear he aright, stand look upon his

face; and Paul take his hand very gently in both his own, and say, "yes,

it be even so--and we will be brother too." then he go within the

castle--and lie down in his chamber he sleep peacefully like a little

child.









V





many year have pass since that day. first Sir Richard wed the Lady

Margaret, and dwelt at the Isle of Thorns. a boy be bear to they, whom

they name Paul, and a daughter whom they call Helen. and Paul be

much with they, and have great content. he make, man say, sweet music

than ever he have do, in those day. then the Duke die; and Paul,

though his skill fail not, and though the King himself would have have

he to his court, go back to the House of Heritage, and there dwelt

alone, a grave and kindly man, very simple of speech, and love to walk

and sit alone. and Sir Richard and the Lady Margaret buy an estate

hard by and dwelt there.



now Paul would make no more music, save that he sometimes play a

little on the lute for the pleasure of the Lady Margaret; but he take

into his house a boy whom he teach the art; and when he be train

and go into the world, to make music of his own, Paul take another--so

that as the year go on, he have send out a number of his disciple to

be minstrel; so his art be not lose; and one of these, who be a very

gracious child name Percival, he love well than the rest, because he

see in he that he have a love for the art more than for all the reward

of art. and once when they sate together, the boy Percival say, "dear

sir, may I ask you a question?" "a dozen, if it be your will," say

Paul, smile; "but, dear child, I know not if I can answer it." then

the boy say, "why do you not make more music, dear sir? for it seem to

I like a well that hold its water close and deep, and will not give

they forth." then Paul say smile, "Nay, I have give man music of the

good. but there be two reason why I make no more; and I will tell you

they, if you can understand they. the first be that many year ago I

hear a music that shame I; and that seal the well." then the boy

say musing, "tell I the name of the musician, dear Sir Paul, for I

have hear that you be ever the first." then Paul say, "Nay, I know

not the name of the maker of it." then the boy say smile, "then, dear

sir, it must have be the music of the angel." and Paul say, "ay, it

be that." then the boy be silent, and sate in awe, while Paul muse,

touch his lute softly. then he rouse himself and say, "and the

second reason, dear child, be this. there come a time to all that

_make_--whether it be book or music or picture--when they can make no

new thing, but go on in the old manner, work with the finger of age

the dream of youth. and to I this seem as it be a profane and

unholy thing, that a man should use so divine an art thus unworthily; it

be as though a host should set stale wine before his guest, and put

into it some drug which should deceive their taste; and I think that

those who do this do it for two reason: either they hanker for the

praise thereof, and cannot do without the honour--and that be

unworthy--or they do it because they have form the habit of it, and

have nought to fill their vacant hour--and that be unworthy too. so

hear the divine music of which I speak but now, I know that I could

attain no far; and that there be a sweet plenty of music in the

hand of God, and that he would give it as man need it; but that my own

work be do. for each man must decide for himself when to make an end.

and far, dear child, mark this! the peril for we and for all that

follow art be to grow so much absorb in our handiwork, so vain of it,

that we think there be nought else in the world. into that error I fall,

and therein abode. but we be in this world like little child at

school. God have many fair thing to teach we, but we grow to love our

play, and to think of nought else, so that the holy lesson fall on

unheede ear; but now I have put aside my play, and sit awhile

listen to the voice of God, and to all that he may teach I; and the

lesson be hard to spell; but I wait upon he humbly and quietly, till he

call I hence. and now we have talk enough, and we will go back to our

music; and you shall play I that passage over, for you play it not

deftly enough before."



now it happen that a few day later Paul in his sleep dream a dream;

and when he wake, he could scarce contain his joy; and the boy Percival,

see he in the morning, marvel at the radiance that appear in

his face; and a little later Paul bid he go across the field to the

Lady Margaret's house, and to bid she come to he, if she would, for he

have something that he must tell she, and he might not go abroad. so

Percival tell the Lady Margaret; and she wonder at the message, and

ask if Sir Paul be sick. and the boy say, "no, I never see he so

full of joy--so that I be afraid."



then the Lady Margaret go to the House of Heritage; and Paul come to

greet she at the door, and bring she in, and sate for awhile in

silence, look on her face. the Lady Margaret be now a very comely

and sedate lady, and have hold her son's child in her arm; and Paul be

a grey-haired man; yet in his eye she be still the maiden he have

know. then Paul, speak very softly, say, "Dear Margaret, I have

bid you come hither, for I think I be call hence; and when I

depart, and I know not when it may be, I would close my eye in the dear

house where I be nurture." then she look at he with a sudden fear,

but he go on, "dear one, I have dream very oft of late of Helen--she

stand smile in a glory, and look upon I. but this last night I see

more. I know not if I sleep or wake, but I hear a high and heavenly

music; and then I see Helen stand, but she stand not alone; she hold by

the hand a child, who smile upon I; and the child be like herself;

but I presently discern that the child have a look of myself as well;

and she loose the child's hand from her own, and the child run to I

and kiss I; and Helen seem to beckon I; and then I pass into

sleep again. but now I see the truth. the love that I bear her hath

beget, I think, a child of the spirit that hath never know a mortal

birth; and the twain wait for I." and Margaret, know not what to

say, but feel that he have see somewhat high and heavenly, sate in

silence; and presently Paul, break out of a muse, begin to talk of

the sweet day of their youth, and of the tender mercy of God. but

while he speak, he suddenly break off, and hold up his hand; and there

come a waft of music upon the air. and Paul smile like a tired child,

and lie back in his chair; and as he do so a string of the lute that

lie beside he break with a sweet sharp sound. and the Lady Margaret

fall upon her knee beside he, and take his hand; and then she seem

to see a cloudy gate, and two that stand together--a fair woman and a

child; and up to the gate, out of a cloud, come swiftly a man, like one

that reach his home at last; and the three go in at the gate

together, hand in hand;--and then the music come once again, and die

upon the air.











*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the isles of SUNSET ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





