The project Gutenberg eBook of the House of Quiet: an Autobiography

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the House of Quiet: an Autobiography



Author: Arthur Christopher Benson



Release date: November 26, 2019 [ebook #60783]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Susan Skinner, Julie Barkley and the Online

        distribute Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this

        file be produce from image generously make available

        by Cornell University Digital Collections)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the HOUSE of QUIET: an AUTOBIOGRAPHY ***



the house of QUIET









[illustration: _the House of Quiet_]









                                   THE

                             HOUSE of QUIET



                            an AUTOBIOGRAPHY



                                   BY

                        arthur CHRISTOPHER benson



                             [illustration]



                                NEW YORK

                        E. P. DUTTON and COMPANY

                                  1907



                             copyright BY

                         E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY

                                  1907



                    the Knickerbocker Press, New York









PREFACE





I have be read this morning a very pathetic and characteristic

document. it be a paper that have lurk for year in an old collection of

archive, a preface, sketch by a great writer, who be famous wherever

the english language be speak or read, for the second edition of a

noble book. the book, on its first appearance, be savagely and cruelly

attack; and the writer of it, hurt and wound by a mass of hateful

and malevolent criticism, pile together by an envious and narrow mind,

try, with a miserable attempt at jaunty levity, to write an answer to

the vicious assailant. this answer be deeply pathetic, because, behind

the desperate parade of cheerful _insouciance_, one seem to hear the

life-blood fall, drop by drop; the life-blood of a dauntless and

pure spirit, whose word have be so deftly twisted and satanically

misrepresent as to seem the utterance of a sensual and cynical mind.



in deference to wise and faithful advice, the preface be withhold and

suppress; and one be thankful for that; and the episode be far a

tender lesson for all who have faithfully try to express the deep

thought of their heart, frankly and sincerely, never to make the least

attempt to answer, or apologise, or explain. if one’s book, or poem,

or picture survive, that be the good of all answer. if it do not

survive, well, one have have one’s say, think one’s thought, do one’s

good to enlighten, to contribute, to console; and, like million of other

human utterance, the sound be lose upon the wind, the thought, like a

rainbow radiance, have shine and vanish upon the cloud.



the book which be here present have have its share both of good and evil

report; and it fall so far short of even its own simple purpose, that

I should be the last to hold that it have be blame unduly. I have no

sort of intention of answer my critic; but I would wish to make plain

what the book itself perhaps fail to make plain, namely, what my purpose

in write it be. the book grow rather than be make. it be, from the

first, mean as a message to the weak rather than as a challenge to the

strong. there be a theory of life, wield like a cudgel by the hand of

the merry and high-hearted, that the whole duty of man be to dash into

the throng, to eat and drink, to love and wed, to laugh and fight. that

be a fine temper; it be the mood of the sailor-comrade of Odysseus—



    “that ever with a frolic welcome take

    the thunder and the sunshine, and oppose

    Free heart, free forehead.”



such a mood, if it be not cruel, or tyrannous, or brutal, or overbearing,

be a generous and inspirit thing. join, as I have see it join,

with simplicity and unselfishness and utter tenderness, it be the fine

spirit in the world—the spirit of the great and chivalrous knight of old

day. but when this mood show itself without the kindly and gracious

knightly attribute, it be a vile and ugly thing, insolent, selfish,

animal.



the problem, then, which I try to present in my book, be this: I

imagine a temperament of a peaceful and gentle order, a temperament

without robustness and _joie de vivre_, but with a sense of duty, a

desire to help, an anxious wish not to shirk responsibility; and then

I try to depict such a character as be suddenly thrust into the

shadow, set aside, as, by their misfortune or their fault, a very large

number of person be set aside, debar from ambition, push into a

backwater of life, make, by some failure of vitality, into an invalid

(a word which conceal many of the sad tragedy of the world)—and I

set myself to reflect how a man, with such limitation, might yet lead a

life that be wholesome and contented and helpful; and then, at the last,

I think of he as confront with a prospect of one of the deep and

sweetest blessing of life, the hope of a noble love; and then again,

the tyrannous weakness that have lay he low, sweep that too out of his

grasp, and bade he exchange death for life, darkness for the cheerful

day.



who do not know of home after home where such thing happen? of life

after life, on which calamitie fall, so that the good that the sufferer

can do be _to gather up the fragment that remain, that nothing be lose_?

this book, _the House of Quiet_, be write for all whose life, by

some stroke of God, seemed dash into fragment, and who might feel so

listless, so dismayed, that they could not summon up courage even to try

and save something from the desolate wreck.



to compare small thing with great, it be an attempt to depict, in

modern unromantic fashion, such a situation as that of _Robinson

Crusoe_, where a man be throw suddenly upon his own resource, shut off

from sympathy and hope. in that great fiction one see the patience, the

courage, the inventiveness of the simple hero grow under the author’s

hand; but the soul of my own poor hero have indeed suffer shipwreck,

though he fall among less stimulating surrounding than the cavern

and freshet, the wildfowl and the savage, of that green isle in the

Caribbean Sea.



in the _life_ of William Morris, a man whose choose motto be _si je

puis_, and who, whatever else he be accuse of, be never accuse of a

want of virile strength, there be an interesting and pathetic letter,

which he write at the age of fifty-one, when he be be thrust, against

his well judgment, into a prominent position in the socialist movement.



“my habit be quiet and studious,” he say, “and, if I be too much

worry with ‘politic,’ _i.e._, intrigue, I shall be no use to the cause

as a writer. all this show, you will say, a weak man: that be true, but

I must be take as I be, not as I be not.”



this sentence sum up, very courageously and faithfully, the difficulty

in which many people, who believe in idea, and perceive more clearly

than they be able to act, be place by honest diffidence and candid

self-knowledge. we would amend life, if we could; but the impossibility

lie, not in see what be beautiful and just and right, but in make

other people desire it. it be conceivable, after all, that God know

good, and have good reason for delay—though many man, and those not the

least gallant, act as though they know well still. but it matter very

little whether we betray our own weakness, by what we say or do. what

do matter be that we should have desire something ahead of we, should

have point it out to other. we may not attain it; other may not

attain it; but we have show that we dare not acquiesce in our weakness,

that we will not allow ourselves to be silent about our purer hope, that

we will not recline in a false security, that we will not try to solve

the problem by overlook its difficulty; but that we will strive to

hold fast, in a tender serenity, to a belief in the strong and loving

purpose of God, however dark may be the shadow that lie across the path,

however sombre the mountain-barrier that lie between we and the sunlit

plain.



                                                                 A. C. B.



_April 12, 1907._









PREFATORY NOTE to ORIGINAL EDITION





_the writer of the follow page be a distant cousin of my own, and

to a certain extent a friend. that be to say, I have stay several time

with he, and he have more than once visit I at my own home. I know

that he be oblige, for reason of health, to live a very quiet and

retired life; but he be not a man who appear to be an invalid. he

be keenly interested in book, in art, and above all in people, though

he have but few intimate friend. he die in the autumn of 1900, and his

mother, who be his only near relation, die in the following year; it

fall to I to administer his estate, and among his paper I find this

book, prepare in all essential respect for publication, though it be

clear that it would not have see the light in his lifetime. I submit

it to a friend of wide literary experience; his opinion be that the book

have considerable interest, and illustrate a definite and peculiar point

of view, besides present a certain attraction of style. I accordingly

make arrangement for its publication; add a few passage from the

diary of the last day, which be compose subsequently to the date at

which the book be arrange._



_I need hardly say that the name be throughout fictitious; and I will

venture to express a hope that identification will not be attempt,

because the book be one which depend for its value, not on the material

circumstance of the writer, but upon the view of life which he form._









the HOUSE of QUIET









INTRODUCTORY





                                                  _Christmas, Eve, 1898._



I have be a good deal indoor lately, and I have be amuse myself by

look through old paper and diary of my own. it seem to I that,

though the record be a very uneventful one, there be yet a certain unity

throughout—I can hardly call it a conscious, definite aim, or dignify it

by the name of a philosophy. but I have live latterly with a purpose,

and on a plan that have gradually shape itself and become more coherent.



it be formerly my ambition to write a book, and it have go the way of

most ambition. I suppose I have not the literary temperament; I have

not get the instinct for _form_ on a large scale. in the book which

I have attempt to write, I have generally lose myself among detail

and abandon the task in despair. I have never be capable of the

_fundamental brainwork_; the _fundamental conception_ which Rossetti

say make all the difference between a good piece of art and a bad one.

when I be young, my idea of writing be to pile fine phrase together,

and to think that any topic which occur to my mind be pertinent to

the matter in hand. now that I be old, I have learn that form and

conception be not everything but nearly everything, and that a definite

idea austerely present be well than a heap of literary ornament.



and now it seem to I that I have after all, without intend it,

write a book,—the one book, that, it be say, every man have in his

power to write. I feel like the King of France who say that he have

“discover” a gallery in one of his palace by the simple process of

pull down partition wall. I have discard a large amount of writing,

but I have select certain episode, make extract from my diary,

and add a few passage; and the result be the story of my life, tell

perhaps in a desultory way, but with a certain coherence.



whether or no the book will ever see the light I cannot tell; probably

not. I do not suppose I shall have the courage to publish it myself, and

I do not know any one who be likely to take the trouble of edit it

when I be go. but there it be—the story of a simple life. perhaps it

will go the way of waste paper, kindle fire, flit in sodden dreariness

about ashpit, till it be trodden in the mire. perhaps it may repose

in some dusty bookshelf, and arouse the faint and tender curiosity of

some far-off inheritor of my worldly good, like the old diary of

my forefather which stand on my own bookshelf. but if it come to be

publish I think that there be some to whom it would appeal, as the

thin-draw tremor of the violin stir the note in vase or glass that have

stand voiceless and inanimate. I have bear grief, humiliation, dark

overshadowing of the spirit; there be moment when I have peer, as it

be, into the dim-light window of hell; but I have have, too, my fragrant

hour, tranquil joy, imperishable ecstasy. and as a pilgrim may tell

his tale of travel to homekeepe folk, so I may allow myself the

license to speak, and tell what of good and evil the world have bring

I, and of my faint striving after that interior peace, which can be

find, possess, and enjoy.









1





                                                          _Dec. 7, 1897._



[sidenote: MY ROOM]



I sit this evening, towards the end of the year, in a deep arm-chair in

a large, low panel room that serve I as bedroom and study together:

the window be hang with fade tapestry curtain; there be a great

open tile fireplace before I, with log red-crumbling, bed in grey

ash, every now and then wink out flame and light up the lean iron

dog that support the fuel; odd dutch tile pave and wall the cavernous

hearth—this one a quaint galleon in full sail on a viscous, crested sea;

that, a stout sleek bird stand in complacent tranquillity; at the back

of the hearth, with the swift shadow flicker over it, be a large iron

panel show a king in a war chariot, with a fly cloak, issue from

an arched portal, upon a bridge which span a furious stream, and shake

out the rein of two stamp steed; on the high chimney-board be a row

of Delft plate. the room be furnish with no precision or propriety,

the furniture having drift in fortuitously as it be need: here be a

tapestrie couch; there an oak bookcase cram with a strange assortment

of book; here a tall press; a picture or two—a bishop embed in lawn

with a cauliflower wig; a crayon sketch of a scholarly head. there be

no plan of decoration—all fantastic miscellany. at the far end, under

an arch of oak, stand a bed, screen from the room by a dark leather

screen. outside, all be unutterably still, not with the stillness that

sometimes fall on a sleep town, where the hush seem invade by

imperceptible cry, but with the deep tranquillity of the country-side

nestle down into itself. the tree be silent. listen intently, I

can hear the trickle of the mill-leat, and the murmur of the hazel-hide

stream; but that slumbrous sound minister, as it be, the dreamful

quality, like the breathing of the sleeper—enough, and not more than

enough, to give the sense of sleep life, as oppose to the aching, icy

stillness of death.









2





[sidenote: early day]



I may speak shortly of my parentage and circumstance. I be the only

son of my father, a man who hold a high administrative position under

Government. he owe his advancement not to family connection, for our

family though ancient be obscure. no doubt it may be urge that all

family be equally ancient, but what I mean be that our family have for

many generation preserve a sedulous tradition of gentle blood through

poverty and simple service. my ancestor have be mostly clergyman,

doctor, lawyer—at no time have we rise to the dignity of a land

position or accumulate wealth: but we have portrait, miniature,

plate—in no profusion, but enough to be able to feel that for a century

or two we have enjoy a liberal education, and have have opportunity

for refinement if not leisure, and aptitude for cultivate the art of

life; it have not be a mere sordid struggle, an inability to escape from

the coarsen pressure of gross anxiety, but something gracious,

self-contain, benevolent, active.



my father change this; his profession bring he into contact with man

of rank and influence; he be fit by nature to play a high social

part; he have an irresistible geniality, and something of a courtly air.

he marry late, the daughter of an impoverished offshoot of a great

english family, and I be their only child.



the London life be dim to I; I faintly recollect be bring into the

room in a velvet suit to make my bow to some assemble circle of guest.

I remember hear from the nursery the din and hubbub of a dinner-party

rise, in faint gust, as the door be open and shut—even of brilliant

cascade of music sparkle through the house when I awake after a first

sleep, in what seem to I some dead hour of the night. but my father

have no wish to make I into a precocious monkey, play self-conscious

trick for the amusement of visitor, and I live for the most part in

the company of my mother—herself almost a child—and my faithful nurse,

a small, simple-minded Yorkshire woman, who have be my mother’s nurse

before.



when I be about six year old my father die suddenly, and the first

great shock of my life be the sight of the handsome waxen face, with the

blurred and flinty look of the dull eye, the leaden pallor of the thin

hand cross on his breast; to this day I can see the blue shadow of

the ruffled shroud about his neck and wrist.



our movement be simple enough. only that summer, owe to an accession

of wealth, my father and mother have determine on some country home to

which they might retire in his month of freedom. my mother have never

care for London; together they have find in the heart of the country a

house that attract both of they, and a long lease have be take within

a week or two of my father’s death. our furniture be at once transfer

thither, and from that hour it have be my home.









3





[sidenote: the HOME LAND]



the region in which I live be a land of ridge and vale, as though it have

be plough with a gigantic plough. the high-road lie as a rule along

the back of the upland, and the village stand on the windy height.

the line of railway which run along the valley tend to create a new

specie of valley village, but the old hamlet, with their grey-stone

high-back church, with slender shingled spire, stand aloft, the

pure air race over they. the ancient manor and grange be as a rule

build in the more sheltered and sequester valley, approach from the

high-road by wind wood-lane of exquisite beauty. the soil be sandy,

and a soft stone be quarried in many place by the road-side, leave

quaint miniature cliff and bluff of weather yellow, sometimes so

evenly stratify as to look like a rock-temple or a bury ruin with

mouldering buttress; about these pit grow little knot of hazel and

ash-sucker, and the whole be hang in summer with luxuriant creeper and

climbing plant, out of which the crumble rock-surface emerge. the

road go down very steeply to the valley, which be thick-set with copse

and woodland, and at the bottom run a full-fed stream, with cascade and

pebbly shingle, run dark under scarps of sandstone, or hide deep

under thick covert of hazel, the water in the light a pure grey-green.

some chalk be mingle with these ridge, so that in rainy weather the

hoof-print in the road ooze as with milk. the view from these upland

be of exquisite beauty, ridge after ridge roll its soft outline,

thinly woode. far away be glimpse of high heathery tract black with

pine, or a solitary clump upon some naked down. but the view in the

valley be even more beautiful. the steep wood rise from the stream,

or the grave line of some tilt fallow; in summer the water-plant

grow with rich luxuriance by the rivulet, tall willow-herb and velvety

loosestrife, tufte meadowsweet, and luxuriant comfrey. the homestead

be of singular stateliness, with their great brick chimney-stack, the

upper storey weather-tile and the roof of flat tile of sandstone; the

whole mellow by orange and grey lichen till the house seem to have

spring from the very soil.









4





[sidenote: golden END]



my own home—bear the tranquil name of Golden End—be an ancient manor;

out of a sandy lane turn an avenue of great Scotch fir, pass the

house and incline gradually in its direction. the house be a strange

medley; one part of it be an Elizabethan building, mullione, of grey

stone; one wing be weather-tile and of simple outline. the front,

add at some period of prosperity, be georgian, thickly set with large

window; over all be a little tile cupola where an alarm bell hang.

there be a small square garden in front surround by low wall; above

the house lie what be once a bowling-green, with a terrace walk

surround it. the kitchen garden come close up to the window, and be

protect on the one side by a gigantic yew hedge, like a green bastion,

on the other by an ancient stone wall, with a tile roof; below the house

lie quaint farm-building, cartshed, barn, granary, and stable;

beyond they be pool, fringe with self-sown ashe, and an orchard,

in the middle of which stand a brick dovecot with sandstone tile. the

meadow fall from the house to the stream; but the great part of the

few acre which we hold be simple woodland, where the copse grow thick

and dark, with here and there a stately forest tree. the house see, as

I love well to see it, from the avenue on a winter evening, rise a dark

irregular pile, crown with the cupola and the massive chimney against

a green and liquid sky, in which tremble a single star; the pine-tree

be blacker still; and below lie the dim mysterious woodland, with the

mist rise over the stream, and, beyond that, soft upland after upland,

like a land of dream, out to the horizon’s verge.



within all be dark and low; there be a central panel hall with round

oak arch on either hand lead through little anteroom to a parlour

and dining-room. there be wide, meaningless corridor with step up and

down that connect the wing with the central building; the staircase

be of the most solid oak. all the room be panel except the attic,

which show the beam cross in the ancient plasterwork. at the top

of the house be a long room which run from end to end, with a great

open fireplace. the kitchen be a huge, paved chamber with an oak pillar

in the centre. a certain amount of massive oak furniture, sideboard,

chest, and press, with initial or date, belong to the place; but

my father be a great collector of book, china, and picture, which,

with the furniture of a large London house, be put hurriedly in, with

little attempt at order; and no one have since trouble to arrange they.

one little feature must be mention; at the top of the house a crazy oak

door give access to a flight of stair that lead on to a parapet; but

below the stair be a tiny oratory, with an altar and some seat, where

the household assemble every morning for a few prayer, and together sing

an artless hymn.









5





[sidenote: MY MOTHER]



my mother, who through the follow page must be understand to be the

preside deity of the scene—_O quam te memorem?_—how shall I describe

she? see through her son’s eye she have an extraordinary tranquillity

and graciousness of mien. she move slowly with an absolutely unconscious

dignity. she be naturally very silent, and have a fix belief that she

be entirely devoid of all intellectual power, which be in one sense

true, for she read little and have no taste for discussion. at the same

time she be gift with an extraordinary shrewdness and penetration in

practical matter, and I would trust her judgment without hesitation. she

be intensely affectionate, and have the large heart I have ever know;

but at the same time be capable of take almost whimsical prejudice

against people, which, however I have combat they at the time, have

generally prove to be justify by subsequent event. her sympathy and

her geniality make her delightful company, for she delight in listen

to the talk of clever people and have a strong sense of humour. she like

be read to, though I do not think she question the thought of what be

read. she be deeply religious, though I do not suppose she could give a

reason for her faith, and be constantly tolerant of religious difference

which she never attempt to comprehend. in the village she be simply

adore by man, woman, and child alike, though she be not particularly

give to what be call “visit the poor.”



at the same time if there be trouble in any house, no matter of what

kind, she go there straight by instinct, and have none of the dread of

emotional scene which make so many of we coward in the presence of

sorrow and suffering. I do not think she feel any duty about it, but it

be as natural and spontaneous for she to go as it be for most of we to

desire to keep away. a shrewd woman of the village, a labourer’s wife,

whom my mother have see through a dreadful tragedy a year or two before,

once say in reply to a question of mine, “it ben’t as if her ladyship

say or do more than any one else—every one be kind to we—but she use

to come in and sit with I and look at I, and after a little I use to

feel that it be all right.”



she manage the household with less expenditure of trouble than I have

ever see. our servant never seem to leave we; they be pay what many

people would call absurdly high wage, but I do not think that be the

attraction. my mother do not see very much of they, and find fault,

when rarely necessary, with a simple directness which I have in vain

try to emulate; but her displeasure be so impersonal that there seem

to be no sting in it. it be not that they have fail in their duty to

herself, but they have be untrue to the large duty to which she be

herself obedient.



she never seem to labour under any strong sense of the imperative duty

of philanthropic activity—indeed it be hard to say how her day be

fill—but in her simplicity, her unselfishness, her quiet acceptance

of the condition of life, her tranquillity and her devoted lovingness

she seem to I the good Christian I have ever see, and to come near

to the ideal of Christ. but, though a large part of her large income

be spend in unostentatious benevolence, she would think it preposterous

if it be suggest to she that Christianity demand an absolute

sacrifice of worldly possession. yet she set no store on comfort or

the evidence of wealth; she simply accept they, and have a strong

instinctive feeling of stewardship.



I cannot help think that such woman be become rarer; and yet it be

hard to believe that they can ever have be other than rare.









6





I gratefully acknowledge the constant presence of an element in my

life which for want of a well name I will call the sense of beauty.

I mean by that the unaccountable thrill of emotion by which one be

sometimes surprised, often quite suddenly and unexpectedly; this sense

of wonder, which dart upon the mind with an almost physical sensation,

seem to come in two different way. with some, the majority I believe,

it originate entirely in personal relation with other human being

and be know as love; with other it arise over a large region, and

be inspire by a sudden perception of some incommunicable beauty in a

flower, a scent, a view, a picture, a poem. those in whom the latter

sense predominate be, I think, less apt to be affect by human

relationship, but pass through the world in a certain solitary and

wistful mood, with perhaps more wide and general source of happiness but

less liable to be stir to the depth of their being by a friendship

or a passion. to take typical example of such a class I conceive that

Wordsworth and William Morris be instance. Wordsworth derive, I

believe, his high inspiration from the solemn dignity of nature, in

she most stupendous and majestic form; while to Morris belong that

power, which amount in he to positive genius, for see beauty in the

most homely and simple thing.



[Sidenote: beauty and MYSTERY]



I be myself haunted from a very early date by the sense of beauty and

mystery, though not for many year could I give it a name; but I have

find in my case that it originate as a rule in some minute effect of

natural thing. I have see some of the wild and most astounding

natural prospect in Europe; I have climb high rocky peak and thread

mountain solitude, but some overshadow of horror and awe have rob

emotion of its most intimate joy; and I have always find myself more

thrill by some tranquil vignette—the moon rise through a forest

glade, a red sunset between the bough of pine, the crisping wave of

some break eddy, the “green-dense and dim-delicious” depth of a woodland

pool, the weather gable of an ancient manor, an orchard white with

the snow of spring—than I have ever be by the sight of the most solemn

mountain-head or the furious breaker of some uncontrolled tide.



two or three of these sacred sight I may venture to describe, take

they at random out of the treasure-house of memory; two belong to my

schoolday. I be a pupil at a big suburban school; the house which we

inhabit have once be the villa of a well-know statesman, and have

large and dignified ground, where with certain restriction, we be

allow to ramble. they be bound on one side by a high pale,

inaccessible to small limb, and a vague speculation as to what be

behind the fence long dwelt with I. one day, however, I find that I

could loose a portion of a break pale, and look through I see a

quiet place, the tail of a neglect shrubbery; the spot seem quite

unvisited; the laurel grow thickly about, and tall elm give an austere

gloom to the little glade; the ground be pathless, and thickly overgrow

with periwinkle, but in the centre be three tiny grave-mound, the

grave, I have since reflect, of dog, but which I at the time

suppose to be the grave of child. I gaze with a singular sense

of mystery, and strange dream-picture rise instinctively in my mind,

weave themselves over the solitary and romantic spot. it be strange how

often in dream and gentle reverie I have visit the place.



[sidenote: the enchanted LAND]



the next be a later vision. near the public school where I be educate

lie a forest to which we have free admittance. I find that by hard

walk it be just possible to reach a woode hill which be a

conspicuous feature of the distant landscape, but the time at my disposal

between two school engagement never suffice to penetrate far. from

the top of this hill it be possible to get a view of a large tract

of forest ground, an open grassy glade, with large tree of tower

greenness stand sentinel on either side; the bracken grow luxuriantly

in place, and at the end of the glade be a glint of water in the horn

of some forest pool. this place be to I a veritable “magic casement”;

beyond lie the enchant land into which I could not penetrate, the blue

hill on the horizon see over the tree-top. I never dream of they as

inhabit by human being like myself, but as some airy region, with

league of dream wood and silent forest space. at time a deer would

slowly cross the open vale, and stand to sniff the breeze; the very

cooing of the dove in their leafy fastness have a rich and drowsier

sound.



but the home of incommunicable dream, beyond all other, be to I

a certain mill—Grately Mill—that be not many mile from my present

home. my mother have an old aunt who live in a pleasant house in the

neighbourhood, and we use to go there when I be a child to spend a few

week of the early summer.



a little vague lane lead to it: a lane that come from nowhere in

particular, and take you nowhere; meander humbly among the pasture

wherever it be convenient to they to permit it, like a fainthearte

Christian. hard by be a tall, high-shoulder, gable farm of red brick,

with a bell perch on the roof in a white pavilion of its own. down the

lane on hot summer day we use to walk—my mother and I: my mother whom I

revere as a person of unapproachable age and dim experience, though she

have be in the schoolroom herself but a year or two before my birth; I

trot by her side with a little fishing-rod in a grey holland case, to

fish for perch in the old pond at the Hall.



the lane grow sandy and damper: a rivulet cluck in the ditch,

half-hide in rag-robin with its tattered finery, and bright

varnish ranunculus; the rivulet be a mysterious place enough ever

since the day when we find it full of wave cluster of strange dark

creature, more eel than fish, which have all appear with miraculous

unanimity in a single night—lampern, the village naturalist call

they, and tell we that in ancient day they be a delicacy; while I, in

my childish mind, at once know that it be this which have go to the

composition of that inexplicable dish, a surfeit of lamprey, as the

history have it, of which some greedy monarch die.



once, too, a bright-coloured eel have be see at a certain point, who

have only just elude the grasp of hot little finger. how many time I

look for master eel, expect to meet he at the same place, and be

careful to carry a delightful tin box in my pocket, in which he might

travel home in my pocket, and live an honoured life in a basin in the

night nursery. poor eel! I be glad now that he escape, but then he be

only a great opportunity miss—an irreparable regret.



[sidenote: GRATELY MILL]



then the poor lane, which have be get more like a water-course

every moment, no long make any pretence, and disappear into a

shallow sheet of clear water—the mill at last! the scene, as I remember

it, have a magical charm. on the left, by the side of the lane, rise a

crazy footpath of board and post with a wooden handrail, and a sluice

or two below. beyond, the deep mill-pool slept, dark and still, all

fringe with tree. on the right the stream flow off among the meadow,

disappear into an arch of greenery; in summer the bank and islet

be all overgrown with tall rich plant, comfrey, figwort, water-dock.

the graceful willow-herb hang its pink horn; the loosestrife rise in

sturdy velvet spire. on the bank stand the shuttered, hum mill,

the water-wheel splashing and thundering, like a prisone giant, in

a penthouse of its own. it be a fearful joy to look in and see it

rise dripping, huge and black, with the fresh smell of the river water

all about it. all the mill be powder with the dust of grain; the

air inside be full of float speck; the hopper rattle, and the

gear grumble in the roof, while the flour stream merrily into the

open sack. the miller, a grave preoccupy man, all dust over, like

a plum, with a thin bloom of flour, give we a grave nod of greeting,

which seem to make we free of the place. I dare say he be a shy mild

man, with but little of the small change of the mind at his disposal;

but he seem to I then an austere and statesmanlike person, full to

the brim of grave affair. beyond the mill, a lane of a more determined

character lead through arch of elm to the common. and now, on secular

day, the interest of the chase take precedence of all else; but there

be Sundays in the summer when we walk to attend Grately Church.

it seem to I at this lapse of time to have be almost impossibly

antique. ancient yew stand by it, and it have a white board spire with

a cracked bell. inside, the single aisleless nave, with ancient oak pew,

be much encumbered in one place by a huge hand-organ, with a forest of

gold pipe, turn by a wizened man, who open a little door in the

side and insert his hand at interval to set the tune. the clergyman,

an aged gentleman, wear what be, I suppose, a dark wig, though at the

time I imagine it to be merely an agreeable variety on ordinary hair;

another pleasant habit he have of slightly smack his lip, at every

little pause, as he read, which give an air of indescribable gusto to the

service:—“Moab—tut—be my washpot—tut—; over Edom—tut—will I cast out my

shoe—tut—; upon Philistia—tut—will I triumph.”



[sidenote: GRATELY CHURCH]



in the vestry of the church repose a curious relic—a pyx, I believe,

be the correct name. it be a gilded metal chalice with a top, into

which, if my memory serve I, be screw little soldier to guard the

sacred body; these be loose, and how I covet they! in the case be

certain spike and branch of crystal, the broken remain, I believe, of

a spread crystal tree which once adorn the top. how far my memory

serve I I know not, but I be sure that the relic which may still

survive, be a most interesting thing; and I can recollect that when a

high dignitary of the Church stay with we, it be kindly bring over

by the clergyman for his inspection, and his surprise be very great.



the Hall lie back from the common, shelter by great tree. the

house itself, a low white building, be on those summer day cool

and fragrant. the feature of the place be the great fish-pond—one

lie outside the shrubbery; but another, formerly I believe a monastic

stew-pond, be a long rectangle just outside the window of the

drawing-room, and only separate from it by a gravel walk: along part of

it run an ancient red-brick wall. this be our favourite fishing-place;

but above it, brood over by huge chestnut, lay a deep and stiller

pond, half cover with water-lily—too sacred and awful a place to be

fish in or even visit alone.



upon the fishing hour I do not love to dwell; I would only say that of

such cruelty as attend it I be entirely innocent. I be sure that I

never think of a perch as other than a delightful mechanical thing, who

have no grave objection to be haul up gasp, with his black stripe

gleaming, and prickle his red fin, to be presently despatch, and

carry home stiff and cold in a little basket.



the tea under the tall tree of the lawn; the admire inspection of our

prey; the stuff dog in the hall with his foot upon a cricket-ball—all

these be part of the dream-picture; and the whole be invest for I

with the purpureal gleam of childhood.



[sidenote: GRATELY THIRTY year after]



the other day I find myself on a bicycle near enough to Grately to make

it possible to go there; into the Hall ground I do not venture, but I

strike across the common and go down the lane to the mill. I be almost

ashamed of the agitation I feel, but the sight of the common, never

visit for nearly thirty year, induce a singular physical distress. it

be not that everything have grow small, even change the place that

they occupy in my mental picture, but a sort of homesickness seem to

draw tight band across my heart. what do it mean, this intense local

attachment, for we flimsy creature, snap at a touch, and with so

brief a pilgrimage? a strange thought! the very intensity and depth of

the feeling seem to confer on it a right to permanence.



the lane come abruptly to an end by the side of a commonplace,

straight-bank, country brook. there be no tree, no water-plant;

the road do not dip to the stream, and in front of I lay a yellow

brick bridge, with grim iron lattice. alas! I have mistake the turn,

and must retrace my step. but stay! what be that squat white house by

the waterside? it be indeed the old mill, with its board projection

sweep away, its barn go, its garden wall with a neat wall. the old

high-timbere bridge be down; some generous landlord have go to great

expense, and Grately have a good convenient road, a sensible bridge, and

an up-to-date mill. probably there be not a single person in the parish

who do not confess to an improvement.



but who will give I back the tall tree and the silent pool? who will

restore the ancient charm, the delicate mystery, the gracious dignity

of the place? be beauty a mere trick of grouping, the irradiation of a

golden mood, a chance congerie of water and high tree and sunlight? if

beauty be industriously hunt from one place by ruthless hand, do she

spread her wing and fly? be the restless, ceaseless effort of nature to

restore beauty to the dismal mess make by man, simply break off and

make vain? or have she leisure to work hard yet in unvisited place,

patiently endure the grasp of the spoil hand?



it be with something like a sob that I turn away. but of one thing no

one can rob I, and that be the picture of Grately Mill, glorify indeed

by the patient worship of year, which be lock into some portfolio of

the mind, and can be unspread in a moment before the gaze eye.



[Sidenote: EGERIA]



and for one thing I can be grateful—that the still spirit of sweet and

secret place, that wayward nymph who come and go, with the wind in

her hair and the gleam of deep water in her eye—she to whom we give many

a clumsy name—that she first beckon to I and speak word in my ear

beneath the high elm of Grately Mill. many time have we meet and speak

in secret since, my Egeria and I; many time have she touch my shoulder,

and whisper a magic charm. that presence have be often withdraw from

I; but I have but to recall the bridge, the water-plant, the humming

mill, the sunlight on the sandy shallow, to feel her hand in mine again.









7





as a boy and a young man I go through the ordinary classical

education—private school, public school, and university. I do not think

I trouble my head at the time about the philosophical theory or motive

of the course; but now, look back upon it after an interval of twenty

year, while my admiration of the theory of it be enhance, as a lofty

and dignified scheme of mental education, I find myself haunt by

uneasy doubt as to its practical efficacy. while it seem to I to be

for a capable and well-equip boy with decide literary taste, a noble

and refining influence, I begin to fear that for the large majority of

youthful english mind it be narrow, unimproving, and conspicuous for

an absence of intellectual enjoyment.



be it not the experience of most people that little boy be

conscientious, duty-love, interested not so much in the matter of

work, but in the zealous performance of it; and that when adolescence

begin, they grow indifferent, weary, even rebellious, until they drift

at last into a kind of cynicism about the whole thing—a kind of dumb

certainty, that whatever else may be get from work, enjoyment in no form

be the result? and be not the moral of this, that the apprenticeship once

over and the foundation lay, special taste should as far as possible

be consult, and subject simplify, so as to give boy a sense of

_mastery_ in something, and interest at all hazard.



[sidenote: METHODS of STUDY]



the champion of our classical system defend it on the ground that the

accurate training in the subtlety of grammar harden and fortifie the

intelligence, and that the mind be introduce to the masterpiece of

ancient literature, and thus encourage in the formation of correct taste

and critical appreciation.



an excellent theory, and I admit at once its value for mind of high and

firm intellectual calibre. but how do it actually work out for the

majority? in the first place, look at what the study of grammar amount

to—it come, as a matter of fact, when one remember the grammar paper

which be set in examination, to be little more than a knowledge of

arbitrary, odd and eccentric form such as a boy seldom if ever meet in

the course of his reading. Imagine teach English on the same theory,

and make boy learn that metal have no plural, or that certain fish

use the same form in the singular and in the plural—thing of which one

acquire the knowledge insensibly, and which be absolutely immaterial.

moreover, the quantity of grammatical form in Latin and Greek be

infinitely increase by the immensely large number of inflexion. be

it useful that boy should have to commit to memory the dual form in

greek verb—form of a repulsive character in themselves, and seldom

encounter in book? the result of this method be that the weak mind

be warp and strained. some few memory of a peculiarly retentive type

may acquire these useless fact in a mechanical manner; but it be hardly

more valuable than if they be require to commit to memory long list

of nonsense word. yet in most case they be doom to be speedily and

completely forget—indeed, nothing can ever be really learn unless a

logical connection can be establish between the item.



[sidenote: MASTERY and SPIRIT]



then after the dark apprenticeship of grammar come the next stage—the

appreciation of literature; but I diffidently believe here that not ten

per cent of the boy who be introduce to the classic have ever the

slight idea that they be in the presence of literature at all. they

never approach the point which be essential to a love of literature—the

instinctive perception of the intrinsic beauty of majestic and noble

word, and still less the splendid association which grow to be

inseparably connect with word, in a language which one really know

and admire.



[sidenote: METHOD and SPIRIT]



my own belief be that both the method of instruction and the spirit of

that instruction be at fault. like the Presbyterian Liturgy, the system

depend far too much on the individuality of the teacher, and throw too

great a strain upon his mood. a vigorous, brilliant, lively, humorous,

rhetorical man can break through the shackle of construe and parsing,

and give the boy the feeling of having be in contact with a large

mind; but in the hand of a dull and uninspire teacher the system be

simply famish from its portentous aridity. the result, at all event,

be that the majority of the boy at our school never get the idea that

they be in the presence of literature at all. they be keep kick

their heel in the dark and cold antechamber of parsing and grammar, and

never get a glimpse of the bright garden within.



what be, after all, the aim of education? I suppose it be twofold:

firstly, to make of the mind a bright, keen, and effective instrument,

capable of see a point, of grapple with a difficulty, of present

fact or thought with clearness and precision. a young man properly

educate should be able to detect a fallacy, to correct by acquire

clearsightedness a false logical position. he should not be at the

mercy of any new theory which may be present to he in a specious and

attractive shape. that is, I suppose, the negative side. then secondly,

he should have a cultivate taste for intellectual thing, a power

of enjoyment; he should not bow meekly to authority in the matter of

literature, and force himself into the admiration of what be prescribe,

but he should be possess of a dignified and wholesome originality; he

should have his own taste clearly define. if his bent be historical, he

should be eagerly interested in any masterly presentation of historical

theory, whether new or old; if philosophical, he should keep abreast of

modern speculation; if purely literary, he should be able to return hour

after hour to masterpiece that breathe and burn.



[sidenote: EDUCATIONAL result]



but what be the result of our english education? in one respect

admirable; it turn out boy who be courteous, generous, brave, active,

and public-spirited; but be it impossible that these quality should

exist with a certain intellectual standard? I remember now, though I do

not apply any theory at the time to the phenomenon, that when at school

I use dimly to wonder at see boy who be all these thing—fond of

talk, fond of game, devote to all open-air exercise, conscientious

and wholesome-minded, who be at the same time utterly listless in

intellectual thing—who could not read a book of any kind except the

simple novel, and then only to fill a vacant hour, who could not give a

moment’s attention to the presentment of an interesting episode, who be

moreover utterly contemptuous of all such thing, incline to think they

intolerably tedious and essentially priggish—and yet these be the boy

of whom most be make, who be most popular not only with boy but with

master as well, and who, in our little microcosmography be essentially

the successful people, to be imitate, follow, and worship.



now if it be certain that the quality which be develop by an

english education would be sacrifice if a high intellectual standard

be aim at, I should not hesitate to sacrifice the intellectual

side. but I do not believe it be necessary; and what be strange still,

I do not believe that most of our educator have any idea that the

intellectual side of education be be sacrifice.



I remember once hear a veteran and successful educator say that he

consider a well-educate man be a man whose mind be not at the mercy

of the last new book on any ordinary subject. if that be an infallible

test, then our public school may be say to have succeed beyond all

reasonable expectation. the ordinary public-school type of man be not in

the least at the mercy of the last new book, because he be careful never

to submit himself to the chance of pernicious bias—he do not get so far

as to read it.



[sidenote: EDUCATIONAL AIMS]



at present athletic be so much defer to, that boy seem to I to

be encourage deliberately to lay their plan as if life end at

thirty. but I believe that school should aim at produce a type that

should develop naturally and equably with the year. what we want to

produce be an unselfish, tranquil, contented type, full of generous

vision; neither prematurely serious nor incurably frivolous, nor

afraid of responsibility, nor morbidly desirous of influence; neither

shun nor court publicity, but natural, wholesome, truthful, and

happy; not afraid of difficulty nor sadly oppress with a sense of

responsibility; fond of activity and yet capable of use and enjoy

leisure; not narrow-minded, not view everything from the standpoint

of a particular town or parish, but patriotic and yet not insular,

modern-spirited and yet not despise the past, practical and yet with a

sense of spiritual reality.



I think that what be saddest be that the theoretical perfection screen

the practical inutility of the thing. if it seem good to the collective

wisdom of the country to let education go, and to make a public-school

a kind of healthy barrack-life for the physical training of the body,

with a certain amount of mental occupation to fill the vacant hour that

might otherwise be mischievous—pleasure with a hem of duty—let it be

frankly admit that it be so; but that the education receive by boy

at our public-school be now, except in intention, literary—that be the

position which I entirely deny.



personally I have a certain feeble taste for literature. I read in a

slipshod way a good deal of english poetry, memoir, literary history,

and essay, but my reading be utterly amateurish and unguided. I even

have some slight preference in style, but I could not have give a reason

for my preference; I could not write an english essay—I have no idea

of arrangement. I have never be tell to “let the bone show;” I have

no sense of proportion, and consider that anything which I happen

to have in my own mind be relevant to any subject about which I be

write. I have never learn to see the point or to insist upon the

essential.



[sidenote: the CLASSICS]



neither do I think that I can claim to have have any particular love for

the classic; but I be bl with a pictorial mind, and though much

of my classical reading be a mere weariness to I, I be cheer at

interval by a sudden romantic glimpse of some scene or other that

seize I with a vivid reality. the Odyssey and the Æneid be rich

in these surprise; for the talk of Gods, indeed, I have nothing but

bewildered contempt; but such a scene as that of laerte in his patch

gaiter, fumble with a young tree on his upland farm, at once seize

tyrannically upon my fancy. Catullus, Horace, even Martial, give I

occasional food for the imagination; and all at once it seem worth

while to traverse the arid league, or to wade, as Tennyson say, in a

sea of glue, for these divine moment.



one such scene that affect my fancy I will describe in great detail;

and let it stand as a speciman. it be in the third Æneid; we be

sit in a dusty class-room, the gas flaring. the lesson proceed

slowly and wearily, with a thin trickle of exposition from the desk,

emanating from a master who be evidently as sick of the whole business

as ourselves.



Andromache, widow of Hector, after a forced union with Neoptolemus,

become the bride of Helenus, Hector’s brother. helenu on the death of

Pyrrhus become his successor in the chieftainship, and Andromache be

once more a queen. she build a rustic altar, an excuse for lamentation,

and there bewail the memory of her first lord. I be reflect that she

must have make but a dreary wife for Helenus, when in a moment the scene

be change. Æneas, it will be remember, come on she in her orison,

with his troop of warrior behind he, and be greet by the terrified

queen, who believe he to be an apparition, with a wild and artless

question end a burst of passionate grief: “if you come from the world

of spirit,” she say, “Hector ubi est?” it be one of those sudden turn

that show the ineffable genius of Virgil.



I see in a moment a clearing in a wood of beech; one great tree stand

out from the rest. half hide in the foliage stand a tall stone pillar,

support a mouldering urn. close beside this be a stone alcove, with

a little altar beneath it. in the alcove stand a silent listening statue

with downcast head. from the altar go up a little smoke; the queen

herself, a slender figure, clothe in black, with pale wear face and fragile

hand, bent in prayer. by her side be two maiden, also in the deep

black, a priest in stiff vestment, and a boy bear a box of incense.



[sidenote: VIRGIL]



a slight noise fall on the ear of Andromache; she turn, and there

at the edge of a green forest path, light by the red light of a low

smoulder sun, stand the figure of a warrior, his arm rusty and dark,

his mail foot sink in the turf, lean on his spear. his face be pale

and heavily line, wear with ungentle experience, and light by a strange

light of recognition. his pale fork beard fall on his breast; behind

he a mist of spear.



this be the scene; very rococo, no doubt, and romantic, but so intensely

real, so glowing, that I could see the pale-stem beech; and below,

through a gap, low fantastic hill and a wan river wind in the plain.

I could see the white set face of Æneas, the dark-eyed glance of the

queen, the frightened silence of the worshipper.









8





at Cambridge thing be not very different. I be starve intellectually

by the meagre academical system. I take up the Classical Tripos, and

read, with translation, in the loose style imaginable, great masse

of classical literature, care little about the subject matter,

seldom read the note, with no knowledge of history, archæology, or

philosophy, and even strangely ignorant of idiom. I receive no guidance

in these matter; my attendance at lecture be not insist upon; and

the composition lecturer, though conscientious, be not inspire man.

my tutor do, it must be confess, make some attempt to influence my

reading, urge I to lay down a regular plan, and even recommend

book and edition. but I be too dilatory to carry it out; and though I

find that in one Long Vacation I read through the Odyssey, the Æneid, and

the whole of Aristotle’s Ethics, yet they leave little or no impression

on my mind. I do indeed drift into a First Class, but this be merely

due to familiarity with, rather than knowledge of, the Classics; and my

ignorance of the commonest classical rule be phenomenal.



[sidenote: CAMBRIDGE life]



but I do derive immense intellectual stimulus from my Cambridge life,

though little from the prescribed course of study; for I belong to a

little society that meet weekly, and read paper on literary and ethical

subject, prolong a serious, if fitful, discussion late into the

night. I read a great deal of English in a sketchy way, and even write

both poetry and fiction; but I leave Cambridge a thoroughly uneducated

man, without an idea of literary method, and contemn accuracy and

precision in favour of brilliant and heady writing. the initial impulse

to interest in literature be certainly instinctive in I; but I maintain

that not only do that interest never receive encouragement from the

profess educator under whose influence I pass, but that I be not

even professionally train in the matter; that solidity and accuracy

be never insist upon; and that the definiteness, which at least

education be capable of communicating, be either never impart by

mental process, or that I successfully resist the imparting of

it—indeed, never know that any attempt be be make to teach I the

value or necessity of it.









9





I have a religious bringing-up. I be make familiar with the Bible and

the office of religion; only the natural piety be want. I be quite

certain I have no sense of religion as a child—I do not think I have any

morality. like many child, I be rule by association rather than by

principle. I be sensitive to disapproval; and be timid by nature,

I be averse to be find out; be moreover lack in vitality,

I seldom experience the sensation of be bring face to face with

temptation—rebellion, anger, and sensual impulse be unknown to I; but

while I be innocent, I be unconscientious and deceitful, not so much

deliberately as instinctively.



the sense of religion I take to be, in its simple definition, the

consciousness of the presence of the Divine Being, and the practice of

religion to be the maintenance of conscious union or communion with

the Divine. these be entirely lack to I. I accept the fact of

God’s existence as I accept the fact of history and geography. but

my conception of God, if I may speak plainly and without profanity, be

derive from the Old Testament, and be destitute of attractiveness. I

conceive of he as old, vindictive, unmerciful, occupy in tedious

matter, hostile to all gaiety and juvenility; totally uninterested in

the human race, except in so far that he regard their transgression

with morbid asperity and a kind of gloomy satisfaction, as give he an

opportunity of exercise coercive discipline. he be never represent

to I as the Giver of the simple joy of life—of light and warmth, of

food and sleep, as the Creator of curious and sweet-smell flower,

of aromatic shrub, of wave tree, of horn animal and extravagant

insect. consider how entirely creature of sense child be, it have

seem to I since that it would be well if their simple pleasure,

the material surrounding of their life, be connect with the idea

of God—if they feel that what they enjoy be send by he; if it be

say of a toy that “God send you this;” or of some domestic festivity

that “God hope that you will be happy to-day,”—it appear to I that we

should have less of that dreary philosophy which connect “God’s will”

only with moment of bereavement and suffering. if we could only feel

with Job, that God, who send we so much that be sweet and wholesome,

have equally the right to send we what be evil, we could early grow to

recognise that, when the great part of our life be make up of what

be desirable or interesting, and when we cling to life and the hope of

happiness with so unerre an instinct, it be probable, nay, certain,

that our affliction must be ultimately intend to minister to the

fulness of joy.



[sidenote: religion]



certainly religious practice, though I enjoy they in many way, have no

effect on conduct; indeed, I never think of they as have any concern

with conduct. religious service never seem to I in childhood to be

solemnity design for the hallowing of life, or indeed as have

any power to do so, but merely as part of the framework of duty, as

ceremony out of which it be possible to derive a certain amount of

interest and satisfaction.



Church be always a pleasure to I; I like the _mise-en-scène_, the

timbere roof, the fallen day, the stain glass, the stone pillar, the

comfortable pew, the rubricate prayer-book, the music, the movement of

the minister—these all have a definite æsthetic effect upon I; moreover,

it be a pleasure to note, with the unshrinke gaze of childhood, the

various delightful peculiarity of member of the congregation: the

old man with apple-red cheek, in his smock-frock, who come with rigid,

creak boot to his place; the sexton, with his goat-like beard; the

solicitor, who emit sound in the hymn like the lowing of a cow; the

throaty tenor, who have but one vowel for all; the dowager in purple silk,

who sit through the Psalms and inspect her prayer-book through a gold

eye-glass as though she be examine some natural curiosity. all these

be, in childish parlance, “so funny.” and Church be thus a place to

which I go willingly and joyfully; the activity of my observation save

I from the tedium with which so many child regard it.



[sidenote: religious SENTIMENT]



this vacuous æstheticism in the region of religion continue with I

through my school day. of purpose and principle there be no trace. I

do indeed remember one matter in which I have recourse to prayer. at my

private school, a big suburban establishment, I be thrust into a large

dormitory, a shrinking and bewildered atom, fresh from the privacy and

love attention of the nursery, and require to undress and go to bed

before the eye of fifty boy. it be a rude introduction to the world,

and it be strange to reflect upon the helpless despair with which a

little soul can be fill under circumstance which to mature thought

appear almost idyllic. but while I crouch miserably upon my bed, as

I prepare to slip between the sheet—of which the hard texture alone

dismay I—I be strike by a shoe, mischievously, but not brutally

throw by a big boy some yard away. be it amusing or pathetic to

reflect that night after night I pray that this might not be repeat,

use a suffrage of the Litany about our persecutor and slanderer,

which seem to I dismally appropriate?



at the public school to which I be shortly transfer, where I enjoy

a tranquil and uneventful existence, religion be still a sentiment.

be one of the old foundation we have a pay choir, and the musical

service be a real delight to I. I love the dark roof and the thunder

of the organ; even now I can recollect the thrill with which I look

day after day at the pure line of the Tudor building, the innumerable

cluster shaft that run from pavement to roof. I care little for the

archæology and history of the place, but the grace of antiquity, the

wall of mellow brick, the stone-crop that drip in purple tuft among

the moulder stone of the buttress, the very dust that clung to the

rafter of the ancient refectory—all these I note with secret thrill of

delight.



still no sense of reality touch I; life be but a move pageant,

in which I play as slight a part as I could contrive to play. I be

inoffensive; my work be easy to I. I have some congenial friend, and

dream away the week in a gentle indolence set in a framework of

unengrosse duty.



[sidenote: PLEASURES of RITUAL]



about my sixteenth year I make friend with a high-church curate whom

I meet in the holiday, who be indeed distantly related to I; he be

attach to a large London church, which exist mainly for ornate

service, and I use to go up from school occasionally to see he,

and even spend a few day in his house at the beginning or end of the

holiday. look back, he seem to I now to have be a somewhat

inert and sentimental person, but I acquire from he a real love of

liturgical thing, write out with my own hand a book of hour, carefully

rubricate—though I do not recollect that I often use it—and become

more ceremonial than ever. I have long settle that I be to take order,

and I well recollect the thrill with which on one of these visit I

see my friend ascend the high stone pulpit of the tall church, with

flare light, in a hood of a strange pattern, which he assure I be

the antique shape. the sermon be, I even now recollect, deplorable

both in language and thought, but that seem to I a matter of entire

indifference; the central fact be that he stand there vest with due

solemnity, and make rhetorical motion with an easy grace.



[sidenote: a benediction]



at this time, too, at school, I take to frequent the service of the

cathedral in the town whenever I be able, and become a familiar figure

to verger and clergy. I have no doubt that be I to be make a bishop,

this fact would be cite as an instance of early piety, but the truth

be that it be, so to speak, a mere amusement. I can honestly say that

it have no sort of effect on my life, which run indolently on, side by

side with the ritual preoccupation, unaffected by it, and indeed totally

distinct from it. my confirmation come in the middle of these diversion;

the solid and careful preparation that I receive I look upon as so

much tedious lecturing to be decorously bear, and beside a dim pleasure

in the ceremony, I do not think it have any influence of a practical kind.

once, indeed, there do pass a breath of vital truth over my placid and

self-satisfy life, like a breeze over still water. there come to stay

with we in the holiday an elderly clergyman, a friend of my mother’s,

a London rector, whose whole life be sincerely give to help soul

to the light, and who have escape by some exquisite lucidity of soul

the self-consciousness—too often, alas, the outcome of the adulation

which be the shadow of holy influence. he have the gift of talk simply

and sweetly about spiritual thing—indeed nothing else interest he;

conversation about book or politic he listen to with a gentle

urbanity of tolerance; yet when he talk himself, he never dogmatise,

but appeal with a wistful smile to his hearer to confirm the

experience which he relate. I, though an awkward boy, he treat with

the most win deference, and on the morning of his departure ask

I with delightful grace to accompany he on a short walk, and open

to I the thought of the hallow presence of Christ in daily life. it

seem to I now that he be invite my confidence, but I have none to

give he; so with a memorable solemnity he bid I, if I ever need

help in spiritual thing, to come freely to he; I remember that he do

so without any sense of patronage, but as an old disciple, wrestle

with the same difficulty, and only a little far ahead in the vale

of life. lastly he take I to his room, kneel down beside I, and pray

with exquisite simplicity and affection that I might be enrich with the

knowledge of Christ, and then lay his hand upon my head with a love

benediction. for day and even week that talk and that benediction dwelt

with I; but the time have not come, and I be to be lead through dark

water; and though I pray for many day intensely that some revelation

of truth might come to I, yet the seed have fall on shallow soil, and

be soon scorch up again by the genial current of my daily life.



I think, though I say this with sadness, that he represent religion as

too much a withdrawal from life for one so young, and do not make it

clear to I that my merriment, my joy, my interest, and my ambition

might be hallowed and invigorate. he have himself subordinate life and

character so completely to one end, and throw aside (if he have ever

possess they) the dear prejudice and fiery interest of individuality,

that I doubt if he could have throw his imagination swiftly enough

back into all the energetic hope, the engrossing beckoning of open

manhood.









10





the rest of my school life pass without any important change of view. I

become successful in game, popular, active-minded. I win a scholarship

at Cambridge with disastrous ease.



then Cambridge life open before I. I speak elsewhere of my

intellectual and social life there, and will pass on to the next event of

importance in my religious development.



my life have become almost purely selfish. I be not very ambitious of

academical honour, though I mean to secure a modest first-class; but

I be intensely eager for both social and literary distinction, and

submit myself to the full to the dreamful beauty of my surrounding,

and the delicious thrill of artistic pleasure.



I have often think how strangely and secretly the crucial moment, the

most agonising crisis of my life drift upon I. I say deliberately

that, look back over my forty year of life, no day be so fraught

for I with fate, no hour so big with doomful issue, as that day which

dawn so simply and speed past with such familiar ease to the destine

hour—that moment which wave I, lead by sociable curiosity, into the

darkness of suffering and agony. a new birth indeed! the current of my

day fall, as it be, with suddenness, unexpected, unguessed at, into

the welter gulf of despair; that hour turn I in an instant from a

careless boy into a troubled man. and yet how easily it might have be

otherwise—no, I dare not say that.



[sidenote: the evangelist]



it have be like any other day. I have be to the dreary morning

service, read huskily by a few shivering mortal in the chilly chapel;

I have work, walk in the afternoon with a friend, and we have talk

of our plan—all we mean to do and be. after hall, I go to have

some coffee in the room of a mild and amiable youth, now a church

dignitary in the Colonies. I sit, I remember, on a deep sofa, which I

afterwards buy and still possess. our host carelessly say that a

great Revivalist be to address a meeting that night. some one suggest

that we should go. I laughingly assent. the meeting be hold in a

hall in a side street; we went smile and talk, and take our place

in a crowded room. the first item be the appearance of an assistant,

who accompany the evangelist as a sort of precentor—an immense

bilious man, with black hair, and eye surround by flaccid, pendent,

baggy wrinkle—who come forward with an unctuous gesture, and take his

place at a small harmonium, place so near the front of the platform

that it look as if both player and instrument must inevitably topple

over; it be inexpressibly ludicrous to behold. roll his eye in an

affect manner, he touch a few simple cord, and then a marvellous

transformation come over the room. in a sweet, powerful voice, with an

exquisite simplicity combine with irresistible emotion, he sing “there

be ninety-and-Nine.” the man be transfigure. a deathly hush come over

the room, and I feel my eye fill with tear; his physical repulsiveness

slip from he, and leave a sincere impulsive Christian, whose simple

music speak straight to the heart.



then the preacher himself—a heavy-look, commonplace man, with a sturdy

figure and no grace of look or gesture—step forward. I have no

recollection how he begin, but he have not speak half-a-dozen sentence

before I feel as though he and I be alone in the world. the detail of

that speech have go from I. after a scathing and indignant invective

on sin, he turn to draw a picture of the hollow, drift life, with

feeble, mundane ambition—utterly selfish, give no service, make

no sacrifice, taste the moment, glide feebly down the stream of

time to the roar cataract of death. every word he said burn into my

soul. he seem to I to probe the secret of my innermost heart; to

be analyse, as it be, before the Judge of the world, the arid and

pitiful constituent of my most secret thought. I do not think I could

have hear he out ... his word fall on I like the stab of a knife.

then he make a sudden pause, and in a peroration of incredible dignity

and pathos he draw we to the foot of the crucified Saviour, show we the

bleed hand and the dimmed eye, and the infinite heart behind. “just

_accept_ he,” he cry; “in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, you

may be his—nestling in his arm—with the burden of sin and selfishness

rest at his foot.”



[sidenote: WOUNDED DEEP]



even as he speak, pierce as I be to the heart by contrition and

anguish, I know that this be not for I.... he invite all who would be

Christ’s to wait and plead with he. many man—even, I be surprised to

see, a careless, cynical companion of my own—crowd to the platform, but

I go out into the night, like one dizzy with a sudden blow. I be

join, I remember, by a tutor of my college, who praise the eloquence

of the address, and be surprised to find I so little responsive; but my

only idea be to escape and be alone: I feel like a wound creature, who

must crawl into solitude. I go to my room, and after long and agonising

prayer for light, an intolerable weariness fall on I, and I sleep.



I awake at some dim hour of the night in the clutch of insupportable

fear; let I say at once that with the miserable week that follow

there be mingle much of physical and nervous suffering, far more,

indeed, than I then know, or be permit to know. I have be read

hard, and throw myself with unaccustomed energy into a hundred new

idea and speculation. I have have a few week before a sudden attack of

sleeplessness, which should have warn I of overstrain. but now every

nervous misery know to man beset I—intolerable depression, spectral

remorse, nocturnal terror. my work be neglect. I read the Bible

incessantly, and pray for the hour together. sometimes my depression

would leave I for a few hour, like a cat play with a mouse, and leap

upon I like an evil spirit in the middle of some social gathering or

harmless distraction, strike the word from my lip and the smile from

my face.



for some week this last, and I think I be nearly mad. two strange

fact I will record. one day, beside myself with agitation, see no way

out—for my prayer seem to batter, as it be, like wave against a

stony and obdurate cliff, and no hope or comfort ever slide into my soul—I

write two letter: one to an eminent roman Catholic, in whose sermon I

have find some encouragement, and one to the eld friend I have above

speak of. in two day I receive the answer. that from the Romanist

hard, irritated, and bewildered—my only way be to submit myself to true

direction, and he do not see that I have any intention of do this;

that it be obvious that I be be plague for some sin which I have not

venture to open to he. I burn the letter with a hopeless shudder. the

other from my old friend, appoint a time to meet I, and say that

he understand, and that my prayer would avail.



I go soon after to see he, in a dark house in a London square. he

hear I with the utmost patience, bid I believe that I be not _alone_

in my experience; that in many a life there be—there must be—some root

of bitterness that must flower before the true seed could be sow, and

add many other manly and tender thing.



[sidenote: liberty]



he give I certain direction, and though I will confess that I could not

follow they for long—the soul must find her own path, I think, among the

crag—yet he lead I into a calm, quieter, more tranquil frame of mind;

he teach I that I must not expect to find the way all at once, that

long coldness and habitual self-deceit must be slowly purge away. but

I can never forget the infinite gratitude I owe he for the loving and

strenuous way in which he bring I out into a place of liberty with the

tenderness of a true father in God.









11





thus rudely awaken to the paramount necessity of embrace a faith,

bow to a principle, obey a gentle force which should sustain

and control the soul, I fling myself for a time with ardour into

theological reading, my end not erudition, but to drink at the source

of life. be it arrogant to say that I pass through a painful period

of disillusionment? all round the pure well I find trace of strife

and bitterness. I cast no doubt on the sincerity and zeal of those who

have precede I; but not content with drinking, and find their eye

enlighten, they have stamp the margin of the pool into the mire, and

the water rise turbid and strife-stain to the lip. some, like cattle

on a summer evening, seem to stand and brood within the pool itself,

careless if they foul the water; other have build themselves booth

on the margin, and sell the precious draught in vessel of their own,

enrage that any should desire the authentic stream. there be, it

seem, but little room for the wayfarer; and the very standing ground

be encumber with impotent folk.



[sidenote: discern the faith]



not to strain a metaphor, I find that the commentator obscure rather

than assist. what I desire be to realise the character, to divine the

inner thought of Jesus, to be fire by the impetuous eloquence of Paul,

to be strengthen by the ardent simplicity of John. these critic, man

of incredible diligence and patience, seem to I to make a fence about

the law, and to wrap the form I wish to see in innumerable vestment

of curious design. reader of the Protagoras of Plato will remember how

the great sophist speak from the centre of a mass of rug and coverlet,

among which, for his delectation, he lay, while the humming of his

voice fill the arch of the cloister with a heavy burden of sound. I

find myself in the same position as the disciple of Protagoras; the

voice that I long to hear, speak, but it have to penetrate through the

wrapping and veil which these man, in their zeal for service, have in

mistaken reverence fling about the lively oracle.



a wise man say to I not long ago that the fault of teaching nowadays

be that knowledge be all coin into counter; and that the desire

of learner seem to be not to possess themselves of the ore, not to

strengthen and toughen the mind by the pursuit, but to possess themselves

of as many of these token as possible, and to hand they on unchanged and

unchangeable to those who come to learn of themselves.



this be my difficulty; the shelf teem with book, the lecturer

cry aloud in every College court, like the jackdaw that caw and

clang about the venerable tower; and for a period I fly with notebook

and pen from lecture to lecture, enter admirable maxim, acute verbal

distinction, ingenious parallel in my poor page. at home I turn

through book after book, and imbue myself in the learning of the

school, dream that, though the rind be tough, the precious morsel

lie succulent within.



in this conceit of knowledge I be lead to leave my college and to plunge

into practical life; what my work be shall presently be relate, but

I will own that it be a relief. I have begin to feel that though I have

learn the use of the tool, I be no nearer find the precious metal

of which I be in search.



the further development of my faith after this cannot be tell in detail,

but it may be briefly sketch, after a life of some intellectual

activity, not without practical employment, which have now extend over

many year.



[sidenote: the FATHER]



I begin, I think, very far from Christ. the only vital faith that I have

at first be an intense instinctive belief in the absolute power, the

infinite energy, of the Father; to I he be not only Almighty, as our

weak word phrase it, a being who could, if he would, exert his power,

but παντοκρατῶρ—all-conquering, all-subduing. I be lead, by a process of

mathematical certainty, to see that if the Father be anywhere, he be

everywhere; that if he make we and bade we be, he be responsible for the

small and most sordid detail of our life and thought, as well as for

the noble and high. it cannot indeed be otherwise; every thought

and action spring from some cause, in many case referable to event

which take place in life outside of and anterior to our own. in any case

in which a man seem to enjoy the faculty of choice, his choice be in

reality determine by a number of previous cause; give all the datum,

his action could be inevitably predict. thus I gradually realise that

sin in the moral world, and disease in the physical, be each of they

some manifestation of the Eternal Will. if he give to I the joy of

life, the energy of action, do he not give it to the subtle fungus, to

the venomous bacteria which, once establish in our body, be know by

the name of cancer and fever? why all life should be this uneasy battle

I know not; but if we can predicate consciousness of any kind to these

strange rudiment, the live slime of the pit, be it irreverent to say

that faith may play a part in their work as well? when the health-give

medicine pour along our vein, what do it mean but that everywhere it

leave destruction behind it, and that the organism of disease which

have, with delighted zest, be triumph in their choose dwelling and

rioting in the instinctive joy of life, sadly and mutely resign the

energy that animate they, or sink into sleep. it be all a balance, a

strife, a battle. why such strive and fighting, such uneasy victory

and deep unrest should be the Father’s will for all his creature, I

know not; but that it _be_ a condition, a law of his own mind, I can

reverently believe. when we sing the _Benedicite_, which I for one do

with all my heart, we must be conscious that it be only a selection,

after all, of phenomenon that be impressive, delightful, or useful to

ourselves. nothing that we call, God forgive we, noxious, find a place

there. St. Francis, indeed, go far, and praise God for “our sister

the Death of the body,” but in the large _benedicite_ of the universe,

which be hear by the ear of God, the fever and the pestilence, the cobra

and the graveyard worm utter their voice too; and who shall say that the

Father hear they not?



[sidenote: the joy of the world]



if one believe that happiness be inch by inch diminish, that it be

all a lose fight, then it must be grant that we have no refuge but in

a stoic hardening of the heart; but when we look at life and see the huge

preponderance of joy over pain—such tract of healthy energy, sweet duty,

quiet movement—indeed when we see, as we often do, the touching spectacle

of hope and joy again and again triumphant over weakness and weariness;

when we see such unselfishness abroad, such ardent desire to lighten the

load of other and to bear their burden; then it be faithless indeed

if we allow ourselves to believe that the Father have any end in view but

the ultimate happiness of all the innumerable unit, which he endow with

independent energy, and which, one by one, after their short taste of

this beautiful and exquisite world, resign their power again, often so

gladly, into his hand.



[sidenote: our insignificance]



but the fault, if I may so phrase it, of this faith, be the vastness

of the conception to which it open the mind. when I contemplate this

earth with its continent and island, its mountain and plain, all

store with history of life and death, the bone of dead monster, the

shattered hulk of time; the vast briny ocean with all the mysterious

life that stir beneath the heaving crest; when I realise that even

this world, with all its infinite record of life, be but a speck in

the heaven, and that every one of the sun of space may be surround

with the same train of satellite, in which some tumultuous drama

of life may be, nay, must be enact itself—that even on the fiery

orb themselves some appalling Titan form may be put forth their

prodigious energy, suffer and die—the mind of man reel before

the thought;—and yet all be in the mind of God. the consciousness of

the microscopic minuteness of my own life and energy, which yet be

all in all to I, becomes crush and paralyse in the light of such

a thought. it seem impossible to believe, in the presence of such a

spectacle, that the single life can have any definite importance, and

the temptation come to resign all effort, to swim on the stream, just

plan life to be as easy and as pleasant as possible, before one sink

into the abyss.









12





from such a paralysis of thought and life two belief have save I.



[sidenote: the MASTER]



first, it may be confess, come the belief in the Spirit of God, the

thought of inner holiness, not bear from any contemplation of the world

around, which seem indeed to point to far different ideal. yet as true

and truer than the bewilder example of nature be the inner voice

which speak, after the wind and storm, in the silent solitude of the

soul. that this voice exist and be hear can admit of no tangible

demonstration; each must speak for himself; but experience forbid I

to doubt that there be something which contradict the seduction of

appetite, something which call, as it be, a flush to the face of the

soul at the thought of triumph of sense, a voice that without be

derisive or harsh, yet have a terrible and instantaneous severity; and

wield a mental scourge, the blow of which be no less fearful to

receive because they be accompany with no physical disaster. to

recognise this voice as the very voice and word of the Father to sentient

soul, be the inevitable result of experience and thought.



then come the triumphant belief, weak at first, but take slow shape,

that the attitude of the soul to its Maker can be something more than a

distant reverence, an overpowering awe, a humble worship; the belief, the

certainty that it can be, as it be, a personal link—that we can indeed

hold converse with God, speak with he, call upon he, put to use a human

phrase, our hand in His, only desire to be lead accord to his will.



then come the further step; after some study of the system of other

teacher of humanity, after a desire to find in the great redeemer of

mankind, in Buddha, Socrates, Mahomet, Confucius, Shakespeare, the secret

of self-conquest, of reconciliation, the knowledge slowly dawn upon the

mind that in Jesus of Galilee alone we be in the presence of something

which enlighten man not from within but from without. the other great

teacher of humanity seem to have look upon the world and into their

own heart, and deduce from thence, by flash of indescribable genius,

some order out of the chaos, some wise and temperate scheme, but with

Jesus—though I long resist the conviction—it be different. he come,

not as a man speak by observation and thought, but as a visitant from

some secret place, who know the truth rather than guess at it. I need

not say that his reporter, the Gospel writer, have but an imperfect

conception of his majesty. his ineffable greatness—it could not well be

otherwise; the mystery rather be that with such simple view of life,

such elementary conception of the scheme of thing, they yet give so

much of the stupendous truth, and reveal Jesus in his word and act

as the Divine Man, who speak to man not by spiritual influence but by

the very authentic utterance of God. such teaching as the parable, such

scene as the raising of Lazarus, or the midday talk by the wayside

well of Sychar, emerge from all art and history with a dignity that

lay no claim to the majesty that they win; and as the tragedy darken

and thicken to its close, such scene as the trial, record by St.

John, and the sacred death, bring home to the mind the fact that no mere

humanity could bear itself with such gentle and tranquil dignity, such

intense and yet such unselfish suffering as be manifest in the Son of

Man.



[sidenote: the RETURN]



and so, as the traveller go out and wander through the city of

man, among stately palace, among the glory of art, or climb among

the aching solitude of lonely mountain, or feast his eye upon green

isle float in sapphire sea, and return to find that the old

strait dwelling-place, the simple duty of life, the familiar friend,

homely though they be, be the true anchor of the spirit; so, after a

weary pilgrimage, the soul come back, with glad relief, with wistful

tenderness, to the old belief of childhood, which, in its pride and

stubbornness, it cast aside, and reject as weak and inadequate and

fade; find after infinite trouble and weariness that it have but

learn afresh what it know; and that though the wanderer have ransack

the world, digge and drunk strange water, traffic for foreign

merchandise, yet the Pearl of Price, the White Stone be hide after all

in his own garden-ground, and inscribe with his own new name.









13





I need not enter very closely into the period of my life which follow

the university. after a good deal of hesitation and uncertainty I decide

to enter for the Home Civil Service, and obtain a post in a subordinate

office. the work I find not wholly uninteresting, but it need no

special record here. I acquire the knowledge of how to conduct business,

a certain practical power of foresee contingency, a certain

acquaintance with legal procedure, and some knowledge of human nature in

its official aspect.



intellectually and morally this period of my life be rather stagnant.

I have be through a good deal of excitement, of mental and moral

malady, of general _bouleversement_. nature exact a certain amount

of quiescence, melancholy quiescence for the most part, because I feel

myself singularly without energy to carry out my hope and scheme, and

at the same time it seem that time be ebb away purposelessly, and

that I be not drive, so to speak, any pile in the fluid and oozy

substratum of idea on which my life seem build. to revel in metaphor,

I be like a snake which have with a great strain bolt a quadrupe, and

need a long space of uneasy and difficult digestion. but at the time I

do not see this; I only think I be lose time: I feel with Milton—



    “how soon hath time, the subtle thief of youth,

    steal on his wing my three-and-twentieth year.”



but beset as I be by the sublime impatience of youth, I have not serenity

enough to follow out the thought which Milton work out in the rest of

the sonnet.



[sidenote: LITERARY work]



at the same time, so far as literary work go, to which I felt greatly

draw, I be not so impatient. I write a great deal for my private

amusement, and to practise facility of expression, but with little idea

of hurried publication. a story which I send to a well-know editor be

courteously return to I, with a letter in which he state that he have

read my work carefully, and that he feel it a duty to tell I that it

be “sauce without meat.” this kind and wholesome advice make a great

difference to I; I determine that I would attempt to live a little

before I indulge in baseless generalisation, or lecture other people on

the art of life. I soon gain great facility in writing, and develop a

theory, which I have ever since have no reason to doubt, that performance

be simply a matter of the intensity of desire. if one only want enough

to complete a definite piece of work, be it poem, essay, story, or some

far more definite and prosaic task, I have find that it get itself

do in spite of the insistent pressure of other business and the

deaden monotony of heavy routine, simply because one go back to it

with delight, scheme to clear time for it, wait for it round corner,

and lose no time in spur and whip the mind to work, which be

necessary in the case of less attractive task. the moment that there

come a leisurely gap, the mind close on the beloved work like a limpet;

when this happen day after day and week after week, the accumulation

become prodigious.



I thus feel gradually more and more, that when the _magnum opus_ do

present itself to be do, I should probably be able to carry it through;

and meanwhile I have sufficient self-respect, although I suffer twinge

of thwarted ambition, not to force my crude theory, my scrambling

prose, or my falter verse upon the world.



[sidenote: LONDON]



meanwhile I live a lonely sort of life, with two or three close

intimate. I never really care for London, but it be at the same time

idle to deny its fascination. in the first place it be full from day to

day of prodigious, astounding, unexpected beauty—sometimes beauty on

a noble scale, in the grand style, such as when the sunset shake its

hair among ragged cloud, and the endless league of house-roof and the

front of town palace dwindle into a far-off steely horizon-line under

the huge and wild expanse of sky. sometimes it be the small, but no

less alluring beauty of subtle atmospherical effect; and so conventional

be the human appreciation of beauty that the constant presence, in these

London picture, of straight frame line, contribute by house-front

and street-end, be an aid to the imagination. again, there be the beauty

of contrast; the vignette afford by the sudden blossoming of rustic

flower and shrub in unexpected place; the rustle of green leave at

the end of a monotonous street. and then, apart from natural beauty,

there be the vast, absorbing, incredible pageant of humanity, full of

pathos, of wistfulness, and of sweetness. but of this I can say but

little; for it always move I, and move I yet, with a sort of horror.

I think it be always to I a spectacular interest; I never feel _one_

with the human being whom I watch, or even in the same boat, so to

speak, with they; the contemplation of the fact that I be one of so

many million have be to I a humiliating rather than an inspire

thought; it dash the pleasure of individuality; it arraign the soul

before a dark and inflexible bar. pass daily through London, there

be little possibility in the case of an imaginative man for hopeful

expansion of the heart, little ground for anything but an acquiescent

acceptance. under these condition it be too rudely bring home to I

to be wholesome, how ineffective, undistinguished, typical, minute,

unintereste any one human being be after all: and though the sight of

humanity in every form be attractive, bewildering, painfully interesting,

thrilling, and astounding—though one find unexpected beauty and goodness

everywhere—yet I recognise that city life have a deaden effect on my

consciousness, and hinder rather than help the development of thought

and life.



[sidenote: the artist]



still, in other way this period be most valuable—it make I practical

instead of fanciful; alert instead of dreamy; it make I feel what I have

never know before, the necessity for grasp the _exact_ point of a

matter, and not lose oneself among side issue. it help I out of the

entirely amateurish condition of mind into which I have be drift—and,

moreover, it teach I one thing which I have never realise, a lesson

for which I be profoundly grateful, namely that literature and art play

a very small part in the life of the majority of people; that most man

have no sort of an idea that they be serious matter, but look upon

they as more or less graceful amusement; that in such region they have

no power of criticism, and no judgment; but that these be not nearly

such serious defect as the defect of vision which the artist and the

man of letter suffer from and encourage—the defect, I mean, of treat

artistic ideal as matter of pre-eminent national, even of moral

importance. they must be content to range themselves frankly with other

craftsman; they may sustain themselves by think that they may help, a

very little, to ameliorate condition, to elevate the tone of morality

and think, to provide source of recreation, to strengthen the sense

of beauty; but they must remember that they cannot hope to belong to

the primal and elemental thing of life. not till the primal need be

satisfied do the work of the poet and artist begin—“After the banquet,

the minstrel.”



the poet and the artist too often live, like the Lady of Shalott,

weave a magic web of fair and rich colour, but deal not with life

itself, and not even with life view _ipsis oculi_, but in the magic

mirror. the Lady of Shalott be doubly seclude from the world; she do

not mingle with it, she do not even see it; so the writer sometimes

do not even see the life which he describe, but draw his knowledge

secondhand, through book and bookish seclude talk. I do not think that

I under-rate the artistic vocation; but it be only one of many, and,

though different in kind, certainly not superior to the vocation of

those who do the practical work of the world.



from this dangerous heresy I be save just at the moment when it

be wait to seize upon I, and at a time when a man’s conviction

be apt to settle themselves for life, by contact with the prosaic,

straightforward and commonplace world.



at one time I see a certain amount of society; my father’s old friend

be very kind to I, and I be thus introduce to what be a far more

interesting circle of society than the circle which would rank itself

high, and which spend an amount of serious toil in the search of

amusement, with result which to an outsider appear to be unsatisfactory.

the circle to which I gain admittance be the official set—man who

have definite and interesting work in the world—barrister, government

official, politician and the like, man verse in affair, and with a

hard and definite knowledge of what be really go on. here I learn

how different be the actual movement of politic from the reflection of

it which appear in the paper, which often definitely conceal the truth

from the public.



[sidenote: diversion]



my amusement at this period be of the mild character; I spend

sunday in the summer month at Golden End; sunday in the winter as a

rule at my lodging; and devote the afternoon on which I be free, to

long aimless ramble in London, or even far afield. I have an absurd

pleasure in observe the detail of domestic architecture; and there be

a variety of entertainment to be derive, for a person with this low and

feeble taste, from the exploration of London, which would probably be

inconceivable to person of a more conscientious artistic standard.



[sidenote: a rude shock]



at this period I have few intimate; and sociable as I have be at school

and college, I be now throw far more on my own resource; I sometimes

think it be a wise and kindly preparation for what be come; and I

certainly learn the pleasure to be derive from read and lonely

contemplation and solitary reflection, pleasure which have stand I

in good stead in later day. I use indeed to think that the enforce

spending of so many hour of the day with other human being give a

peculiar zest to these solitary hour. whether this be wholesome or

natural I know not, but I certainly enjoy it, and live for several

year a life of interior speculation which be neither sluggish nor

morbid. I learn my business thoroughly, and in all probability I should

have settle down quietly and comfortably to the life of a bachelor

official, rotate from chamber to office and from office to club, have

it not be that just at the moment when I be begin to crystallise

into sluggish, comfortable habit, I be fling by a rude shock into a

very different kind of atmosphere.









14





[sidenote: the doctor]



I must now relate, however briefly, the event which once for all

determine the condition of my present life. for the last six month

of my professional work I have be feel indefinitely though not

decidedly unwell. I find myself disinclined to exertion, bodily or

mental, easily elated, easily depressed, at time strangely somnolent,

at other irritably wakeful; at last some troublesome symptom warn I

that I have well put myself in the hand of a doctor. I go to a local

practitioner whose account disquiet I; he advise I to apply to an

eminent specialist, which I accordingly do.



[sidenote: the VERDICT]



I be not likely to forget the incident of that day. I go up to London,

and make my way to the specialist’s house. after a dreary period of

wait, in a dark room look out on a blank wall, the table abundantly

furnish with periodical whose creased and battered aspect betoken

the nervous handling to which they have be subject, I be at last

summon to the presence of the great man himself. he present an

appearance of imperturbable good-nature; his rosy cheek, his little

snub nose, his neatly groom appearance, his gold-rim spectacle,

wear an air of commonplace prosperity that be at once reassure. he

ask I a number of question, make a thorough examination, write

down certain detail in a huge volume, and finally throw himself back

in his chair with a deliberate air that somewhat disconcert I. at

last my sentence come. I be undoubtedly suffer from the premonitory

symptom of a serious, indeed dangerous complaint, and I must at once

submit myself to the condition of an invalid life. he draw out a table

diet, and tell I to live a healthy, quiet life under the most restful

condition attainable. he ask I about my circumstance, and I tell

he with as much calmness as I could muster. he reply that I be very

fortunate, that I must at once give up professional work and be content

to _vegetate_. “mind,” he say, “I don’t want you to be _bored_—that will

be as bad for you as to be overwork. but you must avoid all kind of

worry and fatigue—all extreme. I should not advise you to travel at

present, if you _like_ a country life—in fact I should say, live the

life that attract you, apart from any professional exertion; don’t do

anything you don’t like. now, Mr. ——,” he continue, “I have tell you

the bad—the very bad. I cann’t say whether your constitution will

triumph over this complaint: to be candid, I do not think it will; but

there be no question of any immediate risk whatever. indeed, if you be

dependent on your own exertion for a livelihood, I could promise you

some year of work—though that would render it almost impossible for you

ever to recover. as it be, you may consider that you have a chance of

entire recovery, and if you can follow my direction, and no unforeseen

complication intervene, I think you may look forward to a fairly long

life; but mind that any work you do must be of the nature of amusement.

once and for all, _strain_ of any sort be out of the question, and if

you indulge in any excessive or exciting exertion, you will inevitably

shorten your life. there, I have tell you a disagreeable truth—make the

good of it—remember that I see many people every week who have to bear

far more distressing communication. you have well come to see I

every three month, unless you have any marked symptom, such as”—(there

follow medical detail with which I need not trouble the reader)—“in

that case come to I at once; but I tell you plainly that I do not

anticipate they. you seem to have what I call the patient temperament—to

have a vocation, if I may say so,” (here he smile benevolently) “for the

invalid life.” he rise as he speak, shake hand kindly, and open the

door.









15





[sidenote: new perception]



I will confess that at first this communication be a great shock to

I; I be for a time bewilder and plunge into a deep dejection. to

say farewell to the bustle and activity of life—to be lay aside on a

shelf, like a crack vase, turn as far as possible my ornamental

front to the world, spoilt for homely service. to be relegate to

the failure; to be regard and speak of as an invalid—to live the

shadow life, a creature of rule and hour, fret over drug and

beef tea—a degrading, a humiliating rôle. I admit that the first week

of my enforce retirement be bitter indeed. the perpetual fret of

small restriction have at first the effect of make I feel physically

and mentally incapable. only very gradually do the sad cloud lift. the

first thing that come to my help be a totally unexpected feeling. when

I have got use to the altered condition of life, when I find that the

regulate existence have become to a large extent mechanical, when I have

learn to decide instinctively what I could attempt and what I must leave

alone, I find my perception curiously heighten and intensify by the

shadowy background which envelop I. sound and sight thrill I in

an unaccustomed way—the very thought, hardly define, but exist like

a quiet subconsciousness, that my tenure of life be certainly frail,

and might be brief, seem to bring out into sharp relief the simple

and unnoticed sensation of ordinary life. the pure gush of morning air

through the open casement, the delicious coolness of water on the

languid body, the liquid song of bird, the sprouting of green bud

upon the hedge, the sharp and aromatic scent of rosy larch tassel, the

monotonous babble of the stream beneath its high water plant, the pearly

laminæ of the morning cloudland, the glow wrack of sunset with the

liquid bay of intenser green—all these stir my spirit with an add

value of beauty, an enjoyment at once passionate and tranquil, as though

they hold some whisper secret for the soul.



the same quickening effect pass, I notice, over intellectual

perception. picture in which there be some latent quality, some

hide brooding, some mystery lie beneath and beyond superficial

effect, give up their secret to my eye. music come home to I with an

intensity of pathos and passion which I have before never even suspect,

and even here the same subtle power of appreciation seem to have be

grant I. it seem that I be no long take in by technical art or

mechanical perfection. the hard rippling cascade which have formerly

attract I, where a musician be merely work out, if I may use the

word, some subject with a mathematical precision, seem to I hollow

and vain; all that be pompous and violent followed suit, and what I now

seem to be able to discern be all that endeavour, however faultily,

to express some ardour of the spirit, some indefinable delicacy of

feeling.



something of the same power seem to be mine in deal with literature.

all hard brilliance, all exaggerated display, all literary agility and

diplomacy that might have once deceive I, appear to ring crack and

thin; _mere_ style, style that conceal rather than express thought,

fall as it be in glassy tingling shower on my initiate spirit;

while, on the other hand, all that be truthfully feel, sincerely

conceive or intensely desire, draw I as with a magical compulsion.

it be then that I first perceive what the sympathy, the perception

bear of suffer might be, when that suffering be not so intrusive,

so severe, as to throw the sick spirit back upon itself—then that I

learn what detachment, what spectatorial power might be confer by a

catastrophe not violent, but sure, by a presage of distant doom. I feel

like a man who have long stumble among intricate lane, his view obscure

by the deep-cut earth-wall of his prison, and by the sordid low slope

with their paltry detail, when the road lead out upon the open moor,

and when at last he climb freely and exultingly upon the broad grassy

shoulder of the hill. the true perspective—the map of life open out

before I; I learn that all art be only valuable when it be the sedulous

flowering of the sweet and gracious spirit, and that beyond all power of

human expression lie a province where the deep thought, the high

mystery of the spirit sleep—only guess at, wrestle with, hanker

after by the most skilled master of all the art of mortal subtlety.



perhaps the very thing that make these fleeting impression so perilously

sweet, be the sense of their evanescence.



    but oh, the very reason why

    I love they, be because they die.



[sidenote: the SHADOW]



in this exalted mood, with this sense of heighten perception all

about I, I begin for awhile to luxuriate. I imagine that I have learn

a permanent lesson, gain a high level of philosophy, escape from

the grip of material thing. alas! it be but transitory. I have not

triumph. what I do gain, what do stay with I, be a more deliberate

intention of enjoy simple thing, a great expectation of beauty

in homely life. this remain, but in a diminished degree. I suppose

that the mood be one of intense nervous tension, for by degree it be

shadow and blot, until I fall into a profound depression. at well

what could I hope for?—a shadow life, an inglorious gloom? the dull

waste year stretch before I—day, week, month of wearisome little

duty; dreary tending of the lamp of life; and what a life! life without

service, joy, brightness, or usefulness. I be to be strand like a

hulk on an oozy shore, only thankful for every month that the sodden

timber still hold together. I see that something large and deep be

require; I see that religion and philosophy must unite to form some

definite theory of life, to build a foundation on which I could securely

rest.









16





the service of other, in some form or another, must sustain I.

philosophy point out that to narrow my circle every year, to turn the

microscope of thought close and close upon my frail self, would be to

sink month by month deeply into egotism and self-pity. religion give a

more generous impulse still.



[sidenote: beginnings]



what be our duty with respect to philanthropy? it be obviously absurd

to think that every one be bind to tie themselves hand and foot to

some thoroughly uncongenial task. fitness and vocation must come in.

Clergy, doctor, teacher be perhaps the most obvious professional

philanthropist; for either of the two latter profession I be

incapacitate. some hover thought of attempt to take order,

and to become a kind of amateur, unprofessional curate, visit I;

but my religious view make that difficult, and the position of a man

who preach what he do not wholly believe be inconsistent with

self-respect. christianity as teach by the sect seem to I to

have drift hopelessly away from the detach simplicity inculcate

by Christ; to have become a mere part of the social system, fearfully

invade and overlay by century of unintelligent tradition. to work,

for instance, even with Mr. Woodward, at his order, on his system, would

have be an impossibility both for he and for myself. I have, besides, a

strong feeling that work, to be of use, must be do, not in a spirit of

complacent self-satisfaction, but at least with some energy of enjoyment,

some conviction. it seem moreover clear that, for a time at all event,

my place and position in the world be settle: I must live a quiet home

life, and endeavour, at all event, to restore some measure of effective

health. how could I serve my neighbour well? they be mostly quiet

country people—a few squire and clergy, a few farmer, and many farm

labourer. should I accept a country life as my sphere, or be I bind to

try and find some other outlet for whatever effectiveness I possess?

I come deliberately to the conclusion that I be not only not bind to

go elsewhere, but that it be the most sensible, wise, and Christian

solution to stay where I be and make some experiment.



[sidenote: MY SCHEMES]



the next practical difficulty be _how_ I could help. english people

have a strong sense of independence. they would neither understand nor

value a fussy, dragoon philanthropist, who bustle about among they,

find fault with their domestic arrangement, lecturing, dictate.

I determine that I would try to give they the help they want; not

the help I think they ought to want. that I would go among they with

no idea of _improve_, but of do, if possible, neighbourly and

unobtrusive kindness, and that under no circumstance would I diminish

their sense of independence by weak generosity.



about this time, my mother at luncheon happen to mention that the widow

of a small farmer, who be live in a cottage not fifty yard from our

gate, be in trouble about her eld boy, who be disobedient, idle,

and unsatisfactory. he have be employ by more than one neighbour in

garden work, but have lose two place by laziness and impertinence. here

be a _point d’appui_. in the afternoon I stroll across; nervous and

shy, I confess, to a ridiculous degree. I know the woman by sight, and

little more. I feel thoroughly unfit for my rôle, and fear that

patronage would be resent. however, I go and find Mrs. Dewhurst

at home. I be receive with real geniality and something of delicate

sympathy—the news of my illness have get about. I determine I would ask

no lead question, but bit by bit her anxiety be reveal: the

boy be a trouble to she. “what do he want?” she don’t know; but he

be discontent and naughty, have get into bad company. I ask if it

would be any good my see the boy, and find that it would evidently

be a relief. I ask she to send the boy to I that evening, and go

away with a real and friendly handshake, and an invitation to come again.

in the evening Master Dewhurst turn up—a shy, uninteresting, rather

insolent boy, strong and well-build, and with a world of energy in his

black eye. I ask he what he want to do, and after a little talk

it all come out: he be sick of the place; he do not want garden work.

“what would he do? what _do_ he like?” I find that he want to see

something of the world. would he go to sea? the boy brighten up at

once, and then say he don’t want to leave his mother. our interview

close, and this necessitate my pay a further call on the mother,

who be most sensible, and evidently feel that what the boy want be a

thorough change.



to make a long story short, it cost I a few letter and a very little

money, define as a loan; the boy go off to a training ship, and

after a few week find that he have the very life he want; indeed,

he be now a promising young sailor, who never fail to write to I at

interval, and who come to see I whenever he come home. the mother be

a firm friend. now that I be at my ease with she, I be astonish at the

shrewdness and sense of her talk.



it would be tedious to recount, as I could, fifty similar adventure; my

enterprise include a village band, a cricket club, a co-operative store;

but the personal work, such as it be, have broaden every year: I be an

informal adviser to thirty or forty family, and the correspondence

entail, to say nothing of my visit, give I much pleasant occupation.

the circle now insensibly widen; I do not pretend that there be not

time of weariness, and even disagreeable experience connect with it.

I be a poor hand in a sick-room, I confess it with shame; my mother,

who be not particularly interested in her neighbour, be ten time as

effective.



[sidenote: the reward]



but what I feel most strongly about the whole, be the intense interest

which have grow up about it. the trust which these simple folk repose

in I be the factor which rescue I from the indolent impulse to leave

matter alone; even if I desire to do so, I could not for very shame

disappoint they. moreover, I cannot pretend that it take up very much

time. the institution run themselves for the most part. I don’t overdo

my visit; indeed, I seldom go to call on my friend unless there be

something specific to be do. but I be always at home for they between

seven and eight. my downstairs smoking-room, once an office, have a

door which open on the drive, so that it be not necessary for these

nicodemite visitor to come through the house. sometimes for day

together I have no one; sometimes I have three or four caller in the

evening. I don’t talk religion as a rule, unless I be ask; but we

discuss politic and local matter with avidity. I have persistently

refuse to take any office, and I fear that our neighbour think I

a very lazy kind of dilettante, who happen to be interested in the

small-talk of rustic. I will not be a Guardian, as I have little turn

for business; and when it be suggest to I that I might be a J. P.,

I throw cold water on the scheme. any official position would alter my

relation to my friend, and I should often be put in a difficulty; but by

be absolutely unattached, I find that confidential dealing be make

easy.



I fear that this will sound a very shabby, unromantic, and gelatinous

form of philanthropy, and I be quite unable to defend it on utilitarian

principle. I can only say that it be deeply absorbing; that it pay, so

to speak, a large interest on a small investment of trouble, and that it

have give I a sense of perspective in human thing which I never have

before. the difficulty in write about it be to abstain from platitude;

I can only say that it have reveal to I how much more emotion and

experience go to make up a platitude than I ever suspect before in my

ambitious day.









17





Ennui be, after all, the one foe that we all fear; and in arrange our

life, the most serious preoccupation be how to escape it. the obvious

reply be, of course, “plenty of cheerful society.” but be not general

society to a man with a taste for seclusion the most irritating,

wear, _ennuyeux_ method of fill the time? it be not the actual

presence of people that be distress, though that in some mood be

unbearable, but it be the consciousness of duty towards they, whether

as host or guest, that sit, like the Old Man of the Sea, upon one’s

shoulder. a considerable degree of seclusion can be attain by a

solitary-minded man at a large hotel. the only time of the day when you

be compel to be gregarious be the table d’hôte dinner; and then,

even if you desire to talk, it be often make impossible by the presence

of foreigner among whom one be sandwich. but take a visit at a large

english country-house; a mixed party with possibly little in common; the

protract meal, the vacuous session, the interminable promenade. man

be well off than woman in this respect, as at most period of the year

they be sweep off in the early forenoon to some vigorous employment,

and be not expect to return till tea-time. but take such a period in

August, a month in which many busy man be compel to pay visit if

they pay they at all. think of the desultory cricket match, the futile

gabble of garden party.



of course the desire of solitude, or rather, the nervous aversion to

company, may become so intense as to fall under the head of monomania;

doctor give it an ugly name, I know not exactly what it be, like the

agoraphobia, which be one of the subsection of a certain form of

madness. Agoraphobia be the nervous horror of crowd, which cause

person afflict by it to swoon away at the prospect of have to pass

through a square or street crowd with people.



but the dislike of visitor be a distinct, but quite as specific form

of nervous mania. one lady of whom I have hear be in the habit of

dart to the window and involve herself in the window-curtain the

moment she hear a ring at the bell; another, more secretive still,

creep under the sofa. not so very long ago I go over a great house in

the North; my host take I to a suite of upper room with a charming

view. “these,” he say, “be inhabit by my old aunt Susan till her

death some month ago; she be somewhat eccentric in she habits”—here he

thrust his foot under a roomy settee which stand in the window, and to

my intense surprise a bell ring loudly underneath—“Ah,” he say, rather

shamefacedly, “they haven’t take it off.” I beg for an explanation,

and he say that the old lady have form an inveterate habit of creep

under the settee the moment she hear a knock at the door; to cure she of

it, they hang a bell on a spring beneath it, so that she give warning of

her whereabouts.



[sidenote: SOLITUDE]



Society be good for most of we; but solitude be equally good, as a tonic

medicine, grant that sociability be accept as a factor in our life.

a certain deliberate solitude, like the fast day in the Roman Church,

be useful, even if only by way of contrast, and that we may return with

fresh zest to ordinary intercourse.



People who be use to sociable life find the small gap, the

small touch of solitude oppressive and _ennuyeux_; and it may be

take for grant that the avoidance of ennui, in whatever form that

whimsical complaint make itself feel, be one of the most instinctive

prepossession of the human race; but it do not follow that solitude

should not be resolutely practise; and any sociable person who have

strength of mind to devote, say, one day of the week to absolute and

unbroken loneliness would find not only that such time would come

to have a positive value of their own, but that they would enhance

infinitely the pleasure of social life.



it be a curious thing how fast the instinct for solitude grow. a friend

of mine, a clergyman, a man of an inveterately sociable disposition, be

compel by the exigency of his position to take charge of a lonely

sea-coast parish, the incumbent of which have fall desperately ill.

the parish be not very populous, and extremely scatter; the near

house, inhabit by educate people be respectively four and five

mile away—my friend be poor, an indifferent walker, and have no vehicle

at his command.



he go off, he tell I, with extreme and acute depression. he find

a small rectory-house with three old silent servant. he establish

himself there with his book, and begin in a very heavy-hearted way to

discharge the duty of the position; he spend his morning in quiet

reading or strolling—the place lie at the top of high cliff and include

many wild and magnificent prospect. the afternoon he spend in trudge

over the parish, make himself acquaint with the farmer and other

inhabitant of the region. in the evening he read and write again. he

have not be there a week before he become conscious that the life have a

charm. he have write in the first few day of his depression to several

old friend implore they to have mercy on his loneliness. circumstance

delay their arrival, and at last when he have be there some six week,

a letter announce the arrival of an old friend and his wife for a

week’s visit give he, he confess, far more annoyance than pleasure.

he entertain they, however, but feel distinctly relieve when they

depart. at the end of the six month I see he, and he tell I that

solitude be a dangerous Circe, seductive, delicious, but one that should

be resolutely and deliberately shun, an opiate of which one could not

estimate the fascination. and I be not speak of a torpid or indolent

man, but a man of force, intellect, and cultivation, of a restless mind

and vivid interest.



    [_the passage that follow be either extract by the author

    himself from his own diary, or be take from a notebook

    contain fragment of an autobiographical character. when the

    date be ascertainable it be give at the head of the piece._—J. T.]









18





now I will draw, carefully, faithfully, and lovingly, the portrait

of some of my friend; they be not ever likely to set eye on the

delineation: and if by some chance they do, they will forgive I, I think.



I have choose three or four of the most typical of my not very numerous

neighbour, though there be many similar portrait scatter up and down

my diary.



it happen this morning that a small piece of parish business turn up

which necessitate my communicating with Sir James, our chief landowner.

Staunton be his name, and his rank be baronet. he come from a typically

english stock. as early as the fourteenth century the staunton seem to

have hold land in the parish; they be yeoman, no doubt, own a few

hundred acre of freehold. in the sixteenth century one of they drift

to London, make a fortune, and, die childless, leave his money to the

head of the house, who buy more land, build a large house, become

esquire, and eventually knight; his brass be in the church. they be

unimaginative folk, and whenever the country be divide, they generally

contrive to find themselves upon the prosaic and successful side.



[sidenote: the BISHOP]



early in the eighteenth century there be two brother: the young, a

clergyman, by some happy accident became connect with the Court, make

a fortunate marriage, and hold a deanery first, and then a bishopric.

here he amass a considerable fortune. his portrait, which hang at

the Park, represent a man with a face of the shape and colour of a

ripe plum, with hardly more distinction of feature, shroud in a full

wig. behind he, under a velvet curtain, stand his cathedral, in a

stormy sky. the bishop’s monument be one of the chief disfigurement,

or the chief ornament of our church, accord as your taste be

severe or catholic. it represent the deceased prelate in a reclining

attitude, with a somewhat rueful expression, as of a man fall from a

considerable height. over he bend a solicitous angel in the attitude

of one inquire what be amiss. one of the prelate’s delicate hand be

outstretche from a gigantic lawn sleeve, like a haggis, which require

an iron support to sustain it; the other elbow be prop upon some

marble volume of controversial divinity. in an alcove behind be a tumid

mitre, quite put into the shade a meagre celestial crown with marble

ray, which be push unceremoniously into the top of the recess.



[sidenote: the baronets]



the bishop succeed his eld brother in the estate, and add largely

to the property. the bishop’s only son sit for a neighbouring borough,

and be create a baronet for his service, which be of the most

straightforward kind. at this point, by one of the strange freak

of which even county family be sometimes guilty, a curious gleam

of romance flash across the dull record. the baronet’s eld son

develop dim literary taste, drift to London, become a hanger-on of

the Johnsonian circle—his name occur in footnote to literary memoir

of the period; marry a lady of questionable reputation, and publish

two volume of “letter to a Young Lady of Quality,” which combine, to a

quite singular degree, magnificence of diction with tenuity of thought.

this Jack Staunton be a spendthrift, and would have make strange havoc

of the estate, but his father fortunately outlive he; and by the offer

of a small pension to Mrs. Jack, who be leave hopelessly destitute,

contrive to get the little grandson and heir into his own hand. the

little boy develop into the kind of person that no one would desire as

a descendant, but that all would envy as an ancestor. he be a miser pure

and simple. in his day the tenant be grind down, rent be raise,

plantation be make, land be acquire in all direction; but the house

become ruinous, and the miserable owner, in a suit of coarse cloth like a

second-rate farmer, sneak about his land with a shy and secret smile,

avoid speech with tenant and neighbour alike, and eat small and

penurious meal in the dusty dining-room in company with an aged and

drunken bailiff, the discovery of whose constant attempt to defraud his

master of a few shilling be the delight and triumph of the baronet’s

life. he die a bachelor; at his death a cousin, a grandson of the first

baronet, succeed, and find that whatever else he have do, the miser

have leave immense accumulation of money behind he. this gentleman be in

the army, and fight at Waterloo, after which he imitate the example

of his class, and become an unflinche Tory politician. the fourth

baronet be a singularly inconspicuous person whom I can just remember,

whose principal diversion be his kennel. I have often see he when,

as a child, I use to lunch there with my mother, stand throughout the

meal in absolute silence, sip a glass of sherry on the hearthrug, and

slowly munch a large biscuit, and, before we withdraw, produce from

his pocket the envelope which have contain the correspondence of the

morning, and fill they with bone, piece of fat, fag-end of joint,

to bestow upon the dog in the course of the afternoon. this habit I

consider, as a child, to be distinctly agreeable, and I should have

be deeply disappointed if Sir John have ever fail to do it.



[sidenote: SIR JAMES]



the present Sir James be now a man of forty. he be at Eton and Trinity,

and for a short time in the Guards. he marry the daughter of a

neighbouring baronet, and at the age of thirty, when his father die,

settle down to the congenial occupation of a country gentleman. he be,

in spite of the fact that he have a large landed estate, a very wealthy

man. I imagine he have at least £20,000 a year. he have a London house,

to which Lady Staunton go for the season, but Sir James, who make a

point of accompany she, soon find that business necessitate his at

once return to the country; and I be not sure that the summer month,

which he spend absolutely alone, be not the most agreeable part of the

year for he. he have three stolid and healthy child—two boy and a

girl. he take no interest whatever in politic, religion, literature, or

art. he take in the _Standard_ and the _field_. he hunt a little, and

shoot a little, but do not care about either. he spend his morning

and afternoon in potter about the estate. in the evening he write a

few letter, dine well, read the paper and go to bed. he do not

care about dine out; indeed the prospect of a dinner-party or a dance

cloud the pleasure of the day. he go to church once on Sunday; he be

an active magistrate; he have, at long interval, two or three friend of

like taste to stay with he, who accompany he, much to his dislike,

in his perambulation, and stand about whistle, or stare at stack

and cattle, while he talk to the bailiff. but he be a kindly, cheery,

generous man, with a good head for business, and an idea of his position.

he be absolutely honourable and straightforward, and face an unpleasant

duty, when he have make up his mind to it, with entire tranquillity. no

mental speculation have ever come in his way; at school he be a sound,

healthy boy, good at game, who do his work punctually, and be of

blameless character. he make no particular friend; sit through school

after school, under various sort of master, never inattentive, and

never interested. he have a preference for dull and sober teacher, man

with whom, as he say, “you know where you be;” a stimulating teacher

bewildered him,—“always talk about poetry and rot.” at Cambridge it

be the same. he row in his College boat; he pass the prescribed

examination; he lead a clean healthy decorous life; and no idea, small

or great, no sense of beauty, no wonder at the scheme of thing, ever

enter his head. if by chance he ever find himself in the company of an

enthusiastic undergraduate, whose mind and heart be full of burn,

incomplete, fantastic thought, James listen politely to what he have

to say, hazard no statement, and say, in quiet after-comment,

“Gad, how that chap do jaw!” no one ever think he stupid; he know

what be go on; he be sociable, kind, not the least egotistical,

and far too much of a gentleman to exhibit the least complacency in his

position or wealth—only he know exactly what he like, and have none

of the pathetic admiration for talent that be sometimes find in the

unintellectual. when he go into the Guards it be just the same. he be

popular and respected, friendly with his man, perfectly punctual, capable

and respectable. he have no taste for wine or gambling, or disreputable

course. he admire nobody and nothing, and no one ever obtain the

slight influence over he. at home he be perfectly happy, kind to his

sister, ready to do anything he be ask, and to join in anything that

be go on. when he succeed to the estate, he go quietly to work to

find a wife, and marry a pretty, content girl, with the same notion

as himself. he never say an unkind thing to she, or to any of his

family, and express no extravagant affection for any one. he be trustee

for all his relation, and always find time to look after their affair.

he be always ready to subscribe to any good object, and have contrive

never to squabble with an angular ritualistic clergyman, who think he a

devoted son of the Church. he have decline several invitation to stand

for Parliament, and have no desire to be elevate to the Peerage. he will

probably live to a green old age, and leave an immense fortune. I do not

fancy that he be much give to meditate about his latter end; but if he

ever let his mind range over the life beyond the grave, he probably

anticipate vaguely that, under somewhat airy condition, he will

continue to enjoy the consideration of his fellow-being, and deserve

their respect.









19





for nearly ten year after we come to Golden End, the parish be

administer by an elderly clergyman, who have already be over twenty

year in the place. he be little know outside the district at all; I

doubt if, between the occasion of his appointment to the living and his

death, his name ever appear in the paper. the Bishop of the diocese

know nothing of he; if the name be mention in clerical society, it

be dismiss again with some such comment as “ah, poor Woodward! an able

man, I believe, but utterly unpractical;” and yet I have always hold this

man to be on the whole one of the most remarkable people I have ever

know.



[sidenote: MR. WOODWARD]



he be a tall thin man, with a slight stoop. he could not be call

handsome, but his face have a strange dignity and power; he have a pallid

complexion, at time indeed like parchment from its bloodlessness, and

dark hair which remain dark up to the very end. his eyebrow be

habitually draw up, give to his face a look of patient endurance;

his eyelid droop over his eye, which give his expression a certain

appearance of cynicism, but when he open they full, and turn they

upon you, they be dark, passionate, and with a peculiar brightness. his

lip be full and large, with beautiful curve, but slightly compress

as a rule, which give a sense of severity. he be clean shaven, and

always very carefully dress, but in somewhat secular style, with high

collar, a frock-coat and waistcoat, a full white cambric tie, and—I

shudder to relate it in these day—he be seldom to be see in black

trouser, but wear a shade of dark grey. if you have substitute a black

tie for a white one you would have have an ordinary english layman dress

as though for town—for he always wear a tall hat. he often ride about the

parish, when he wear a dark grey riding-suit with gaiter. I do not think

he ever give his clothe a thought, but he have the instinct of a fine

gentleman, and love neatness and cleanliness. he have never marry, but

his house be administer by an elderly sister—rather a grim, majestic

personage, with a sharp ironical tongue, and no great indulgence for

weakness. Miss Woodward consider herself an invalid, and only appear

in fine weather, drive in a smart little open carriage. they be

people of considerable wealth, and the rectory, which be an important

house stand in a large glebe, have two gardener and good stable,

and be furnish within, in a dignified way, with old solid furniture.

Mr. Woodward have a large library, and at the little dinner-party that

he give, where the food be of the simple, the plate be ancient and

abundant—old silver candlestick and salver in profusion—and a row of

family picture beam on you from the wall. Mr. Woodward use to say,

if any one admire any particular piece of plate, “yes, I believe it be

good; it be all collect by an old uncle of mine, who leave it to I

with his blessing for my lifetime. of course I don’t quite approve of

use it—I believe I ought not even to have two coat—but I cann’t sell

it, and meantime it look very nice and do no harm.” the living be

a wealthy one, but it be soon discover that Mr. Woodward spend all

that he receive on that head in the parish. he do not pauperise idle

parishioner, but he be always ready with a timely gift to tide an

honest man over a difficulty. he like to start the boy in life, and

would give a girl a little marriage portion. he pay for a parish nurse,

but at the same time he insist on almsgive as a duty. “I don’t do

these thing to save you the trouble of give,” he would say, “but to

give you a lead; and if I find that the offertory go down, then my

subscription will go down too;” but he would sometimes say that he

fear he be make thing difficult for his successor. “I cann’t help

that; if he be a good man the people will understand.”



[sidenote: the CHURCH]



Mr. Woodward be a great politician and use to say that it be a

perpetual temptation to he to sit over the paper in the morning instead

of do his work. but the result be that he always have something to

talk about, and his visit be enjoy by the least spiritual of his

parishioner. he be of course eclectic in his politic, and combine a

good deal of radicalism with an intense love and veneration for the past.

he restore his church with infinite care and taste, and be for ever

beautify it in small way. he use to say that there be two kind

of church-goer—the people who like the social aspect of the service,

who prefer a blaze of light, hearty singing, and the presence of a

large number of people; but that be other who prefer it from the

quiet and devotional side, and who be only distracted from the main

object of the service by the presence of alert and critical person.

consequently he have a little transept divide from the body of the church

by a simple screen, and keep the light low within it. the transept be

approach by a separate door, and he invite people who could not come

for the whole service to slip in for a little of it. at the same time

there be plenty of room in the church, and as the parish be not thickly

populate, so that you could be sure of find a seat in any part of

the church that suit your mood. he never would have a surplice choir;

and in the morning service, nothing be sing except the canticle and

hymn; but there be a fine organ build at his expense, and he offer a

sufficiently large salary to secure an organist of considerable taste and

skill. he greatly believe in music, and part of the organist’s duty be

to give a little recital once a week, which be generally well attend.

he himself be always present at the choir practice, and the result of

the whole be that the congregation sing well, with a tone and a feeling

that I have never hear in place where the indigenous material for

choral music be so scanty.



Mr. Woodward talk a good deal on religious subject, but with an ease

and a naturalness which save his hearer from any feeling of awkwardness

or affectation. I have never hear any one who seem to live so

naturally in the seen and the unseen together, and his transition from

mundane to religious talk be make with such simplicity that his hearer

feel no embarrassment or pain. after all, the ethical side of life be

what we be all interested in—moreover, Mr. Woodward have a decidedly

magnetic gift—that gift which, if it have be accompany with more fire

and volubility, would have make he an orator. as it be, the circle to

whom he talk feel insensibly interested in what he speak of, and at

the same time there be such a transparent simplicity about the man that

no one could have call he affect. his talk it would be impossible

to recall; it depend upon all sort of subtle and delicate effect

of personality. indeed, I remember once after an evening spend in his

company, during which he have talk with an extraordinary pathos and

emotion, I write down what I could remember of it. I look at it now and

wonder what the spell be; it seem so ordinary, so simple, so, may I

say, platitudinal.



yet I may mention two or three of his chance saying. I find he one

day in his study deeply engross in a book which I see be the Life of

Darwin. he leap to his foot to greet I, and after the usual courtesy

say, “what a wonderful book this be—it be from end to end nothing but

a cry for the Nicene Creed! the man walk along, do his duty so

splendidly and nobly, with such single-heartedness and simplicity, and

just miss the way all the time; the gospel he want be just the other

side of the wall. but he must know now, I think. whenever I go to the

Abbey, I always go straight to his grave, and kneel down close beside it,

and pray that his eye may be open. very foolish and wrong, I dare say,

but I cann’t help it!”



another day he find I work at a little pedigree of my father’s

simple ancestor. I have hunt their name up in an old register, and

there be quite a line of simple person to record. he look over my

shoulder at the sheet while I tell he what it be. “dear old folk!” he

say, “I hope you say a prayer now and then for some of they; they belong

to you and you to they, but I dare say they be sad socinian, many of

they (laugh). well, that’s all over now. I wonder what they do with

themselves over there?”



[sidenote: the PEACOCK]



Mr. Woodward be of course adore by the people of the village. in his

trim garden live a couple of pea-fowl—gruff and selfish bird, but very

beautiful to look at. Mr. Woodward have a singular delight in watch

the old peacock trail his glory in the sun. they roost in a tree

that overhang the road. there come to stay in the next village a sailor,

a ne’er-do-weel, who use to hang about with a gun. one evening Mr.

Woodward hear a shot fire in the lane, go out of his study, and find

that the sailor have shoot the peacock, who be lie on his back in the

road, feebly poke out his claw, while the aggressor be pull the

feather from his tail. Mr. Woodward be extraordinarily move. the man

catch in the act look confused and bewilder. “why do you shoot my

poor old bird?” say Mr. Woodward. the sailor in apology say he think

it be a pheasant. Mr. Woodward, on the verge of tear, carry the

helpless fowl into the garden, but find it be already dead, inter

it with his own hand, tell his sister at dinner what have happen, and

say no more.



but the story spread, and four stalwart young parishioner of Mr.

Woodward’s vow vengeance, catch the luckless sailor in a lane,

break his gun, and put he in the village pond, from which he emerge

a lamentable sight, curse and splutter; the process be sternly

repeat, and not until he hand over all his available cash for the

purpose of replace the bird do his judge desist. another peacock be

buy and present to Mr. Woodward, the offender be oblige to make

the presentation himself with an abject apology, be frankly tell that

the slight deviation from the programme would mean another lustral

washing.



the above story testify to the sort of position which Mr. Woodward hold

in his parish; and what be the most remarkable part of it, indicate

the esteem with which he be regard by the most difficult member of

a congregation to conciliate—the young man. but then Mr. Woodward be

at ease with the young man. he have talk to they as boy, with a grave

politeness which many people hold to be unnecessary in the case of the

young. he have encourage they to come to he in all sort of little

trouble. the man who have resent the loss of Mr. Woodward’s peacock

know he as an intimate and honoured family friend; he have tide one

over a small money difficulty, and smooth the path of an ambition

for another. he have claim no sacerdotal right over the liberty of

his people, but such allegiance as he have win be the allegiance that

always wait upon sympathy and goodwill; and far, he be shrewd

and practical in small concern, and have the great gift of foresee

contingency. he never forget the clerical character, but he make it

unobtrusive, keep it wait round the corner, and it be always there

when it be want.



[sidenote: the PROFESSOR]



I be present once at an interesting conversation between Mr. Woodward

and a distinguished university professor who by some accident be stay

with myself. the professor have express himself as much interested

in the condition of rural life and be lament to I the dissidence

which he think be grow up between the clergy and their flock. I

tell he about Mr. Woodward and take he to tea. the professor with a

courteous frankness attack Mr. Woodward on the same point. he say

that he believe that the raising of theological and clerical standard

have have the effect of turn the clergy into a class, enthusiastic, no

doubt, but interested in a small circle of thing to which they attach

extreme importance, though they be mostly traditional or antiquarian.

he say that they be lose their hold on english life, and incline

not so much to uphold a scrupulous standard of conduct, as to enforce a

preoccupation in doctrinal and liturgical question, interesting enough,

but of no practical importance. Mr. Woodward do not contradict he; the

professor, warm to his work, say that the ordinary village sermon

be of a futile kind, and possess no shrewdness or definiteness as a

rule. Mr. Woodward ask he to expand the idea—what ought the clergy

to preach about? “well,” say the professor, “they ought to touch on

politic—not party politic, of course, but social measure, historical

development and so forth. I be present,” he go on, “some year ago

when, in a country town, the Bishop of the diocese preach a sermon at

the parish church, the week after the French have be defeat at Sedan,

and the Bishop make not the slight allusion to the event, though

it be the dominant idea in the mind of the sensible member of the

congregation; the clergy ought not only to preach politic—they ought to

talk politic—they ought to show that they have the same interest as

their people.”



“oh, yes,” say Mr. Woodward, lean forward, “I agree with much that

you say, Professor—very much; but you look at thing in a different

perspective. we don’t think much about politic here in the country—home

politic a little, but foreign politic not at all. when we hear of

rumour of war we be not particularly troubled;” (with a smile) “and

when I have to try and encourage an old bedridden woman who be very much

bewilder with this world, and have no imagination leave to deal with

the next—and who be sadly afraid of her long journey in the dark—when I

have to try and argue with a naughty boy who have get some poor girl into

trouble, and don’t feel in his heart that he have do a selfish or a

brutal thing, be I to talk to they about the battle of Sedan, or even

about the reform of the House of Lords?”



the professor smile grimly, but perhaps a little foolishly, and do not

take up the challenge. but Mr. Woodward say to I a few day afterwards:

“I be very much interested in your friend the professor—a most amiable,

and, I should think, unselfish person. how good of he to interest

himself in the parish clergy! but you know, my dear boy, the intellectual

atmosphere be a difficult one to live in—a man need some very human

trial of his own to keep he humble and sane. I expect the professor

want a long illness!” (smile) “no, I dare say he be very good in his

own place, and do good work for Christ, but he be a man clothe in soft

raiment in these wild, and you and I must do all we can to prevent he

from rewrite the Lord’s Prayer. I be afraid he think there be a sad

absence of the intellectual element in it. it must be very distressing to

he to think how often it be use; and yet there be not an allusion to

politic in it—not even to comprehensive measure of social reform.”



[sidenote: MR. WOODWARD’S SERMONS]



Mr. Woodward’s sermon be always a pleasure to I. he tell I once that

he have a great dislike to use conventional religious language; and

thus, though he be in belief something of a High Churchman, he be so

careful to avoid catch-word or party formula that few people suspect

how high the doctrine be. I take an elderly evangelical aunt to church

once, when Mr. Woodward preach a sermon on baptismal regeneration of

rather an advanced type. I shudder to think of the denunciation which

I anticipate after church; indeed, I should not have be surprised if

my aunt have gather up her book—she be a masculine personage—and sweep

out of the building. both on the contrary, she listen intently, rather

moist-eye, I think, to the discourse, and afterwards speak to I with

extreme emphasis of it as a real _gospel_ sermon. Mr. Woodward write his

sermon, but often I think depart from the text. he discourse with a

simple tranquillity of manner that make each hearer feel as if he be

alone with he. his allusion to local event be thrill in their

directness and pathos; and in pass, I may say that he be the only

man I ever hear who make the giving out of notice, both in manner and

matter, into a fine art. on Christmas Day he use to speak about the

event of the year; one winter there be a bad epidemic of diphtheria in

the village, and several child die. the shepherd on one of the farm,

a somewhat gruff and unsociable character, lose two little child on

Christmas Eve. Mr. Woodward, unknown to I at the time, have spend the

evening with the unhappy man, who be almost beside himself with grief.



[sidenote: the CHRISTMAS SERMON]



in the sermon he begin quite simply, describe the scene of the first

Christmas Eve in a few picturesque word. then he quote Christina

Rossetti’s Christmas Carol—



    “in the bleak mid-winter

    Wintry wind make moan,”



dwell on the exquisite word in a way which bring the tear to my

eye. when he come to the line describe the gift make to Christ—



    “if I be a shepherd

    I would bring a lamb,”



he stop dead for some second. I feel sure that he have not think of

the application before. then he look down the church and say—



“I spend a long time yesterday in the house of one who follow the

calling of a shepherd among we.... he have give _two_ lamb to Christ.”



there be an uncontrollable throb of emotion in the large congregation,

and I confess that the tear fill my eye. Mr. Woodward go on—



“yes, it have please God to lead he through deep water; but I do

not think that he will altogether withhold from he something of his

Christmas joy. he know that they be safe with Christ—safe with Christ,

and wait for he there—and that will be more and more of a joy, and

less and less of a sorrow as the year go on, till God restore he the

dear child he have take from he now. we must not forget he in our

prayer.”



then after a pause he resume. there be no rhetoric or oratory about it;

but I have never in my life hear anything so absolutely affect and

move—any word which seem to go so straight from heart to heart; it

be the genius of humanity.



a few month after this Mr. Woodward die, as he always wish to die,

quite suddenly, in his chair. he have often say to I that he do hope he

wouldn’t die in bed, with bed-clothe tuck under his chin, and medicine

bottle by he; he say he be sure he would not make an edify end

under the circumstance. his heart have long be weak; and he be find

sit with his head on his breast as though asleep, smile to himself.

in one hand his pen be still clasp. I have never see such heartfelt

grief as be show at his funeral. his sister do not survive he a

month. the week after her death I walk up to the rectory, and find

the house be dismantle. Mr. Woodward’s book be be pack into

deal case; the study be already a dusty, awkward room. it be strange

to think of the sudden break-up of that centre of beautiful life and

high example. all over and do! yet not all; there be many grateful

heart who do not forget Mr. Woodward; and what he would have think

and what he would have say be still the natural guide for conduct in

a dozen simple household. if death must come, it be so that he would

have wish it; and Mr. Woodward could be call happy in life and death

perhaps more than any other man I have know.









20





[sidenote: MR. CUTHBERT]



who be to be Mr. Woodward’s successor? for some week we have live

in a state of agitated expectancy. one morning, soon after breakfast,

a card be bring to I—the Rev. Cyril Cuthbert. I go down to the

drawing-room and find my mother talk to a young clergyman, who rise

at my entrance, and inform I that he have be offer the living, and

that he have venture to call and consult I, add that he have be

tell I be all-powerful in the parish. I be distinctly prepossess by

his appearance, and perhaps by his appreciation, however exaggerated,

of my influence; he be a small man with thin feature, but bronze

and active; his hair be part in the middle and lie in wiry wave on

each side. he have small, almost feminine, hand and foot, and rather a

delicate walk. he be entirely self-possess, very genial in talk, with

a pleasant laugh; at the same time he give I an impression of strength.

he be dress in very old and shabby clothe, of decidedly clerical

cut, but his hat and coat be almost green from exposure to weather.

yet he be obviously a gentleman. I gather that he be the son of a

country squire, that he have be at a public school and Oxford, and that

he have be for some year a curate in a large manufacturing town. as we

talk my impression become more definite; the muscle of the jaw be

strongly develop, and I begin to fancy that the genial manner conceal

a considerable amount of self-will. he have the eye which I have be

lead to associate with the fanatic, of a certain cold blue, shallow and

impenetrable, which do not let you far into the soul, but meet you

with a bright and unshrinke gaze.



at his request I accompany he to church and vicarage. at the latter,

he say to I frankly that he be a poor man, and that he would not be

able to keep it up in the same style—“Indeed,” he say with a smile, “I

don’t think it would be right to do so.” I say that I don’t think it

very material, but that as a matter of fact I think that the perfection

of Mr. Woodward’s arrangement have have a humanising influence in the

place. at the church he be pleased at the neatness and general air of

use that the building have; but he look with disfavour at the simple

arrangement of the chancel. I notice that he bow and murmur a few

word of prayer when he enter the building. when we have examine the

church he say to I, “to speak frankly, Mr. ——,—I don’t know what your

view are,—but what be the church tone of this place like?” I say that

I hardly know how to describe it—the church certainly play a large

part in the life of the parishioner; but that I suppose that Mr.

Woodward would perhaps be call old-fashioned. “yes, indeed,” sigh Mr.

Cuthbert, look wearily round and shrug his shoulder. “the altar

indeed be distinctly dishonour to the blessed Sacrament—no attempt at

catholic practice or tradition. there be not, I see, even a second altar

in the church; but, please God, if he send I here we will change all

that.”



before we leave the church he fall on his knee and pray with absolute

self-absorption.



when we get outside he say to I: “may I tell you something? I have just

return from a visit to a friend of mine, a priest at A——; he have get

everything—simply everything; he be a noble fellow—if I could but hope to

imitate he.”



A—— be, I know, a great railway depôt, and think that Mr. Cuthbert

do not fully understand how very rural a parish we be, I say, “I be

afraid there be not very much scope here for great activity. we have a

reading-room and a club, but it have never be a great success—the people

willn’t turn out in the evening.”



“reading-room and club,” say Mr. Cuthbert in high disdain; “I do not

mean that kind of thing at all—I be think of thing much near the

heart of the people. herrie have incense and light, the eucharistic

vestment, he reserve the sacrament—you may see a dozen people kneel

before the tabernacle whenever you enter the church—he have often say to

I that he don’t know how he could keep hope alive in his heart in the

midst of such vice and sin, if it be not for the thought of the Blessed

Presence, in the midst of it, in the quiet church. he have a sisterhood in

his parish too under a very strict rule. they never leave the convent,

and spend whole day in intercession. the sacrament have be reserve

there for fifteen year. then confession be urge plainly upon all, and

it be a sight to make one thrill with joy to see the great rough navvy

bend before herrie as he sit in his embroidered stole, they tell

he the secret of their heart, and he bring they near to the joy

of their Lord. some of the workman in the parish be the most frequent

at confession. oh! he be a noble fellow; he tell I he have no time for

visit—positively no time at all. his whole day be spend in deepen

the devotional life—the hour be recite in the church—he give up ten

hour every week to the direction of penitent, and he must spend, I

should say, two hour a day at his _priedieu_. he say he could not have

strength for his work if he do not. his sermon be beautiful; he speak

from the heart without preparation. he say he have learn to trust the

Spirit, and just say what be give he to say.



“then he be devoted to his chorister, and they to he; it be a privilege

to see he surround by they in their little cassock while he lead

they in a simple meditation. and he be a man of a deeply tender spirit—I

have see he, dine with his curate, burst into tear at the mere

mention of the name of the dear Mother of Christ. I ought not to trouble

you with all this—I be too enthusiastic! but the sight of he have put

it into my heart more than anything else I have ever know to try and

build up a really catholic centre, which might do something to leaven the

heavy protestantism which be the curse of England. one more thing which

especially strike I; it move I to tear to hear one of his great rough

fellow—a shunter, I believe, who be often overthrow by the demon of

strong drink—talk so simply and faithfully of the Holy Mass: what rich

association that word have! nothing but eternity will ever reveal the

terrible loss which the disuse of that splendid word have inflict on our

unhappy England.”



I be too much bewilder by this statement to make any adequate reply,

but say to console he that I think the parish be wonderfully

good, and prepare to look upon the clergyman as a friend. “yes,” say

Mr. Cuthbert, “that be all very well for a beginning, but it must

be something more than that. they must revere he as steward of the

mystery of God—they must be ready to open their inmost heart to he;

they must come to recognise that it be through he, as a consecrated

priest of Christ, that the high spiritual blessing can reach they:

that he alone can confer upon they the absolution which can set they free

from the guilt of sin.”



I feel that I ought not to let Mr. Cuthbert think that I be altogether

of the same mind with he in these matter and so I say: “well, you must

remember that all this be unfamiliar here; Mr. Woodward do not approve

of confession—he hold that habitual confession be weaken to the moral

nature, and encourage the most hysterical kind of egotism—though no

one be more ready to listen to any one’s trouble and to give the most

love advice in real difficulty. but as to the point about absolution,

I think he feel, and I should agree with he, that God only can forgive

sin, and that the clergy be merely the human interpreter of that

forgiveness; it be so much more easy to apprehend a great moral principle

like the forgiveness of sin from another human being than to arrive at it

in the silence of one’s own troubled heart.”



Mr. Cuthbert smile, not very pleasantly, and say, “I have hope you

would have share my view more warmly—it be a disappointment! seriously,

the power to bind and loose confer on the apostle by Christ

Himself—do that mean nothing?”



“yes, indeed,” I say, “the clergy be the accredited minister in the

matter, of course, and they have a sacred charge, but as to power

confer upon the apostle, it seem that other power be confer on

his follower which they no long possess—they be to drink poison with

impunity, handle venomous snake, and even to heal the sick.”



“purely local and temporary provision,” say Mr. Cuthbert, “which we

have no doubt forfeit—if indeed we have forfeit they—by want of

faith. the other be a gift for time and eternity.”



“I don’t remember,” I say, “that any such distinction be lay down in

the Gospel—but in any case you would not maintain, would you, that they

possess the power _proprio motu_? to push it to extreme, that if a man

be absolve by a priest, God’s forgiveness be bind to follow, even if

the priest be deceive as to the reality of the penitence which claim

forgiveness.”



Mr. Cuthbert frown and say, “to I it be not a question of theorising.

it be a purely practical matter. I look upon it in this way—if a man be

absolve by a priest, he be sure he be forgive; if he be not, he cannot

be sure of forgiveness.”



“I should hold,” I say, “that it be purely a matter of inner penitence.

but I do not mean to entangle you in a theological argument—and I hope

we be at one on essential matter.”



as we walk back I point out to he some of my favourite view—the

long back of the distant down; the dark forest tract that close the

northern horizon—but he look with courteous indifference: his heart be

full of catholic tradition.



we hear a few day after that he have accept the living, and we ask

he to come and stay with we while he be get into the vicarage,

which he be furnish with austere severity. Mr. Woodward’s pleasant

dark study become a somewhat grim library, with book in deal shelf,

carpet with mat and with a large deal table to work at. Mr.

Cuthbert dwell much on the thought of sit there in a cassock with a

tippet, but I do not think he have any of the instinct of a student—it

be rather the _mise-en-scène_ that please he. a bedroom become an

oratory, with a large ivory crucifix. the dining-room he call his

refectory, and he have a scheme at one time of have two young man to do

the housework and cooking, which fortunately fall through, though they

be to have have cassock with cord-girdle, and to have be call

lay brother. on the other hand he be a very pleasant visitor, as long

as theological discussion be avoid. he be bright, gay, outwardly

sympathetic, full of a certain kind of humour, and with all the way of

a fine gentleman. the more I disagree with he the more I like he

personally.



one evening after dinner, as we sit smoke—he be a great smoker—we have

a rather serious discussion. I say to he that I really should like to

understand what his theory of church work be.



[sidenote: CATHOLIC TRADITION]



“it be all sum up in two phrase,” say Mr. Cuthbert. “catholic

practice—catholic tradition. I hold that the Reformation inflict

a grievous blow upon this country. to break with Rome be almost

inevitable, I admit, because of the corruption of doctrine that be

begin; but we need not have throw over all manner of high and holy

way and tradition, solemn accessory of worship, tender assistance

to devotion, any more than the Puritans be bind to break statue and

damage stain glass window.”



“quite so,” I say; “but where do this catholic tradition come from?”



“from the Primitive Church,” say Mr. Cuthbert. “as far back as we can

trace the history of church practice we find these, or many of these,

exquisite ceremony, which I for one think it a solemn duty to try and

restore.”



“but after all,” I say, “they be of human origin, be they not? you

would not say that they have a divine sanction?”



“well,” say Mr. Cuthbert, “their sanction be practically divine. we read

that in the last day spend by our Lord in his glorify nature on the

earth, he ‘spake to they of the thing concern the Kingdom of God.’

I myself think it be only reasonable to suppose that he be lay down

the precise ceremonial that he wish should attend the worship of his

Kingdom. I do not think that extravagant.”



“but,” I say, “be not the whole tenor of his teaching against such

ceremonial precision? do he not for his Sacraments choose the simple

and humble action of daily life—eat and drinking? be he not always

find fault with the Pharisees for forget spiritual truth in their

zeal for tradition and practice?”



“yes,” say Mr. Cuthbert, “for _forget_ the weighty matter of the

law; but he approve of their ceremonial. he say: ‘these ought ye to

have do, and not to have leave the other undone.’”



“I believe myself,” I say, “that he feel they should have obey their

conscience in the matter; but surely the whole of the teaching of the

Gospel be to loose human being from tyranny of detail, and to teach they

to live a simple life on great principle?”



“I cannot agree,” say Mr. Cuthbert. “the instinct for reverence, for the

reverent and seemly expression of spiritual feeling, for the symbolic

representation of spiritual feeling, for the symbolic representation of

divine truth be a depreciated one, but a true one; and this instinct he

graciously define, fortified, and consecrate; and I believe that the

Church be follow the true guidance of the Spirit in the matter, when

it slowly build up the grand and massive fabric of catholic practice and

tradition.”



“but,” I say, “who be the Church? there be a great many people who

feel the exact opposite of what you maintain—and true Christians too.”



“they be grievously mistaken,” say Mr. Cuthbert, “and suffer an

irreparable loss.”



“but who be to decide?” I say, a little nettled.



“a General Œcumenical Council would be competent to do so,” say Mr.

Cuthbert.



“do you mean of the Anglican Communion?” I say.



“oh dear, no,” say Mr. Cuthbert. “the Anglican Communion indeed! no;

such a Council must have representative of all church who have

receive and maintain the divine succession.”



“but,” say I, “you must know that the thing be impossible. who could

summon such a Council, and who would attend it?”



“that be not my business,” say Mr. Cuthbert; “I do not want any such

Council. I be sure of my position; it be only you and other who wish

to sacrifice the most exquisite part of christian life who need such a

solution. I be content with what I know; and humbly and faithfully I

shall attempt as far as I can to follow the dictate of my conscience in

the matter to endeavor to bring it home to the conscience of my flock.”



I feel I could not carry the argument far without loss of temper; but

it be surprising to I how I continue to like, and even to respect, the

man.



he have not, it must be confess, obtain any great hold on the parish.

Mr. Woodward’s quiet, delicate, fatherly work have go; but Mr. Cuthbert

have a few woman who attend confession, and he be content. he have adorn

the church accord to his view, and the congregation think it rather

pretty. they do not dislike his sermon, though they do not understand

they; and as for his vestment, they regard they with a mild and somewhat

bewildered interest. they like to see Mr. Cuthbert, he be so pleasant

and good-humour. he be assiduous in his visiting, and very assiduous

in hold daily service, which be entirely unattended. he have no

priestly influence; and I fear it would pain he deeply if he know that

his social influence be considerable. personally, I find he a pleasant

neighbour and highly congenial companion. we have many agreeable talk;

and when I be in that irritable tense mood which be apt to develop in

solitude, and which can only be clear by an ebullition of spleen,

I walk up to the vicarage and have a theological argument. it do

neither myself nor Mr. Cuthbert any harm, and we be well friend than

ever—indeed, he call I quite the most agreeable Erastian he know.









21





[sidenote: the RECLUSE]



let I try to sketch the most arcadian scholar I have ever see or

dream of; they be common enough in book; the gentleman of high

family, with lustrous eye and thin veined hand, who sit among musty

folio—Heaven know what he be suppose to be study, or why they need

be musty—who be in some very nebulous way believe to watch the movement

of the heaven, who take no notice of his prattling golden-haired

daughter, except to print an absent kiss upon her brow—if there be such

person they be hard to encounter.



there be a little market-town a mile or two away, nestle among steep

valley; the cow that graze on the steep field that surround it look

down into the chimney-pot and back garden. one of the converging

valley be rich in wood, and have a pleasant trout-stream, that flow

among elder, bicker along by woodland corner, and run brim

through rich water meadow, full of meadowsweet and willow-herb—the

place in summer have a hot honied smell. you need not follow the road,

but you may take an aimless footpath, which meander from stile to stile

in a leisurely way. after a mile or so a little stream bubble in on the

left; and close beside it an old deep farm-road, full of boulder and

mud in winter, half road, half water-course, plunge down from the wood.

all the hedge be full of gnarl root fringe with luxuriant fern.

on a cloudy summer day it be like a hothouse here, and the flower know

it and revel in the warm grow air. high and high the road go;

then it pass a farm-house, once an ancient manor: the wall green with

lichen and moss, and a curious ancient cognizance, a bear with a ragged

staff clasp in his paw, over the doorway. the farm be embower in

huge sprawl laurel and have a little garden, with box hedge and

sharp savoury smell of herb and sweet-william, and a row of hum

hive. push open the byre gate and go far yet; we be near the crest

of the hill now: just below the top grow a thick wood of larch, set

close together. you would not know there be a house in here. there be

a little rustic gate at the corner of the plantation, and a path, just a

track, rarely trodden, soft with a carpet of innumerable larch-needle.



presently you come in sight of a small yellow stone house; not a

venerable house, nor a beautiful one—if anything, a little pretentious,

and look as if the heart of the plantation have be cut out to build

it as indeed it be; round-top window, high parapet, no roof

visible, and only one rather makeshift chimney; the whole air of it

rather sinister, and at the same time shameface—a little as though it

set out to be castellate and have suddenly shrink and collapse, and be

hastily finish. a gravel walk very full of weed run immediately round

the house; there be no garden, but a small enclosure for cabbage grow

very rank. in most of the window hang dirty-look blind half pull

down; a general air of sordid neglect brood over the place. here in this

house have live for many year—and, for all I know, live there still—a

retire gentleman, a public school and University man, who have take high

honour at the latter; not rich, but with a competence. what have cause

his seclusion from the world I do not know, and I be not particular to

inquire; whether a false step and the forced abandonment of a career, a

disappointment of some kind, a hypochondriacal whim, or a settled and

deliberate resolution. I know not, but always hope the last.



from some slight indication I have think that, for some reason or

other, in youth, my recluse have cause to think that his life would not

be a long one—his selection of a site be apparently fortuitous. he

prefer a mild climate, and, it seem, take a fancy to the very remote

and sequester character of the valley; he buy a few acre of land,

plant they with larch, and in the centre erect the unsightly house

which I have describe.



inside the place be rather more attractive than you would have expect.

there be a pinched little entry, rather bare, and a steep staircase

lead to the upper region; in front of you a door lead to some

office; on the leave a door that open into a large room to which all

the rest of the house have be sacrifice. it have three window, much

overshadow by the larch, which indeed at one corner actually touch

the house and sweep the window as they sway in the breeze. the room

be barely furnish, with a carpet fade beyond recognition, and high

press, mostly contain book. an oak table stand near one of the

window, where our hermit take his meal; another table, cover with

book, be set near the fireplace; at the far end a door lead into an ugly

slit of a room light by a skylight, where he sleep. but I gather

that for day together he do not go to bed, but doze in his chair. on

the wall hang two or three portrait, black with age. one of an officer

in a military uniform of the last century with a huge, adumbrate

cock-hat; a divine in band and wig; and a pinch-look lady in blue

silk with two boy. his only servant be an elderly strong-look woman

of about fifty, with a look of intense mental suffering on her face,

and weary eye which she seldom lift from the floor. I never hear

her utter more than three consecutive word. she be afflict I hear,

not from herself, with a power of see apparition, not, curiously,

in the house, but in the wood all round; she tell Mr. Woodward that

“the dead use to look in at the window at noon and beckon she out.” in

consequence of this she have not set foot outside the door for twenty

year, except once, when her master have be attack by sudden illness.

the only outside servant he have be a surly man who live in a cottage

a quarter of a mile away on the high-road, who market for they, draw

water, and meet the carrier’s cart which bring their necessary.



the man himself be a student of history: he never write, except a few

marginal note in his book. he be totally ignorant of what be go

on, take in no paper, and ask no question as to current event. he

receive no letter, and the only parcel that come to he be box

of book from a London library—memoir, historical treatise, and

biography of the last century. I take it he have a minute knowledge

of the social and political life of England up to the beginning of the

present century; he receive no one but Mr. Woodward who see he two or

three time a year, and it be with Mr. Woodward that I go, make the

excuse (which be actually the case) that some literary work that I be

do be suspend for want of book.



we be show in; he do not rise to receive we, but greet we with

extreme cordiality, and an old-fashioned kind of courtesy, absolutely

without embarrassment. he be a tall, thin man, with a fair complexion,

and straggle hair and beard. he seem to be in excellent health; and I

learn that in the matter of food and drink he be singularly abstemious,

which account for his clear complexion and brilliant eye. he smoke in

moderation a very fragrant tobacco of which he give I a small quantity,

but refuse to say where he obtain it. there be an air of infinite

contentment about he. he seem to I to hope for nothing and expect

nothing from life; to live in the moment and for the moment. if ever I

see serene happiness write on a face in legible character, it be

there. he talk a little on theological point, with an air of gentle

good-humour, to Mr. Woodward, somewhat as you might talk to a child, with

amiable interest in the unexpected cleverness of its reply; he give I

the information I request clearly and concisely but with no apparent

z, and seem to have no wish to dwell on the subject or to part with

his store of knowledge.



his one form of exercise be long vague walk; in the winter he rarely

leave the house except on moonlight night; but in the summer he be

accustomed to start as soon as it be light, and to ramble, never on the

road, but by unfrequented field-path, for mile and mile, generally

return before the ordinary world be astir. on hot day he would sit

by the stream in a very remote nook beneath a high bank where the water

run swiftly down a narrow channel, and swing into a deep black pool;

here, I be tell, he would stay for hour with his eye fix on the

water, lose in some mysterious reverie. I take it he be a poet without

power of expression, and his heart be as clean as a child’s.



[sidenote: MODERN life]



it be the fashion now to talk with much affected weariness of the hurry

and bustle of modern life. no doubt such thing be to be find if you go

in search of they; and to have your life attend by a great quantity of

either be generally hold to be a sign of success. but the truth be, that

this be what ordinary people like. the ordinary man have no precise idea

what to do with his time. he need to have it fill up by a good many

conflicting and petty duty, and if it be fill he have a feeling that

he be useful. but many of these duty be only necessary because of the

existence of each other; it be a vicious circle. “what be those field

for?” say a squire who have lately succeed to an estate, as he walk

round with the bailiff. “to grow oat, sir.” “and what do you do with the

oat?” “feed the horse, sir.” “and what do you want the horse for?” “to

plough the field, sir.” that be what much of the bustle of modern life

consist of.



Solitude and silence be a great strain; but if you enjoy they they be

at least harmless, which be more than can be say of many activity.

such be not perhaps the temper in which continent be explore, battle

win, empire extend, fortune make. but whatever concrete gain we make

for ourselves must be take from other; and we ought to be very certain

indeed of the meaning of this life, and the nature of the world to which

we all migrate, before we immerse ourselves in self-contrive business.

to be natural, to find our true life, to be independent of luxury, not

to be at the mercy of prejudice and false ideal—that be the secret of

life: who can say that it be a secret that we most of we make our own?

my recluse, I think, be near the Kingdom of Heaven, where place be

not lay accord to the table of precedence, than many man who have

have biography and statue, and who will be, I fear, sadly adrift in the

world of silence into which they may be flung.









22





                                                          _Nov. 6, 1890._



to-day the gale have blow itself out; all yesterday it bluster round

corner, shake casement, thunder in the chimney, and roar in the

pine. now it be bright and fresh, and the steady wind be route one by

one the few cloud that hang in the sky. I come in yesterday at dusk,

and the whole heaven be full of great ragged, lower storm-wreath,

weep wildly and sadly; now the rain be over, though in the morning a

sudden dash of great drop mingle with hail make the windows patter; but

the sun shine out very low and white from the cloud, even while the hail

leapt on the window-sill.



I take the field-path that wander aimlessly away below the house; the

water lie in the grass, and the sodden leave have a bitter smell. the

copse be very bare, and the stream run hoarse and turbid. the way

wound by fallow and hedge—now thread a steep copse, now along the

silent water-meadow, now through an open forest space, with faggot

tie and pile, or by a cattle byre. here and there I turn into a

country lane, till at last the village of Spyfield lie before I, with

the ancient church of dark sandstone and the little street of handsome

georgian house, very neat and prim—a place, you would think, where every

one go to bed at ten, and where no murmur of war ever penetrate.



just beyond the village, my friend, Mr. Campden, the great artist, have

build himself a palace. it be somewhat rococo, no doubt, with its marble

terrace and its gilded cupola. but it gleam in the dark hang wood

with an exotic beauty of its own, as if a Genie have uproot it from a

tuscan slope, and plant it swiftly, in an unfamiliar world, in an hour

of breathless labour between the twilight and the dawn. still, fantastic

as it be, it be an agreeable contrast to the brick-build mansion, with

their slate turret, that have lately, alas, begin to alight in our

woodland.



[sidenote: MR. CAMPDEN]



Mr. Campden be a real prince, a Lorenzo the Magnificent; not only be he

the painter of picture which command a high price, though to I they

be little more than harmonious wallpaper; but he bind book, make

furniture, weave tapestry, and even bake tile and pottery; and the

slender minaret that rise from a plain, windowless building on the

right, be nothing but a conceal chimney. moreover, he inherit through

a relative’s death an immense fortune, so that he be a millionaire as

well. to-day I follow the little steep lane that skirt his domain,

and halt for a moment at a great grille of ironwork, which give the

passer-by a romantic and generous glimpse of a pleached alley, terminate

by a mysterious leaden statue. I peep in cautiously, and see the

great man in a blue suit, with a fur cloak throw round his shoulder,

a slouched hat set back from his forehead, and a loose red tie gleaming

from his low-cut collar. I be near enough to see his wavy white hair

and beard, his keen eye, his thin hand, as he pace delicately about,

breathe the air, and look critically at the exquisite house beyond

he. I be sure of a welcome from Mr. Campden—indeed, he have a princely

welcome for all the world—but to-day I feel a certain simple schoolboy

shyness, which ill accord with Mr. Campden’s venetian manner. it be

delightful after long rusticity to be with he, but it be like take

a part in some solemn and affect dance; to Mr. Campden I be the

student-recluse, and to be gracefully banter accordingly, and ask

a series of question on matter with which I be wholly unacquainted,

but which be all part of the setting with which his pictorial mind have

dower I. on my first visit to he I speak of the field-name of the

neighbourhood, and so Mr. Campden speak to I of Domesday Book, which I

have never see. I happen to express—in sheer wantonness—an interest

in strange bird, and I have ever since to Mr. Campden be a man who,

in the interval of read Domesday Book, stand in all weather on

hilltop, or by reedy stream-end, watch for eagle and swan, like a

Roman augur—indeed Augur be the name he give I—our dear Augur—when I be

introduce to his great friend.



Mr. Campden have an infinite contempt for the gentleman of the

neighbourhood, whom he treat with splendid courtesy, and the kind of

patronise amusement with which one listen to the prattle of a rustic

child. it be a matter of uncease merriment to I to see he with a

young squire of the neighbourhood, an intelligent young fellow who have

travel a good deal, and be a considerable reader. he have a certain

superficial shyness, and consequently have never be able to secure

enough of the talk for himself to show Mr. Campden what he be think

of; and Mr. Campden at once board he with question about the price

of egg and the rotation of crop, call he, “will Honeycomb” from

the _spectator_; and when ply with nervous question as to Perugino or

Carlo Dolce, say grandiloquently, “my dear young man, I know nothing

whatever about it; I leave that to the critic. I be a republican in art,

a red indeed, ha, ha! and you and I must not concern ourselves with such

thing. here we be in the country, and we must talk of _bullock_. tell

I now, in Lorton market last week, what price do a Tegg fetch?”



Mr. Campden be extraordinarily ignorant of all country matter, and

have a small stock of ancient provincial word, not indigenous to the

neighbourhood, but gather from local history, that he produce with

complacent pride. indeed, I do not know that I ever see a more ludicrous

scene than Mr. Campden talk agriculture to a distinguished scientific

man, whom a neighbouring squire have bring over to tea with he, and

whom he take for a landowner. to hear Mr. Campden explain a subject

with which he be not acquaint to a courteous scientist, who do not

even know to what he be allude, be a sight to make angel laugh.



but to-day I let Mr. Campden pace like a peacock up and down his

pleasaunce, with his greyhound follow he, and thread the

water-meadow homeward. I give myself up to the luxurious influence

of solitude and cool air, and walk slowly, indifferent where I go,

by sandstone pit, by brim stream, through dripping covert, till

the day decline. what do I think of? I hardly dare confess. there be

two or three ludicrous, pitiful ambition that lurk in the corner of my

mind, which, when I be alone and aimless, I take out and hold, as a child

hold a doll, while fancy invest they with radiant hue. these and no

other be my mental pabulum. I know they cannot be realise—indeed, I

do not desire they—but these odd and dusty fancy remain with I from

far-off boyish day; and many a time have I thus parade they in all

their silliness.



[sidenote: HOME]



but the hedgerow grass grow indistinguishably grey; the cattle splash

home along the road; the sharp smell of wood smoke from cottage fire,

pile for the long evening, steal down the woodway; pheasant mutter

and crow in the covert, and sprang clang to their roost. the

murmur of the stream become loud and more insistent; and as I turn

the corner of the wood, it be with a glow of pleasure that I see the

sober gable of Golden End, and the hall window, like a red solemn eye,

gaze cheerily upon the misty valley.









23





                                                          _July 7, 1891._



[sidenote: in the WOODS]



I cannot tell why it be, but to be alone among wood, especially towards

evening, be often attend with a vague unrest, an unsubstantial awe,

which, though of the nature of pleasure, be perilously near the confine

of horror. on certain day, when the nerve be very alert and the wood

unusually still, I have know the sense become almost insupportable.

there be a certain feeling of be haunt, follow, watch, almost

dog, which be bewildering and unmanning. foolish as it may appear, I

have find the carrying of a gun almost a relief on such occasion. but

what heighten the sense in a strange degree be the presence of still

water. a stream be lively—it encourage and console; but the sight of

a long dark lake, with the wood come down to the water’s edge, be a

sight so solemn as to be positively oppressive. each kind of natural

scenery have its own awe—the _genius loci_, so to speak. on a grassy down

there be the terror of the huge open-eyed gaze of the sky. in craggy

mountain there be something wild and beastlike frown from the rock.

among ice and snow there be something mercilessly pure and averse to

life; but neither of these be so intense or definite as the horror of

still wood and silent water. the feeling be admirably express by Mr.

George Macdonald in _Phantastes_, a magical book. it be that sensation

of haunt presence hide behind tree, watch we timidly from the

fern, peep from dark copse, rest among fantastic and weather-wear

rock, that find expression in the story of dryad and fairy, which

seem so deeply implant in the mind of man. who, on come out through

dark wood into some green sequester lawn, set deep in the fringing

forest, have not have the sensation of an interrupted revel, as festivity

suddenly abandon by wild, ethereal nature, who have shrink in silent

alarm back into the sheltering shade? if only one have be more wary,

and steal a moment early upon the unsuspecting company!



but there be a dark and cloudy sensation, the _admonitus locorum_,

which I have experience upon field of battle, and place where

some huge tragedy of human suffering and excitement have be work.

I have feel it upon the rustic ploughland of Jena, and on the grassy

slope of Flodden; it have creep over I under the mouldering wall and

frown gateway of old guard town; and not only there, where it may

be nothing but the reflex of shadowy imagination, but on wind-sweep

moor and tranquil valley, I have feel, by some secret intuition, some

overpower tremor of spirit, that here some desperate strife have be

wage, some primeval conflict enact. there be a spot in the valley of

Llanthony, a grassy tumulus among steep green hill, where the sense come

over I with an uncontrollable throb of insight, that here some desperate

stand be make, some barbarous Themopylæ lose or win.



[sidenote: a DARK SECRET]



there be a place near Golden end where I encounter a singular

experience. I own that I never pass it now without some obsession

of feeling; indeed, I will confess that when I be alone I take a

considerable circuit to avoid the place. an ancient footway, trodden deep

in a sandy covert, wind up through a copse, and come out into a quiet

place far from the high-road, in the heart of the wood. here stand a

mouldering barn, and there be two or three shrub, an escalonia and a

cypress, that testify to some remote human occupation. there be a stretch

of green sward, vary with bracken, and on the left a deep excavation,

where sand have be dig: in winter, a pool; in summer, a marshy place

full of stiff, lush water-plant. in this place, time after time as I

pass it, there seem to be a strange silence. no bird seem to sing

here, no woodland beast to frisk here; a secret shame or horror rest

on the spot. it be with no sense of surprise, but rather of resolve

doubt, that I find, one bright morning, two labour man bent over

some object that lie upon the ground. when they see I, they seem at

first to hesitate, and then ask I to come and look. it be a spectacle

of singular horror: they have draw from the marshy edge of the pool

the tiny skeleton of a child, wrap in some oozy and ragged cloth;

the slime dripping from the eyeless cavity of the little skull, and

the weed trail over the unsightly cerement. it have catch the eye

of one of they as they be pass. “the place have always have an evil

name,” say one of they with a strange solemnity. there have be a house

there, I gather, inhabit by a mysterious evil family, a place of

dark sin and hideous tradition. the stock have dwindle down to a wild

solitary woman, who extract a bare sustenance out of a tiny farm, and

who alternate long period of torpid gloom with disgusting orgy of

drunkenness. thirty year ago she have die, and the farm have remain

so long unlet that it be at last pull down, and the land plant

with wood. subsequent investigation reveal nothing; and the body have

lain there, it be think, for fully that time, preserve from decay

by an iron-bind box in which it have be enclose, and of which some

trace still remain in reddish smear of rust and clot nail. that

picture—the sunlit morning, the troubled face of the man, the silent

spectatorial wood—have dwell with I ineffaceably.



[sidenote: OBSESSION]



again, I have be constantly visit by the same inexplicable sensation

in a certain room at Golden End. the room in question be a great bare

chamber at the top of the house: the wall be plaster, and cover in

all direction by solid warped beam; through the closed and dusty window

the sunlight filter sordidly into the room. I do not know why it have

never be furnish, but I gather that my father take an unexplained

dislike to the room from the first. the odd feature of it be, that in

the wall at one end be a small door, as of a cupboard, some foot from

the ground, which open, not as you would expect into a cupboard, but

into a loft, where you can see the tile, the brickwork of the cluster

chimney-stack, and the plaster lathwork of the floor, in and below

the joist of the timber. this strange opening can never have be a

window, because the shutter be of the same date as the house; still less

a door, for it be hardly possible to squeeze through it; but as the loft

into which it look be an accretion of later date than the room itself,

it seem to I that the garret may have be once a granary up to which

sack be swing from the ground by a pulley; and this be make more

possible by the existence of some iron staple on the outer side of it,

that appear to have once control some simple mechanism.



[sidenote: the evil ROOM]



the room be now a mere receptacle for lumber, but it be strange that all

who enter it, even the new inmate of the house, take an unaccountable

dislike to the place. I have myself struggle against the feeling; I

once indeed shut myself up there on a sunny afternoon, and endeavour

to shame myself by pure reason out of the disagreeable, almost physical

sensation that at once come over I, but all in vain; there be something

about the bare room, with its dusty and worm-eat floor, the hot

stagnant air, the float mote in the stained sunlight, and above

all the sinister little door, that give I a discomfort that it seem

impossible to express in speech. my own room must have be the scene

of many a serious human event. sick man must have lain there; hopeless

prayer must have echo there; child must have be bear there, and

soul must have quit their shattered tenement beneath its ancient

panel. but these have after all be normal experience; in the other

room, I make no doubt, some altogether abnormal event must have happen,

something of which the ethereal aroma, as of some evil, penetrate acid,

must have bite deep into wall and floor, and soak the very beam of

the roof with anxious and disturbed oppression. in feverish fancy I see

strange thing enact themselves; I see at the dead of night pale head

crane from the window, oppressive silence hold the room, as some dim

and ugly burden jerk and dangle from the descend rope, while the

rude gear creak and rustle, and the vane upon the cupola sing its

melancholy rusty song in the glimmering darkness. it be strange that the

mind should be so tangibly impressed and yet should have no power give

it to solve the sad enigma.









24





                                                         _Sep. 10, 1891._



[sidenote: the country]



very few consecutive day pass at Golden end without my contrive to get

what I most enjoy in the form of exercise—a long, slow, solitary ride;

severer activity be deny I. I have a strong, big-boned, amiable

horse—strength be the one desideratum in a horse, in country where, to

reach a point that appear to be a quarter of a mile away, it be often

necessary to descend by a steep lane to a point two or three hundred

foot below and to ascend a corresponding acclivity on the other side.

sometimes my ride have a definite object. I have to see a neighbouring

farmer on business, or there be shop to be do at Spyfield, or

a distant call have to be pay—but it be good when there be no such

scheme—and the result be that after a few year there be hardly a lane

within a radius of five mile that I have not carefully explore and

hardly a hamlet within ten mile that I have not visit.



the by-lane be the most attractive feature. you turn out of the

high-road down a steep sandy track, with high bank overhang by hazel

and spindlewood and oak-copse; the ground fall rapidly. through gap at

the side you can see the high, slope forest glade opposite, or look

along lonely green ride which lead straight into the heart of silent

wood. there have be as a rule no parsimonious policy of enclosure,

and the result be that there be often wide grassy space beside the

road, thick-set with furze or forest undergrowth, with here and there

a tiny pool, or a little dingle where sandstone have be dig. down at

the base of the hill you find a stream run deep below a rustic

white-rail bridge, through sandy cutting, all richly embower with

alder, and murmur pleasantly through tall water-plant. here and

there be a weather-tile cottage, with a board gable and a huge brick

chimney-stack, flank by a monstrous yew. suddenly the road strike

into a piece of common, a true english forest, with a few huge beech,

and thick covert of fern and sapling; still high and you be on open

ground, with the fragrant air blow off the heather; a clump of pine

mark the summit, and in an instant the roll plain lie before you,

rich in wood, rise in billowy range, with the smoke go up from a

hundred hamlet, and the shadowy down close the horizon. then you can

ride a mile or two on soft white sand-path wind in and out among the

heather, while the sun go slowly down among purple island of cloud,

with gild promontory and fiord of rosy light, and the landscape

grow more and more indistinct and romantic, suffuse in a golden haze.

at last it be time to turn homeward, and you wind down into a leafy

dingle, where the air lie in cool strata across the sun-warm path,

and fragrant wood-smell, from the heart of wind way and marshy

streamlet, pour out of the green dusk. the whole day you have hardly

see a human being—an old labourer have look out with a slow bovine

stare from some field-corner, a group of cottage child have hail you

over a fence, or a carter walk beside a clink team have give you a

muttered greeting—the only sound have be the voice of bird break

from the thicket, the rustle of leave, the murmuring of unseen stream,

and the padding of your horse’s hoof in the sandy lane.



[sidenote: the PEACEFUL MIND]



and what do the mind do in these tranquil hour? I hardly know.

the thought run in a little leisurely stream, glance from point to

point; the observation be, I notice, prematurely acute, and, though

the intellectual faculty be in abeyance, drink in impression with

greedy delight: the feathery, blue-green foliage of the ash-sucker, the

grotesque, geometrical form in the lonely sandstone quarry, the curve

water-meadow with their tousled grass, the stone-leek on the roof of

mellow barn, the flash of white chalk-quarry carve out of distant

down, the climbing, cluster roof of the hamlet on the neighbouring

ridge.



some would say that the mind in such hour grow dull, narrow, rustical,

and slow—“in the lonely vale of stream,” as Ossian sing, “abide the

narrow soul.” I hardly know, but I think it be the opposite: it be true

that one do not learn in such silent hour the deft trick of speech,

the easy flow of humorous thought, the tinkle interchange of the

mind; but there creep over the spirit something of the coolness of

the pasture, the tranquillity of green copse, and the contentment of

the lazy stream. I think that, undiluted, such day might foster the

elementary brutishness of the spirit, and that just as rhododendron

degenerate, if untended, to the primal magenta type, so one might revert

by slow degree to the animal which lie not far below the civilised

surface. but there be no danger in my own life that I should have too

much of such reverie; indeed, I have to scheme a little for it; and it

be to I a bath of peace, a plunge into the quiet water of nature, a

refreshing return to the untroubled and gentle spirit of the earth.



the only thing to fear in such ride as these, be if some ugly or sordid

thought, some muddy difficulty, some tangled dilemma be stick like a

burr on the mind; then indeed such hour be of little use, if they

be not positively harmful. the mind (at least my mind) have a way of

arrange matter in solitude so as to be as little hopeful, as little

kindly as possible; the fretted spirit brew its venom, practise for

odious repartee, plan devilish question, and rehearse the mean drama

over and over. at such hour I feel indeed like Sinbad, with the lithe

leg and skinny arm of the Old Man of the Sea twined round his neck.

but the mood change—an interesting letter, a sunshiny day, a pleasant

visitor—any of these raise the spirit out of the mire, and restore

I to myself; and I resume my accustomed tranquillity all the more

sedulously for having have a dip in the tonic tide of depression.









25





                                                          _June 6, 1892._



I have often think what a lightening of the load of life it would be

if we could arrive at great simplicity and directness in our social

dealing with other. of course the first difficulty to triumph over be

the physical difficulty of simple shyness, which so often paralyse man

and woman in the presence of a stranger. but how instantly and perfectly

a natural person evoke naturalness in other. this naturalness be hardly

to be achieve without a certain healthy egotism. it by no means produce

naturalness in other to begin operation by question people about

themselves. but if one person begin to talk easily and frankly about

his own interest, other insensibly follow suit by a kind of simple

imitativeness. and if the inspirer of this naturalness be not a profound

egotist, if he be really interested in other people, if he can waive his

own claim to attention, the difficulty be overcome.



[sidenote: the CONVEYANCER]



the other day I be bicycle, and on turn out of Spyfield, where I

have be do some business, I observe another bicyclist a little ahead

of I. he be a tall thin man, with a loose white hat, and he ride with

a certain fantastic childish zest which attract my attention. if there

be a little upward slope in the road, he tack extravagantly from side

to side, and seem to be encourage himself by murmured exhortation.

he have a word for every one he pass. I ride for about half a mile

behind he, and he at last dismount at the foot of a steep slope that

lead up to a place call Gallows Hill. he stop half-way up the

hill to study a map, and as I pass he wheel my bicycle, he call

cheerily to I to ask how far it be to a neighbouring village. I tell

he to the good of my ability, whereupon he say, “oh no, I be sure you

be wrong; it must be twice that distance!” I be for an instant somewhat

nettled, feel that if he know the distance, his question have a certain

wantonness. so I say, “well, I have live here for twenty year and know

all the road very well.” the stranger touch his hat and say, “I be

sure I apologise with all my heart; I ought not to have speak as I do.”



examine he at my leisure I see he to be a tall, lean man, with rather

exaggerated feature. he have a big, thin head, a long, pointed nose, a

mobile and smile mouth, large dark eye, and full side-whisker. I take

he at once for a professional man of some kind, solicitor, schoolmaster,

or even a clergyman, though his attire be not clerical. “here,” he say,

“just take the end of this map and let we consult together.” I do as

I be desire, and he point out the way he mean to take. “now,” he

say, “there be a train there in an hour, and I want to arrive there

_easily_—mind you, not _hot_; that be so uncomfortable.” I tell he that

if he know the road, which be a complicated one, he could probably just

do it in the time; but I add that I be myself go to pass a station

on the line, where he might catch the same train nearer town. he look

at I with a certain slyness. “be you certain of that?” he cry; “I

have all the train at my finger’ end.” I assure he it be so, while

he consult a time-table. “right!” he say, “you be right, but _all_

the train do not stop there; it be not a deduction that you can draw

from the fact of _one_ stop at the _other_ station.” we walk up

to the top of the hill together, and I propose that we should ride in

company. he accept with alacrity. “nothing I should like well!” as

we get on to our bicycle his foot slip. “you will notice,” he say,

“that these be new boot—of a good pattern—but somewhat smooth on the

sole; in fact they slip.” I reply that it be a good thing to scratch

new boot on the sole, so as to roughen they before ride. “a capital

idea!” he say delightedly; “I shall do it the moment I return, with a

pair of nail-scissor, _close_, mind you, to prevent my straining either

blade.” we then ride off, and after a few yard he say, “now, this be

not my usual pace—rather fast than I can go with comfort.” I beg he

to take his own pace, and he then begin to talk of the country. “pent up

in my chamber,” he said—“I be a conveyancer, you must know—I long for a

green lane and a row of elm. I have live for year in town, in a most

convenient street, I must tell you, but I sicken for the country; and now

that I be in easy circumstance—I have live a _hard_ life, mind you—I

be go to make the great change, and live in the country. now, what be

your opinion of the relative merit of town and country as a place of

residence?” I tell he that the only disadvantage of the country to my

mind be the difficulty of servant. “right again!” he say, as if I have

answer a riddle. “but I have overcome that; I have be educate a

pair of good maid for year—they be paragon, and they will go anywhere

with I; indeed, they prefer the country themselves.”



in such light talk we beguile the way; too soon we come to where our

road divide; I point out to he the turn he be to take. “well,” he

say cheerily, “all pleasant thing come to an end. I confess that I

have enjoy your company, and be grateful for your kind communication;

perhaps we may have another encounter, and if not, we will be glad to

have meet, and think sometimes of this pleasant hour!” he put his foot

upon the step of his bicycle cautiously, then mount gleefully, and

say “good-bye, good-bye!” he wave his hand, and in a moment be out

of sight.



the thought of this brave and merry spirit planning scheme of life,

make the most of simple pleasure, have always dwell with I. the

god, as we know from Homer, assume the form of man, and be at the

pain to relate long and wholly unreliable story to account for their

presence at particular time and place; and I have sometimes wonder

whether in the lean conveyancer, with his childlike zest for experience,

his brisk enjoyment of the small detail of daily life, I do not

entertain some genial, masquerade angel unawares.









26





                                                          _June 8, 1893._



be it not the experience of every one that at rare interval, by some

happy accident, life present one with a sudden and delicious thrill of

beauty? I have often try to analyse the constituent element of these

moment, but the essence be subtle and defy detection. they cannot

be calculate upon, or produce by any amount of volition or previous

preparation. one thing about these tiny ecstasy I have notice—they

do not come as a rule when one be tranquil, healthy, serene—they rather

come as a compensation for weariness and discontent; and yet they be the

pure gold of life, and a good deal of sand be well worth wash for a

pellet or two of the real metal.



to-day I be more than usually impatient; over I all the week have hung

the shadow of some try, difficult business—the sort of business which,

whatever you do, will be do to nobody’s satisfaction. after a vain

attempt to wrestle with it, I give it up, and go out on a bicycle;

the wind blow gently and steadily this soft June day; all the blue sky

be fill with large white cloud, blacken to rain. I make for the

one piece of flat ground in our neighbourhood. it be tranquillising, I

have often find, to the dweller in a hilly land, to cool and sober the

eye occasionally with the pure breadth of a level plain. the grass be

thick and heavy-headed in the field, but of mere wantonness I turn

down a lane which I know have no ending,—a mere relief-road for cart to

have access to a farm,—and soon come to the end of it in a small grassy

circle, with a cottage or two, where a footpath strike off across the

field.



[sidenote: HERETOFORE UNVISITED]



why do I never come here before, I think. through a gap in the

hedge I see a large broad pasture, fringe in the far distance with

full-foliage, rotund elm in thick leaf; a row of willow on the horizon

mark the track of a stream. in the pasture in front of I be a broad

oblong pool of water with water-lily; down one side run a row of huge

horse-chestnut, and the end be rich in elder full of flat white cake

of blossom. in the field graze an old horse; while a pigeon sail

lazily down from the tree and run to the pool to drink. that be all

there be to see. but it bring I with a deep and inexplicable thrill

close to the heart of the old, kindly, patient Earth, the mother and the

mistress and the servant of all—she who allow we to tear and rend she

for our own paltry end, and then set, how sweetly and tranquilly, to

work, with what a sense of inexhaustible leisure, to paint and mellow

and adorn the rude and bleed gap. we tear up a copse, and she fill

the ugly scar in the spring with a crop of fresh flower—of flower,

perhaps, which be not see in the neighbourhood, but whose seed have

lain vital and moist in the ground, but too deep to know the impulse

bear of the spring sun. yet now they burst their armoured mail, and send

a thin, white, worm-like arm to the top, which, as soon as it pass

into the light, drink from the ray the green flush that it choose to

hide its nakedness. we dig a pool in the crumble marl. at the time the

wound seem irreparable; the ugly, slobber bank grin at we like death;

the ground be full of footprint and slime, broken root and bedabble

leaves,—and next year it be all a paradise of green and luscious

water-plant, with a hundred quiet life be live there, of snail and

worm and beetle, as though the place have never be disturb. we build

a raw red house with an insupportably geometrical outline, the hue of

the vicious fire still in the brick; pass fifty year, and the brick

be mellow and soft, plaster with orange rosette or grey filament of

lichen; the ugly window frame be blister and warp; the roof have

take a soft and yielding outline—all be in peace and harmony with the

green world in which it sit.



[sidenote: the repairer of the BREACH]



I never see this more beautifully illustrate than once, when a great

house in Whitehall be destroy, and heap up in a hideous rockery of

brick. all through the winter these raw ruin, partly conceal by a

rough hoarding, taint the view; but as soon as spring return, from

every inch of grit rise a forest of green stalk of willow-herb, each in

summer to be crown with a spire of fantastic crimson flower, and to

pass a little later into those graceful, ghostly husk that shiver in

the wind. century must have pass since willow-herb have grow on that

spot. have they lay dormant, these hopeful seed, or have they be waft

along dusty street and high in air over sun-scorch space? nature at

all event have see her chance, and do her work patiently and wisely

as ever.



but to return to my lane-end. how strange and deep be the impression

of a deep and inviolate peace that some quiet corner like this give to

the restless spirit! it can never be so with the scene that have grow

familiar, where we have carry about with we the burden of private

care—the symptom of the disease of life. in any house where we have

live, every corner, however peaceful and beautiful in itself, be bind

to be gradually soak, as it be, in the misery of life, to conceal

its beauty under the accretion of sordid association.



this room we connect with some sad misunderstanding. there we give way to

some petty passion of resentment, of jealousy, of irritation, or vainly

try to pacify some similar outbreak from one we love. this be the

torture of imagination; to feel the beauty of sight and sound, we must be

sensitive; and if we be sensitive, we carry about the shadow with we—the

capacity for self-torment, the struggle of the ideal with the pass

mood.



[sidenote: SAD association]



I have sometimes climb to the top of a hill and look into some

unknown and placid valley, with field and wood and rivulet and the home

of man. I have see the figure of man and oxen move sedately about

those quiet field. often, too, glide at evening in a train through a

pastoral country when the set sun bathe all thing in genial light

and content shade, I have feel the same thought. “how peaceful, how

simple life would be, nay, must be, here.” only very gradually, as life

go on, do it dawn upon the soul that the trouble lie deeply, and

that though surround by the most unimagined peace, the same fret, the

same beating of restless wing, the same delay attend. that dream-of

peace can hardly be attain. the most we can do be to enjoy it to the

utmost when it be with we; and when it take its flight, and leave we

dumb, discontent, peevish, to quench the sordid thought in resolute

_silence_, to curb the grating mood, to battle mutely with the cower

fear; and so to escape invest the house and the garden that we love

with the poisonous and bitter association that strike the beauty out of

the fair scene.









27





                                                    _September 20, 1894._



I have to-day a strange little instance of the patient, immutable habit of

nature. some year ago there be a particular walk of which I be fond;

it lead through pasture, by shady wood-end, and come out eventually on a

bridge that span the line. here I often go to see a certain express

pass; there be something thrill in the silent cutting, the beckoning,

ghostly arm of the high signal, the faint far-off murmur, and then the

roar of the great train forge past. it be a breath from the world.



[sidenote: the RED SPIDER]



on the parapet of the bridge, grey with close-grain lichen, there

live a numerous colony of little crimson spider. what they do I

never could discern; they wander aimlessly about hither and thither,

in a sort of feeble, blind haste; if they ever encounter each other

on their ramble, they stop, twiddled horn, and flee in a sudden

horror; they never seem to eat or sleep, and even continue their

endless peregrination in the middle of heavy shower, which flick they

quiver to death.



I use to amuse myself with think how one have but to alter the scale,

so to speak, and what appalling, intolerable monster these would become.

think of it! huge crimson shapeless masse, with strong wiry leg, and

wave mandible, tramp silently over the grey veldt, and perhaps

prey on minute luckless insect, which would flee before they in vain.



one day I walk on ahead, leave a companion to follow. he do follow,

and join I on the bridge—bring heavy tiding which have just arrive

after I leave home.



the place grow to I so inseparably connect with the horror of the news

that I instinctively abandon it; but to-day, find myself close to

the place—nearly ten year have pass without my visit it—I turn

aside, muse on the old sadness, with something in my heart of the soft

regret that a sorrow wear when see through the haze of year.



there be the place, just the same; I bent to see a pass train and (I

have forget all about they) there be my red spider still pursue

their aimless perambulation. but who can tell the dynasty, the

genealogy that have bridge the interval?



the red spider have no great use in the world, as far as I know. but he

have every right to be there, and to enjoy the sun fall so warm on the

stone. I wonder what he think about it all? for I, he have become the

type of the patient, pretty fancy of nature, so persistently pursue,

so void of moral, so deliciously fantastic and useless—but after all,

what be I to talk of usefulness?



Spider and man, man and spider—and to the pitying, tender mind of God,

the brisk spider on his ledge, and the dull, wistful, middle-aged man who

loiter look about he, wonder and waiting, be much the same. he

have a careful thought of each, I know:—



    to both alike the darkness and the day,

      the sunshine and the flower,

    we draw sad comfort, think we obey

      a deep will than ours.









28





                                                        _August 4, 1895._



[sidenote: the DAWN]



just another picture linger with I, for no very define reason. it be

an August night; I have go to rest with the wind sigh and buffet

against my window, but when I awake with a start, deep in the night,

rouse, it seem, as by footstep in the air and a sudden hollow

calling of airy voice, it be utterly still outside. I draw aside my

heavy tapestry curtain, and lo! it be the dawn. a faint upward gush of

lemon-colour light edge the eastern hill. the air as I throw the

casement wide be unutterably sweet and cool. in the faint light, over

the roof of the great barn, I see what I have see a hundred time before,

a quiet wood-end, upon which the climbing hedge converge. but now it

seem to lie there in a pure and silent dream, sleep a light sleep,

wait contentedly for the dawn and smile softly to itself. over the

field lie little wreath of mist, and beyond the wood, hill of faint

blue, the hill of dreamland, where it seem as if no harsh wind could

blow or cold rain fall. I feel as though I stand to watch the stainless

slumber of one I love, and be permit by some happy and holy chance

to see for once the unuttered peace that earth enjoy in her lonely and

unwatched hour. too often, alas! one carry into the fair scene a

turmoil of spirit, a clouded mind that break and mar the spell. but

here it be not so; I gaze upon the hushed eye of the earth, and hear

her sleep breath; and, as the height of blessing, I seem myself

to have leave for a moment the past behind, to have no overshadow

from the future, but to live only in the inviolate moment, clear-eye

and clean-hearted, to see the earth in her holy and most seclude

sanctuary, unsuspicious and untroubled, bathe in the light and careless

slumber of eternal youth, in that delicious oblivion that fence day from

weary day.



in the jade morning light the glory be fade, and the little wood wear

its usual workaday look, the face it bear before the world; but I, I

have see it in its golden dream; I know its secret, and it could not

deceive I; it have yield to I unaware its sublime confidence, and

however it might masquerade as a commonplace wood, a covert for game, a

commercial item in an estate-book, know by some homely name, I have see

it once undisguise, and know it as one of the porch of heaven.









29





                                                         _April 4, 1896._



it seem a futile task to say anything about the spring; yet poet and

romancer make no apology for treat of love, which be an old and

familiar phenomenon enough. and I declare that the wonder of spring,

so far from grow familiar, strike upon the mind with a bewilder

strangeness, a rapturous surprise, which be great every year. every

spring I say to myself that I never realise before what a miraculous,

what an astounding thing be the sudden conspiracy of tree and flower,

hatch so insensibly, and carry out so punctually, to leap into life

and loveliness together. the velvety softness of the grass, the mist

of green that hang about the copse, the swift weaving of the climbing

tapestry that screen the hedgerow-bank, the jewellery of flower that

sparkle out of all sequester place; they be adorable. but this early

day of spring be close and heavy, with a slow rain drop reluctantly

out of the sky, a day when an insidious melancholy lie in wait for

human being, a sense of inadequacy, a meek rebellion against all

activity, bodily or mental. I walk slowly and sedately along the sandy

road fast ooze into mire. there be a sense of expectancy in the air;

tree and flower be dispirit too, oppress with heaviness, and yet

gratefully conscious, as I be not, of the divine storage of that pure and

subtle element that be take place for their benefit. “praise God,” say

Saint Francis, “for our sister the water, for she be very serviceable to

we and humble and clean.” yes, we give thank! but, alas! to sit still

and be pump into, as Carlyle say of Coleridge’s conversation, can

never be an enlivening process.



yet would that the soul could gratefully recognise her own rainy day;

could droop, like Nature, with patient acquiescence, with wise passivity,

till the well of strength and freshness be store!



[sidenote: SUBTLE superiority]



the particular form of melancholy which I find beset I on these sad

reflective morning, be to compare my vague ambition with my concrete

performance. I will not say that in my dreamful youth I cherish the

idea of sway the world. I never expect to play a brave part on

the public stage. political and military life—the two career which

ripple community to the verge, never come within the range of my

possibility. but I think that I be conscious—as most intelligent young

creature undoubtedly be—of a subtle superiority to other people. an

ingenious preacher once say that we cannot easily delude ourselves into

the belief that we be rich, tall, more handsome, or even wise,

well, abler, and more capable than other people, but we can and do

very easily nourish a secret belief that we be more _interesting_ than

other. such an illusion have a marvellous vitality; it have a delicate

power of resist the rude lesson to the contrary which contact with

the world would teach we; and I should hardly like to confess how ill I

have learn my lesson. I realise, of course, that I have do little to

establish this superiority in the eye of other; but I find it hard to

disabuse myself of the vague belief that if only I have the art of more

popular and definite expression, if only the world have a little more

leisure to look in sequester nook for delicate flower of thought and

temperament, then it might be realize how exquisite a nature be here

neglect.



[sidenote: the hard truth]



in say this I be admit the reader to the inmost _penetralia_ of

thought. I frankly confess that in my robust and equable moment I do

recognise the broken edge of my life, and what a very poor thing I have

make of it—but, for all that, it be my honest belief that we most of we

have in our heart that inmost shrine of egotism, where the fire burn

clear and fragrant before an idealised image of self; and I go far,

and say that I believe this to be a wholesome and valuable thing, because

it be of the essence of self-respect, and give we a feeble impulse

in the direction of virtue and faith. if a man ever come to realise

exactly his place in the world, as other realise it, how feeble, how

uninteresting, how ludicrously unnecessary he be, and with what a

speedy unconcern other would accommodate themselves to his immediate

disappearance, he would sink into an abyss of gloom out of which nothing

would lift he. it be one of the divine use of love, that it glorify

life by restore and raise one’s self-esteem.



in the dejected reverie of such languorous spring day as these, no such

robust egotism as I have above represent come to my aid. I see myself

steal along, a shy, tarnished thing, a blot among the fresh hope and

tender dream that smile on every bank. the pitiful fabric of my life

be mercilessly unveil; here I loiter, a lonely, shabby man, bruise

by contact with the word, dilatory, dumb, timid, register tea-table

triumph, local complacency, provincial superiority—spending

shelter day in such comfortable dream as be bear of warm fire,

ample meal, soft easy-chair, and congratulate myself on poetical

potentiality, without any awkward necessity of translate my dream

into corrective action—or else discharge homely duty with an almost

sacerdotal solemnity, and dignify with the title of religious quietism

what be do by hundred of people instinctively and simply and without

pretentiousness. if I rave against my limitation, deem my cage a

prison, beat myself sick against the bar, I might then claim to be a

fiery and ardent soul; but I cannot honestly do this; and I must comfort

myself with the thought that possibly the ill-health, which necessitate

my retirement, compensate for the disability it inflict on I, by

remove the stimulus which would make my prison insupportable.



in this agreeable frame of mind I draw near home and stand awhile on

the deserted bowling-green with its elder-thicket, its little grassy

terrace, its air of regretful wildness, so often wear by a place that

have be tame by civilisation and have not quite revert to its native

savagery. a thrush sing with incredible clearness, repeat a luscious

phrase often enough to establish its precision of form, and yet not often

enough to satiate—a triumph of instinctive art.



these thrush be great favourite of mine; I often sit, on a dewy

morning, to watch they hunting. they hop lightly along, till they espy a

worm lie in blissful luxury out of his hole; two long hop, and they

be upon he; he, use all his retractile might, cling to his home, but

the thrush set his foot firm in the broad stride of the greek warrior,

give a mighty tug—you can see the viscous elastic thread strain—and

the worm be stretch writhe on the grass. what be the dim dream of

the poor reptile, I wonder; do he regret his cool burrow, “and youth

and strength and this delightful world?”—no, I think it be a stoical

resignation. for a moment the thrush take no notice of he, but survey

the horizon with a caution which the excitement of the chase have for

an instant imprudently divert. then the meal begin, with horrid

leisureliness.



but it be strange to note the perpetual instinctive consciousness

of danger which beset bird thus in the open; they must live in a

tension of nervous watchfulness which would depress a human be into

melancholia. there be no absorbed gobbling; between every mouthful the

little head with its beady eye swing right and leave to see that all be

clear; and he be for ever change his position and seldom front the

same way for two second together.



do we realise what it must be to live, as even these sheltered bird do

in a quiet garden, with the fear of attack and death hang over they

from morning to night?



[sidenote: the BONDAGE of a bird]



another fact that these thrush have teach I be the extreme narrowness

of their self-choose world. they be bear and live within the compass

of a few yard. we be apt to envy a bird the power of change his

horizon, of soar above the world, and choose for his home the

one spot he desire. think what our life would be if, without luggage,

without encumbrance, we could rise in the air and, wing our way out

to the horizon, choose some sequester valley, and there, without house,

without rate and taxis, abide, with water babble in its channel and

food abundant. yet it be far otherwise. one of my thrush have a white

feather in his wing; he be hatch out in a big syringa which stand

above the bowling-green; and though I have observe the bird all about

my few acre carefully enough I have never see this particular thrush

anywhere but on the lawn. he never seem even to cross the wall into

the garden; he have a favourite bush to roost in, and another where he

sometimes sing: at time he beat along the privet hedge, or in the

broad border, but he generally hop about the lawn, and I do not think he

have ever venture beyond it. he work hard for his living too; he be up

at dawn, and till early afternoon he be generally engage in forage. he

will die, I suppose, in the garden, though how his body be dispose of be

a mystery to I.



[sidenote: the soul of a THRUSH]



he take the limitation of his life just as he find they; he never

seem to think he would like to be otherwise; but he work diligently

for his living, he sing a grateful song, he sleep well, he do not

compare himself with other bird or wish his lot be different—he have no

regret, no hope, and few care. still less have he any philanthropic

design of raise the tone of his brother thrushe, or direct a

mission among the quarrelsome sparrow. sometimes he fight a round or

two, and when the spring come, stir by delicious longing, he will

build a nest, devote the food he would like to devour to his beady-eye,

yellow-lipped young, and die as he have live. there be a good deal to be

say for this brave and honest life, and especially for the bright and

wholesome music which he make within the thicket. I do not know that it

can be improve upon.









30





                                                         _Aug. 19, 1898._



[sidenote: GOD’S ACRE]



there be a simple form of expedition of which I be very fond; that be the

leisurely visit of some rustic church in the neighbourhood. they be

often very beautifully place—sometimes they stand high on the ridge

and bear a bold testimony to the faith; sometimes they lie nestle in

tree, hide in valley, as if to show it be possible to be holy and

beautiful, though unseen. sometimes they be the central ornament of a

village street; there generally seem some simple and tender reason for

their position; but the more populous their neighbourhood, the more they

have suffer from the zeal of the restorer. what I love good of all be a

church that stand a little apart, shelter in wood, dream by itself,

and guard its tranquil and grateful secret—“_secretum meum mihi_,” it

seem to say.



I like to loiter in the churchyard ground to step over the hillock, to

read the artless epitaph on slant tomb; it be not a morbid taste,

for if there be one feeling more than another that such a visit remove

and tranquillise, it be the fear of death. death here appear in its

most peaceful light; it seem so necessary, so common, so quiet and

inevitable an end, like a haven after a troubled sea. here all the sad

and unhappy incident of mortality be forget, and death appear only

in the light of a tender and dreamful sleep.



well still be the grateful coolness of the church itself; here one can

trace in the epitaph the fortune of a family—one can see the grave

of old squire who have walk over their own field, talk with their

neighbour, shot, hunt, eat, drunk, have love and be love, and

have yield their place in the fulness of day to those that have come

after they. very move, too, be the evidence of the sincere grief,

which underlie the pompous phraseology of the marble monument with

its urn and cherub. I love to read the long list of homely virtue

attribute by the living to the dead in the depth of sorrow, and to

believe they true. then there be record of untimely deaths,—the young

wife, the soldier in his prime, the boy or girl who have die unstaine

by life, and about whom cling the passionate remembrance of the happy

day that be no more. such record as those do not preach the lesson

of vanity and decay, but the lesson of pure and grateful resignation,

the faith that the God who make the world so beautiful, and fill it so

full of happiness, have surprise in store for his child, in a world

undreame of.



[sidenote: the MONUMENT]



one monument in a church not far from Golden end always bring tear to

my eye; there be a chapel in the aisle, the mausoleum of an ancient

family, where moulder banner and pennon hang in the gloom; in the

centre of the chapel be an altar-tomb, on which lie the figure of a

young boy, thirteen year old, the inscription say. he recline on one

arm, he have a delicately carve linen shirt that leave the slender neck

free, and he be wrap in a loose gown; he look upward toward the east,

his long hair fall over his shoulder, his thin and shapely hand

upon his knee. on each side of the tomb, kneel on marble cushion on

the ledge, be his father and mother, an earl and countess. the mother,

in the stately costume of a bygone court, with hair carefully drape,

watch the face of the child with a look in which love seem to have

cast out grief. the earl in armour, a strongly-build, soldier-like

figure, look across the boy’s knee at his wife’s face, but in his

expression—I know not if it be art—there seem to be a look of rebellious

sorrow, of thwarted pride. all his wealth and state could not keep his

darling with he, and he do not seem to understand. there have they

knelt, the little group, for over two century, wait and watch,

and one be glad to think that they know now whatever there be to know.

outside the golden afternoon slant across the headstone, and the bird

twitter in the ivy, while a full stream wind below through the meadow

that once be theirs.



such a contemplation do not withdraw one from life or tend to give a

false view of its energy; it do not forbid one to act, to love, to

live; it only gild with a solemn radiance the cloud that overshadow we

all, the darkness of the inevitable end. face to face with the _lacrimæ

rerum_ in so simple and tender a form, the heavy word _Memento Mori_

fall upon the heart not as a sad and harsh interruption of wordly dream

and fancy, but as a deep pedal note upon a sweet organ, give

strength and fulness and balance to the dying away of the last grave and

gentle chord.









31





if any one whose eye may fall upon these page be absolutely equable

of temperament, serene, content, the same one day as another, as Dr.

Johnson say of Reynolds, let he not read this chapter—he will think it

a mere cry in the dark, well smother in the bed-clothe, an unmanly

piece of morbid pathology, a secret and sordid disease well undivulge,

on which all person of proper pride should hold their peace.



well, it be not for he that I write; there be book and book, and

even chapter and chapter, just as there be people and people. I

myself avoid book deal with health and disease. I use when young

to be unable to resist the temptation of a medical book; but now I be

wise, and if I sometimes yield to the temptation, it be with a backward

glance eye and a cautious step. and I will say that I generally put

back the book with a snap, in a moment, as though a snake have sting I.

but there will be no pathology here—nothing but a patient effort to look

a failing in the face, and to suggest a remedy.



[sidenote: fear]



I speak to the initiate, to those who have go down into the dark

cave, and see the fire burn low in the shrine, and watch aghast

the formless, moulder thing—hideous implement be they, or mere

weapons?—that hang upon the wall.



do you know what it be to dwell, perhaps for day together, under the

shadow of a fear? perhaps a definite fear—a fear of poverty, or a fear

of obloquy, or a fear of harshness, or a fear of pain, or a fear of

disease—or, bad than all, a boding, misshapen, sullen dread which have

no definite cause, and be therefore the hard to resist.



[sidenote: DREAMS]



these mood, I say it with gratitude for myself and for the encouragement

of other, tend to diminish in acuteness and in frequency as I grow

old. they be now, as ever, prelude by dream of a singular kind,

dream of rapid and confused action, dream of a romantic and exaggerated

pictorial character—huge mountain range, lofty and venerable building,

landscape of incredible beauty, garden of unimaginable luxuriance,

which pass with incredible rapidity before the mind. I will indicate

two of these in detail. I be in a vessel like a yacht, arm with a

massive steel prow like a ram, which move in some aerial fashion over

a landscape, skim it seem to I but a few foot above the ground.

a tall man of benignant aspect stand upon the bridge, and direct the

operation of the unseen navigator. we ascend a heathery valley, and

presently encounter snow-drift, upon which the vessel seem to settle

down to her full speed; at last we enter a prodigious snowfield, with

vast ridged snow-wave extend in every direction for mile; the vessel

run not over but through these wave, send up huge spout of snow

which fall in cool shower upon my head and hand, while the tinkle of

dry ice fragment make a perpetual low music. at last we stop and I

descend on to the plateau. far ahead, through roll cloud, I see the

black snow-crown height of a mountain, lofty than any see by human

eye, and for league round I lie the interminable waste of snow. I be

arouse from my absorption by a voice behind I; the vessel start again

on her course with a leap like a porpoise, and though I scream aloud

to stop she, I see she, in a few second, many yard ahead, describe

great curve as she run, with the snow spout over she like a fountain.



the second be a very different scene. I be in the vine-clothe alley

of some italian garden; against the still blue air a single stone pine

define itself; I walk along a path, and turn a corner an exquisite

conventual building of immense size, build of a light brown stone,

reveal itself. from all the alley round emerge troop of monastic

figure in soft white gown, and a mellow chime of exceed sweetness

float from the building. I see that I too be robe like the rest; but

the gliding figure outstrip I; and arrive last at a great iron

portal I find it close, and the strain of a great organ come drowsily

from within.



then into the dream fall a sudden sense of despair like an ashen

cloud; a feeling of incredible agony, intensify by the beauty of the

surround scene, that agony which feverishly question as to why so

dark a stroke should fall when the mind seem at peace with itself

and lose in dreamy wonder at the loveliness all about it. then the

vision close, and for a time the mind battle with dark wave of

anguish, emerge at last, like a diver from a dim sea, into the wake

consciousness. the sickly daylight filter through the window curtain

and the familiar room swim into sight. the first thought be one of

unutterable relief, which be strike instantly out of the mind by the

pounce of the troubled mood; and then follow a ghastly hour, when every

possibility of horror and woe intangible press in upon the battle

mind. at such moment a definite difficulty, a practical problem would

be welcome—but there be none; the misery be too deep for thought, and

even, when after long wrestling, the knowledge come that it be all a

subjective condition, and that there be no adequate cause in life or

circumstance for this unman terror—even then it can only be silently

endure, like the racking of some fierce physical pain.



[sidenote: WOE]



the day that succeed to such a wake mood be almost the bad part

of the experience. shake and dizzy by the inrush of woe, the mind

straggle wearily through hour after hour; the familiar duty be

intolerable; food have no savour; action and think no interest; and if

for an hour the tired head be divert by some pass event, or if,

oppress with utter exhaustion, it sink into an unrefreshing slumber,

repose but give the strength to suffer—the accursed mood leap again, as

from an unseen lair, upon the unnerved consciousness, and tear like some

strange beast the helpless and palpitate soul.



when first, at Cambridge, I have the woeful experience above record,

I be so unused to endurance, so bewildered by suffer, that I think

for awhile I be almost beside myself. I recollect go down with some

friend, in a brief lull of misery, to watch a football match, when the

horror seize I in the middle of a cheerful talk with such vehemence,

that I could only rush off with a muttered word, and return to my room,

in which I immure myself to spend an hour in an agony of prayer. again

I recollect sit with some of the friend of my own age after hall;

we be smoke and talk peacefully enough—for some day my torment

have be suspend—when all at once, out of the secret darkness the

terror leapt upon I, and after in vain resist it for a few moment,

I hurry away, have just enough self-respect to glance at my watch

and mutter something about a forget engagement. but bad of all be

a walk take with my close friend on a murky November day. we start

in good spirit, when in a moment the accursed foe be upon I; I hardly

speak except for fitful question. our way lead we to a level crossing,

beside a belt of woodland, where a huge luggage train be jolt and

bump backwards and foreward. we hang upon the gate; and then, and

then only, come upon I in a flash an almost irresistible temptation to

lay my head beneath the ponderous wheel, and end it all; I could only

pray in silence, and hurry from the spot in speechless agitation. what

wonder if I hear on the following day that my friend complain that I

be alter for the bad—that I have become so sullen and morose that it

be no use talk to I.



gradually, very gradually, the aching frost of the soul break up and

thaw; little trifling encourage incident—a small success or two,

an article accept by a magazine, a friendship, an athletic victory,

raise I step by step out of the gloom. one benefit, even at the time,

it bring I—an acute sensitiveness to beauty both of sight and sound.

I use to steal at even-song into the dark nave of King’s chapel, and

the sight of the screen, the flood of subdue light overflowing from the

choir, the carven angel with their gild trumpet, penetrate into the

soul with an exquisite sweetness; and still more the music—whether the

low prelude with the whisper pedal, the severe monotone break

into freshet of harmony, the swing and richness of the chant, or the

elaborate beauty of some familiar magnificat or anthem—all fall like

shower upon the arid sense. the music at King’s have one characteristic

that I have never hear elsewhere; the property of the building be

such that the echo linger without blur the successive chord—not

“loth to die,” I use to think, as Wordsworth say, but sink as it

be from consciousness to dream, and from dream to death.



[sidenote: the BROTHERHOOD of SORROW]



one further gain—the great—be that my suffering do not, I think,

withdraw I wholly into myself and fence I from the world; rather it

give I a sense of the brotherhood of grief. I be one with all the

agony that lie silent in the shadow of life; and though my suffering

have no tangible cause, yet I be initiate into the fellowship of those

who _bear_. I _understood_;—weak, faithless, and faulty as I be, I be

no long in the complacent isolation of the strong, the successful, the

selfish, and even in my darkest hour I have strength to thank God for

that.









32





                                                         _Oct. 21, 1898._



I have be read some of my old diary to-day; and I be tempt to

try and disentangle, as far as I can, the _motif_ that seem to I to

underlie my simple life.



one question above all other have constantly recur to my mind; and the

answer to it be the sum of my slender philosophy.



the question then be this: be a simple, useful, dignified, happy life

possible to most of we without the stimulus of affair, of power, of

fame? I answer unhesitatingly that such a life be possible. the tendency

of the age be to measure success by publicity, not to think highly of

any person or any work unless it receive “recognition,” to think it

essential to happiness _monstrari digito_, to be in the swim, to be a

personage.



I admit at once the temptation; to such successful person come the

consciousness of influence, the feeling of power, the anxious civility

of the undistinguished, the radiance of self-respect, the atmosphere

of flattering, subtle deference, the seduction of which not even the

most independent and noble character can escape. indeed, many an

influential man of simple character and unpretende virtue, who rate

such convenience of life at their true value, and do not pursue they

as an end, would be disagreeably conscious of the lack of these _petit

soin_ if he adopt an unpopular cause or for any reason forfeit the

influence which beget they.



a friend of mine come to see I the other day fresh from a visit to a

great house. his host be a man of high cabinet rank, the inheritor of

an ample fortune and a historic name, who have be hold by his near

friend to cling to political life long than prudence would warrant.

my friend tell I that he have be leave alone one evening with his host,

who have, half humorously, half seriously, indulge in a lengthy tirade

against the pressure of social duty and unproductive drudgery that his

high position involve. “if they would only let I alone!” he say; “I

think it very hard that in the evening of my day I cannot order my life

to suit my taste. I have serve the public long enough.... I would

read—how I would read—and when I be bored I would sleep in my chair.”



[sidenote: SUCCESS]



“and yet,” my friend say, comment on these unguarded statement, “I

believe he be the only person of his intimate circle who do not know

that he would be hopelessly bored—that the thing he decry be the very

breath of life to he. there be absolutely no reason why he should not at

once and forever realise his fancied ideal—and if his wife and child

do not urge he to do so, it be only because they know that he would be

absolutely miserable.” and this be true of many life.



if the “recognition,” of which I have speak above, be only accord

to the really eminent, it would be a somewhat different matter; but

nine-tenth of the person who receive it be nothing more than phantom,

who have set themselves to pursue the glory, without the service that

ought to earn it. a great many people have a strong taste for power

without work, for dignity without responsibility; and it be quite

possible to attain consideration if you set yourself resolutely to pursue

it.



the temptation come in a yet more subtle form to man of a really

high-minded type, whose chief preoccupation be earnest work and the

seclude pursuit of some high ideal. such people, though they do not

wish to fetter themselves with the empty social duty that assail the

eminent, yet be tempt to wish to have the refusal of they, and to be

secretly dissatisfied if they do not receive this testimonial to the

value of their work. the temptation be not so vulgar as it seem. every

one who be ambitious wish to be effective. a man do not write book

or paint picture or make speech simply to amuse himself, to fill his

time; and they be few who can genuinely write, as the late Mark Pattison

write of a period of his life, that his ideal be at one time “defile

and pollute by literary ambition.”



nevertheless, if there be to be any real attempt to win the inner peace

of the spirit, such ambition must be not sternly but serenely resist.

not until a man can pass by the reward of fame _oculis irretortis_—“nor

cast one longing, linger look behind”—is the victory win.



[sidenote: pure ambition]



it may be urge, in my case, that the obscurity for which I crave be

never likely to be deny I. true; but at the same time ambition in its

pettiest and most childish form have be and be a real temptation to

I: the ambition to dominate and dazzle my immediate circle, to stimulate

curiosity about myself, to be consider, if not a successful man, at

least a man who might have succeed if he have care to try—all the

temptation which be depict in so masterly and merciless a way by that

acute psychologist Mr. Henry James in the character of Gilbert Osmond in

the _Portrait of a Lady_—to all of these I plead guilty. have I not be

gift with sufficient sensitiveness to see how singularly offensive and

pitiful such pretence be in the case of other, I doubt if I should not

have succumb—if indeed I have not somewhat succumb—to they.



indeed, to some morbid nature such pretence be vital—nay, self-respect

would be impossible without they. I know a lady who, like Mrs.

Wittiterly, be really keep alive by the excitement of be an invalid.

if she have not be so ill she would have die year ago. I know a worthy

gentleman who live in London and spend his time in hurrying from house

to house lament how little time he can get to do what he really

enjoy—to read or think. another have come to my mind who live in a

charming house in the country, and by dint of invite a few second-rate

literary and artistic people to his house and entertain they royally,

believe himself to be at the very centre of literary and artistic life,

and essential to its continuance. these be harmless life, not unhappy,

not useless; base, it be true, upon a false conception of the relative

importance of their own existence, but then be there one of we—the most

hard-work, influential, useful person in the world—who do not

exaggerate his own importance? do any one realise how little essential

he be, or how easily his post be fill—indeed, how many people there be

who believe that they could do the same thing well if they only have the

chance.



a life to be happy must be compound in due degree of activity and

pleasure, use the word in its good sense. there must be sufficient

activity to take off the perilous and acrid humour of the mind which,

leave to themselves, poison the source of life, and enough pleasure to

make the prospect of life palatable.



the first necessity be to get rid, as life go on, of all conventional

pleasure. by the age of forty a man should know what he enjoy, and

not continue do thing intend to be pleasurable, either because he

delude himself into think that he enjoy they, or because he like

other to think that he enjoy they. I know now that I do not care for

casual country-house visiting, for dancing, for garden party, for

cricket match, and many another form of social distraction, but that

the pleasure that remain and grow be the pleasure derive from book,

from the sight and sound of nature, from sympathetic conversation,

from music, and from active physical exercise in the open air. it be

my belief that a man be happiest who be so far employ that he have to

scheme to secure a certain share of such pleasure. my own life unhappily

be so order that it be the other way—that I have to scheme to secure

sufficient activity to make such pleasure wholesome. but I be stern

with myself. at time when I find the zest of simple home pleasure

desert I, I have sufficient self-control deliberately to spend a week

in London, which I detest, or to pay a duty-visit where I be so acutely

and sharply bore by a dull society—_castigatio mea matutina est_—that I

return with delicious enthusiasm to my own trivial round.



[sidenote: our OWN IMPORTANCE]



I do not flatter myself that I hold any very important place in the

world’s economy. but I believe that I have humbly contribute somewhat to

the happiness of other, and I find that the reward for thwart, waste

ambition have come in the shape of a daily increase joy in quiet thing

and tender simplicity. I need not reiterate the fact that I draw from

nature, ever more and more, the most unfailing and the pure joy; and

if I have forfeit some of the deep and most thrilling emotion of

the human heart, it be but what thousand be compel to do; and it be

something to find that the heart can be sweet and tranquil without they.

the only worth of these page must rest in the fact that the life which

I have try to depict be make up of element which be within the reach

of all or nearly all human being. and though I cannot claim to have

invent a religious system, or to have originate any new or startling

theory of existence, yet I have prove by experiment that a life beset

by many disadvantage, and deprive of most of the stimulus that to some

would seem essential, need not drift into be discontent or evil or

cold or hard.









33





                                                         _Oct. 22, 1898._



that be, so to speak, the outside of my life, the front that be turn

to the world. may I for a brief moment open the door that lead to the

secret room of the spirit?



the great part of mankind trouble themselves little enough about the

eternal question: what we be, and what we shall be hereafter. life to

the strong, energetic, the full-blooded give innumerable opportunity

of forget. it be easy to swim with the stream, to take no thought of

the hill which feed the quiet source of it, or the sea to which it run;

for such as these it be enough to live. but all whose mind be restless,

whose imagination be constructive, who have to face some dreary and

ache present, and would so gladly take refuge in the future and nestle

in the arm of faith, if they could but find she—for these the obstinate

question must come. like the wind of heaven it rise. we may shut it

out, trim the lamp, pile the fire, and lose ourselves in pleasant and

complacent activity; but in the interval of our work, when we drop

the book or lie down the pen, the gust rise shrill and sharp round the

eave, the gale buffet in the chimney, and we cannot drown the echo in

our heart.



this be the question:—



be our life a mere fortuitous and evanescent thing? be consciousness a

mere symptom of matter under certain condition? do we begin and end? be

the intense emotion and attachment, the joy and sorrow of life, the

agony of loss, the hungering love with which we surround the face,

the voice, the form of those we love, the chord which vibrate in we

at the thought of vanish day, and place we have love—the old house,

the family group assemble, the light upon the quiet field at evening,

the red sunset behind the elm—all those pure, sweetest, most poignant

memory—be these all unsubstantial phenomenon like the rainbow or the

dawn, subjective, transitory, move as the wayfarer move?



who can tell we?



some would cast themselves upon the Gospel—but to I it seem that Jesus

speak of these thing rarely, dimly, in parable—and that though he

take for grant the continuity of existence, he deliberately withhold

the knowledge of the condition under which it continue. he speak, it be

true, in the story of Dives and Lazarus, of a future state, of the bosom

of Abraham where the spirit rest like a tired child upon his father’s

knee—of the great gulf that could not be cross except by the voice

and gesture of the spirit—but will any one maintain that he be not

use the form of current allegory, and that he intend this parable

as an eschatological solution? again he speak of the final judgment in a

pastoral image.



[sidenote: IDENTITY]



Enough, some faithful soul may say, upon which to rest the hope of the

preservation of human identity. alas! I must confess with a sigh, it be

not enough for I. I see the mass of his teaching direct to life, and

the issue of the moment; I seem to see he turn his back again and again

on the future, and wave his follower away. be it conceivable that if he

could have say, in word unmistakable and precise, “you have before you,

when the weary body close its eye on the world, an existence in which

perception be as strong or strong, identity as clearly define, memory

as real, though as swift as when you live—and this too unaccompanied

by any of the languor or failure or traitorous inheritance of the

poor corporal frame,”—is it conceivable, I say, that if he could have

say this, he would have hold his peace, and speak only through dark

hint, dim allegory, shadowy imagining. could a message of peace more

strong, more vital, more tremendous have be give to the world? to have

satisfy the riddle of the sage, the dream of philosopher, the hope

of the ardent—to have allay the fear of the timid the heaviness of the

despairing; to have dry the mourner’s tear—all in a moment. and he do

not!



what then _can_ we believe? I can answer but for myself.



I believe with my whole heart and soul in the indestructibility of life

and spirit. even _matter_ to my mind seem indestructible—and matter be,

I hold, less real than the motion and activity of the spirit.



it have sometimes seem to I that matter may afford we the miss

analogy: when the body die, it sink softly and resistlessly into the

earth, and be carry on the wing of the wind, in the silent speeding

fountain, to rise again in ceaseless interchange of form.



[sidenote: INDIVIDUALITY]



could it be so with life and spirit? as the fountain cast the jet

high into the air over the glimmering basin, and the drop separate

themselves for a prismatic instant—when their separate identity seem

unquestione—and then rejoin the parent wave, could not life and spirit

slip back as it be into some vast reservoir of life, perhaps to linger

there awhile, to lose by peaceful self-surrender, happy intermingling,

by cool and tranquil fusion the dust, the stain, the ghastly taint of

suffering and sin? I know not, but I think it may be so.



but if I could affirm the other—that the spirit pass onwards through

realm undreame of, in gentle unstaine communion, not only with those

whom one have love, but with all whom one ever would have love, lose in

sweet wonder at the infinite tenderness and graciousness of God—would it

not in one single instant give I the peace I cannot find, and make life

into a radiant antechamber lead to a vision of rapturous delight?









34





                                                         _Sep. 18, 1900._



how can I write what have befall I? the double disaster that have cut

like a knife into my life. be one, I ask myself, the result of the

other, send to I to show that I ought to have be content with what I

have, that I ought not to have stretch out my hand to the fruit that

hang too high above I. I be too feeble in mind and body to do more

than briefly record the incident that have strike I down. I feel like

a shipwreck sailor who, fling on an unhospitable shore, have with

infinite labour and desperate toil drag a few necessary out of the

float fragment of the wreck, and pile they carefully and patiently

on a ledge out of the reach of the tide, only to find after a night of

sudden storm the little store scatter and himself swim faintly in

a rage sea—that sea which the evening before have sink into so sweet,

so caress a repose, and now like a grey monster arouse to sudden

fury, howl and beat for league against the stony promontory and the

barren beach.



[sidenote: new friend]



I have be in very tranquil spirit and strong health all the summer;

my malady have cease to trouble I, and for week they be out of my

thought. I have find a quiet zest in the little duty that make up my

simple life. I have make, too, a new friend. a pleasant cottage about

half a mile from Golden End have be take by the widow of a clergyman

with small but sufficient mean, who settle there with her daughter,

the latter be about twenty-four. I go somewhat reluctantly with

my mother to call upon they and offer neighbourly assistance. I find

myself at once in the presence of two refine, cultivate, congenial

people. Mrs. Waring, I see, be not only a well-read woman, interested in

book and art, but she have see something of society, and have a shrewd

and humorous view of man and thing. Miss Waring be like her mother;

but I soon find that to her mother’s kindly and brisk intellect she

add a peculiar and noble insight—that critical power, if I may call

it so, which see what be beautiful and true in life, and strip it of

adventitious and superficial disguise in the same way that one with a

high appreciation of literature move instinctively to what be gracious

and lofty, and be never mislead by talent or unobservant of genius. the

society of these two become to I in a few week a real and precious

possession. I begin to see how limited and self-centre my life have begin

to be. they do not, so to speak, provide I with new sensation and new

material so much as put the whole of life in a new light. I find in the

mother a wise and practical counsellor, with a singular grasp of detail,

with whom I could discuss any new book I have read or any article that have

strike I; but with Miss Waring it be different. I can only say that her

wise and simple heart cast a new light upon the most familiar thought.

I find myself understand, help, lift, in a way that both humiliate

and inspire I. moreover, I be privileged to be admit into near

relation with one who seem to show, without the least consciousness of

it, the good and high possibility that lie in human nature. I cannot

guess or define the secret. I only know that it dawn upon I gradually

that here be a human spirit feed like a spring from the pure rain

that fall on some purple mountain-head.



[sidenote: the MOMENT]



by what soft and unsuspected degree my feeling of congenial friendship

grow into a deep devotion I cannot now trace. it must now in my

miserable loneliness be enough to say that so it be. only a few day

ago—and yet the day seem already to belong to a remote past, and to be

separate from these last dark hour by a great gulf, misty, not to be

passed,—I realise that a new power have come into my life—the heavenly

power that make all thing new. I have go down to the cottage in a

hot, breathless sunlight afternoon. I have long pass the formality

of ring to announce my entrance. there be no one in the little

drawing-room, which be cool and dark, with shutter window. I go

out upon the lawn. Miss Waring be sit in a chair under a beech tree

reading, and at the sight of I she rise, lay down her book, and come

smile across the grass. there be a subtle, viewless message of the

spirit which flash between kindre soul, in front of and beyond the

power of look or speech, and at the same moment that I understand I feel

she understand too. I could not then at once put into word my hope;

but it hardly seem necessary. we sit together, we speak a little, but

be mostly silent in some secret interchange of spirit. that afternoon

my heart climb, as it be, a great height, and see from a Pisgah top

the familiar land at its foot, all light with a holy radiance, and then

turn, see, in golden gleam and purple haze, the margin of an unknown

sea stretch out beyond the sunset to the very limit of the world.









35





                                                         _Sep. 19, 1900._



that night, in a kind of rapturous peace, I face the new hope. even

then, in that august hour, I reflect whether I could, with my break

life and fade dream, link a spirit so fair to mine. I can truthfully

say that I be full to the brim of the intense gratitude, the tender

service; but I think be it just, be it right, with little or nothing

to offer, to seek to make so large a claim upon so beautiful a soul? I

do not doubt that I could win it, and that love would be lavish in

full measure to I. but I strove with all my might to see whether such

a hope be not on my part a piece of supreme and shameful selfishness. I

probe the very depth of my being, and decide that I might dare; that

God have give I this precious, this adorable gift, and that I might

consecrate my life and heart to love and be worthy of it if I could.



so I sink to sleep, and wake to the shock of a rapture such as I do

not believe this world could hold. it be a still warm day of late

summer, but a diviner radiance lie over garden, field, and wood for I.

I determine I would not speak to my mother till after I have receive my

answer.



after breakfast I go out to the garden—the flower seem to smile and

nod their head at I, lean with a kind of tender brilliance to greet

I; in a thick bush I hear the flute-note of my favourite thrush—the

brisk chirruping of the sparrow come from the ivied gable.



what be it?... what be the strange, rend, numb shock that run so

suddenly through I, make I in a moment doubtful, as it seem, even

of my own identity—again it come—again. I raise my eye, it seem as

if I have never see the garden, the house, the tree before. then come a

pang of such grim horror that I feel as though stab with a sword. I

seem, if that be possible, almost to smell and taste pain. I stagger

a few step back to the garden entrance—I remember cry out faintly,

and my voice seem strange to I—there be a face at the door—and then a

blackness close round I and I know no more.









36





                                                         _Sep. 20, 1900._



I wake at last, swim upwards, like a diver out of a deep sea, from

some dark abyss of weakness. I open my eye—I see that I be in a

downstairs room, where it seem that a bed must have be improvise;

but at first I be too weak even to inquire with myself what have

happen. my mother sate by I, with a look on her face that I have never

see; but I could not care. I seem to have pass a ford, and to see

life from the other side; to have shut a door upon it, and to be look

at it from the dark window. I neither care nor hope nor feel. I only

wish to lie undisturbed—not to be speak to or notice, only to lie.



I revive a little, and the faint flow of life bring back with it, as

upon a creep tide, a regret that I have open my eye upon the world

again—that be my first thought. I have be so near the dark passage—the

one terrible thing that lie in front of all live thing—why have I not

be permit to cross it once and for all; why be I recall to hope,

to suffering, to fear? then, as I grow strong, come a full regret for

the good, peaceful day. I have ask, I think, so little of life, and

that little have be deny. then as I grow strong still, there come

the thought of the great treasure that have be within my grasp, and my

spirit faintly cry out against the fierce injustice of the doom. but I

soon fall into a kind of dimness of thought, from which even now I can

hardly extricate myself—a numbness of heart, an indifference to all but

the fact that from moment to moment I be free from pain.









37





                                                         _Sep. 21, 1900._



I be climb, climbing, hour by hour, slowly and cautiously, out of the

darkness, as a man climb up some dizzy crag, never turn his head—yet

not back to life! I shall not achieve that.



how strange it would seem to other that I can care to write thus—it

seem strange even to myself. if ever, in life, I look on to these

twilight hour, with the end come slowly near, I think I should

lie in a kind of stupor of mind and body, indifferent to everything. I

be indifferent, with the indifference of one in whom desire seem to be

dead; but my mind be, or seem, almost preternaturally clear; and the

old habit, of try to analyse, to describe, anything that I see or

realise distinctly be too strong for I. I have ask for pencil and

paper; they demur, but yield; and so I write a little, which relieve the

occasional physical restlessness I feel; it induce a power of tranquil

reverie, and the hour pass, I hardly know how. the light change; the

morning freshness become the grave and solid afternoon, and so die

into twilight; till out of the dark alley steal the gentle evening,

dark-eyed and with the evening star tangle in her hair, full of shy

sweet virginal thought and mystery ... and then the night, and the day

again.



do I grieve, do I repine, do I fear? no, I can truthfully say, I do

not. I hardly seem to feel. almost the only feeling leave I be the old

childlike trustfulness in mother and nurse. I do not seem to need to tell

they anything. one or other sit near I. I feel my mother’s eye dwell

upon I, till I look up and smile; but between our very mind there run,

as it be, an airy bridge, on which the swift thought, the messenger

of love, speed to and fro. I seem, in the loss of all the superstructure

and fabric of life, to have nothing leave to tie I to the world, but

this sense of unity with my mother—that inseparable, elemental tie that

nothing can break. and she, I know, feel this too; and it give she,

though she could not describe it, a strange elation in the midst of she

sorrow, the joy that a man be bear into the world, and that I be her.



[sidenote: a mother’S heart]



with the beloved nurse it be the same in a sense; but here it be not

the deep inextricable bond of blood, but the bond of perfect love. I

lose myself in wonder in thinking of it; that one who be hire—that

be the strange basis of the relationship—for a simple task, should

become absolutely identify with love, with those whom she serve. I

do not believe that Susan have a single thought or desire in the world

that be not centre on my mother or myself. the tie between we be

simply indissoluble. and I feel that if we wander, we three spirit,

disconsolate and separate, through the trackless solitude of heaven, she

would _somehow_ find her way to my side.



I have notice that since my illness begin she have slip into the

use of little nursery phrase which I have not hear for year; I

have become “Master Henry” again, and be tell to “look slippy” about

take my medicine. this would have move I in other day with a

sense of pathos; it be not so now, though the knowledge that these two

beloved, sweet-minded, love woman suffer, be the one shadow over my

tranquillity. if I could only explain to they that my sadness for their

sorrow be drown in my wonder at the strangeness that any one should

ever sorrow at all for anything!









38





                                                         _Sep. 22, 1900._



to-day I be calm, and the hour have be pass in a long reverie;

I have be think quietly over the past year. sometimes, as I lay

with eye close, the old life come so near I that it almost seem as

if man and woman and child, some of they dead and go, have sate by

I and speak to I; little scene and group out of early year that I

think I have forget suddenly shape themselves. it be as if my will

have abdicate its sway, and the mind, like one who be to remove from a

house in which he have long dwelt, be turn over old store, find old

relic long lay aside in cupboard and lumber-room, and see they

without sorrow, only linger with a kind of tender remoteness over the

sweet and fragrant association of the day that be dead.



I have never doubt that I be to die, and to-day it seem as though I

care little when the parting come; death do not seem to I now like

a sharp close to life, the yawning of a dark pit; but, as in an allegory,

I seem to see a little dim figure, leave a valley full of sunlight and

life, and go upwards into misty and shapeless hill. I use to wonder

whether death be an end, an extinction—_now_ that seem impossible—my

life and thought seem so strong, so independent of the frail physical

accompaniment of the body; but even if it be an end, the thought do

not afflict I. I be in the Father’s hand. it be he that hath make we.









39





                                                         _Sep. 24, 1900._



I have have an interview with she. I hardly know what we say—very

little—she understand, and it be very peaceful in her presence. I try

to tell she not to be sorry; for indeed the one thing that seem to I

inconceivable be that any one should grieve. I lie like a boat upon a

quiet tide, drift out to sea—the sea to which we must all drift. I be

thankful for my life and all its sweetness; the shadow have go, and it

seem to I now as though all the happiness come from God, and all the

shadow be of my own making. and the strange thought of all be that the

dark shadow have always be this very pass which now seem to I

the most natural thing in the world—indeed the only true thing.



none the less be I thankful for this great and crown gift of love—the

one thing that I have miss. I do not now even want to use it, to enjoy

it—it be there, and that be enough. in her presence it seem to I that

Love stand side by side with death, two shine sister. but yesterday I

murmur over having be give, as it be, so sweet a cup to taste, and

then have the cup dash from my lip. to-day I see that Love be the

crown of my poor life, and I thank God with all the strength of my spirit

for put it into my hand as his last and good gift.



and I thank she too for deign to love I; and even while I do so,

the thought break to piece, as it be, and escape from the feeble

word in which I veil it, like a moth burst from a cocoon. for be

we not each other’s before the world be make? and the thought of myself

and herself flee from I, and we be one spirit, think the same

thought, sustain by the same strength. one more word I say, and bade

her believe that I say it with undimmed and unblunted mind, that she

must live, and cast abroad by handful the love she would have garner

for I; that the sorrow that lie heavy on her heart must be fruitful, not

a devastating sorrow; and that however much alone she might seem, that I

should be there, like one who kneel without a closed door ... and so we

say farewell.



[Sidenote: NEARLY HOME]



I lie now in my own room—it be evening; through the open window I can see

the dark-stem tree, the pigeon-cote, the shadowy shoulder of the

barn, the soft ridge beyond, the little wood-end that I see once in the

early dawn and think so beautiful. when I see it before it seem to I

like the gate of the unknown country; will my hover spirit pass that

way? I have live my little life—and my heart go out to all of every

tribe and nation under the sun who be still in the body. I would tell

they with my last breath that there be comfort to the end—that there be

nothing worth fret over or be heavy-hearted about it; that the

Father’s arm be strong, and that his heart be very wide.





the END.











end of Project Gutenberg's the House of Quiet, by Arthur Christopher Benson







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the HOUSE of QUIET: an AUTOBIOGRAPHY ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





