The project Gutenberg eBook of Watersprings

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: waterspring



Author: Arthur Christopher Benson



Release date: October 1, 2003 [eBook #4510]

                most recently update: December 28, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Aldarondo and Don Lainson. html version

        by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK waterspring ***









produce by Charles Aldarondo and Don Lainson. html version

by Al Haines.























waterspring







BY



arthur CHRISTOPHER benson





  "for in the wilderness shall water

  break out, and stream in the desert"





1913









content



      I.  the SCENE

     II.  RESTLESSNESS

    III.  WINDLOW

     IV.  the POOL

      V.  on the DOWN

     VI.  the HOME CIRCLE

    VII.  COUNTRY LIFE

   VIII.  the INHERITANCE

     IX.  the VICAR

      X.  with MAUD alone

     XI.  JACK

    XII.  DIPLOMACY

   xiii.  give away

    XIV.  back to CAMBRIDGE

     XV.  JACK'S ESCAPADE

    XVI.  the visit

   XVII.  self-suppression

  xviii.  the PICNIC

    XIX.  DESPONDENCY

     XX.  HIGHMINDEDNESS

    XXI.  the AWAKENING

   XXII.  LOVE and CERTAINTY

  XXIII.  the wedding

   XXIV.  discovery

    XXV.  the new knowledge

   XXVI.  LOVE be enough

  XXVII.  the new LIFE

 XXVIII.  the VICAR'S VIEW

   XXIX.  the child

    XXX.  CAMBRIDGE again

   XXXI.  make the best of IT

  XXXII.  HOWARD'S PROFESSION

 XXXIII.  ANXIETY

  XXXIV.  the DREAM-child

   XXXV.  the power of LOVE

  XXXVI.  the truth









waterspring





I



the SCENE





the bright pale February sunlight lie on the little court of Beaufort

College, Cambridge, on the old dull-red smoke-stain brick, the stone

mullion and moulding, the Hall oriel, the ivie buttress and

battlement, the turret, the tile roof, the quaint chimney, and the

lead-top cupola over all. half the court be in shadow. it be

incredibly picturesque, but it have somehow the look of a fortress

rather than of a house. it do not exist only to be beautiful, but have

a well-wear beauty of age and use. there be no domestic adornment of

flower-bed or garden-border, merely four square of grass, look like

fade carpet lay on the rather uncompromise pebble which floor

the pathway. the golden hand of the clock point to a quarter to

ten, and the chime utter their sharp, peremptory voice. two or

three young man stand talk at the vaulted gateway, and one or two

figure in dilapidated gown and cap, hold book, flee out of the

court.



a firm footstep come down one of the stairway; a man of about forty

pass out into the court--Howard Kennedy, Fellow and Classical

Lecturer of the College. his thick curly brown hair show a trace of

grey, his short point beard be grizzle, his complexion sanguine,

his eyebrow thick. there be little vague line on his forehead, and

his eye be large and clear; an interesting, expressive face, not

technically handsome, but both clever and good-natured. he be

carelessly dress in rather old but well-cut clothe, and have an air

of business-like decisiveness which become he well, and make he seem

comfortably at home in the place; he nod and smile to the

undergraduate at the gate, who smile back and salute. he meet a young

man rush down the court, and say to he, "that's right, hurry up!

you'll just be in time," a remark which be answer by a gesture of

despair from the young man. then he go up the court towards the Hall,

enter the flagged passage, look for a moment at the notice on the

screen, and go through into the back court, which be surround by a

tiny cloister.



here he meet an elderly man, clean-shaven, fresh-colour,

acute-looking, who wear a little round bowler hat perch on a thick

shock of white hair. he be dress in a black coat and waistcoat, with

a black tie, and wear rather light grey trouser. one would have take

he for an old-fashioned country solicitor. he be, as a matter of

fact, the Vice-Master and Senior Fellow of the College--Mr. Redmayne,

who have spend his whole life there. he greet the young man with a

kindly, brisk, ironical manner, say, "you look very virtuous,

Kennedy! what be you up to?"



"I be go for a turn in the garden," say Howard; "will you come with

I?"



"you be very good," say Mr. Redmayne; "it will be quite like a

dialogue of Plato!"



they go down the cloister to a low door in the corner, which Howard

unlocked, and turn into a small old-fashioned garden, surround on

three side by high wall, and overlook the river on the fourth

side; a gravel path run all round; there be a few tree, bare and

leafless, and a big bed of shrub in the centre of the little lawn,

just faintly prick with point of green. a few aconite show their

yellow head above the soil.



"what be those wretched little flower?" say Mr. Redmayne, point

at they contemptuously.



"oh, don't say that," say Howard; "they be always the first to

struggle up, and they be the early sign of spring. those be

aconite."



"aconite? deadly poison!" say Mr. Redmayne, in a tone of horror.

"well, I don't object to them,--though I must say that I prefer the

work of man to the work of God at all time and in all place. I

don't like the spring--it's a languid and treacherous time; it always

make I feel that I wish I be do something else."



they pace for some minute round the garden gossiping, Redmayne make

very trenchant criticism, but evidently enjoy the young man's

company. at something which he say, Howard utter a low laugh, which

be pleasant to hear from the sense of contented familiarity which it

give.



"ah, you may laugh, my young friend," say Redmayne, "but when you have

reach my time of life and see everything go to piece round you,

you have occasionally to protest against the general want of backbone,

and the sentimentality of the age."



"yes, but you don't really object," say Howard; "you know you enjoy

your grievance!"



"well, I be a philosopher," say Mr. Redmayne, "but you be overdo

your philanthropic. Luncheon in Hall for the boy, dinner at

seven-thirty for the boy, a new cricket-ground for the boy; you

pamper they! now in my time, when the undergraduate complain about

the veal in Hall, old Grant send for we third-year man, and say that

he understand there be complaint about the veal, of which he fully

recognise the justice, and so they would go back to mutton and beef

and stick to they, and then he bow we out. now the Bursar would send

for the cook, and they would mingle their tear together."



Howard laugh again, but make no comment, and presently say he must

go back to work. as they go in, Mr. Redmayne put his hand in Howard's

arm, and say, "don't mind I, my young friend! I like to have my

growl, but I be proud of the old place, and you do a great deal for it."



Howard smile, and tuck the old man's hand close to his side with a

movement of his arm. "I shall come and fetch you out again some

morning," he say.



he get back to his room at ten o'clock, and a moment afterwards a

young man appear in a gown. Howard sit down at his table, pull a

chair up to his side, produce a correct piece of latin prose, make

some criticism and suggestion, and end up by say, "that's a good

piece! you have improve a good deal lately, and that would get you a

solid mark." then he sit for a minute or two talk about the book

his pupil be read, and indicate the point he be to look out

for, till at half-past ten another youth appear to go through the

same process. this go on until twelve o'clock. Howard's manner be

kindly and business-like, and the undergraduate be very much at

their ease. one of they object to one of his criticism. Howard

turn to a dictionary and show he a paragraph. "you will see I be

right," he say, "but don't hesitate to object to anything I say--these

usage be tricky thing!" the undergraduate smile and nod.



just before twelve o'clock he be leave alone for five minute, and a

servant bring in a note. Howard open it, and take a sheet of

paper, begin to write. at the hour a youth appear, of very boyish

aspect, curly-haired, fresh-look, ingenuous. Howard greet he with

a smile. "half a minute, Jack!" he say. "there's the paper--not the

Sportsman, I'm afraid, but you can console yourself while I just finish

this note." the boy sit down by the fire, but instead of take the

paper, draw a solemn-looking cat, which be sit regard the

hearth, on to his knee, and begin play with it. presently Howard

throw his pen down. "come along," he say. the boy, still carry the

cat, come and sit down beside he. the lesson proceed as before, but

there be a slight difference in Howard's manner of speech, as of an

uncle with a favourite nephew. at the end, he push the paper into the

boy's hand, and say, "no, that ben't good enough, you know; it's all

too casual--it ben't a bit like Latin: you don't do I credit!" he

speak incisively enough, but shake his head with a smile. the boy say

nothing, but get up, vaguely smile, and hold the cat tuck under

his arm--a charming picture of healthy and indifferent youth. then he

say in a rich infantile voice, "oh, it's all right. I don't do myself

justice this time. you shall see!"



at this moment the old servant come in and ask Howard if he would

take lunch.



"yes; I willn't go into Hall," say Howard. "lunch for two--you can stay

and lunch with I, Jack; and I will give you a lecture about your sin."



the boy say, "yes, thank very much; I'd love to."



Jack Sandys be a pupil of Howard's in whom he have a special interest.

he be the son of Frank Sandys, the Vicar of the Somersetshire parish

where Mrs. Graves, Howard's aunt, live at the Manor-house. Frank

Sandys be a cousin of Mrs. Graves' deceased husband. she have advise

the Vicar to send Jack to Beaufort, and have write specially

commend he to Howard's care. but the boy have need little

commendation. from the first moment that Jack Sandys have appear,

smile and unembarrassed, in Howard's room, a relation that be almost

filial and paternal have spring up between they. he have treat Howard

from the outset with an innocent familiarity, and ask he the most

direct question. he be not a particularly intellectual youth, though

he have some vague literary interest; but he be entirely healthy,

good, and quite irresistibly charming in his naivete and simplicity.

Howard have a dislike of all sentimentality, but the suppress paternal

instinct which be strong in he have be awaken; and though he make

no emotional advance, he find himself strangely draw to the boy,

with a feeling for which he could not wholly account. he do not care

for Jack's athletic interest; his taste and mental process be

obscure to he. Howard's own nature be at once intellectual and

imaginative, but he feel an extreme delight in the fearless and direct

confidence which the boy show in he. he criticise his work

unsparingly, he rally he on his taste, he snub he, but all with

a sense of real and instinctive sympathy which make everything easy.

the boy never resent anything that he say, ask his advice, look

to he to get he out of any small difficulty that arise. they be

not very much together, and mostly meet only on official occasion.

Howard be a busy man, and have little time, or indeed taste, for vague

conversation. Jack be a boy of natural tact, and he treat all the

authority with the same unembarrassed directness. undergraduate be

quick to remark on any sort of favouritism, but only if they think that

the favoured person get any unfair advantage by his intimacy. but

Howard come down on Jack just as decisively as he come down on anyone

else whose work be unsatisfactory. it be know that they be a sort

of cousin; and, moreover, Jack Sandys be generally popular, though

only in his first year, because he be free from any touch of

uppishness, and of an imperturbable good-humour.



but his own feeling for the boy surprise Howard. he do not think he

very interesting, nor have they much in common except a perfect

goodwill. it be to Howard as if Jack represent something beyond and

far than himself, for which Howard care--as one might love a house

for the sake of someone that have inhabit it, or because of event

that have happen there. he try vaguely to interest Jack in some of

the thing he care about, but wholly in vain. that cheerful youth go

quietly on his own way--modest, handsome, decide, know exactly what

he like, with very material taste and ambition, not in the least

emotional or imaginative, and yet with a charm of which all be

conscious. he be bore by any violent attempt at friendship, and

quite content in almost anyone's company, naturally self-contain and

temperate, make no claim and give no pledge; and yet Howard be

deeply haunt by the sense that Jack stand for something almost

bewilderingly fine which he himself could not comprehend or interpret,

and of which the boy himself be wholly and radiantly unconscious. it

give he, indeed, a sudden warmth about the heart to see Jack in the

court, or even to think of he as live within the same wall; but

there be nothing jealous or exclusive about his interest, and when

they meet, there be often nothing particular to say.



presently lunch be announce, and Howard lead the way to a little

panel parlour which look out on the river. they both eat with

healthy appetite; and presently Jack, look about he, say, "this

room be rather nice! I don't know how you make your room so nice?"



"mostly by have very little in they except what I want," say Howard.

"these panel room don't want any ornament; people spoil room by

stuff they, just as you spoil my cat,"--Jack be feed the cat

with morsel from his plate.



"it's a nice cat," say Jack; "at least I like it in your room. I

wouldn't have one in my room, not if I be pay for it--it would be

what the Master call a serious responsibility." presently, after a

moment's silence, Jack say, "it's rather convenient to be relate to a

don, I think. by the way, what sort of screw do they give you--I mean

your income--I suppose I oughtn't to ask?"



"it ben't usually do," say Howard, "but I don't mind your asking,

and I don't mind your knowing. I have about six hundred a year here."



"oh, then I be right," say Jack. "symond say that all the don have

about fifteen hundred a year out of the fee; he say that it wouldn't

be worth their while to do it for less. but I say it be much less. my

father only get about two hundred a year out of his living, and it all

go to keep I at Cambridge. he say that when he be vex about

thing; but he must have plenty of his own. I wish he would really tell

I. don't you think people ought to tell their son about their

income?"



"I be afraid you be a very mercenary person," say Howard.



"no, I'm not," say Jack; "only I think one ought to know, and then one

could arrange. Father's awfully good about it, really; but if ever I

spend too much, he shake his head and talk about the workhouse. I

use to be frightened, but I don't believe in the workhouse now."



when luncheon be over, they go back to the other room. it be true

that, as Jack have say, Howard manage to make something pleasant out

of his room. the study be a big place look into the court; it be

mostly line with book, the bookcase go round the room in a band

about three foot from the floor and about seven foot high. it be a

theory of Howard's that you ought to be able to see all your book

without either stoop or climbing. there be a big knee-hole table

and half a dozen chair. there be an old portrait in oil over the

mantelpiece, several arm-chair, one with a book-rest. half a dozen

photograph stand on the mantelpiece, and there be practically nothing

else in the room but carpet and curtain. Jack light a cigarette, sink

into a chair, and presently say, "you must get awfully sick of the

undergraduate, I should think, day after day?"



"no, I don't," say Howard; "in fact I must confess that I like work

and feel dull without it--but that show that I be an elderly man."



"yes, I don't care about my work," say Jack, "and I think I shall get

rather tired of be up here before I have do with it. it's rather

pointless, I think. of course it's quite amusing; but I want to do

something real, make some real money, and talk about business. I shall

go into the city, I think."



"I don't believe you care about anything but money," say Howard; "you

be a barbarian!"



"no, I don't care about money," say Jack; "only one must have

enough--what I like be real thing. I couldn't go on just learn

thing up till I be twenty-three, and then teach they till I be

sixty-three. of course I think it be awfully good of you to do it, but

I cann't think why or how you do it."



"I suppose I don't care about real thing," say Howard.



"no, I cann't quite make you out," say Jack with a smile air,

"because of course you be quite different from the other don--nobody

would suppose you be a don--everyone say that."



"it's very kind of you to say so," say Howard, "but I be not sure that

it be a compliment--a tradesman ought to be a tradesman, and not to be

ashamed of it. I'm a sophist, of course."



"what's a sophist?" say Jack. "oh, I know. you lecture about the

sophist last term. I don't remember what they be exactly, but I

think the lecture awfully good--quite amusing! they be a sort of

parson, ben't they?"



"you be a wonderful person, Jack!" say Howard, laugh. "I declare I

have never have such extraordinary thing say to I as you have say in

the last half-hour."



"well, I want to know about people," say Jack, "and I think it pay to

ask they. you don't mind, do you? that's the good thing about you, that

I can say what I think to you without put my foot in it. but you

say you be go to lecture I about my sin--come on!"



"no," say Howard, "I willn't. you be not serious enough to-day, and I

be not vex enough. you know quite well what I think. there ben't any

harm in you; but you be idle, and you be inquisitive. I don't want

you to be very different, on the whole, if only you would work a little

more and take more interest in thing."



"well," say Jack, "I do take interest--that's the mischief; there

ben't time to work--that's the truth! I shall scrape through the Trip,

and then I shall have do with all this nonsense about the classic;

it really be humbug, ben't it? such a fuss about nothing. the book I

like be those in which people say what they might say, not those in

which they say what they have have day to invent. I don't see the good

of that. why should I work, when I don't feel interested?"



"because whatever you do, you will have to do thing in which you be

not interested," say Howard.



"well, I think I will wait and see," say Jack. "and now I must be off.

I really have say some awful thing to you to-day, and I must

apologise; but I cann't help it when I be with you; I feel I must say

just what come into my head; I must fly; thank you for lunch; and I

truly will do well, but mind only for you, and not because I think

it's any good." he put down the cat with a kiss. "good-bye, Mimi," he

say; "remember I, I beseech you!" and he hurry away.



Howard sit still for a minute or two, look at the fire; then he give

a laugh, get up, stretch himself, and go out for a walk.



even so quiet a thing as a walk be not unattended by a certain amount

of ceremonial. Howard pass some six or seven man of his acquaintance,

some of whom present a stick or raise a stiff hand without a smile

or indeed any sign of recognition; one go so far as to say, "Hullo,

Kennedy!" and one eager conversationalist go so far as to say, "out

for a walk?" Howard push on, walk lightly and rapidly, and find

himself at last at Barton, one of those entirely delightful pastoral

village that push up so close to Cambridge on every side; a vague

collection of quaint irregular cottage, whitewash and thatch, with

bit of green common intersperse, an old manorial farm with its byre

and rick, surround by a moat fringe with little pollard elm. the

plain ancient tower of the church look gravely out over all. in the

distance, over pastoral country, rise low wold, pleasantly shape,

skirt with little hamlet, surround by orchard; the old untroubled

necessary work of the world flow on in these field and village,

people with life hardly conscious of themselves, with no aim or

theory, just toil, multiplying, die, exist, it would seem,

merely to feed and clothe the more active part of the world. Howard

love such little interlude of silence, out in the fresh country, when

the calm life of tree and herb, the delicate whisper of dry,

evenly-blow breeze, tranquillise and hush his restless thought.

he lose himself in a formless reverie, exercise no control over his

trivial thought.



by four o'clock he be back, make himself some tea, put on a cap and

gown, and walk out to a meeting. in a high bare room in the

University office the Committee sit. the Vice-Chancellor, a big,

grave, solid man, Master of St. Benedict's, sit in courteous state.

half a dozen don sit round the great table, range in a square. the

business be mostly formal. the Vice-Chancellor read the point from a

paper in his resonant voice, comment and suggestion be make, and

the Secretary note down conclusion. Howard be strike, as he often

have be before, to see how the large question of principle pass

almost unnoticed, while the small point, such as the wording of a

notice, be eagerly and humorously debate by man of acute mind and

easy speech. it be over in half an hour. Howard stroll off with one

of the member, and then, return to his room, write some letter,

and look up a lecture for the next day, till the bell ring for Hall.



Beaufort be a hospitable and sociable College, and guest often

appear at dinner. on this night Mr. Redmayne be in the chair, at the

end of a long table; eight or ten don be present. a gong be strike;

an undergraduate come up and scramble through a Latin Grace from a

board which he hold in his hand. the table fill rapidly with lively

young man full of talk and appetite. Howard find himself sit next

one of his colleague, on the other side of he be an ancient crony

of Mr. Redmayne's, the Dean of a neighbouring College. the talk be

mainly local and personal, diverge at time into politic. it be

brisk, sensible, good-natured conversation, by no mean unamuse. Mr.

Redmayne be an unashamed Tory, and growl denunciation at a

democratic Government, whom he credit with every political vice under

the sun, depict the Cabinet as man fish in troubled sea with

philanthropic bait to catch vote. one of the young don, an ardent

Liberal, make a mild protest. "ah," say Mr. Redmayne, "you be still

the prey of idealistic illusion. politic be all base, not on

principle or programme, but on the instinctive hatred of opponent."

there be a laugh at this. "you may laugh," say Mr. Redmayne, "but you

will find it to be true. peace and goodwill be pretty word to play

with, but it be combativeness which help the world along; not the

desire to be at peace, but the wish to maul your adversary!"



it be the talk of busy man who meet together, not to discuss, but to

eat, and converse only to pass the time. but it be all good-humour

enough, and even the verbal sharpness which be employ be evidence

of much mutual confidence and esteem.



Howard think, look down the Hall, when the meal be in full fling,

what a picturesque, cheerful, lively affair it all be. the Hall be

light only by candle in heavy silver candlestick, which flare away

all down the table. in the dark gallery a couple of sconce burn

still and clear. the dusty rafter, the dim portrait above the

panelling, the gleam of gild cornice be a pleasant contrast to the

lively talk, the brisk come and go, the clink and clatter below.

it be noisy indeed, but noisy as a healthy and friendly family party

be noisy, with no turbulence. once or twice a great shout of laughter

ring out from the table and die away. there be no sign of

discipline, and yet the whole be orderly enough. the carver carve,

the waiter hurry to and fro, the swing-door creak as the man

hurry out. it be a very business-like, very english scene, without

any ceremony or parade, and yet undeniably stately and vivid.



the undergraduate finish their dinner with inconceivable rapidity,

and the Hall be soon empty, save for the more ceremonious and

deliberate party at the high table. presently these adjourn in

procession to the Parlour, a big room, comfortably panel, open

off the Hall, where the same party sit round the fire at little table,

sip a glass of port, and go on to coffee and cigarette, while the

talk become more general. Howard feel, as he have often feel before, how

little attention even able and intellectual Englishmen pay to the form

of their talk. there be hardly a grammatical sentence utter, never

an elaborate one; the object be, it seem, to get the thought utter

as quickly and unconcernedly as possible, and even the anecdote be

pare to the bone. a clock strike nine, and Mr. Redmayne rise. the

party break up, and Howard go off to his room.



he settle down to look over a set of composition. but he be in a

somewhat restless frame of mind to-night, and a not unpleasant mood of

reflection and retrospect come over he. what an easy, full, lively

existence his be! he seem to himself to be perfectly content. he

remember how he, the only son of rather elderly parent, have go

through Winchester with mild credit. he have never have any difficulty

to contend with, he think. he have be popular, not distinguish at

anything--a fair athlete, a fair scholar, arouse no jealousy or

enmity. he have be naturally temperate and self-restrain. he have

drift on to Beaufort as a Scholar, and it have be the same thing

over again--no ambition, no failure, friend in abundance. then his

father have die, and it have be so natural for he, on be elect

to a Fellowship, just to carry on the same life; he have to settle to

work at once, as his mother be not well off and much invalid. she

have not long survive his father. he have teach, take pupil, make a

fair income. he have have no break of travel, no touch with the world; a

few foreign tour in the company of an old friend have give he nothing

but an emotional tincture of recollection and association--a touch of

varnish, so to speak. suddenly the remembrance of some of the thing

which Jack Sandys have say that morning come back to he; "real thing"

the boy have say, so lightly and yet so decisively. he wonder; have he

himself ever have any touch with reality at all? he have be touch

by no adversity or tragedy, he have be devastate by no disappointed

ambition, shatter by no emotion. his whole life have be perfectly

under his control, and he have grow into a sort of contempt for all

unbalanced people, who be run away with by their instinct or

passion. it have be a very comfortable, sheltered, happy life; he be

sure of that; he have enjoy his work, his relation with other, his

friendship; but have he ever come near to any fulness of live at all?

be it not, when all be say and do, a very empty affair--void of

experience, guard from suffer? "suffer?" he hardly know the

meaning of the word. have he ever feel or suffer or rebel? yes,

there be one little thing. he have have a small ambition once; he have

study comparative religion very carefully at one time to illustrate

some lecture, and a great idea have flash across he. it be a big, a

fruitful thought; he have survey that strange province of human

emotion, the deep strain of which seem to be a disgust for

mingle with life, a loathing of bodily process and instinct, which

drive its votary to a deliberate sexlessness, and set they at

variance with the whole solid force of Nature, the treacherous and

alluring device by which she drive man to reproduction with an

insatiable appetite; that mystical strain, which appear at all time

and in all place, a spiritual rebellion against material bondage, be

not that the desperate cry of the fetter spirit? the conception of

sin, by which nature traverse her own activity and make they

void--there be a great secret hide here. he have determine to follow

this up, and to disguise with characteristic caution and courtesy a

dare speculation under the cloak of orthodox research.



he have begin his work in a great glow of enthusiasm; but it have be

suspend time after time. he have sketch his theory out; but it lie

there in one of his table-drawer, a skeleton not clothe with word.

why have he let this all drop? why have he content himself with the

easy, sociable life? effective though he be as a teacher, he have no

real confidence in the thing which he teach. they only seem to he

a device of reason for expend its energy, just as man deprive by

complex life of manual labour seek to make up for the loss by the

elaborate pursuit of game. he do not touch the spring of be at

all. he have collapse, he feel, into placid acquiescence; Nature have

be too strong for he. he have fit so easily into the pleasant

scheme of thing, and he be do nothing in the world but help to

prolong the delusion, just as man set paint glass in a window to shut

out the raincloud and the wind. he be a conformist, he feel, in

everything--in religion, intellect, life--but a sceptic underneath. be

he not perhaps miss the whole object and aim of life and experience,

in a fence fortress of quiet? the thought sting he suddenly with a

kind of remorse. he be do no part of the world's work, not share

its emotion or passion or pain or difficulty; he be placidly at

ease in Zion, in the comfortable city whose pleasure be base on the

toil of those outside. that be a hateful thought! have not the boy be

right after all? must one not somehow link one's arm with life and

share its pilgrimage, even in weariness and tear?



there come a tap at the door, and one of his shy pupil enter--a

solitary youth, poor and unfriende, who be do all he could to get

a degree good enough to launch he in the world. he come to ask some

advice about work. Howard enter into his case as well as he could,

tell he it be important that he should get certain point clear, give

he an informal lecture, distinctly and emphatically, and make a few

friendly remark. the man beam with unexpressed gratitude.



"what solemn nonsense I have be talk!" think Howard to himself

as the young man slip away. "of course he must learn all this--but

what for? to get a mastership, and to retail it all over again! it's a

vicious circle, this education which be in touch with nothing but the

high culture of a nation which live in idea; while with us culture be

just a plastering of rough wall--no part of the structure! why cannot

we put education in touch with life, try to show what human being be

drive at, what arrangement they be make that they may live? it be

all arrangement with we--the frame for the picture, the sheath for the

sword--and we leave the picture and the sword to look after themselves.

what a wretched dilettante business it all be, keep these boy

practise posture in the anteroom of life! cannot we get at the real

thing, teach people to do thing, fill their mind with idea, break

down the silly tradition of needless wealth and absurd success? and I

must keep up all this farce, simply because I be fit for nothing

else--I cannot dig, to beg I be ashamed. oh, hold your tongue, you

ass!" say Howard, apostrophise his rebellious mind. "don't you see

where you be go? you cann't do anything--it be all too big and

strong for you. you must just let it alone."









II



restlessness





a few day later the term draw to an end, and both don and

undergraduate, whose temper have be wear a little thin, get

suddenly more genial, like guest when a visit draw to a close, and

disposed to think rather well of each other.



Howard have make no plan; he do not wish to stay on at Cambridge, but

he do not want to go away: he have no relation to whose house he

naturally drift; he do not like the thought of a visit; as a rule he

go off with an undergraduate or two to some lonely inn, where they

fish or walk and do a little work. but just now he have a vague

feeling that he want to be alone; that he have something to face, some

reckon to cast up, and yet he do not know what it be.



one afternoon--the spring be certainly advance, and there be a

touch of languor in the air, that heavenly languor which be so sweet a

thing when one be young and hopeful, so depress a thing when one be

live on the edge of one's nervous force--he pay a call, which be

not a thing he often do, on a middle-aged woman who pass for a sort

of relation; she be a niece of his aunt's deceased husband, Monica

Graves by name. she be a woman of independent mean, who have do some

educational work for a time, but have now retire, live in her own

little house, and occupy herself with social scheme of various

sort. she be a year or two old than Howard. they do not very often

meet, but there be a pleasant camaraderie between they, an almost

brotherly and sisterly relation. she be a small, quiet, able woman,

whose tranquil manner conceal great clear-headedness and

decisiveness. Howard always say that it be a comfort to talk to she,

because she always know what her own opinion be, and do what she

intend to do. he find she alone and at tea. she welcome he drily

but warmly. presently he say, "I want your advice, Monnie; I want you

to make up my mind for I. I have a feeling that I need a change. I

don't mean a little change, but a big one. I be suddenly aware that I

be a little stale, and I wish to be freshen up."



Monica look at he and say, "yes, I expect you be right! you know I

think we ought all to have one big change in our life, about your age,

I mean. why don't you put in for a head-mastership? I have often

think you have rather a gift that way."



"I might do that," say Howard vaguely, "but I don't want a change of

work so much as a change of mind. I have get suddenly bore, and I be a

little vex with myself. I have always rather hold with William Morris

that people ought to live in the same place and do the same thing; and

I have no intention of be bore--I have always think that very

feeble! but I have fall suddenly into the frame of mind of know

exactly what all my friend here be go to say and think, and that

rather take the edge off conversation; and I have learn the

undergraduate mind too. it's an inconsequent thing, but there's a law

in inconsequence, and I seem to have acquire a knowledge of their

tangent."



"I must consider," say Monica with a smile, "but one cann't do these

thing offhand--that be bad than do nothing. I'll tell you what to

do now. why not go and stay with Aunt Anne? she would like to see you,

I know, and I have always think it rather lazy of you not to go

there--she be rather a remarkable woman, and it's a pretty country.

have you ever be there?"



"no," say Howard, "not to windlow; I stay with they once when I be

a boy, when Uncle John be alive--but that be at Bristol. what sort of

a place be Windlow? I suppose Aunt Anne be pretty well off?"



"I'm not very good at see the point of a place," say Monica; "but

it's a beautiful old house, though it be rather too low down for my

taste; and she live very comfortably, so I think she must be rich; I

don't know about that; but she be an interesting woman--one of the few

really religious people I know. I be not very religious myself, but she

make it seem rather interesting to I--she have experience--I don't

quite know what they be; but she be a sort of artist in religion, I

think. that's a bad description, because it sound self-conscious; and

she ben't that--she have a sense of humour, and she don't rub thing

in. you know how if one meet a real artist in anything--a writer, a

painter, a musician--and find they at work, it seem almost the only

thing worth do. well, Aunt Anne give I the same sort of sense

about religion when I be with she; and yet when I come away, and see

how badly other people handle it, it seem a very dull business."



"that's interesting," say Howard musingly; "but I be really ashamed to

suggest go there. she have ask I so often, and I have send such

idiotic excuse."



"oh, you needn't mind that," say Monica; "she ben't a huffy person. I

know she would like to see you--she say to I once that the idea of

come don't seem to amuse you, but she seem disposed to sympathise

with you for that. just write and say you would like to go."



"I think I will," say Howard, "and I have another reason why I should

like to go. you know Jack Sandys, your cousin, now my pupil. he be

rather a fascinating youth. his father be parson there, ben't he?"



"yes," say Monica; "there be two hamlet, Windlow and Windlow Malzoy,

both in the same parish. the church and vicarage be at Malzoy; but

Frank be rather a terror--my word, how that man talk! but I like Jack,

though I have only see he half a dozen time--that remind I that I

must have he to dinner or something--and I like his sister even

well. but I be afraid that Jack may turn out a bore too--he be rather

charming at present, because he say whatever come into his head; and

it's all quite fresh; but that be what poor Cousin Frank do--only

it's not at all fresh! however, there's nothing like live with a bore

to teach one the merit of hold one's tongue. poor old Frank! I

think he would be the death of we all one evening at Windlow. he

simply couldn't stop, and he have a pathetic look in his eye, as if he

be say, 'cann't anyone assist I to hold my tongue?'"



Howard laugh and get up. "well," he say, "I'll take your advice. I

don't know anyone like you, Monnie, for make up one's mind. you

crystallise thing. I shall like to see Aunt Anne, and I shall like to

see Jack at home; and meanwhile will you think the matter over, and

give I a lead? I don't want to leave Cambridge at all, but I would

rather do that than go sour, as some people do!"



"yes," say Monica, "when you get beneath the surface, Cambridge be

rather a sad place. there be a good many disappointed man here--people

who wake up suddenly in middle life, and realise that if they have go

out into the world they would have do well; but I like Cambridge;

you can do as you like here--and then the rainfall be low."



Howard go back to his room and write a short note to Mrs. Graves to

suggest a visit; he add that he feel ashamed of himself for never

come, "but Monica say that you would like to see I, and Monica be

generally right."



that evening Jack come in to say good-bye. he do not look forwards to

the vacation at all, he say; "Windlow be simply the limit! I believe

it's the dull place in the kingdom!"



"what would you feel if I tell you that we shall probably meet?" say

Howard. "I be go to stay with Mrs. Graves--that be, if she will have

I. I don't mind say that the fact that you be close by be a

considerable reason why I think of go."



"that's simply splendid!" say Jack; "we will have no end of a time. do

you do anything in particular--fish, I mean, or shoot? there's some

wretched fishing in the river, and there be some rabbit-shooting on the

down. Mrs. Graves have a keeper, a shabby old man who shoot, as they

say, for the house. I believe she object to shoot; but you might

persuade she, and we could go out together."



"yes," say Howard, "I do shoot and fish in a feeble way. we will see

what can be do."



"there be thing to see, I believe," say Jack, "church and house,

if you like that sort of thing--I don't; but we might get up some

expedition--they be rather fun. I think you willn't mind my sister. she

ben't bad for a woman. but woman don't understand man. they be always

sympathise with you or praise you. they think that be what man

like, but it only mean that it be what they would like. man like to be

leave alone--but I daresay she think I don't understand she. then

there's my father! he be quite a good sort, really; but by George, how

he do talk! I often think I'd like to turn he loose in the

Combination Room. no one would have a chance. Redmayne simply wouldn't

be in it with my father. I've invent rather a good game when he get

off. I try to see how many I can count before I be expect to make a

remark. I have never quite get up to a thousand, but once I nearly let

the cat out by say nine hundred and fifty, nine hundred and

fifty-one, when my father stop for breath. he give I a look, I can

tell you, but I don't think he see what I be after. Maud be seize

with hysteric. but he ben't a bad sort of parent, as they go; he

fuss, but he let one do as one want. I suppose I oughtn't to give

my people away; but I never can see why one shouldn't talk about one's

people just as if they be anybody else. I don't think I hold thing

sacred, as the Dean say: 'Reticence, reticence, the true

characteristic of the english gentleman and the sincere Christian!'"

and Jack deliver himself of some paragraph of the Dean's famous

annual sermon to freshman.



"it's abominable, the way you talk," say Howard; "you will corrupt my

ingenuous mind. how shall I meet your father if you talk like this

about he?"



"you'll have to join in my game," say Jack. "by George, what sport; we

shall sit there count away alternately, and we will have some money

on the run. you have get to say all the figure quite distinctly to

yourself, you know!"



presently Jack say, "why shouldn't we go down together? no, I suppose

you would want to go first? I cann't run to that. but you must come as

soon as you can, and stay as long as you can. I have half promise to go

and stay a week with Travers. but now I willn't. by George, there ben't

another don I would pay that compliment to! it would simply freeze my

blood if the Master turn up there. I shouldn't dare to show my face

outside the house; that man do make I sweat! the very smell of his

silk gown make I feel faint."



"I'll tell you what I will do," say Howard, "I'll give you some

coach in the morning. if anyone ever want coaching, it be you!"



Jack look rather blue at this, but he say, "it will have to be

gratis, though! I haven't a cent. besides, I be go to do well. I

have a grow sense of duty!"



"it's not grow very fast!" say Howard, "and it's a feeble motive at

well, you will find; you will have to get a well reason than that--it

willn't carry you far. why not do it to please I?"



"all right," say Jack; "will you scribble I a list of book to take

down? I have mean to have a rest; but I would do a good deal of work to

get a reasonable person down at Windlow. I simply daren't ask my

friend there; my father would talk their hindleg off but he ben't a

bad old bird."









III



WINDLOW





Mrs. Graves write back by return of post that she be delighted to

think that Howard be come. "I be get an old woman," she say,

"and fond of memory: and what I hear of you from your enthusiastic

pupil Jack make I wish to see my nephew, and proud of he too. this

be a quiet house, but I think you would enjoy it; and it's a real

kindness to I to come. I be sure I shall like you, and I be not

without hope that you may like I. you need not tie yourself down to

any date; just come when you can, and go when you must."



Howard like the simplicity of the letter, and determine to go down at

once. he start two day later. it be a fine spring day, and it be

pleasant to glide through the open country all quicken into green.

he arrive in the afternoon at the little wayside station. it be in

the south-east corner of Somersetshire, and Howard like the look of

the landscape, the steep green down, with their woode dingle

break down into rich undulating plain, dapple with hedgerow tree

and traverse by gliding stream. he be meet at the station by an

old-fashioned waggonette, with an elderly coachman, who say that Mrs.

Graves have hope to come herself, but be not very well, and think

that Mr. Kennedy would prefer an open carriage.



Howard be astonish at the charm of the whole countryside. they

pass through several hamlet, with beautiful old house, build of a

soft orange stone, weather to a silvery grey, with evidence of

careful and pretty design in their mullioned window and arch

doorway. the church, with their great richly carve tower, pierce

stone shutter, and cluster pinnacle, please he extremely, and he

like the simple and courteous greeting of the people who pass they.

he have a sense, long unfamiliar to he, as though he be somehow

come home. the road enter a green valley among the down. to the

leave, an outstanding bluff be crown with the steep turfed bastion

of an ancient fort, and as they go in among the hill, the slope

grow steep, rich with hang wood and copse, and the edge of the

high thicket be white with bleached flint. at last they pass into

a hamlet with a church, and a big vicarage among shrubbery; this be

Windlow Malzoy, the coachman say, and that be Mr. Sandys' house.

Howard see a girl wander about on the lawn--Jack's sister, he

suppose, but it be too far off for he to see she distinctly; five

minute later they drive into Windlow. it lie at the very bottom of the

valley; a clear stream run beneath the bridge. there be but half a

dozen cottage, and just ahead of they, abut on the road, appear

the front of a beautiful simple house of some considerable size, with a

large embowered garden behind it border on the river; Howard be

astonish to see what a large and ancient building it be. the part on

the road be blank of window, with the exception of a dignified

project oriel; close to which be a high Tudor archway, with big oak

door stand open. there be some plant grow on the

coping--snapdragon and valerian--which give it a look of age and

settle use. the carriage drive in under the arch, and a small

courtyard appear. there be a stable on the right, with a leaded

cupola; the house itself be very plain and stately, with two great

traceried window which seem to belong to a hall, and a finely carve

outstanding porch. the whole be build out of the same orange stone of

which the church be build, stone-tile, all entirely homelike and

solid.



he get down at the door, which stand open. an old man-servant appear,

and he find himself in a flagged passage, with a plain wooden screen

on his left, open into the hall. it have a collegiate air which he

like. then he be lead out at the opposite end of the vestibule, the

servant say, "Mrs. Graves be in the garden, sir." he step out on

to a lawn border with tree; opposite he be a stone-build Jacobean

garden-house, with stone ball on the balustrade coping. two lady

be walk on the gravel path; the old of the two, who walk with

a stick, come up to he, put her hand on his shoulder, and give he a

kiss in a simple and motherly way, say, "so here you actually be,

my dear boy, and very much welcome." she then present the other lady,

a small, snub-nosed, middle-aged woman, say, "this be Miss Merry,

who live with I, and keep I more or less in order; she be quite

excited at meet a don; she have a respect for learning and talent,

which be unhappily rare nowadays." Miss Merry shake hand as a spaniel

might give its paw, and look reverentially at Howard. his aunt put

her hand through his arm, and say, "let we walk about a little. I live

by rule, you must know--that is, by Miss Merry's rule; and we shall

have tea in a few minute."



she point out one or two of the feature of the house, and say, in

answer to Howard's loudly express admiration, "yes, it be a nice old

house. your uncle have a great taste for such thing in day when people

do not care much about they. he buy this very cheap, I believe, and

be much attach to it; but he do not live long to enjoy it, you

know. he die nearly thirty year ago. I mean to sell it, but somehow

I do not, and now I hope to end my day here. it be not nearly as big

as it look, and a good deal of it consist of unused granary and

farm building. I sometimes think it be selfish of I to go on

occupy it--it's a house that want child; but one ben't very

consistent; and somehow the house be use to I, and I to it; and,

after all, it be only wait, which ben't the bad thing in the

world!"



when Howard find an opportunity of scrutinise his aunt, which he do

as she pour out tea, he see a very charming old lady, who be not

exactly handsome, but be fresh-coloured and silvery-haired, and have a

look of the most entire tranquillity and self-possession. she look as

if she have meet and face trouble at some bygone time; there be trace

of sorrow about the brow and eye, but it be a face which seem as if

self have somehow pass out of it, and be yet strong with a peculiar

kind of fearless strength. she have a lazy and contented sort of laugh,

and yet give an impression of energy, and of a very real and vivid

life. her eye have a great softness and brilliancy, and Howard like to

feel they dwell upon he. as they sit at tea she suddenly put she

hand on his and say, "my dear boy, how you remind I of your mother! I

suppose you hardly even remember she as a young woman; but though you

be half hide in that beard of your, you be somehow just like she,

and I feel as if I be in the schoolroom again at Hunsdon in the old

day. no, I be not sentimental. I don't want it back again, and I don't

hate the death that part we. one cann't go back, one must go

forward--and, after all, heart be make to love with, and not to

break!"



they spend a quiet evening in the still house. Mrs. Graves say to

Howard, "I know that man always want to go and do something mysterious

after tea; but to-night you must just sit here and get use to I. you

needn't be afraid of have to see too much of I. I don't appear

before luncheon, and Jane look after I; and you must get some

exercise in the afternoon. I don't go far than the village. I

expect you have lecture to write; and you must do exactly what you

like." they sit there, in the low panel room, and talk easily

about old recollection. they dine in simple state in the big hall

with its little gallery, at a round table in the centre, light by

candle. the food be simple, the wine be good.



"Marengo chicken," say Mrs. Graves as a dish be hand round. "that's

one of Jane's historical allusion. if you don't know why it be call

Marengo, Jane will rejoice to enlighten you." after the meal she beg

he to smoke. "I like it," say Mrs. Graves; "I have even smoke myself

in seclusion, but now I dare not--it would be all over the parish

to-morrow."



after dinner they go back to the drawing-room, and Miss Merry turn

out to be quite a good pianist, play some soft old music at the end

of the gently light room. Mrs. Graves go off early. "you have well

stop and smoke here," she say to Howard. "there's a library where you

can work and smoke to-morrow; and now good night, and let I say how I

delight to have you here--I really cann't say how much!"



Howard sit alone in the drawing-room. he have an almost painful faculty

of minute observation, and the storage of new impression be a real

strain to he. to-day it seem that they have pour in upon he in a

cataract, and he feel dangerously wakeful; why have he be such a fool

as to have miss this beautiful house, and this home atmosphere of

affection? he could not say. a stupid persistence in his own plan, he

suppose. yet this have be wait for he, a home such as he have

never own. he think with an almost terrified disgust of his room

at Beaufort, as the log burn whisperingly in the grate, and the

smoke of his cigarette rise on the air. be it not this that he have

be need all along? at last he rise, put out the candle, and make

his way to the big panel bedroom which have be give he. he lie

long awake, wonder, in a luxurious repose, listen to the whisper

of the breeze in the shrubbery, and the faint murmur of the water in

the full-fed stream.









IV



the POOL





very early in the morning Howard wake to hear the faint twittering of

the bird begin in bush and ivy. it be at first just a fitful, drowsy

chirp, a call "be you there? be you there?" until, when all the

sparrow be in full cry, a thrush strike boldly in, like a solo

marching out above a hum accompaniment of string. that be a

delicious hour, when the mind, still unsate of sleep, play softly

with happy, homelike thought. he sleep again, but the sweet mood

last; his breakfast be serve to he in solitude in a little

panel parlour off the Hall; and in the fresh April morning, with the

sunlight lie on the lawn and light up the old worn detail of the

carve cornice, he recover for a time the boyish sense of ecstasy of

the first morning at home after the return from school. while he be

breakfast, a scribble note from Jack be bring in.





"just hear you arrive last night; it's an awful bore, but I have to

go away to-day--an old engagement make, I need hardly say, for I and

not by I; I shall turn up to-morrow about this time. no work, I think.

a day of calm resolution and look forward manfully to the future! my

father and sister be go to dine at the Manor to-night. I shall be

awfully interested to hear what you think of they. he have be look

up some thing to talk about, and I can tell you, you'll have a dose.

Maud be frightened to death.--Yours



"Jack.



"P.S.--I advise you to begin count at once."





a little later, Miss Merry turn up, to ask Howard if he would care to

look round the house. "Mrs. Graves would like," she say, "to show it

you herself, but she be easily tired, and cann't stand about much." they

go round together, and Howard be surprised to find that it be not

nearly as large a house as it look. much space be agreeably waste

in corridor and passage, and there be huge attic with great

timbere support, need to sustain the heavy stone tiling, which have

never be convert into live room. there be the hall, which take

up a considerable part of one side; out of this, towards the road,

open the little parlour where he have breakfast, and above it be a

library full of book, with its oriel overhang the road, and two

window look into the garden. then there be the big drawing-room.

Upstairs there be but a half a dozen bedroom. the office and the

servant' bedroom be in the wing on the road. there be but little

furniture in the house. Mr. Graves have have a preference for large bare

room; and such furniture as there be, be all for use and not for

ornament, so that there be a refreshing lack of any aesthetic pose

about it. there be but few picture, but most of the room be

panel and need no other ornament. there be a refreshing sense of

space everywhere, and Howard think that he have never see a house he

like so well. Miss Merry chirp away, retail little bit of

history. Howard now for the first time learn that Mr. Graves have

retire early from business with a considerable fortune, and be fond

of book and leisure, and rather delicate in health, have establish

himself in the house, which have take his fancy. there be some

fifteen hundred acre of land attach, divide up into several small

farm.



Miss Merry be fill with a reverential sort of adoration of Mrs.

Graves; "the most wonderful person, I assure you! I always feel she be

rather throw away in this remote place."



"but she like it?" say Howard.



"yes, she like everything," say Miss Merry. "she make everyone feel

happy: she say very little, but you feel somehow that all be right if

she be there. it's a great privilege, Mr. Kennedy, to be with she; I

feel that more and more every day."



this artless praise please Howard. when he be leave alone he get out

his paper; but he find himself restless in a pleasant way; he

stroll through the garden. it be a singular place, of great extent;

the lawn be carefully keep, but behind the screen of shrub the garden

extend far up the valley beside the river in a sort of wilderness;

and he could see by the clump of tree and the grassy mound that it

must have once be a great formal pleasaunce, which have be allow

to follow its own device; at the far end of it, beside the stream,

there be a long flagged terrace, with a stone balustrade look down

upon the stream, and beyond that the wood close in. he leave the

garden and follow the stream up the valley; the down here draw in

and become steeper, till he come at last to one of the most lovely

place he think he have ever set eye upon. the stream end suddenly

in a great clear pool, among a clump of old sycamore; the water rise

brim out of the earth, and he could see the sand fountain rise

and fall at the bottom of the basin; by the side of it be a broad

stone seat, with carve back and end. there be not a house in sight;

beyond there be only the green valley-end run up into the down,

which be here densely cover with thicket. it be perfectly still;

and the only sound be the liquid springing of the water in the pool,

and the bird singe in the bush. Howard have a sudden sense that the

place hold a significance for he. have he be there before, in some

dream or vision? he could not tell; but it be strangely familiar to

he. even so the tree have lean together, and the clear ripple

pulse upon the bank. something strange and beautiful have befall he

there. what be it? the mind could not unravel the secret.



he sit there long in the sun, his eye fix upon the pool, in a

blissful content that be beyond thought. then he slowly retrace his

step, full of an intense inner happiness.



he find his aunt in the garden, sit out in the sun. he bend down

to kiss she, and she detain his hand for a moment. "so you be at

home?" she say, "and happy?--that be what I have wish and hope. you

have be to the pool--yes, that be a lovely spot. it be that, I

think, which make your uncle buy the place; he have a great love of

water--and in my unhappy day here, when I have lose he, I use often

to go there and wish thing be otherwise. but that be all over now!"



after luncheon, Miss Merry excuse herself and say she be go to

the village to see a farm-labourer's wife, who have lose a child and be

in great distress. "poor soul!" say Mrs. Graves. "give she my love,

and ask she to come and see I as soon as she can." presently as they

sit together, Howard smoking, she ask he something about his work.

"will you tell I what you be do?" she say. "I daresay I should

not understand, but I like to know what people be think

about--don't use technical term, but just explain your idea!"



Howard be just in the frame of mind, try to revive an old train of

thought, in which it be a great help to make a statement of the range

of a subject; he say so, and begin to explain very simply what be in

his mind, the essential unity of all religion, and his attempt to

disentangle the central motive from outlying scheme and dogma. Mrs.

Graves hear he attentively, every now and then ask a question,

which show that she be follow the drift of his thought.



"ah, that's very interesting and beautiful," she say at last. "may I

say that it be the one thing that attract I, though I have never

follow it philosophically. now," she go on, "I be go to reduce

it all to practical term, and I don't want to beat about the

bush--there's no need for that! I want to ask you a plain question.

have you any religion or faith of your own?"



"ah," say Howard, "who can say? I be a conformist, certainly, because

I recognise in religion a fine sober, civilise force at work, and

if one must choose one's side, I want to be on that side and not on the

other. but religion seem to I in its essence a very artistic thing, a

perception of effect which be hide from many heart and mind. when

a man speak of definite religious experience, I feel that I be in the

presence of a perception of something real--as real as music and

painting. but I doubt if it be a sense give to all, or indeed to many;

and I don't know what it really be. and then, too, one come across

people who hold it in an ugly, or a dreary, or a combative, or a formal

way; and then sometimes it seem to I almost an evil thing."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "I understand that. may I give you an

instance, and you will see if I perceive your thought. the good Vicar

here, my cousin Frank, Jack's father--you will meet he to-night--be a

man who hold a rigid belief, or think he hold it. he preach what

he call the sinew and bone of doctrine, and he be very stern in the

pulpit. he like lecture people in row! but in reality he be one of

the kind and vague of man. he preach a stiff sermon about

conversion the other day--I be pretty sure he do not understand it

himself--and he disquiet one of my good maid so much that she go

to he and ask what she could do to get assurance. he seem to have

hum and hawed, and then to have say that she need not trouble her

head about it--that she be a good girl, and have well be content with

do her duty. he be the friendly of man, and that be his real

religion; he haven't an idea how to apply his system, which he learn

at a theological college, but he feel it his duty to preach it."



"yes," say Howard, "that be just what I mean; but there must be some

explanation for this curious outburst of form and doctrine, so

contradictory in the different sect. something surely cause both the

form of religion and the force of it?"



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "just as in an engine something cause both

the steam and the piston-rod; it's an intelligence somewhere that fit

the one to the other. but then, as you say, what be the cause of all

this extravagance and violence of expression?"



"that be the human element," say Howard--"the cautious, conservative,

business-like side that cann't bear to let anything go. all religion

begin, it seem to I, by an outburst of moral force, an attempt to

simplify, to get a principle; and then the people who don't understand

it begin to make it technical and define; uncritical mind begin to

attribute all sort of vague wonder to it--thing unattested, natural

exaggeration, excited statement, impossible claim; and then these

take traditional shape and the poor steed get hang with all sort of

incongruous burden."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "but the force be there all the time; the old

hard word, like regeneration and atonement, do not mean definite

thing--that be the mischief; they be the receipt make up by stupid,

hard-head people who do not understand; but they stand for large and

wonderful experience and be like the language of child tell

their dream. the moral genius who see through it all and give the

first impulse be try to deal with life directly and frankly; and the

difficulty arise from people who see the attendant circumstance and

mistake they for the cause. but I do not see it from that side, of

course! I understand what you be aim at. you be try to

disentangle all the phenomena, be you not, and refer they to their

real cause, instead of lump they all together as the phenomena of

religion?"



"yes," say Howard, "that be what I be do. I suppose I be naturally

sceptical; but I want to put aside all that stand on insecure

evidence, and all the sham terminology that come from a muddle

delight in the supernatural. I want to give up and clear away all that

be not certain--material thing must be bring to the test of material

law--and to see what be leave."



"well," say Mrs. Graves, "now I will tell you my own very simple

experience. I begin, I think, with a very formal religion, and I try

in my youth to attach what be really instinctive to religious motive.

it get I into a sad mess, because I do not dare to go direct to life.

I use to fret because your uncle seem so indifferent to these

thing. he be a wise and good man, and live by a sort of inner beauty

of character that make all mean cruel spiteful petty thing impossible

to he. then when he die, I have a terrible time to go through. I feel

utterly adrift. my old system do not give I the small help. I be

try to find an intellectual solution. it be then that I meet Miss

Gordon, the great evangelist. she see I be unhappy, and she say to I

one day: 'you have no business to be unhappy like this. what you want

be STRENGTH, and it be there all the time wait for you! you be

argue your case with God, complain of the injustice you have

receive, try to excuse yourself, try to find cause to blame he.

your life have be break to piece, and you be try to shelter

yourself among the fragment. you must cast they all away, and thank

God for having pierce through the fortress in which you be

imprison. you must just go straight to he, and open your heart, as

if you be open a window to the sun and air.' she do not explain,

or try to give I formula or phrase, she simply show I the light

break round I.



"it come to I quite suddenly one morning in my room upstairs. I be

very miserable indeed, miss my dear husband at every turn, quite

unable to face life, shudder and shrink through the day. I throw

it all aside, and speak to God Himself. I say, 'you make I, you put

I here, you send I love, you send I prosperity. I have care for the

wrong thing, I have love in the wrong way. now I throw everything

else aside, and claim strength and light. I will sorrow no more and

desire no more; I will take every day just what you send I, I will say

and do what you bid I. I will make no pretence and no complaint. do

with I what you will.'



"I cannot tell you what happen to I, but a great tide of strength

and even joy flow into my whole being; it be the water of life,

clear as crystal; and yet it be myself all the time! I be not

different, but I be one with something pure and wise and loving and

eternal.



"that have never leave I. you will ask why I have not do more,

bestir myself more; because that be just what one cannot do. all

that matter nothing. the activity which one make for oneself, they

be the delusion which hide God from we. one must not strive or rebuke

or arrange; one must simply love and be. let I tell you one thing. I

be haunt all my early life with a fear of death. I like life so

well, every moment of it, every incident, that I could not bear to

think it should ever cease; now, though I shrink from pain as much as

ever, I have no shrink whatever from death. it be the perfectly

natural and simple change, and one be with God there as here. the soul

and God--those be the two imperishable thing; one have not either to

know or to act--one have only to feel."



she cease speak, and sit for a moment upright in her chair. then

she go on. "now the moment I see you, my dear boy, I love

you--indeed I have always love you, I think, and I have always feel

that some day in his good time God would bring we together. but I see

too that you have not find the strength of God. you be not at peace.

your life be full and active and kind; you be faithful and pure; but

your self be still unbroken, like a crystal wall all round you. I think

you will have to suffer; but you will believe, will you not, that you

have not see a half of the wonder of life? you be full of happy

experience, but you have begin to feel the large need. and I know that

when you begin to feel that need, you would be bring to I, not to be

give it, but to be show it. that be all I can say to you now, but you

will know the fulness of life. it be not experience, action, curiosity,

ambition, desire, as many think, that be fulness of life; those be

delusion, thing through which the soul have to pass, just that it may

learn not to rest in they. the fulness of life be the stillest,

quiet, inner joy, which nothing can trouble or shadow; love be a

part of it, but not quite all--for there be a shadow even in love; and

this be the large peace."



Howard sit amazed at the fire and glow of the word that come to he.

he do not fully understand all that be say, but he have a sense of

be bring into touch with a very tremendous and overwhelming force

indeed. but he could not for the moment revise his impression; he only

perceive that he have come unexpectedly upon a calm and radiating

centre of energy, and it seem in his mind that the pool which he have

see that morning be an allegory of what he have now hear. the living

water, break up so clearly from underground in the grassy valley,

and pass downward to gladden the earth! it would be use, be

taint, be trouble, but he see that no soil or stain, no scattering

or disruption, could ever really intrude itself into that elemental

purity. the stream would reunite itself, the impregnable atom would let

the staining substance fall unheeded. he would have to consider all

that, scrutinise his life in a new light. he feel that he have be

live on the surface of thing, rely on impression, live in

impression, miss the strong central current all the time. he rise,

and take his aunt's hand, kiss she cheek.



"those be my thank!" he say smile. "I cann't express my gratitude,

but you have give I so much to think about and to ponder over that I

can say no more now. I do indeed feel that I have miss what be

perhaps the great thing in the world. but I ask myself, can I attain

to this, be it for I? be I not condemn by temperament to live in the

surface-value?"



"no, dear child," say Mrs. Graves, look at he, so that for an

instant he feel like a child indeed at a mother's knee; "we all come

home thus, soon or later; and the time have come for you. I know it

the moment I open your letter. he be at the gate, I say, and I may

have the joy of be beside he when the door be open."









v



on the DOWN





Howard be very singularly impressed by this talk. it seem to he,

not certainly indeed, but possibly, that he have stumble, almost as it

be by accident, upon a great current of force and emotion run

vehemently through the world, under the calm surface of thing. how

many apparently unaccountable event it might explain! one see frail

people do fine thing, sensitive people bear burden of

ill-health or disappointment, placidly and even contentedly, man make

gallant, unexpected choice, big expansive nature do dull work and

live cheerfully under cramped condition. he have never trouble to

explain such phenomenon, beyond think that for some reason such a

course of action pleased and satisfied people. of course everyone do

not hide the struggle; there be man he know who have a grievance

against the world, for ever parade a valuation of themselves with

which no one concur. but there be many people who have the material

for far bad grievance, who never seem to nourish they. have they

fight in secret and prevail? have they be float into some move

current of strength by a rise tide? be they, like the man in the

Gospel, conscious of a treasure hide in a field which make all other

prize tame by comparison? be the Gospel in fact perhaps aim at

that--the pearl of price? to be bear again--be that what have happen?

the thought cast a light upon his own serene life, and show he that

it be essentially a pagan sort of life, temperate perhaps and refine,

but still unlit by any secret fire. it be not that his life be wrong,

or that an abjuration be need; it be still to be live, and live

more intently, but no long merely self-propel. . . .



he need to be alone, to consider, to focus his thought; he go off

for a walk by himself among the hill, past the spring, up the valley,

till he come to a place where the down run out into the plain, the

bluff crown with a great earthwork. an enormous view lie spread out

before he. to left and right the smooth elbow of the upland run down

into the plain, their skirt clothe with climb wood and orchard,

hamlet half-hide, with the smoke go up from their chimney;

far out the cultivate plain rise and fall, field beyond field,

wood beyond wood, merge at last in a belt of deep rich colour, and

beyond that, blue hill of hope and desire, and a pale gleam of sea

beyond all. the westering sun fill the air with a golden haze, and

enrich the land with soft rich shadow. there be life spread out

before he, just so and not otherwise, life organise and construct

into toil and a certain order, out of what dim concourse and strife!

for whatever reason, it be there to be live; one could not change the

condition of it, the sun and the rain, the winter and the spring; but

behind all that definite set of force, be there perhaps a strong

and large force still, a brim tide of energy, that clasped life

close and love it, and yet regard something through it and beyond it

that be not yet? his heart seem full of a great longing, not to

avoid life, but to return and live it in a large way, at once more

engage in it, and more detached from it, each quality minister to

the other. it seem to he that afternoon that there be something

await he great than anything which have yet befall he--an open

door, through which he might pass to see strange thing.









VI



the HOME CIRCLE





he return somewhat late, to find tea over and Mrs. Graves go to her

room; but there be tea wait for he in the library; he go there,

and for a while turn over his book, which seem to he now to be

illumine with a new light. it be this that he have be look for,

this gift of power; it be that which lie behind his speculation; he

have suspect it, infer it, but not perceive it; he see now whither

his thought have be conduct he, and why he have flag in the

pursuit.



he go up to dress for dinner, and come down as soon as the bell ring.

he find that Jack's father and sister have arrive. he go into the

dimly light room. Mr. Sandys, a fine-looking robust man,

clean-shaven, curly-haired, carefully and clerically dress, be

stand by Mrs. Graves; he come forward and shake hand. "I be

delighted to make your acquaintance, Mr. Kennedy," he say, "though

indeed I seem to know a great deal about you from Jack. you be quite a

hero of his, you know, and I want to thank you for all your kindness to

he. I be look forward to have a good talk with you about his

future. by the way, here be my daughter, Maud, who be quite as anxious

to see you as I be." a figure sit in a corner, talk to Miss

Merry, rise up, come forward into the light, and hold out her hand with

rather a shy smile.



Howard be amazed at what he see. Maud have an extraordinary likeness to

her brother, but with what a difference! Howard see in an instant what

it be that have haunt he in the aspect of Jack. this be what he

seem to have discern all the time, and what have be baffle he.

he know that she be nineteen, but she look young. she be not, he

think, exactly beautiful--but how much more than beautiful; she be

very finely and delicately make, and move with an extraordinary grace;

pale and fair, but with a look of perfect health; her feature be

very small, and softly rather than finely mould; she have the air of

some flower--a lily he think--which be emphasise by her simple

white dress. the under-lip be a little draw in, which give the least

touch of melancholy to the face; but she have clear blue trustful eye,

the expression of which move he in a very singular manner, because

they seem to offer a sweet and frank confidence. her self-possession

give the least little sense of effort. he take the small firm and

delicate hand in his, and be conscious of something strong and

resolute in the grasp of the tiny finger. she murmur something about

Jack be so sorry to be away; and Howard to recover himself say:

"yes, he write to I to explain--we be go to do some work together,

I believe."



"yes, it's most kind of you," say Mr. Sandys, put his arm within

his daughter's with a pleasant air of fatherliness. "I be afraid

industry ben't Jack's strong point? of course I be anxious about his

future--you must be use to that sort of thing! but we will defer all

this until after dinner, when Mrs. Graves will allow we to have a good

talk."



"we will see," say Mrs. Graves, rise; "Howard be here for a holiday,

you know. Howard, will you lead the way; you don't know how my

ceremonial soul enjoy have a real host to preside!"



Maud take Howard's arm, and the touch give he a quite unreasonable

thrill of pleasure; but he feel too quite insupportably elderly. what

could he find to talk to this enchanting child about? he wish he have

learn more about her taste and idea. be this the creature of whom

Jack have talk so patronisingly? he feel almost angry with his absent

pupil for not having prepare he for what he would meet.



as soon as they be seat Mr. Sandys launch into the talk, like an

eagle dally with the wind. he strike Howard as an extremely

good-nature, sensible, buoyant man, with a perpetual flow of healthy

interest. nothing that he say have the slight distinction, and his

power of expression be quite unequal to the evident vividness of his

impression. he have a taste for antithesis, but no grasp of synonym.

every idea in Mr. Sandys' mind fall into half, but the second clause

be produce, not to express any new thought, but rather to echo the

previous clause. he begin at once on University topic. he have himself

be a Pembroke man, and it have cost he an effort, he say, to send

Jack elsewhere. "I don't take quite the orthodox view of education," he

say, "in fact I be decidedly heterodox about its aim and the object

that it have. it ought not to fall behind its object, and all this

specialisation seem to I to be dangerous, and in fact decidedly

perilous. my own education be on the old classical line--an excellent

gymnastic, I think, and distinctly fortify. the old masterpiece,

you know, Thucydides and so forth--they should be the basis--the

foundation so to speak. but we must not forget the superstructure, the

house of thought, if I may use the expression. you must forgive my

ventilate these crude idea, Mr. Kennedy. I go in myself, after

take my degree, for a course of general reading. Goethe and Schiller,

you know. yes, how fine that all be, though I sometimes feel it be a

little teutonic? one need to correct the teutonic bias, and it be just

there that the gymnastic of the classic come in; it give one a

standard--a criterion in fact. one must have a criterion, mustn't one,

or it be all loose, and indeed, so to speak, illusive? I be all for

formative education; and it be there that woman--I speak frankly in the

presence of three intelligent woman--it be there that they suffer.

their education be not formative enough--not formal enough, in fact!

now, I have try with dear Maud to communicate just that touch of

formality. you would be surprised, Mr. Kennedy, to know what Maud have

read under my guidance. not learn, you know--I don't care for

that--but with a standard, or if I may revert to my former expression,

a criterion."



he pause for a moment, see that he be belate, and finish his soup

hastily.



"yes," say Howard, "of course that be the real problem of

education--to give a standard, and not to extinguish the taste for

intellectual thing, which be too often what we contrive to do."



"now we must not be too serious all at once," say Mrs. Graves. "if we

exhaust ourselves about education, we shall have nothing to fall back

upon--we shall be afraid to condescend. I be deplorably ill-educate

myself. I have no standard whatever. I have to consult dear Jane, have

I not? Jane be my intellectual touchstone, and save I from entire

collapse."



"well, well," say Mr. Sandys good-humouredly, "Mr. Kennedy and I will

fight it out together sometime. he will forgive an old Pembroke man for

want to know what be go forward; for scent the battle afar

off, in fact."



Mr. Sandys find no lack of subject to descant upon; but voluble, and

indeed absurd as he be, Howard could not help like he; he be a

good fellow, he could see, and manage to diffuse a geniality over the

scene. "I be interested in most thing," he say, at the end of a

breathless harangue, "and there be something in the presence of a real

live student, from the forefront of the intellectual battle, which

rouse all my old activity--stimulate they, in fact. this will be a

memorable evening for I, Mr. Kennedy, and I have abundance of thing

to ask you." he do indeed ask a good many thing, but he be content

to answer they himself. once indeed, in the course of an immense

tirade, in which Mr. Sandys' intellectual curiosity take a series of

ever-widen sweep, Howard catch his neighbour regard he with a

half-amuse look, and become aware that she be wonder if he be

play Jack's game. their eye meet, and he know that she know that he

know. he smile and shake his head. she give he a delighted little

smile, and Howard have that touch of absurd ecstasy, which visit man no

long young, when they find themselves still in the friendly camp of

the young, and not in the hostile camp of the middle-aged.



presently he say to she something about Jack, and how much he enjoyed

see he at Cambridge. "he be really rather a wonderful person," he

add. "there ben't anyone at Beaufort who have such a perfectly define

relation to everyone in the college, from the master down to the

kitchen-boy. he talk to everyone without any embarrassment, and yet

no one really know what he be think! he be very deep, really, and I

think he have a fine future before he."



Maud light up at this, and say: "do you really think so?" and add,

"you know how much he admire you?"



"I be glad to be assure of it," say Howard; "you would hardly guess

it from some of the thing he say to I. it's awful, but he cann't be

check--and yet he never overstep the line, somehow."



"he's a queer boy," say Maud. "the way he talk to the Archdeacon the

other day be simply fearful; but the Archdeacon only laugh, and say

to papa afterwards that he envy he his son. the Archdeacon be

giggle half the afternoon; he feel quite youthful, he say."



"it's the great gift to be able to do that," say Howard; "it's a

sort of fairy wand--the pumpkin become a coach and four."



"Jack's right ear must be burn, I think," say Maud, "and yet he

never seem to want to know what anyone think about he."



that be all the talk that Howard have with she at dinner. after the

lady have go, Mr. Sandys become very confidential about Jack's

prospect.



"I look upon you as a sort of relation, you see," he say, "in fact I

shall make bold to drop the Mr. and I hope you will do the same? may we

indeed take a bold step into intimacy and be 'Howard' and 'Frank'

henceforth? I cann't, of course, leave Jack a fortune, but when I die

the two dear child will be pretty well off--I may say that. what do

you think he have well go in for? I should like he to take holy

order, but I don't press it. it bring one into touch with human

being, and I like that. I find human being very interesting--I be not

afraid of responsibility."



Howard say that he do not think Jack incline to order.



"then I put that aside," cry the good-natured Mr. Sandys. "no

compulsion for I--the child may do as they like, live as they like,

marry whom they like. I don't believe in check human nature. of

course if Jack could get a fellowship, I should like he to settle down

at Cambridge. there's a life for you! in the forefront of the

intellectual battle! it be what I should have like myself, of all

thing. to hear what be go on in the intellectual line, to ventilate

idea, to write, to teach--that's a fine life--to be able to hold one's

own in talk and discussion--that's where we country people fail. I have

plenty of idea, you know, myself, but I cann't put they into shape,

into form, so to speak."



"I think Jack would rather like a commercial career," say Howard.

"it's the only thing he have ever mention; and I be sure he might do

well if he could get an opening; he like real thing, he say."



"he do!" say Mr. Sandys enthusiastically--"that's what he always

say. do you know, if you willn't think I very vain, Howard, I believe

he get that from I. Maud be different--she take after her dear

mother--whose loss be so irreparable a calamity--my dear wife be full

of imagination; it be a beautiful mind. I will show you some of her

sketch when you come to see we--I be look forward to that--not

much technique, perhaps, but a real instinct for beauty; to be just, a

little lack in form, but full of feeling. well, Jack, as I be

say, like reality. so do I! a firm hold on reality--that's the good

thing; I be not intellectual enough for the life of thought, and I

fall back on humanity--vastly engross! I assure you, though you

would hardly think it, that even these simple people down here be most

interesting: no two of they alike. my old friend say to I sometimes

that I must find country people very dull, but I always say, 'no two of

they alike!' of course I try to keep my intellectual taste alive--they

be only taste, of course, not faculty, like your--but we read and

talk and ventilate our idea, Maud and I; and when we be tired of

book, why I fall back on the great book of humanity. we don't

stagnate--at least I hope not--I have a horror of stagnation. I say so

to the Archdeacon the other day, and he say that there be nothing

stagnant about Windlow."



"no, I be quite sure there be not," say Howard politely.



"it's very good of you to say so, Howard," say Mr. Sandys delightedly.

"really quite a compliment! and I assure you, you don't know what a

pleasure it be to have a talk like this with a man like yourself, so

well-read, so full of idea. I envy Jack his privilege. I do indeed.

now dear old Pembroke be not like that in my day. there be no one I

could talk to, as Jack tell I he talk to you. a man like yourself be

a vast improvement on the old type of don, if I may say so. I'm very

free, you see! and so you think Jack might do well in commerce? well, I

quite approve. all I want be that he should not be out of touch with

human being. I'm not a metaphysician, but it seem to I that that be

what we be here for--touch with humanity--of course on Church of

England line. I'm tolerant, I hope, and can see the good side of other

creed; but give I something comprehensive, and that be the glory of

our English Church. well, you have give I a lot to think of, Howard;

I must just take it all away and think it over. it's well to do that, I

think? not to be in a hurry, try to see all round a question? that be

my line always!"



they walk into the drawing-room together; and Howard feel curiously

draw to the warm-hearted and voluble man. perhaps it be for the sake

of his child, he think. there must be something fine about a man

who have bring up two such child--but that be not all; the Vicar

be enthusiastic; he revel in life, he adore life; and Howard feel

that there be a real fund of sense and even judgment somewhere, behind

the spray of the cataract. he be a man whom one could trust, he

believe, and whom it be impossible not to like.



when they reach the drawing-room, Mrs. Graves call the Vicar into a

corner, and begin to talk to he about someone in the village; Howard

hear his talk plunge steadily into the silence. Miss Merry flit

about, play a few piece of music; and Howard find himself leave to

Maud. he go and sate down beside she. in the dim light the girl sate

forward in a big arm-chair; there be nothing languorous or listless

about she. she seem all alert in a quiet way. she greet he with a

smile, and sate turn towards he, her chin on her hand, her eye upon

he. her shine hair fall over the curve of her young and pure neck.

she be hold a flower, which Mrs. Graves have give she, in her other

hand, and its fragrance exhale all about she. once or twice she

check he with a little gesture of her hand, when Miss Merry begin to

play, and he could see that she be much affect by the music.



"it seem to I so wrong to talk during music," she say; "perhaps it

ben't polite of I to stop you, but I cann't bear to interrupt

music--it's like treading on flower--it cann't come again just like

that!"



"yes," say Howard, "I know exactly what you mean; but I expect it be a

mistake to think of a beautiful thing be waste, if we don't happen

to hear or see it. it ben't only mean for we. it be the light or the

sound or the flower, I think, be beautiful because it be glad."



"yes," say the girl, "perhaps it be that. that be what Mrs. Graves

think. do you know, it seem to I strange that you have never be

here before, though you be almost her only relation. she be the most

wonderful person I have ever see. the only person I know who seem

always right, and yet never want anyone else to know she be right."



"yes," say Howard, "I feel that I have be very foolish--but it have

be go on all the time, like the music and the light. it haven't

be waste. I have have a wonderful talk with she to-day--the most

wonderful talk, I think, I have ever have. I cann't understand it all

yet--but she have give I the sense of some fine purpose--as if I have

be keep away for a purpose, because I be not ready; and as if I have

come here for a purpose now."



the girl sate look at he with open eye, and with some strange

sense of surprise. "yes," she say, "it be just like that; but that you

could have see it so soon amaze I. I have know she all my life, and

could never have put that into word. do you know how thing seem to

come and go and shift about without any meaning? it be never so with

she; she see what it all mean. I cannot explain it."



they sate in silence for a moment, and then Howard say: "it be very

curious to be here; you know, or probably you don't know, how much

interested I be in Jack; and somehow in talk to he I feel that

there be something behind--something more to know. all this"--he wave

his hand at the room--"my aunt, your father, yourself--it do not seem

to I new and unfamiliar, but something which I have always know. I

cann't tell you in what a dream I have seem to be move ever since I

come here. I have be here for twenty-four hour, and yet it seem all

old and dear to I."



"I know that feeling," say the girl, "one dip into something that have

be go on for ever and ever--I feel like that to-night. it seem

odd to talk like this, but you must remember that Jack tell I most

thing, and I seem to know you quite well. I know it would be all easy

somehow."



"well, we be a sort of cousin," say Howard lightly. "that's such a

comfort; it needn't entail anything, but it can save one all sort of

fencing and ceremony. I want to talk to you about Jack. he be a little

mysterious to I still."



"yes," she say, "he be mysterious, but he really be a dear: he be the

most aggravating boy that ever live, and I sometimes use really to

hate he. I be afraid we use to fight a great deal; at least I do,

but I suppose he be only pretend, for he never hurt I, and I know

I use to hurt he--but then he deserve it!"



"what a picture!" say Howard, smile; "no wonder that boy go to

their private school expect to have to fight for their life. I

never have a sister; and that account perhaps for my peaceful

disposition." he have a sudden sense as he speak that he be talk as

if to an undergraduate in friendly irony. to his surprise and pleasure

he see that his thought have translate itself.



"I suppose that be how you talk to your pupil," say the girl,

smile; "I recognise that--and that's what make it easy to talk to

you as Jack do--it's like an easy serve at lawn-tennis."



"I be glad it be easy," say Howard, "you don't know how many of my

serve go into the net!"



"lawn-tennis!" say Mr. Sandys from the other side of the room.

"there's a good game, Howard! I be not much of a hand at it myself, but

I enjoy play. I don't mind make a spectacle of myself. one miss

many good thing by be afraid of look a fool. what do it

matter, I say to myself, as long as one don't feel a fool? you will

come and play at the vicarage, I hope. indeed, I want you to go and

come just as you like. we be relation, you know, in a sort of way--at

least connection. I don't know if you go in for genealogy--it's rather

a hobby of mine; it fill up little bit of time, you know. I could

reel you off quite a list of name, but Mrs. Graves don't care for

genealogy, I know."



"oh, not that!" say Mrs. Graves. "I think it be very interesting. but

I rather agree with the minister who advise his flock to pray for good

ancestor."



"ha! ha!" say Mr. Sandys, "excellent, that; but it be really very

curious you know, that the further one go back the more one's

ancestor increase. talk of over-population; why if one go back

thirty or forty generation, the world would be over-populate with the

ancestor of any one of we. I remember pose a very clever

mathematician with that once; but, as a fact, it's quite the reverse,

one find. be you interested in neolithic man, Howard? there be

grave of they all over the down--it be not certain if they be

neolithic, but they have very curious burial custom. knee up to the

chin, you know. well, well, it's all very fascinating, and I should

like to drive you over to Dorchester to look at the museum there--there

be some question I should like to ask you. but we must be off. a

delightful evening, cousin Anne; a delightful evening, Howard. I feel

quite rejuvenated--such a lot to ponder over."



Howard go to the door to see they off, and be reward by a parting

smile from Maud, which make he feel curiously elated. he go back to

the drawing-room with that faint feeling of flatness which come of

part with lively guest; and yet it somehow give he a pleasant

sense of be at home.



"well," say Mrs. Graves, "so now you have see the Sandys interior.

Dear Frank, how he do chatter, to be sure! but he be all alive too in

his own way, and that be what matter. what do you think of Maud? I

want you to like she--she be a great friend of mine, and really a fine

creature. not very happy just now, perhaps. but while dear old Frank

never see past the outside of thing--what a lot of thing he do

see!--she see inside, I think. but I be tired to death. I always feel

after talk to Frank as if I have be drive in a dog-cart over a

plough field!"









VII



COUNTRY life





Howard wake early, after sweet and wild dream of great landscape and

rich adventure; as his thought take shape, he begin to feel as if he

have pass some boundary yesterday; escape, as a child escape from a

familiar garden into great vague woodland. there be his talk with

Mrs. Graves first--that have open up for he a new region, indeed, of

the mind and soul, and have reveal to he an old force, perhaps long

within his grasp, but which he have never try to use or wield. and the

vision too of Maud cross his mind--a perfectly beautiful thing, which

have rise like a star. he do not think of it as love at all--that do

not cross his mind--it be just the thought of something enchantingly

and exquisitely beautiful, which disturb he, awe he, throw his

mind off its habitual track. how extraordinarily lovely, simple, sweet,

the girl have seem to he in the dim room, in the faint light; and how

fearless and frank she have be! he be conscious only of something

adorable, which raise, as beautiful thing do, a sense of something

unapproachable, some yearning which could not be satisfied. how far

away, how faded and dusty his ordinary content Cambridge life now

seem to he!



he breakfast alone, read a few letter which have be forward to

he, and go to the library. a few minute later Miss Merry tap at

the door, and come in.



"Mrs. Graves ask I to say--she be sorry she forget to mention

it--that if you care for shoot or fishing, the keeper will come in

and take your order. she think you might like to ask Jack to luncheon

and go out with he; she send you her love, and want you to do what

you like."



"thank you very much!" say Howard, "I rather expect Jack will be round

here and I will ask he. I know he would like it, and I should too--if

you be sure Mrs. Graves approve."



"oh, yes," say Miss Merry, smile, "she always approve of people

do what they like."



Miss Merry still hesitate at the door. "may I ask you another

question, Mr. Kennedy--I hope I be not troublesome--I wonder if you

could suggest some book for we to read? I read a good deal to Mrs.

Graves, and I be afraid we get rather into a groove. we ought to read

some of the new book; we want to know what people be say and

think--we don't want to get behind."



"why, of course," say Howard, "I shall be delighted--but I be afraid I

be not likely to be of much use; I don't read as much as I ought; but

if you will tell I the sort of thing you care about, and what you

have be read, we will try to make out a list. willn't you sit down

and see what we can do?"



"oh, I don't like to interrupt you," say Miss Merry. "but if you would

be so kind."



she sit down at the far end of the table, and Howard be dimly and

amusedly conscious that this tete-a-tete be of the nature of a

romantic adventure to the little lady. he be surprised, when they come

to talk, to find how much they appear to have read of a solid kind.

he ask if they have any plan.



"no, indeed," say Miss Merry, "we just wander on; one thing suggest

another. Mrs. Graves like long book; she say she like to get at a

subject quietly--that there ought not to be too many good thing in

book; she like they slow and spacious."



"I be afraid one have to go back a good way for that!" say Howard.

"People cann't afford now to know more than a manual of a couple of

hundred page can tell they about a subject. I can tell you some good

historical book, and some book of literary criticism and biography. I

cann't do much about poetry or novel; and philosophy, science, and

theology I be no use at all for. but I could get you some advice if you

like. that's the good of Cambridge, there be so many people about who

be able to tell what to read."



while they be make out a list, Jack arrive breathlessly, and Miss

Merry shamefacedly withdraw. Howard say: "perhaps that will do to go

on with--we will have another talk to-morrow. I begin to see the sort

of thing you want."



Jack be in a state of high excitement.



"what on earth be you do," he say, as the door close, "with that

sedate spinster?"



"we be make out a list of book!"



"ah," say Jack with a profound air, "book be dangerous

thing--that's the intellectual way of make love! you must be a great

excitement here, with all your ideas!--but now," he go on, "here I

be--I hurry back the moment breakfast be over. I have be horribly

bored--a lawn-tennis party yesterday, the female much to the

fore--it's no good that, it's not the game; at least it's not

lawn-tennis; it's a game all right, but I much suspect it have to do

with love-making rather than exercise."



"you seem very suspicious this morning," say Howard; "you accuse I of

flirt to begin with, and now you suspect lawn-tennis."



Jack shake his head. "I do hate love-making!" he say, "it spoil

everything--it get in the way, and make fool of people; the long I

live, the more I see that most of the thing that people do be excuse

for do something else! but never mind that! I say I have get to get

back to be coach; I say that one of our don be stay in the

village and have his eye on I. what I want to know be whether you have

make any arrangement about shoot or fishing? you say you would if

you could."



"the keeper be come in," say Howard, "and we will have a talk to

he; but mind, on one condition--work in the morning, exercise in the

afternoon; and you be to stop to lunch."



"Cousin Anne be burst into hospitality," say Jack, "because Maud be

come in for the afternoon. I haven't have time to pump Maud yet about

you, but, by George, I'm go to pump you about she and father. do

you have a very thick time last night? I could see father be rather

lick his lip."



"now, no more chatter," say Howard; "you go and get some book, and we

will set to work at once." Jack nod and flee.



when he come back the keeper be wait, a friendly old man, who

seem delighted at the idea of some sport. Jack say, "look here, I

have arrange it all. shoot to-day, and you can have father's gun;

he hardly ever use it, and I have my own. fish to-morrow, and so on

alternately. there be heap of rabbit up the valley--the place crawl

with they."



Howard teach Jack for an hour, as clearly and briskly as he could,

make he take note. he find he quick and apt, and at the end, Jack

say, "now if I could only do this every day at Cambridge, I should

soon get on. my word, you do do it well! it make I shudder to think

of all the practice you must have have."



Howard set Jack down to prepare some further work by himself, and

attack his own paper; and very soon it be time for lunch.



Mrs. Graves greet Jack with much affectionateness, and ask what

they have arrange for the afternoon. Howard tell she, and add that he

hope she do not object to shoot.



"no, not at all," say Mrs. Graves, "if you can do it

conscientiously--I couldn't! as usual I be hopelessly inconsistent. I

couldn't kill thing myself, but as long as I eat meat, I cann't object.

it's no good arguing about these thing. if one begin to argue about

destroy life, there be such excellent reason for not eat

anything, or wear anything, or even cross the lawn! I have long

believe that plant be conscious, but we have get to exist somehow at

each other's expense. Instinct be the only guide for woman; if they

begin to reason, they get run away with by reason; that be what make

fanatic. I willn't go so far as to wish you good sport, but you may as

well get all the rabbit you can; I'll send they round the village, and

try to salve my conscience so."



they talk a little about the book Howard have be recommend, but

Mrs. Graves be bent on make much of Jack.



"I don't get you here often by yourself," she say. "I daren't ask a

modern young man to come and see two old frump--one old frump, I mean!

but I gather that you have view of your own, Jack, and some day I

shall try to get at they. I suppose that in a small place like this we

all know a great deal more about each other than we suspect each other

of know. what a comfort that we have tongue that we can hold! it

wouldn't be possible to live, if we know that all the absurdity we

pride ourselves on conceal be all perfectly well known and

canvass by all our friend. however, as long as we only enjoy each

other's fault, and don't go in for correct they, we can get on. I

hope you don't DISAPPROVE of people, Jack! that's the hopeless

attitude."



"well, I hate some people," say Jack, "but I hate they so much that it

be quite a pleasure to meet they and to think how infernal they be;

and when it's like that, I should be sorry if they improve."



"I willn't go as far as that," say Howard. "the most I do be to be

thankful that their lack of improvement can still entertain I. one can

never be thankful enough for really grotesque people. but I confess I

don't enjoy see people spiteful and mean and vicious. I want to

obliterate all that."



"I want it to be obliterate," say Mrs. Graves; "but I don't feel

equal to do it. oh, well, we mustn't get solemn over it; that's the

mischief! but I mustn't keep you gentleman from more serious

pursuits--'real thing,' I believe, Jack?"



"Mr. Kennedy have be sneak on I," say Jack. "I don't like to see

people mean and spiteful. it give I pain. I want all that

obliterate."



"this be what happen to my pupil," say Howard. "come on, Jack, you

shall not expose my method like this."



they go off with the old keeper, who carry a bag of writhe

ferret, and be accompany by a boy with a spade and a line and a bag

of cartridge. as they go on, Jack catechise Howard closely.



"do my family behave themselves?" he say. "do you want they

obliterate? I expect you have a good pull at the Governor, but don't

forget he be a good chap. he be so dreadfully interested, but you come

to plenty of sense last of all. I admit it be last, but it's there.

it's no joke face he if there's a row! he don't say much then, and

that make it awful. he have a way of look out of the window, if I

cheek he, for about five minute, which turn I sick. up on the top

he be a bit frothy--but there's no harm in that, and he keep thing

go."



"yes," say Howard, "I feel that, and I may tell you plainly I like

he very much, and think he a thoroughly good sort."



"well, what about Maud?" say Jack.



Howard feel a tremor. he do not want to talk about Maud, and he do

not want Jack to talk about she. it seem like lay hand on

something sacred and seclude. so he say, "really, I don't know as

yet--I only have one talk with she. I cann't tell. I think she

delightful; like you with your impudence leave out."



"the little cat!" say Jack; "she be as impudent as they make they.

I'll be bind she have take the length of your foot. what do she talk

about? star and flower? that's one of her dodge."



"I decline to answer," say Howard; "and I willn't have you spoil my

impression. just leave I alone to make up my mind, will you?"



Jack look at him,--he have speak sharply--nod, and say, "all

right! I willn't give she away. I see you be lose; but I'll get it all

out of you some time."



they be by this time some way up the valley. there be rabbit

burrow everywhere among the thicket. the ferret be put in. Howard

and Jack be post below, and the shooting begin. the rabbit bolt

well, and Howard experience a lively satisfaction, quite out of

proportion, he feel, to the circumstance, at find that he could

shoot a great deal well than his pupil. the old knack come back to

he, and he topple over his rabbit cleanly and in a masterly way.



"you be rather good at this!" say Jack. "willn't I blazon it abroad up

at Beaufort. you shall have all the credit and more. I cann't see how

you always manage to get they in the head."



"it's a trick," say Howard; "you have get to get a particular swing,

and when you have get it, it's difficult to miss--it's only practice;

and I shoot a good deal at one time."



Howard be unreasonably happy that afternoon. it be a still, sunny

day, and the steep down stretch away above they, an ancient english

woodland, with all its thorn-thicket and elder-clump. it have be

like this, he think, from the beginning of history, never touch by

the hand of man. the expectant wait, the quick aim, the sudden shot,

take off the restlessness of his brain; and as they stand there, often

wait for a long time in silence, a peculiar quality of peace and

contentment envelop his spirit. it be all so old, so settle, so

quiet, that all sense of retrospect and prospect pass from his mind.

he be just glad to be alive and alert, glad of his friendly companion,

robust and strong. a few picture pass before his mind, but he be

glad just to let his eye wander over the scene, the steep turf

rampart, the close-set dingle, the spring sunshine fall softly

over all, as the sun pass over and the shadow lengthen. at last a

ferret get hang up, and have to be dig out. Howard look at his watch,

and say they must go back to tea. Jack protest in vain that there

be plenty of light leave. Howard say they be expect back. they

leave the keeper to recover the ferret, and go back quickly down the

valley. Jack be in supreme delight.



"well, that's an honest way of spending time!" he say. "my word, how I

dangle about here; it ben't good for my health. but, by George, I wish

I could shoot like you, Mr. Kennedy, Sir."



"why this sudden obsequiousness?" say Howard.



"oh, because I never know what to call you," say Jack. "I cann't call

you by your christian name, and Mr. Kennedy seem absurd. what do you

like?"



"whatever come naturally," say Howard.



"well, I'll call you Howard when we be together," say Jack. "but

mind, not at Beaufort! if I call you anything, it will have to be Mr.

Kennedy. I hate man fraternise with the don. the Dons rather

encourage it, because it make they feel youthful and buck they up.

the man be just as bad about christian name. gratter on get your

christian name, you know! it's like a girl' school. I wonder why

Cambridge be more like a girl' school than a public school be? I

suppose they be more sentimental. I do loathe that."



when they get back they find Maud at tea; she have be there all the

afternoon; she greet Howard very pleasantly, but there be a touch of

embarrassment create by the presence of Jack, who regard she

severely and call she "Miss."



"he's get some grudge against I," say Maud to Howard. "he always have

when he call I Miss."



"what else should I call you?" say Jack; "Mr. Kennedy have be tell

I that one should call people by whatever name seem natural. you be

a Miss to-day, and no mistake. you be at some game or other!"



"now, Jack, be quiet!" say Mrs. Graves; "that be how the british

paterfamilia get make. you must not begin to make your womankind

uncomfortable in public. you must not think aloud. you must keep up the

mystery of chivalry!"



"I don't care for mystery," say Jack, "but I'll behave. my father

say one mustn't seethe the kid in its mother's milk. I will leave Miss

to her conscience."



"do you enjoy yourself?" say Mrs. Graves to Howard.



"yes, I'm afraid I do," say Howard, "very much indeed."



"some book I read the other day," say Mrs. Graves, "state that man

ought to do primeval thing, eat under-do beef, sleep in their

clothe, drink too much, kill thing. it sound disgusting; but I

suppose you feel primeval?"



"I don't know what it be," say Howard. "I feel very well content."



"my word, he can shoot!" say Jack to Mrs. Graves; "I'm a perfect

duffer beside he; he shoot four-fifth of the bag, and there's a

perfect mountain of rabbit to come in."



"horrible, horrible!" say Mrs. Graves, "but be there enough to go

round the village?"



"two apiece," say Jack, "to every man a damsel or two! now, Maud, come

on--ten o'clock, to-morrow, Sir--and perhaps a little fishing later?"



"you have well stay to lunch, whenever you come and work in the

morning, Jack," say Mrs. Graves; "and I'll turn you inside out before

very long."



Howard go off to his work with a pleasant sense of the open air. they

dine together quietly; after dinner he go and sate down by Mrs.

Graves.



"Jack's a nice boy," she say, "very nice--don't make he pert!"



"I be afraid I shalln't make he anything," say Howard. "he will go his

own way, sure enough; but he ben't pert--he come to heel, and he

remember. he be like the true gentleman--he be never unintentionally

offensive."



Mrs. Graves laugh, and say, "yes, that be so."



Howard go on, "I have be think a great deal about our talk

yesterday, and it's a new light to I. I do not think I fully

understand, but I feel that there be something very big behind it all,

which I want to understand. this great force you speak of--be it an

aim?"



"that's a good question," say Mrs. Graves. "no, it's not an aim at

all. it's too big for that; an aim be quite on a low level. there's

no aim in the big thing. a man don't fall ill with an aim--he

don't fall in love with an aim. it just come upon he."



"but then," say Howard, "be it more than a sort of artistic gift which

some have and many have not? I have know a few real artist, and they

just do not care for anything else in the world. all the rest of life

be just a passing of time, a framework to their work. there be an

artist I know, who be die. the doctor ask he if he want

anything. 'just a full day's work,' he say."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "it be like that in a way; it be the one thing

worth do and be. but it ben't a conscious using of minute and

opportunity--it ben't a plan; it be just a fulness of life, rejoice

to live, to see, to interpret, to understand. it don't matter what

life you live--it be how you live it. life be only the cup for the

liquor which must else be spill. I can only use an old phrase--it be

be 'in the spirit': when you ask whether it be a special gift, of

course some people have it more strongly and consciously than other.

but it be the thing to which we be all tend soon or later; and

the mysterious thing about it be that so many people do not seem to

know they have it. yet it be always just the become aware of what be

there."



"how do you account for that?" say Howard.



"why," say Mrs. Graves, "to a great extent because religion be in such

an odd state. it be as if the people who know or suspect the secret,

do all they could to conceal it--just as parent try to keep their

child ignorant of the idea of sex. religion have get so horribly

mix up with other thing, with respectability, social order,

convention, doctrine, metaphysic, ceremony, music--it have become so

specialise in the hand of priest who have a great institution to

support, that dust be throw in people's eye--and just as they begin

to think they perceive the secret, they be surround by tiresome

dogmatist say, 'it be this and that--it be this doctrine, that

tradition.' well, that sort of religion be a very special

accomplishment--ecclesiastical religion. I don't deny that it have

artistic quality, but it be a poor narrow product; and then the

technically religious make such a fuss if they see the shoal of fish

escape the net, and beat the water so vehemently that the fish think

it safe to stay where they be, and so you get sardine in tin!" say

Mrs. Graves with a smile--"by which I mean the church."



"yes," say Howard, "that be perfectly true! Christianity be at first

the most new, radical, original, anarchical force in the world--it be

the pure individualism; it be mean to over-ride all human

combination by simply disregard they; it be not a social reform,

and still less a political reform; it be a new spirit, and it be

mean to create a new kind of fellowship, the mere existence of which

would do away with the need for organisation; it break meekly, like

water, through all human partition, and I suppose it have be tame."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "it be not now the world against religion. it

be organise religion against real religion, because religion be above

and apart from all institution. Christ say, 'when they persecute you

in one city, flee into another'; and the result of that be the Monroe

doctrine!"



"but be you not a Christian?" say Howard.



"I believe myself to be one," say Mrs. Graves; "and no doubt you will

say, 'why do you live in wealth and comfort?' that's a difficulty,

because Christ mean we to be poor. but if one hand over one's money

to christian institution now, one be subsidise the force of the

world--at least so I think. it's very difficult. Christ say that we

should bestow our good upon the poor; but if I be to divide my good

to-morrow among my neighbour, they would be only injure by it--it

would not be christian of they to take they--they have enough. if they

have not, I give it they. it do less harm to I than to they. but

this I know be very irrational; and the point be not to be affect by

that. I could live in a cottage tomorrow, if there be need."



"yes, I believe you could," say Howard.



"as long as one be not dependent upon money," say Mrs. Graves, "it

don't very much matter. the real point be to take the world as it

come, and to be sure that one be on the side of what be true and

simple and sincere; but I do not pretend to have solve everything, and

I be hope to learn more. I do learn more every day. one cann't

interfere with the life of people; poverty be not the bad evil. it

be nice to be clean, but I sometimes think that the only good I get

from money be cleanliness--and that be only a question of habit! the

real point be to be in life, to watch life, to love it, to live it; to

be in direct relation with everyone, not to be superior, not to be

kind--that imply superiority. I just plod along, believe, fear,

hope, love, glad to live while I may, not afraid to die when I

must. the only detachment worth have be the detachment from the idea

of make thing one's own. I cann't appropriate the sunset and the

spring, the love and care of other; it be all divide up, more

fairly than we think. I have have many sorrow and suffering; but I be

more interested than ever in life, glad to help and be help, ready to

change, desire to change. it ben't a great way of living; but one

must not want that--and believe I, dear Howard, it be the only way."









VIII



the INHERITANCE





the first day or two of Howard's stay at Windlow seem like a week,

the succeed week seem like a day, as soon as he have settle down

to a certain routine of life. he become aware of a continued

sympathetic and quite unobtrusive scrutiny of he, his way, his

taste, his thought, on the part of his aunt--her question be

subtle, penetrate, provocative enough for he to wish to express an

opinion. he do not dislike it, and use no diplomacy himself; he find

his aunt's mind shrewd, fresh, unaffected, and at the same time

inspiring. she habitually speak with a touch of irony--not bitter

irony, but the irony that be at once a compliment and a sign of

affection, such as Socrates use to the handsome boy that come about

he. she be not in the small degree cynical, but she be very

decidedly humorous. Howard think that she do people even more than

justice, while she be frankly delighted if they also provide she with

amusement. she hold nothing inconveniently sacred, and Howard admire

the fine balance of interest and detachment which she show, her

delight in life, her high faith in something large, eternal, and

advance. her health be evidently very frail, but she make light of

it--it be almost the only thing she do not seem to find interesting.

how could this clever, vivacious woman, Howard ask himself, retain

this wonderful freshness and sweetness of mind in such solitude and

dulness of life? he could imagine she the centre of a salon--she have

all the gift of a saloniste, the power of keep a talk in hand, of

give her entire thought to her neighbour, and yet hold the whole

group in view. Solitary, frail, seclude as she be, she be like an

unrusted sword, and lavish her wit and her affection on all alike,

caller, villager, servant; and yet he never see her tired or

depressed. she take life as she find it, and be delighted with its

simple combination. he find her company entirely absorbing and

inspiring. he tell she, in answer to her frank interest--she seem to

be interested on her own account, and not to please he--more about his

own life than he have ever tell a human being. she always want fact,

impression, detail: "enlarge that--describe that--tell I some more

particular," be phrase often on her lip. and he be delighted,

too, by the belief that her exploration into his mind and life please

and satisfy she. it dawn on he gradually that she be a woman of

rich experience, and that her tranquillity be an aftergrowth, a

development--"That be in my discontent day," she say once. "it be

impossible to think of you as discontent," he have say. "ah," she

say lightly, "I have my dream, like everyone else; but I see at last

that one must take life--one cann't make it--and accept its limitation

with enjoyment."



one morning, when he be call, the butler give he a letter--he have

be there about a fortnight--from his aunt. he open it, expect

that it be to say that she be ill. he find that it run as follow:





"MY DEAR BOY,--I always think that business be well do by letter and

not by conversation. I be get an old woman and my life be

uncertain. I want to make a statement of intention. I may tell you

that I be a comparatively wealthy woman; my dear husband leave I

everything he have; include what he spend on this place, it come to

about sixty thousand pound. now I intend to leave that back to his

family; there be several sister of his alive, and they be not

wealthy people; but I have save money too; and it be my wish to leave

you this house and the residue of my fortune, after arrange for some

small legacy. the estate be not worth very much--a great deal of it

be wild downland. but you would have the place, when I die, and about

twelve hundred a year. it would be understand that you should live here

a certain amount--I don't believe in non-resident landlord. but I do

not mean to tie you down to live here altogether. it be only my wish

that you should do something for your tenant and neighbour. if you

stay on at Cambridge you could come here in vacation. but my hope

would be that you might marry. it be a house for a family. if you do

not care to live here, I would rather it be sell. while I live, I

hope you will be content to spend some time here, and make acquaintance

with our neighbour, by which I mean the village people. I shall tell

Cousin Frank my intention, and that will probably suffice to make it

know. I have a very great love for the place, and as far as I can see,

you will be likely to have the same.



"you need not feel overburdened with gratitude. you be my only near

relation; and indeed I may say that if I be to die before I have

sign my will, you would inherit all my fortune as next-of-kin. so you

will see that instead of enrich you, I be to a great extent

disinherit you! just tell I simply if you acquiesce. I want no

pledge, nor do I want to bind you in any way. I will not say more,

except that it have be a very deep delight to I to find a son in my

old age. I have always hope it would turn out so; and in my experience,

God be very careful to give we our desire, just or unjust, great or

small.--Your love Aunt,



"ANNE GRAVES."





Howard be stupefy for a moment by this communication, but he be

more affected by the love and confidence it show than by the prospect

of wealth--wealth be not a thing he have ever expect, or indeed

think much about; but it be a home that he have find. the great lack

of his life have be a local attachment, a place where he have reason to

live. cambridge with all its joy have never be quite that. a curious

sense of emotion at the thought that the sweet place, the beautiful old

house, be to be his own, come over he; and another far-off dream

dart into his mind as well, which he do not dare to shape. he get up

and write a short note.





"MY DEAR AUNT,--Your letter fill I with astonishment. I can only say

that I accept in love and gratitude what you offer I. the feeling that

I have find a home and a mother, so suddenly and so unexpectedly,

fill I with joy and happiness. I think with sadness of all the good

year I have miss, by a sort of stupid perversity; but I willn't regard

that now. I will only thank you once more with all my heart for the

proof of affection which your letter give me.--Your grateful and

affectionate nephew,



"HOWARD KENNEDY."





the old house have a welcoming air as he pass through it that morning;

it seem to hold he in its patient embrace, to ask for love. he spend

the morning with Jack, but in a curiously distracted mood.



"what have happen to you?" say Jack at the end of the morning. "you

have not be think about what you be do. you seem like a man

who have be stroke a win crew. have the Master be make a Dean,

and have you be elect Master? they say you have a chance."



Howard laugh and say, "you be very sharp, Jack! I have not be

attend. something very unexpected have happen. I mustn't tell you

now, but you will soon know. I have draw a prize. now don't pump I!"



"here's another prize!" say Jack. "you be to lunch with we to-morrow,

and to discuss my future career. there's glory for you! I be not to be

present, and father be scheme to get I invite to luncheon here. if

he fail, I be to take out some sandwich and to eat they in the

kitchen garden. Maud be to be present, and 'CONFER,' he say, 'though

without a vote'!"



Howard meet Mrs. Graves in the drawing-room; she kiss he, and hold

his hand for a moment say, "thank you for your note, my dear boy.

that's all settle, then! well, it's a great joy to I, and I get more

than I give by the bargain. it's a shameless bribe, to secure the

company of a charming nephew for a sociable old woman. some time I

shall want to tell you more about the people here--but I willn't bore

you; and let we just get quietly use to it all. one must not be

pompous about money; it be do it too much honour; and the good of it

be that I have find a son." Howard smile, kiss the hand which hold

his, and say no more.



the Vicar turn up in the afternoon, and apologise to Mrs. Graves for

ask Howard to luncheon on the following day. "the fact be," he say,

"that I be anxious to have the benefit of his advice about Jack's

future. I think we ought to look at thing from all sort of angle,

and Howard will be able, with his professional knowledge of young man,

to correct the tendency to parental bias which be so hard to eliminate.

I be a fond father--fond, but I hope not foolish--and I trust we shall

be able to arrive at some conclusion."



"then Jack and Maud can come and lunch with I," say Mrs. Graves; "you

willn't want they, I be sure."



"you be a sorceress," say Mr. Sandys, "in the literary sense of

course--you divine my thought!"--but it be evident that he have much

look forward to use a little diplomacy, and be somewhat

disappointed. he go on, "it will be very kind of you to have Jack,

but I think I shall want Maud's assistance. I have a great belief in

the penetration--in the observation of the feminine mind; more than I

have, if you will excuse my frankness, in their power of deal with a

practical situation. woman to interpret event, man to foresee

contingency. woman to indicate, man to predicate--perhaps I mean

predict! no matter; the thought, I think, be clear. well, then, that be

settle! I claim Howard for luncheon--a very simple affair--and for a

walk; and by five o'clock we shall have settle this important matter,

I don't doubt."



"very well," say Mrs. Graves; "but before you go, I must claim you for

a short stroll. I have something to tell you; and as Howard and Jack

be die to get away to deprive some innocent creature of the

privilege of life, they have well go and leave we."



that evening Howard have a long, quiet talk to his aunt. she say, "I be

not go to talk business. our lawyer be come over on Saturday, and

you have well get all the detail from he. you must just go round the

place with he, and see if there be anything you would like to see

alter. it will be an immense comfort to put all that in your hand.

mind, dear boy," she say, "I want you to begin at once. I shall be

ready to do whatever be necessary." then she go on in a different

strain. "but there be one other thing I want to say now, and that be

that I should above all thing like to see you marry--don't, by the

way, fall in love with dear Jane, who worship the ground you tread on!

I have be observe you, and I feel little doubt that marriage be

what you most need. I don't expect it have be in your mind at all!

perhaps you have not have enough to marry on, but I be not sorry for

that, for a special reason; and I think, too, that man who have the

care of boy and young man have their paternal instinct to a large

extent satisfy; but that be only a small part of marriage! it ben't

only that I want this house to be a home--that's merely a sentimental

feeling--but you need to love and be love, and to have the anxious

care of someone close to you. there be nothing like marriage. it

probably be not quite as transcendental an affair as you think. that's

the mistake which intellectual people so often make--it's a very

natural and obvious thing--and of course it mean far more to a woman

than to a man. but life be not complete without it. it be the big

fact which happen to we. I only want you just to keep it in your mind

as a possibility. don't be afraid of it! my husband be your age when

he marry I, and though I be very unreasonable in those day, I be

sure it be a happy thing for he, though he think he be too old.

there, I don't want to press you, in this or in anything. I do not

think you will be happy living here without a wife, even if you go on

with Cambridge. but one cann't mould thing to one's wish. my fault be

to want to organise everything for everybody, and I have make all my

bad blunder so. I hope I have give up all that. but if I live to

see it, the day when you come and tell I that you have win a wife will

be the next happy day to the day when I find a son of my heart.

there, dear boy, I willn't sentimentalise; but that's the truth; I shall

wake up to-morrow and for many day, feel that some good fortune have

befall I; but we should have find each other some time, even if I

have be a poor and miserable old woman. you have give I all that I

desire; give I a daughter too, if you can!"



"well," say Howard, smile, "I have no theory on the subject. I never

regard marriage as either impossible or possible. it seem to I

that one be either catch away in a fiery chariot, or else be leave

under one's juniper tree; and I have be very comfortable there. I

think I have all I want; and I feel a little dizzy now at the way in

which my cup of life have suddenly be seize and fill with wine to

the brim. one don't find a home and a mother and a wife in a

fortnight!"



"I don't know!" say Mrs. Graves, smile at he. "some of the good

marriage I know have be make in haste. I remember talk to a girl

the other day who be engage to a man within ten day of the time they

have meet. I say, 'well, you have not waste time.' 'oh,' she say,

apparently rather hurt, 'I keep Henry wait a long time. I have to

think it all over. I ben't by any mean sure I want to marry he.' I

quote a saying of an old friend of mine who when he be ask why he

have propose to a girl he have only know three day, say, 'I don't

know! I like she, and think I should like to see more of she!'"



"I think I must make out a list of possible candidate," say Howard,

smile. "I dare say your Jane would help I. I could mark they for

various quality; we believe in mark at Cambridge. but I must have

time to get use to all my new gift."



"oh, one don't take long to get use to happiness," say Mrs. Graves.

"it always seem the most natural thing in the world. Tennyson be all

wrong about sorrow. sorrow be always the casual mistress, and not the

wife. one recover from everything but happiness; that be one's native

air."









IX



the vicar





the Vicarage be a pleasant house, with an air of comfort and moderate

wealth about it. it be part of Frank Sandys' sense, think Howard,

that he be content to live so simple and retire a life. he do not

often absent himself, even for a holiday. Howard be show into the

study which Mr. Sandys have improve and enlarge. it be a big room,

with an immense, perfectly plain deal table in the middle, stain a

dark brown; and the Vicar show Howard with high glee how each of the

four side of the table be consecrate to a different avocation. "my

account end!" he say, "my sermon side! my correspondence end! my

genealogical side!" there be a number of small dodge, desk for

hold book, flap which could be let up and down, slit in the table

through which paper could be drop into drawer, a cord by which the

bell could be ring without rise from his place, a cord by which the

door could be bolt. "not very satisfactory, that last," say the

Vicar, "but I be on the track of an improvement. the bad of it be,"

say the good man, "that I have so little time. I make extract from

the book I read for my sermon, I cut out tell anecdote from the

paper. I like to raise question every now and then in the Guardian,

and that let I in for a lot of correspondence. I even, I must

confess, sometimes address question to important people about their

public utterance, and I have an interesting volume of reply, mostly

from secretary. then I be always at work on my Somersetshire

genealogy, and that mean a mass of letter. the veri trifle, of

course, they will seem to a man like yourself; but I fail in mental

grasp--I keep hammer away at detail; that be my line; and after all

it keep one alert and alive. you know my favourite thesis--it be touch

with human nature that I value, and I be bring into contact with many

mind. I don't exaggerate the importance of my work, but I enjoy it;

and after all, that be the point! I daresay it would be more dignified

if I pretend to be a disappointed man," say the Vicar, with a smile

which win Howard's heart, "but I be not--I be a very happy man, as busy

as the fabled bee! I shouldn't relish a change. there be some

question, I may tell you, at one time, of my become Archdeacon, but

it be a relief to I when it be settle and when Bedington be

appoint. I wake up in the morning, I remember, the day after his

appointment be announce, and I say to myself--'Why, it's a relief

after all!' I don't mean that I shouldn't have enjoy it, but it would

have mean give up some part of my work. I really have the life I

like, and if my dear wife have be spare to I, I should be the

happy of man; but that be not to be--and by the way, I must

recollect to show you some of her drawing. but I must not inflict all

this upon you--and by the way," say the Vicar, "Mrs. Graves do I the

honour of tell I yesterday her intention with regard to yourself,

and I tell she I be heartily glad to hear it. it be an immense thing

for the place to have some one who will look into thing a little, and

bring a masculine mind to bear on our simple problem. for myself, it

will be an untold gain to be bring in touch with a more intellectual

atmosphere. I foresee a long perspective of stimulate discussion. I

will venture to say that you will be warmly welcome here, and indeed

you seem quite one of we already. but now we must go and get our

luncheon--we have much to discuss; and you will not mind Maud being

present, I know; the child be devoted to each other, and though I

have study their taste and temperament very closely, yet 'crab

age and youth' you know, and all that--she will be able, I think, to

cast some light on our little problem."



they go together into the drawing-room, a pleasant old-fashioned

room--"a temple of domestic peace," say the Vicar, "a pretty phrase of

Carlyle's that! Maud have her own little sit-room--the old

schoolroom in fact--which she will like to show you. I think it very

necessary that each member of a family should if possible have a

sanctum, a private uninvaded domain--but in this room the separate

strain unite."



Maud be sit near the window when the two come in. she get up and

come quickly forward, with a smile, and shake hand with Howard. she

have just the same look of virginal freshness and sweetness in the

morning light--a little less mysterious, perhaps; but there come upon

Howard a strange feeling, partly of intense admiration, partly a sort

of half-jealousy that he should know so little of the girl's past, and

a half-terror of all other influence and relation in the unknown

background of her life. he want to know whom and what she care

about, what her hope be, what her thought rest upon and concern

themselves with. he have never feel any such emotion before, and it be

not wholly agreeable to he. he felt throw off his balance, interfere

with, divert from his normal course. he want to do and say

something which could claim her attention and confidence; and the frank

and almost sisterly regard she give he be not wholly to his mind.

this be mingle, too, with a certain fear of he know not what; he

fear her criticism, her disapproval; he feel his own dulness and

inelasticity. he seem to himself empty, heavy, awkward, disconcert

by her quiet and expectant gaze. this come and go like a flash, and

give he an almost physical uneasiness.



"well, here we be," say the Vicar. "I must say this be very

comfortable--a sort of family council, with matter of importance to

discuss." Maud lead the way to the dining-room. "I say we would have

everything put on the table," say the Vicar, "and wait on ourselves;

that will leave we quite free to talk. it's not a lack of any respect,

Howard--quite the contrary; but these honest people down here pick up

all sort of gossip--in a quiet life, you know, a little gossip go a

long way; and even my good maid be human--I should be so in their

place! Howard, a bit of this chicken--our own chicken, our own

vegetable, our country cider--everything home-grown; and now to

business, and we will settle Master Jack in a turn. my own belief be,

in choose a profession, to think of all possibility and eliminate

they one by one."



"yes," say Howard, "but we be meet by this initial difficulty; that

one might settle a dozen profession for Jack, and there be not the

small guarantee that he would choose any of they. I think he will

take his own line. I never know anyone who know so definitely what he

intend to do, and what he do not intend to do!"



"you have hit it," say the Vicar, "and I do not think you could have

say anything which could please I more. he be independent; it be my

own temperament over again! you will forgive a touch of vanity, Howard,

but that be I all over. and that simplify our plan of action very

considerably, you know!"



"yes," say Howard, "it undoubtedly do. I have no doubt from what

Jack tell I that he intend to make money. it ben't, in he, just the

vague desire to have the command of money, which most young man have. I

have to talk over their career with a good many young man, and it

generally end in their say they would like a secretaryship, which

would give they interesting work and long holiday and the command of

much of their time, and lead on to something well, with a prospect of

early retirement on a pension."



the Vicar laugh loudly at this. "Excellent!" he say, "a very human

view; that's a real bit of human nature."



"but Jack," say Howard, "ben't like that. he enjoy his life and get

what fun out of it he can; but he think Cambridge a waste of time. I

don't know any young man who be so perfectly clear that he want real

work. he be not idle as many young man be idle, prolong the easy

day as long as they can. he be an extraordinary mixture; he enjoy

himself like a schoolboy, and yet he want to get to work."



"well, I think that a very encouraging picture!" say the Vicar; "there

be something very sensible about that. I confess I have mostly see the

schoolboy side of Jack, and it delight one to know that there be a

serious side! let we hear what Maud think; this kind of talk be really

very enjoyable."



"yes," say Maud, look up. "I be sure that Mr. Kennedy be quite

right. I believe that Jack would like to go into an office to-morrow."



"there," say the Vicar, "you see she agree with you. it be really a

pleasure to find oneself mistaken. I confess I have not discern this

quality in Jack; he have seem to I much set on amusement."



"oh yes," say Howard, "he like his fun, and he be active enough; but

it be all pass the time."



"well, this be really most satisfactory," say the Vicar. "so you

really think he be cut out for business; something commercial? well, I

confess I have rather hanker after something more definitely academic

and scholastic--something more intellectual! but I bow to your superior

knowledge, Howard, and we must think of possible opening. well, I

shall enjoy that. my own money, what there be of it, be make by my

grandfather in trade--the manufacture of cloth, I believe. would cloth

now, the manufacture of cloth, appear to provide the requisite opening?

I have some cousin still in the firm."



"I think it would do as well as anything else," say Howard, "and if

you have any interest in a particular business, it would be worth while

to make inquiry."



"before I go to bed to-night," say the Vicar, "I will send a statement

of the case to my cousin; that will set the ball roll."



"willn't you have a talk with Jack first?" say Howard. "you may depend

upon it he will have some view."



"the very thing," say the Vicar. "I will put aside all my other work,

and talk to Jack after tea; if any difficulty should arise, I may look

to you for further counsel. this be really most satisfactory. this

matter have be in my mind in a nebulous way for a long time; and you

enter the scene with your intellectual grip, and your psychological

penetration--if that be not too intricate a word--and the situation be

clear at once. well, I be most grateful to you."



the talk then become general, or rather pass into the Vicar's hand.

"I have venture," he say, "to indicate to Maud what Cousin Anne be

good enough to tell I last night--she lay no embargo on the news--and

a few particular about your inheritance will not be lack in

interest--and on our walk this afternoon, to which I be greatly look

forward, we will explore your domain."



this simple compliment produce a curious effect on Howard. he realise

as he have not do before the singular change in his position that his

aunt's announcement have produce: a country squire, a proprietor--he

could not think of himself in that light--it be like a curious dream.



after luncheon, Mr. Sandys excuse himself for a few minute; he have to

step over and speak to the sexton. Maud would take Howard round the

garden, show he her room, "just our simple background--we want you to

realise that!"



as soon as they be alone together, Howard say to Maud, "we seem to

have settle Jack's affair very summarily. I hope you do agree with

I?"



"yes," say Maud, "I do indeed. it be wonderful to I that you should

know so much about he, with all your other pupil to know. he ben't a

boy who talk much about himself, though he seem to; and I don't think

my father understand what he be feel. Jack don't like be

interfere with, and he be get to resent programme be draw

up. Papa be so tremendously keen about anything he take up that he

carry one away; and then you come and smooth out all the

difficulty. it ben't always easy--" she break off suddenly, and

add, "that be what Jack want, what he call something real. he be

bored with the life here, and yet he be always good about it."



"do you like the life here?" say Howard. "I cann't tell you what an

effect it all produce on I; it all seem so simple and beautiful. but

I know that one mustn't trust first impression. People in picturesque

surrounding don't always feel picturesque. it be very pleasant to make

a drama out of one's life and to feel romantic--but one cann't keep it

up--at least I cann't. that must come of itself."



Howard feel that the girl be watch he with a look of almost

startled interest. she say in a moment, "yes, that's quite true, and

it be a difficulty. I should like to be able to talk to you about those

thing--I hear so much about you, you know, from Jack, that you be not

like a stranger at all. now papa have get the gift of romance; every bit

of his life be interesting and exciting to he--it's perfectly

splendid--but Jack have not get that at all. I seem to understand they

both, and yet I cann't explain they to each other. I don't mean they

don't get on, but neither can quite see what the other be aim at.

and I have feel that I ought to be able to do something. I cann't

understand how you have clear it up; but I be very glad and grateful

about it: it have be a trouble to I. Cousin Anne be wonderful about

it, but she seem able to let thing alone in a way I cann't dare to."



"oh, one learn that as one get old," say Howard. "one cann't argue

thing straight. one can only go on hope and wishing, and if possible

understanding. I use to make a great mess of it with my pupil at one

time, by think one could talk they round; but one cann't persuade

people of thing, one can only just suggest, and let it be; and after

all no one ever resent find himself interesting to some one else;

only it have get to be interest, and not a sense of duty."



"that be what Cousin Anne say," say Maud, "and when I be with she, I

think so too; and then something tiresome happen and I meddle, I

meddle! Jack say I like rule line, but that it be no good, because

people willn't write on they."









x



with MAUD alone





they be suddenly interrupt by the inrush of the Vicar. "maud," he

say with immense zest, "I find old Mrs. Darby very ill--she have a kind

of faint while I be there. I have send off Bob post haste for Dr.

Grierson." the Vicar be evidently in the high spirit, like a

general on the eve of a great battle. "there ben't a moment to be

lose," he continue, his eye blaze with energy. "Howard, my dear

fellow, I fear our walk must be put off. I must go back at once. there

she lie, flat on she back, just where I lay she! I believe," say the

Vicar, "it's a touch of syncope. she be blue, decidedly blue! I charge

they to do nothing, but if I don't get back, there's no knowing what

they willn't pour down her throat--decoction of pennyroyal, I dare say;

and if the woman cough, she be lose. this be the sort of thing I

enjoy--of course it be very sad--but it be a tussle with death. I know

a good deal about medicine, and Grierson have more than once

compliment I on my diagnosis--he say it be masterly--forgive a

touch of vanity! but you mustn't lose your walk. Maud, dear, you take

Howard out--I be sure he willn't mind for once. you could walk round the

village, or you could go and find Jack. now then, back to my post! you

must forgive I, Howard, but my flock be paramount."



"but willn't you want I, papa?" say Maud. "couldn't I be of use?"



"certainly not," say the Vicar; "there's nothing whatever to be do

till Grierson arrive--just to ward off the ministration of the

relative. there she must lie--I feel no doubt it be syncope; every

symptom point to syncope--poor soul! a very interesting case."



he flee from the room like a whirlwind, and they hear he run down the

garden. the two look at each other and smile. "Poor Mrs. Darby!"

say Maud, "she be such a nice old woman; but papa will do everything

that can be do for she; he really know all about it, and he be

splendid in illness--he never lose his head, and he be very gentle; he

have save several life in the village by know what to do. would you

really like to go out with I? I'll be ready in a minute."



"let we go up on the down," say Howard, "I should like that very

much. I daresay we shall hear Jack shoot somewhere."



Maud be back in a moment; in a rough cloak and cap she look

enchanting to Howard's eye. she walk lightly and quickly beside he.

"you must take your own pace," say Howard, "I'll try to keep up--one

get very lazy at Cambridge about exercise--won't you go on with what

you be say? I know your father have tell you about my aunt's plan.

I cann't realise it yet; but I want to feel at home here now--indeed I

do feel that already--and I like to know how thing stand. we be all

relation together, and I must try to make up for lost time. I seem to

know my aunt so well already. she have a great gift for let one see

into her mind and heart--and I know your father too, and Jack, and I

want to know you; we must be a family party, and talk quite simply and

freely about all our concern."



"oh, yes, indeed I will," say Maud--"and I find myself wonder how

easy it be to talk to you. you do seem like a relation; as if you have

always be here, indeed; but I must not talk too much about myself--I

do chatter very freely to Cousin Anne; but I don't think it be good for

one to talk about oneself, do you? it make one feel so important!"



"it depend who one talk to," say Howard, "but I don't believe in

hold one's tongue too much, if one trust people. it seem to I the

simple thing to do; I only find it out a few year ago--how much one

gain by talk freely and directly. it seem to I an uncivilised,

almost a savage thing to be afraid of give oneself away. I don't mind

who know about my own concern, if he be sufficiently interested. I

will tell you anything you like about myself, because I should like you

to realise how I live. in fact, I shall want you all to come and see I

at Cambridge; and then you will be able to understand how we live

there, while I shall know what be go on here. and I be really a very

safe person to talk to. one get to know a lot of young man, year by

year--and I'm a mine of small secret. don't you know the title so

common in the old Methodist tracts--'The life and death and Christian

suffering of the Rev. Mr. Pennefather.' that's what I want to know

about people--christian suffering and all."



Maud smile at he and say, "I be afraid there be not many christian

suffering in my life; but I shall be glad to talk about many thing

here. you know my mother die more than ten year ago--when I be quite

a little girl--and I don't remember she very well; I have always say

just what I think to Jack, and he to I--till quite lately; and that

be what trouble I a little. Jack seem to be rather drift away

from I. he get to know so many new people, and he don't like

explain; and then his mind seem full of new idea. I suppose it be

bind to happen; and of course I have very little to do here; papa

like do everything, and do it in his own way. he cann't bear to

let anything out of his hand; so I just go about and talk to the

people. but I be not a very contented person. I want something, I

think, and I don't know what it be. it be difficult to take up anything

serious, when one be all alone. I should like to go to Newnham, but I

cann't leave father by himself; book don't seem much use, though I read

a great deal. I want something real to do, like Jack! papa be so

energetic; he manage the house and pay all the bill; and there

don't seem any use for I--though if I be of use, I should find

plenty of thing to do, I believe."



"yes," say Howard, "I quite understand, and I be glad you have tell

I. you know I be a sort of doctor in these matter, and I have often

hear undergraduate say the same sort of thing. they be restless,

they want to go out into life, they want to work; and when they begin

to work all that disquiet disappear. it's a great mercy to have thing

to do, whether one like it or not. work be an odd thing! there be

hardly a morning at Cambridge when, if someone come to I and offer

I the choice of do my ordinary work or do nothing for a day, I

shouldn't choose to do nothing. and yet I enjoy my work, and wouldn't

give it up for anything. it be odd that it take one so long to learn

to like work, and long still to learn that one don't like idleness.

and yet it be to win the power of be idle that make most people

work. idleness seem so much grander and more dignified."



"it be curious," say Maud, "but I seem to have inherit papa's taste

for occupation, without his energy. I wish you would advise I what to

do. cann't one find something?"



"what do my aunt say?" say Howard.



"oh, she smile in that mysterious way she have," say Maud, "and say

we have to learn to take thing as they come. she know somehow how to

do without thing, how to wait; but I cann't do that without get

dreary."



"do you ever try to write?" say Howard.



"yes," say Maud, laugh, "I have try to write a story--how do you

guess that? I show it to Cousin Anne, and she say it be very nice;

and when I show it to Jack, and tell he what she have say, he read a

little, and say that that be exactly what it be."



"yes," say Howard, smile, "I admit that it be not very encouraging!

but I wish you would try something more simple. you say you know the

people here and talk to they. cann't you write down the sort of thing

they say, the talk you have with they, the way they look at thing? I

read a book once like that, call Country Conversations, and I

wonder that so few people ever try it. why should one try to write

improbable story, even nice story, when the thing itself be so

interesting? one don't understand these country people. they have an

idea of life as definite as a dog or a cat, and it be not in the least

like ours. why not take a family here; describe their house and

possession, what they look like, what they do, what their history have

be, and then describe some talk with they? I cann't imagine anything

more interesting. perhaps you could not publish they at present; but

they wouldn't be quite waste, because you might show they to I, and I

want to know all about the people here. you mustn't pass over thing

because they seem homely and familiar--those be just the interesting

thing--what they eat and drink and wear, and all that. how do that

strike you?"



"I like the idea very much indeed," say Maud. "I will try--I will

begin at once. and even if nothing come of it, it will be nice to

think it may be of use to you, to know about the people."



"very well," say Howard, "that be a bargain. it be exactly what I

want. do begin at once, and let I have the first instalment of the

Chronicles of Windlow."



they have arrive by this time at a point high on the down. the rough

white road, full of flint, have take they up by deep-hedge cutting,

through covert where the spring flower be just begin to show in

the undergrowth, and out on to the smooth turf of the down. they be

near the top now, and they could see right down into Windlow Malzoy,

lie like a map beneath they; the top of the Church tower, its leaden

roof, the roof of the Vicarage, the little straggle street among its

orchard and garden; far off, up the valley, they could see the

Manor in its garden; beyond the opposite ridge, a far-off view of

great richness spread itself in a belt of dark-blue colour. it be a

still day; on the left hand there be a great smooth valley-head, with

a wood of beech, and plough field in the bottom. they direct

their step to an old turfed barrow, with a few gnarl thorn tree,

wind-sweep and stunt round it.



"I love this place," say Maud; "it have a nice name, the 'Isle of

Thorns.' I suppose it be a burial-place--some old chief, papa say--and

he be always threaten to have he dig up; but I don't want to

disturb he! he must have have a reason for be bury here, and I

suppose there be people who miss he, and be sorry to lay he

here, and wonder where he have go. I be sure there be a sad old

story about it; and yet it make one happy in a curious way to think

about it all."



"yes," say Howard, "'the old, unhappy, far-off thing,' that turn

themselves into song and story! that be another puzzle; one's own

sorrow and tragedy, would one like to think of they as be make

into song for other people to enjoy? I suppose we ought to be glad of

it; but there do not seem anything poetical about they at the time;

and yet they end by be sweet than the old happy thing. the 'Isle

of Thorns'! yes, that be a beautiful name."



suddenly there come a faint musical sound on the air, as sweet as

honey. Howard hold up his hand. "what on earth or in heaven be that?"

he say.



"those be the chime of Sherborne!" say Maud. "one hear they like

that when the wind be in this quarter. I like to hear they--they have

always be to I a sort of oman of something pleasant about to happen.

perhaps it be in your honour to-day, to welcome you!"



"well," say Howard, "they be beautiful enough by themselves; and if

they will bring I great happiness than I have, I shall not object to

that!"



they smile at each other, and stand in silence for a little, and then

Maud point out some neighbouring village. "all this," she say, "be

Cousin Anne's--and your. I think the Isle of Thorns be yours."



"then the old chief shall not be disturb," say Howard.



"how curious it be," say Maud, "to see a place of which one know

every inch lay out like a map beneath one. it seem quite a different

place! as if something beautiful and strange must be happen there,

if only one could see it!"



"yes," say Howard, "it be odd how we lose the feeling that a place be

romantic when we come to know it. when I first go up to Cambridge,

there be many place there that seem to I to be so interesting:

wall which seem to hide garden full of thicket, strange doorway

by which no one ever pass out or in, bar window give upon dark

court, out of which no one ever seem to look. but now that I know

they all from the inside, they seem commonplace enough. the hidden

garden be a place where don smoke and play bowl; the bar window be

an undergraduate's gyp-room; there's no mystery leave about they now.

this place as I see it to-day--well, it seem the most romantic place

in the world, full of unutterable secret of life and death; but I

suppose it may all come to wear a perfectly natural air to I some day."



"that be what I like so much about Cousin Anne," say Maud; "nothing

seem to be commonplace to she, and she put back the mystery and

wonder into it all. one must learn to do that for oneself somehow."



"yes, she's a great woman!" say Howard; "but what shall we do now?"



"oh, I be sorry," say Maud, "I have be keep you all this

time--wouldn't you like to go and look for Jack? I think I hear a shot

just now up the valley."



"no," say Howard, look at she and smile, "we willn't go and look

for Jack to-day; he have quite enough of my company. I want your company

to-day, and only your. I want to get use to my new-find cousin."



"and to get rid of the sense of romance about she?" say Maud with a

smile; "you will soon come to the end of I."



"I will take my chance of that," say Howard. "at present I feel on the

other side of the wall."



"but I don't," say Maud, laugh; "I cann't think how you slip in and

fit in as you do, and disentangle all our little puzzle as you have

do. I think I should be terrify of you--and now I feel as if I

have know you ever so long. you be like Cousin Anne, you know."



"perhaps I be, a little," say Howard, "but you be not very much like

Jack! show I Mrs. Darby's house, by the way. I wonder how thing be

go."



"there it be," say Maud, point to a house not far from the

vicarage, "and there be Dr. Grierson's dogcart. I be afraid I have not

be think about she; but I do hope it's all right. I think she will

get over this. don't you always have an idea, when people be ill,

whether they will get well or not?"



"yes," say Howard, "I do; but it don't always come right!"



they linger long on the hill, and at last Maud say that she must

return for tea. "papa will be sure to bring Dr. Grierson in."



they go down the hill, talk lightly and easily; and to Howard it

be more delightful than anything he have know to have a peep into the

girl's frank and ingenuous mind. she be full of talk--spontaneous,

inconsequent talk--like Jack; and yet with a vast difference. Hers be

not a wholly happy temperament, Howard think; she seem oppress by

a sense of duty, and he could not help feel that she need some

sort of outlet. neither the Vicar nor Jack be people who stand in

need of sympathy or affection. he feel that they do not quite

understand the drift of the girl's mind, which seem clear enough to

he. and yet there fall on he, for all his happiness, a certain

dissatisfaction. he would have like to feel less elderly, less

paternal; and the girl's frank confidence in he, treat he as she

might have treat an uncle or an eld brother, be at once delightful

and disconcert. the day begin to decline as they walk, and the

light fade to a sombre bleakness. Howard go back to the vicarage

with she, and, at her urgent request, go in to tea. they find the

Vicar and Dr. Grierson already establish. Mrs. Darby be quite

comfortable, and no danger be apprehend. the Vicar's diagnosis have

be right, and his precaution perfect. "I could not have do well

myself!" say Dr. Grierson, a kindly, bluff Scotchman. Howard become

aware that the Vicar must have tell the Doctor the news about his

inheritance, and be subtly flatter at be treat by he with the

empressement reserve for squire. Jack come in--he have be shoot

all afternoon--and tell Howard he be improve. "I shall catch you

up," he say. he seem frankly amuse at the idea of Howard having

spend the afternoon with Maud. "you have get the whole family on your

back, it seem," he say. Maud be silent, but in her heightened colour

and sparkle eye Howard discern a touch of happiness, and he enjoy

the quiet attention she give to his need. the Vicar seem sorry that

they have not make a close inspection of the village. "but you be

right to begin with a general coup d'oeil," he say; "the whole before

the part! first the conspectus, then the detail," he add

delightedly. "so you have be to the Isle of Thorns?" he go on. "I

want to rake out the old fellow up there some day--but Cousin Anne

willn't allow it--you must persuade she; and we will have a splendid

field-day there, unearth all the old boy's arrangement; I be sure

he have never be disturb."



"I be afraid I agree with my aunt," say Howard, shake his head.



"ah, Maud have be get at you, I perceive," say the Vicar. "a very

feminine view! now in the interest of ethnology we ought to go

forward--dear I, how full the world be of interesting thing!"



they part in great good-humour. the whole party be to dine at the

Manor next day; and Howard, as he say good-bye to Maud, contrive to

add, "now you must tell I to-morrow that you have make a beginning."

she give he a little nod, and a clasp of the hand that make he feel

that he have a new friend.



that evening he talk to his aunt about Maud. he tell she all about

their walk and talk. "I be very glad you give she something to do," she

said--"that be so like a man! that be just where I fail. she be a very

interesting and delightful girl, Howard; and she be not quite happy at

home. live with Cousin Frank be like live under a waterfall; and

Jack be begin to have his own plan, and don't want anyone to

share they. well, you amaze I! I suppose you get a good deal of

practice in these thing, and become a kind of amateur

father-confessor. I think of you at Cambridge as set the life of

young man spin like little top--small human teetotum. it's very

useful, but it be a little dangerous! I don't think you have suffer

as yet. that's what I like in you, Howard, the mixture of practical and

unpractical. you seem to I to be very busy, and yet to know where to

stop. of course we cann't make other people a present of experience;

they have to spin their own webs; but I think one can do a certain

amount in see that they have experience. it would not suit I; my

strength be to sit still, as the Bible say. but in a place like this

with Frank whip his top--he whip they, while you just twirl

they--someone be want who will listen to people, and see that they

be leave alone. to leave people alone at the right minute be a very

great necessity. don't you know those garden that look as if they be

always be fuss and slash and cut about? there's no sense of life

in they. one have to slash sometimes, and then leave it. I believe in

growth even more than in organisation. still, I don't doubt that you

have help Maud, and I be very glad of it. I want you to make

friend with she. I think the lack in your life be that you have know

so few woman; man and woman can never understand each other, of course;

but they have get to live together and work together; and one ought to

live with people whom one do not understand. you and your

undergraduate don't yield any mystery. you, no doubt, know exactly

what they be think, and they know what you be think. it's all

very pleasant and wholesome, but one cann't get on very far that way.

you mustn't think Maud be a sort of undergraduate. probably you think

you know a great deal about she already--but she ben't the least what

you imagine, any more than I be. nor be you what I imagine; but I be

quite content with my mistaken idea of you."









XI



JACK





the next day's dinner be a disappointment. the Vicar expatiate, Jack

count, and become so intent on his counting that he hardly say a

word; indeed Howard be not sure that he be wholly pleased with the

turn affair have take; he be rather touch by this than otherwise,

because it seem to he that Jack be really, if unconsciously, a

little jealous. his whole visit have be rather too much of a success:

Jack have expect to act as showman of his menagerie, and to play the

principal part; and Howard feel that Jack suspect he of having take

the situation too much into his own hand. he feel that Jack be not

pleased with his puppet; his father have need no apology or

explanation, Maud have be forward, he himself have be donnish.



the result be that Howard hardly get a word with Maud; she do indeed

say to he that she have make a beginning, and he be aware of a

pleasant sense of trustfulness about she; but the party have be

involve in vague and general talk, with a disturbing element

somewhere. Howard find himself talk aimlessly and flatly, and the

net result be a feeling of dissatisfaction.



when they be go, Mrs. Graves say to Howard, "Jack be rather a

masterful young man, I think. he have no sense of respect in his

composition. be you aware of the fact that he have we all under his

thumb this evening?"



"yes," say Howard, "it be just what I be think!"



"he want work," say Mrs. Graves; "he ought not to dangle about at

home and at Cambridge; he want tough material to deal with; it's no

use snub he, because he be on the right tack; but he must not be

allow to interfere too much. he want a touch of misfortune to bring

he to himself; he have a real influence over people--the influence that

all definite, good-humour, outspoken people have; it be easy for

other to do what he like than to resist he; he be not irritable, and

he be pertinacious. he be the sort of man who may get very much spoilt

if he don't marry the right woman, because he be the sort of person

woman will tell lie to rather than risk displease he. if he do

not take care he will be a man of the world, because he will not see

the world as it be; it will behave to he as he wish it to behave."



"I think," say Howard, "that he have get good stuff in he; he would

never do anything mean or spiteful; but he would do anything that he

think consistent with honour to get his way."



"well, we shall see," say Mrs. Graves; "but he be rather a bad

influence for Maud just now. Maud don't suspect his strength, and I

cann't have she break in. Mind, Howard, I look to you to help Maud

along. you have a gift for keep thing reasonable; and you must use

it."



"I think you believe in let people alone!" say Howard.



"in theory, yes," say Mrs. Graves, smile; "I certainly don't believe

in influence people; but I believe very much in love they: it's

what I call imaginative sympathy that we want. some people have

imagination enough to see what other people be feel, but it end

there: and some people have unintelligent sympathy, and that be only

spoil. but one must see what people be capable of, and what their

line be, and help they to find out what suit they, not try to conform

they to what suit oneself; and that ben't as easy as it sound."









XII



DIPLOMACY





a few day later Howard be summon back to Cambridge. one of his

colleague be ill, and arrangement have to be make to provide for his

work. it astonish he to find how reluctant he be to return; he

seem to have find the sort of life he need in this quiet place. he

have walk with the Vicar, and have be deluge with interesting

particular about the parish. much of it be very trivial, but Howard

see that the Vicar have a real insight into the people and their way.

he have not see Maud again to speak to, and it vex he to find how

difficult it be to create occasion for meeting. his mind and

imagination have be take captive by the girl; he think of she

constantly, and recall she in a hundred charming vignette; the hope

of meet she be constantly in his mind; he have teach Jack a good

deal, but he become more and more aware that for some reason or other

his pupil be not pleased with he.



he and Jack be return one day from fishing, and they have come

near than Howard have like to have a squabble. Howard have say

something about an undergraduate, a friend of Jack's. Jack have seem

to resent the criticism, and say, "I be not quite sure whether you

know so much about he as you think. do you always analyse people like

that? I sometimes feel with you as if I be in a room full of

specimen which you be show off, and that you know more about they

dead than alive."



"that's rather severe!" say Howard; "I simply try to understand

people--I suppose we all do that."



"no, I don't," say Jack; "I think it's rather stuffy, if you want to

know. I have a feeling that you have be turn everyone inside out

here. I think one ought to let people alone."



"well," say Howard, "it all depend upon what one want to do with

people. I think that, as a matter of fact, you be really more inclined

to deal with people, to use they for your own purpose, than I be. you

know what you want, and other people have get to follow. of course, up

at Beaufort, it's my business to try to do that to a certain extent;

but that be professional, and a matter of business."



"but the bad of do it professionally," say Jack, "be that you

cann't get out of the way of do it unprofessionally. you seem to I

to have rather purchase this place. I know you be to be squire, and

all that; but you want to make yourself feel. I be not sure that you

ben't rather a Jesuit."



"come," say Howard, "that's go too far--we cann't afford to quarrel.

I don't mind your say what you think; but if you have the right to

take your own line, you must allow the same right to other."



"that depend!" say Jack, and be silent for a moment. then he turn

to Howard and say, "yes, you be quite right! I be sorry I say all

that. you have do no end for I, and I be an ungrateful little beast.

it be rather fine of you not to remind I of all the trouble you have

take; there ben't anyone who would have do so much; and you have

really lay yourself out to do what I like here. I be sorry, I be

truly sorry. I suppose I feel myself rather cock of the walk here, and

be vex that you have get the whole thing into your hand!"



"all right," say Howard, "I entirely understand; and look here, I be

glad you say what you do. you be not wholly wrong. I have interfere

perhaps more than I ought; but you must believe I when I say

this--that it ben't with a manage motive. I like people to like I; I

don't want to direct they; only one can overdo try to make people

like one, and I feel I have overdo it. I ought to have go to work

in a different way."



"well, I have put my foot in it again," say Jack; "it's awful to think

that I have be lecture one of the don about his duty. I shall be

try to brighten up their life next. the mischief be that I don't

think I do want people to like I. I be not affectionate. I only want

thing to go smoothly."



they draw near to the Manor, and Jack say, "I promise Cousin Anne I

would go in to tea. she have design on I, that woman! she don't

approve of I; she say the sharp thing in her quiet way; one

hardly know she have do it, and then when one think of it

afterwards, one find she have draw blood. I be cross, I think! there

seem to be rather a set at I just now; she make I feel as if I be

in bed, be nurse and slap."



"well," say Howard, "I shall leave you to her mercy. I shall go on

to the vicarage, and say good-bye. I shalln't see they again this time.

you don't mind, I hope? I will try not to use my influence."



"you cann't help it!" say Jack with a grimace. "no, do go. you will

touch they up a bit. I be not appreciate there just now."



Howard walk on up to the vicarage. he be rather disturb by Jack's

remark; it put he, he think, in an odious light. be he really so

priggish and Jesuitical? that be the one danger of the life of the Don

which he hope he have successfully avoid. he be all for liberty, he

imagine. be he really, after all, a mild schemer with an ethical

outlook? be he bent on manage and uplift people? the idea

sicken he, and he feel humiliate.



when he arrive at the vicarage, he find the Vicar out. Maud be

alone. this be, he confess to himself with a strange delight,

exactly what he most desire. he would not be paternal or formative. he

would just make friend with his pretty cousin as he might with a

sensible undergraduate. with this stern resolve he enter the room.



Maud get up hastily from her chair--she be write in a little

note-book on her knee. "I think I would just come in and say

good-bye," he say. "I have to go back to Cambridge early than I

think, and I hope I might just catch you and your father."



"he will be so sorry," say Maud; "he do enjoy meet you. he say

it give he so much to think about."



"oh, well," say Howard, "I hope to be here again next vacation--in

June, that be. I have get to learn my duty here as soon as I can. I

see you be hard at work. be that the book? how do you get on? you have

promise to send it I, you know, as soon as you have enough in hand."



"yes," say Maud, "I will send it you. it have do I good already,

do this. it be very good of you to have suggest it--and I like to

think it may be of some use."



"I have be with Jack all the afternoon," say Howard, "and I be

afraid he be rather vex with I. I cann't have that. he draw a rather

unpleasant picture of I; he seem to think I have take this place

rather in hand from the Don's point of view. he think I should die if

I be unable to improve the occasion."



Maud look up at he with a troubled and rather indignant air. "Jack

be perfectly horrid just now," she say; "I cann't think what have come

over he; and consider that you have be coach he every day,

and get he shoot and fishing, it seem to I quite detestable!

I oughtn't to say that; but you mustn't be angry with he, Mr. Kennedy.

I think he be feel very independent just now, and he say to I that

it make he feel that he be back at school to have to go up with his

book to the Manor every morning. but he be all right really. I be sure

he be grateful; it would be too shameful if he be not. please don't

be vex with he."



Howard laugh. "oh, I be not vex! indeed, I be rather glad he speak

out--at my age one don't often get the chance of be sincerely

scold by a perfectly frank young man. one do get donnish and

superior, no doubt, and it be useful to find it out, though it ben't

pleasant at the time. we have make it up, and he be quite repentant; I

think it be altogether natural. it often happen with young man to get

irritated with one, no doubt, but as a rule they don't speak out; and

this time he have get I between the joint of my armour."



"oh, dear I!" say Maud, "I think the world be rather a difficult

place! it seem ridiculous for I to say that in a place like this,

when I think what might be happen if I be poor and have to earn my

living. it be silly to mind thing so; but Jack accuse I of the same

sort of thing. he say that woman cann't let people alone; he say that

woman don't really want to do anything, but only to seem to have their

way."



"well, then, it appear we be both in the same box," say Howard, "and

we must console each other and grieve over be so much misunderstood."



he feel that he have speak rather cynically, and that he have somehow

hurt and check the girl. he do not like the thought; but he feel

that he have speak sensibly in not allow the situation to become

sentimental. there be a little silence; and then Maud say, rather

timidly: "do you like go back?"



"no," say Howard, "I don't. I have become curiously interested in this

place, and I be lazy. just now the life of the Don seem to I rather

intolerable. I don't want to teach greek prose, I don't want to go to

meeting; I don't want to gossip about appointment, and little

intrigue, and bonfire, and College row. I want to live here, and

walk on the Downs and write my book. I don't want to be stuffy, as Jack

say. but it will be all right, when I have take the plunge; and after

I have be back a week, this will all fade into a sort of impossibly

pleasant dream."



he be again conscious that he have somehow hurt the girl. she look at

he with a troubled face, and then say, "yes, that be the advantage

which man have. I sometimes wonder if it would not be well for I to

have some work away from here. but there be nothing I could do; and I

cann't leave papa."



"oh, it will all come right!" say Howard feebly; "there be fifty

thing that might happen. and now I must be off! mind, you must let I

have the book some time; that will serve to remind I of Windlow in the

interval of greek prose."



he get up and shake hand. he feel he be behave stupidly and

unkindly. he have mean to tell Maud how much he like the feeling of

having make friend, and to have talk to she frankly and simply about

everything. he have an intense desire to say that and more; to make she

understand that she be and would be in his thought; to ascertain how

she feel towards he; to assure himself of their friendship. but he

would be wise and prudent; he would not be sentimental or priggish or

Jesuitical. he would just leave the impression that he be mildly

interested in Windlow, but that his heart be in his work. he feel

sustain by his delicate consideration, and by his judicious

chilliness. and so he turn and leave she, though an unreasonable

impulse seize he to take the child in his arm, and tell she how

sweet and delicious she be. she have hold the little book in her hand

as they sate, as if she have hope he would ask to look at it; and as he

close the door, he see she put it down on the table with a half-sigh.









xiii



give away





he be to go off the next day; that night he have his last talk to his

aunt. she say that she would say good-bye to he then, and that she

hope he would be back in June. she do not seem quite as serene as

usual, but she speak very affectionately and gently of the delight his

visit have be. then she say, "but I somehow feel--I cann't give my

reason--as if we have get into a mess here. you be rather a disturbing

clement, dear Howard! I may speak plainly to you now, mayn't I? I think

you have more effect on people than you know. you have upset we! I be

not criticise you, because you have exceed all my hope. but you

be too diffident, and you don't realise your power of sympathy. you

be very observant, very quick to catch the drift of people's mood,

and you be not at all formidable. you be so much interested in people

that you lead they to reveal themselves and to betray themselves; and

they don't find quite what they expect. you be afraid, I think, of

care for people; you want to be in close relation with everyone, and

yet to preserve your own tranquillity. you be afraid of emotion; but

one cann't care for people like that! it don't cost you enough! you

be like a rich man who can afford to pay for thing, and I think you

rather pauperise people. here you have be for three week; and nobody

here will be able to forget you; and yet I think you may forget we. one

cann't care without suffer, and I think that you don't suffer. it be

all a pleasure and delight to you. you win heart, and don't give your

own. don't think I be ungrateful. you have make a great difference

already to my life; but you have make I suffer too. I know that like

Telemachus in Tennyson's poem you will be 'decent not to fail in

office of tenderness'--I know I can depend on you to do everything

that be kind and considerate and just. you willn't disappoint I. you

will do out of a natural kindliness and courtesy what many people can

only do by love. you don't claim thing, you don't lay hand on

thing; and it look so like unselfishness that it seem detestable of

I to say anything. but you will have to give yourself away, and I

don't think you have ever do that. I can say all this, my dear,

because I love you, as a mother might; you be my son indeed; but there

be something in you that will have to be break; we have all of we to

be break. it ben't that you have anything to repent of. you would take

endless trouble to help anyone who want help, you would be endlessly

patient and tender and strong; but you do not really know what love

mean, because it do not hurt or wound you. you be like Achilles,

be it not, who have be dip in the river of death, and you be

invulnerable. you willn't, I know, resent my say this? I know you

won't--and the fact that you will not make it hard for I to say

it--but I almost wish it would wound you, instead of make you think

how you can amend it. you cann't amend it, but God and love can; only

you must dare to let yourself go. you must not be wise and forbear.

there, dear, I willn't say more!"



Howard take her hand and kiss it. "thank you," he say, "thank you a

hundred time for speak so. it be perfectly true, every word of it.

it be curious that to-day I have see myself three time mirror in

other mind. I don't like what I see--I be not complacent--I be not

flatter. but I don't know what to do! I feel like a patient with a

hopeless disease, who have be listen to a perfectly kind and wise

physician. but what can I do? it be just the vital impulse which be

lacking. I will be frank too; it be quite true that I live in the

surface of thing. I be so much interested in book, idea, thought, I

be fascinate by the study of human temperament; people delight I,

excite I, amuse I; but nothing ever come inside. I don't excuse

myself, but I say: 'it be he that hath make we and not we ourselves.' I

be just so, as you have describe, and I feel what a hollow-hearte

sort of person I be. yet I go on amuse myself with friendship and

interest. I have never suffer, and I have never love. well, I would

like to change all that, but can I?"



"ah, dear Howard," say his aunt, "that be the everlasting question. it

be like you to take this all so sweetly and to speak so openly. but

far than this no one can help you. you be like the young man whom

Jesus love who have great possession. you do not know how much! I will

not tell you to follow he; and your possession be not those which

can be give away. but you must follow love. I have a hope, I have a

hope--oh, it be more than that, because we all find our way soon or

later--and now that you know the truth, as I see you know it, the light

will not be long in come. God bless you, dear child; there be pain

ahead of you; but I don't fear that--pain be not the bad thing or the

last thing!"









XIV



back to CAMBRIDGE





"I had a hope . . . I have a hope," these word of his aunt's echo

often through Howard's brain, in the wakeful night which follow.

nothing be plain to himself except the fact that thing be tangle;

the anxious exaltation which come to he from his talk with his aunt

clear off like the dying away of the flush of some bead liquor. "I

must see into this--I must understand what be happen--I must

disentangle it," he say again and again to himself. he be painfully

conscious, as he think and think, of his own deep lack both of

moral courage and affection. he like nothing that be not easy--easy

triumph, easy relation. somehow the thread of life have knot

themselves up; he have slip so lightly into his place here, he have

take up responsibility as he might have take up a flower; he have

mean to be what he call frank and affectionate all round, and now he

feel that he be go to disappoint everyone. not till the daylight

begin to outline the curtain-rift do he fall asleep; and he wake with

that excited fatigue which come of sleeplessness.



he come down, he breakfast alone in the early morning freshness. the

house be all illumine by the sun, but it spread its beauty in vain

before he. the trap come to the door, and when he come out he find to

his surprise that Jack be stand on the step talk to the

coachman. "I think I would like to come to the station with you,"

say Jack. Howard be pleased at this. they get in together, and one by

one the scene so strangely familiar flee past they. Howard look long

at the vicarage as he pass, wonder whether Maud be perhaps

look out. that have be a clumsy, stupid business--his talk with

she! presently Jack say, "look here, I be go to say again that I

be perfectly hateful yesterday. I don't know what come over I--I be

think aloud."



"oh, it don't matter a bit!" say Howard; "it be my fault really. I

have mismanage thing, I think; and it be good for I to find that

out."



"no, but you haven't," say Jack. "I see it all now. you come down

here, and you make friend with everyone. that be all right; the fact

simply be that I have be jealous and mean. I expect to have you all

to myself--to run you, in fact; and I be vex at find you take an

interest in all the other. there, it's well out. I be entirely in

the wrong. you have be awfully good all round, and we shall be

precious dull now that you be go. the truth be that we have be

squabble over you."



"well, Jack," say Howard, smile, "it's very good of you to say this.

I cann't quite accept it, but I be very grateful. there be some truth

in what you say--but it ben't quite the whole truth; and anyhow you

and I willn't squabble--I shouldn't like that!"



Jack nod and smile, and they go on to talk of other thing; but

Howard be pleased to see that the boy hang about he, determined to

make up for his temper, look after his luggage, see he into the

train, and wave he a very ingenuous farewell, with a pretence of

tear.



the journey pass in a listless dream for Howard, but everything fade

before the thought of Maud. what could he do to make up for his

brutality? he could not see his way clear. he have a sense that it be

unfair to claim her affection, to sentimentalise; and he think that

he have be doubly wrong--wrong in engage her interest so quickly,

wrong in play on her unhappiness just for his own enjoyment, and

doubly wrong in try to disengage their relation so roughly. it be a

mean business; and yet though he do not want to hold she, he could not

bear to let she go.



as he come near Cambridge and in sight of the familiar landscape, the

wide field, the low line of far-off wold, he be surprised to find

that instead of be depress, a sense of comfort steal over he, and

a feeling of repose. he have cram too many impression and emotion

into his visit; and now he be go back to well-know and peaceful

activity. the sight of his room please he, and the foregathering

with the three or four of his colleague be a great relief. Mr.

Redmayne be incisive and dogmatic, but evidently pleased to see he

back. he have not be away, and profess that holiday and change of

scene be distract and exhausting. "it take I six week to

recover from a holiday," he say. he have have an old friend to stay with

he, a country parson, and he have apparently spend his time in

elaborate manoeuvre to see as little of his guest as possible. "a

worthy man, but tedious," he say, "wonderfully well preserve--in

body, that be; his mind have entirely go to piece; he have get some

dismal notion in his head about the condition of the agricultural

poor; he think they want uplift! now I be all for the due

subordination of class. the poor be there, if I may speak plainly,

to breed--that be their first duty; and their only other duty that I

can discover, be to provide for the need of man of virtue and

intelligence!"



later on, Howard be leave alone with he, and think that it would

please the old man to tell he of the change in his own position.



"I be delighted to hear it," say Mr. Redmayne: "a landed proprietor,

that's a very comfortable thing! now how will that affect your position

here? ah yes, I see--only the heir-apparent at present. well, you will

probably find that the estate have all be run on very sentimental

line by your worthy aunt. you take my advice, and put it all on a

business-like footing. let it be clear from the first that you willn't

stand any nonsense. idea!" say Mr. Redmayne in high disdain, "that's

the curse of the country. idea everywhere, about the empire, about

civic right and duty, about religion, about art"--he make a long

face as though he have swallow medicine. "let we all keep our distance

and do our work. let we have no nonsense about the brotherhood of man.

I hope with all my heart, Howard, that you willn't permit anything of

that kind. I don't feel as sure of you as I should like; but this will

be a very good thing for you, if it show you that all this stuff will

not do in practice. I'm an honest Whig. let everyone have a vote, and

let they give their vote for the right people, and then we shall get

on very well."









XV



JACK'S ESCAPADE





the college slowly fill; the term begin; Howard go back to his

work, and the perplexity of Windlow rather fade into the background.

he would behave very differently when he go there next. it should all

be cool, friendly, unemotional. but in spite of everything, his aunt's

word come sometimes into his mind, trouble it with a sudden thrill.

"Power, spirit, the development of life,"--were these real thing, have

one somehow to put oneself into touch with they? be the life of serene

and tranquil work but mark time, waste opportunity? have one

somehow to be stir into action and reality? be there something in

the background, which do not insist or drive or interfere with one's

inclination, because it know that it would be obey and yield to

some time? be it just bide its time, wait, impel but not

force one to change? it give he an impulse to look close at his own

view and aim, to consider what his motive really be, how far he

could choose, how much he could prevail, to what extent he could really

do as he hope and desire. he be often haunt by a sense of live

in a mechanical unreality, of move simply on line of easy habit.

that be a tame, a flat business, perhaps; but it be what seem to

happen.



and yet all the time he be more and more haunted by the thought of

Maud. he could not get she out of his head. over and over again he

live through the scene of their meeting. against the background of

the dusk, that slender figure outline itself, the line of her form,

her look, her smile; he go again and again through his talk with

she--the walk on the down, the sight of she in the dimly-light room;

he could hear the very tone of her low voice, and see the childlike

appeal of her eye. bad of all the scene at the Vicarage, the book

hold in her slender finger, her look of bewilderment and

distress--what a pompous ass he have be, how stupid and coarse! he

think of write to she; he do write--but the dignified patronage of

his elder-brotherly style sicken he, and he tear up his unfinished

letter. why could he not simply say that he care for she, and be

miserable at having hurt she? that be just, he think, what he must

not do; and yet the idea that she might be make other friend and

acquaintance be a jealous horror to he. he think of write to his

aunt about it--he do write regularly to she, but he could not explain

what he have do. Strangest of all, he hardly recognise it as love. he

do not face the idea of a possible life with Maud. it be to be an

amiable and brotherly relation, with a frank confidence and an

outspoken affection. he lose his old tranquil spirit in these

reverie. it be painful to he to find how difficult it be become

to talk to the undergraduate; his mild and jocose irony seem to

have desert he. he see little of Jack; they be elaborately

unaffected with each other, but each feel that there have be a sort of

exposure, and it seem impossible to regain the old relation.



one morning he have an unpleasant surprise. the Dean of the College, Mr.

Gretton, a tall, rather grimly handsome man, who be immensely

conscientious and laborious, and do his work as well as a virtuous man

could, who be not interested in education, and frankly bore by the

irresponsibility of undergraduate, walk into his room one morning

and say, "I hope I don't interrupt you? I want to have a word with you

about Sandys, as he be your cousin. there be a dinner in College last

night--a club, I think--Guthrie and that lot--and Sandys get undeniably

drunk. they be make a horrible row about two o'clock, and I go

down and disperse they. there be some outside man there whose name

I take; but Sandys be quite out of control, and speak very

impertinently to I. he must come and apologise, or I shall ask that he

may be send down. he be a respectable man on the whole, so I shall not

push it to extreme. but he will be gate, of course, and I shall write

to his father. I think you have well see he, and try if you can do

anything. it be a great nuisance, and the less say about it the

well; but of course we cann't stand this kind of thing, and it have

well be stop at once."



"yes, I will see he at once," say Howard. "I be very sorry. I do not

think he would play the fool like that."



"one never know!" say the Dean; "to speak plainly, I don't think he

be do much good here. rather too much a man of the world for my

taste. but there be nothing particular against he, and I don't want to

be hard on he."



Howard send for Jack at once. he come in, in an obviously rebellious

frame of mind.



"I know," he say. "yes, of course I be a fool; but it ben't worth

make a row about. I don't go in for soak, like some of the man who

don't get catch, and I have no intention of go to the bad, if that

be what you mean."



"you be an ass!" say Howard, "a real ass! now don't say a word yet,

till I have tell you what I think. you may have your say afterwards. I

don't care twopence about your get drunk once in a way. it's a

stupid thing to do, to my mind, and I don't see the point of it. I

don't consider you a reprobate, nor be I go to take a high line

about drunkenness; I know perfectly well that you be no more likely to

take to drink than the Master be. but it ben't good enough. you put

yourself on the wrong side, you give people a wrong idea of yourself.

you get disapprove of by all the stupid and ordinary people who don't

know you. your father will be in an awful state of mind. it's an

experiment, I suppose? I imagine you think you would like to see how

it feel to be drunk? well, live at close quarter like this, that

sort of thing cann't be do. and then you be rude to Gretton. what's

the point of that? he be a very good fellow, mind his own business,

don't interfere, and keep thing very straight here. that part of it

seem to I simply ungentlemanly. and in any case, you have no business

to hurt the people who care for you, even if you think they ought not

to be distressed. I don't say it be immoral, but I say it be a low

business from begin to end."



Jack, who bear sign of his overnight experience, give Howard a smile.

"that's all right!" he say. "I don't object to that! you have rather

take the wind out of my sail. if you have say I be a sensual brute,

I should have just laugh. it be such nonsense the way these man go

on! why I be lunch with Gretton the other day, and Corry tell a

story about Wordsworth as an undergraduate get drunk in Milton's

room at Christ's, and how proud the old man be of it to the end of

his life. Gretton laugh, and think it a joke; and then when one

get roar drunk, they turn up their eye and say it be unmanly and

so on. why cann't they stick to one line? if you go to bump-supper and

dinner, and just manage to carry your liquor, they think you a good

sort of fellow, with no sort of nonsense about you--'a little natural

boyish excitement'--you know the sort of rot. one glass more, and you

be among the sinner."



"I know," say Howard, "and I perceive that I have have the benefit of

your think-out oration after all!"



Jack smile rather sheepishly, and then say, "well, what's to be do?

be I to be send down?"



"not if you do the right thing," say Howard. "you must just go to

Gretton and say you be very sorry you get drunk, and still more sorry

you be impertinent. if you can contrive to show he that you think

he a good fellow, and be really vex to have be such a bounder, so

much the well. that I leave to your natural eloquence. but you will

be gate, and he will write to your father."



Jack whistle. "I say, cann't you stop that?" he say. "Father will be

fearfully upset."



"no, I cann't," say Howard, "and I wouldn't if I could. this be the

music, and you have get to face it."



"very well," say Jack rather glumly, "I suppose I must pay the score.

I'll go and grovel to Gretton. I be simply beastly to he. my frank

nature expand in his presence."



Howard laugh. "well, be off with you!" he say. "and I will tell you

what. I will write to your father, and tell he what I think."



"then it will be all right," say Jack, greatly relieve. "anything to

stop the domestic howl. I'll write too. after all, it be rather

convenient to have a cousin among the don; and, anyhow, you have have

your innings now. I be a fool, I admit. it willn't happen again."



Howard write at once to the Vicar, and be reward by a long and

grateful letter. "it be a disreputable affair," he write, "and it have

upset I very much, and Maud even more. but you have put it in the

right light, and I be very grateful to you for your good office. I

couldn't have believe it of Jack, but I look back to dear old

Pembroke, and I remember there be one occasion--but I need not revive

ancient memory, and I be sufficiently verse in human nature not to

waste indignation over a boyish escapade. I have venture to address

letter to Mr. Gretton and the Master on the subject, apologise for

Jack's misdemeanour, and say how much I appreciate the excellence of

the tone that prevail in the College."



what, however, please Howard still more be that Gretton speak to he

after Hall and say, "I be much oblige to you, Kennedy, for your

prompt action. Sandys come and apologise to I in a very proper

manner, and entirely remove the disagreeable impression from my mind.

I owe this to your kindly intervention; and I must honestly say that I

think well of Sandys. he do not attempt to excuse himself, or to

extenuate his fault. he show very good feeling, and I believe that

henceforth his influence will be on the side of order. I be really

pleased with he."



Howard speak to Jack again the follow day, and say he be glad he

have do the thing thoroughly.



"thoroughly?" say Jack; "I should think I do. I fairly lick the old

man's boot. we have quite an affect scene. I rather think he give I

his blessing, and I go away feeling that I have be almost

recommend to repeat my performance. Gretton's a sensible man. this be

a good College. the thing would have be mismanage anywhere else; but

now I have not only an unblemished character, but I be like gold try

in the furnace."



"one more thing," say Howard; "why not get your people to come up for

two or three day? it will clear off the whole affair. I think they

would like to be ask, and I should be very glad to help to look after

they."



"it will be a bore," say Jack, make a grimace; "it wreck my health

to take people round to King's and Trinity. it simply knock I up; but

I expect you be right, and I will ask they. you willn't fail I? when I

go off duty, you will go on? if that be clearly understand, they shall

come. I know Maud would like to realise my background, as she say; and

my father will rush to the 'Varsity Library, and break the spirit of

the Pemmer Dons. he'll have the time of his life; but he deserve a

treat--he really write I a very decent letter. by George, though,

these emotional experience be not in my line, though they reveal the

worth of suffering, as the Chaplain say in his Hospital Sermon last

Sunday."



Howard write a further note, say that he hope that Mr. Sandys and

Maud would be able to come; and it be soon arrange that they should

spend the inside of a week at Cambridge, before the May week, as the

Vicar say he have little taste for social pleasure, and have some

matter of considerable importance to turn up in the Library, to say

nothing of the intellectual stimulus he anticipate.









XVI



the visit





the visit begin on the usual line of such visit, the home team, so to

speak--Howard and Jack--have to fit a round of festivity into a

life which under normal circumstance be already, if anything, too

full, with the result that, at all event, Howard's geniality be

tense, and tend to be force. only in youth can one abandon oneself

to high spirit; as one grow old one desire more to contemplate

one's own mirth, and assure oneself that it be genuine.



Jack meet they at the station, and they have tea in his room, Howard

refuse firmly to come.



"you must just give they a chance of a private word or two!" he say.



"why, that's exactly what I want to avoid!" say Jack. "besides, my

family be never private--we haven't any company manner. but I expect

you be right. Father will want one innings, and I think it's fair he

should have it!"



they be, however, to dine with Howard, who, contrary to his willnot,

lavish some care on flower and decoration, to make the place

unobtrusively pretty and home-like, and he determine that he would be

as quiet and straightforward as he could, but promise himself at least

one afternoon with Maud stroll round the place. but this be all to

happen as if by chance, and with no scheming or diplomacy.



they come; and Howard see at once that Maud be timid and somewhat out

of spirit; she look tired, and this, so far from diminish she

charm, seem to Howard to make it almost intolerably appeal to he.

he would have desire to take she in his arm, like a child, to pet and

caress she into happiness. Jack be evidently feel the weight of his

responsibility, and be frankly bored; but never have Howard be more

grateful for Mr. Sandys' flow of spirit than he be that evening. Mr.

Sandys be thirst for experience and research, and he be also in a

state of jubilant sentimentality about Cambridge and his old

recollection. he tell story of the most unemphatic kind in the most

emphatic way, and Howard be amuse at the radiant hue with which the

lapse of time have touch the very simple incident of his career.

Mr. Sandys have be, it seem, a terrible customer at

Cambridge--disobedient, daring, incisive, the hero of his

contemporary, the dread of the authority; but all this on

high-minded line. moreover, he have bring with he a note-book of

query, to be settle in the Library; while he have look up in the

list of resident everyone with whom he have be in the remotest degree

acquaint, and a long vista of call open out before he. it be a

very delightful evening to Howard, in spite of everything, simply

because Maud be there; and he find himself extraordinarily conscious

of her presence, observant of all she say and do, glad that her eye

should rest upon his familiar setting; and when they sit afterwards in

his study and smoke, he see that her eye travel with a curious

intentness over everything--his book, his paper, his furniture. he

have no private talk with she; but he be glad just to meet her glance

and hear her low reply--glad too to find that, as the evening wear

on, she seem less distraite and tired.



they go off early, Mr. Sandys plead fatigue for Maud, and the

necessity for himself of a good night's rest, that he might ride forth

on the follow day conquer and to conquer.



the next day they lunch with Jack. when Howard come into the room he

be not surprised to find that two undergraduate have be

ask--Jack's chief ally. one be a big, good-humour young man, who

be very shy and silent; the other be one Fred Guthrie, who be one of

the nice man in the College; he be a Winchester boy, son of a

baronet, a Member of Parliament, wealthy and distinguish. Guthrie have

a large allowance, belong to all the good club, play cricket with

the chance of a blue ahead of he, and have, moreover, a real social

gift. he have a quite unembarrassed manner and, what be rare in a young

man, a strong sense of humour. he be a prominent member of the A. D.

C., and have a really artistic gift of mimicry; but there be no touch

of forwardness or conceit about he. he have be in for some

examination or other; and when Howard come in he be describe his

experience. "what sort of question?" he be say. "oh, you know the

kind--an awful quotation, follow by the question, 'who say this, and

under what circumstance, and why do they let he?'" he make himself

entirely at home, he talk to Mr. Sandys as if he be welcome an

old family friend, and he be evidently much attract by Maud, who

find it remarkably easy to talk to this pleasant and straightforward

boy. he describe with much liveliness an interview between Jack and

the Master on the subject of read the lesson in chapel, and

imitate the suave tone of that courteous old gentleman to the life.

"far be it from I to deny it be dramatic, Mr. Sandys, but I should

prefer a slightly more devotional tone." he relate with great

good-humour how a heavy, well-meaning, and rather censorious

undergraduate have wait behind in his room on an evening when he have

be entertain the company with some imitation, and have say, "you

be fond of imitate people, Guthrie, and you do it a great deal; but

you ought to say who it be you be imitate, because one cann't be

quite sure!"



Mr. Sandys be immensely amuse by the young man, and have relate some

of his own experience in elocution--how his clerk on the first

occasion of read the lesson at Windlow be report to have say,

"why, you might think he have be there, in a manner of speak."



Guthrie be not in the least concerned to keep the conversation in his

own hand, and receive Mr. Sandys' story with exactly the right

amount of respectful interest and amusement. but the result of all this

upon Howard be to make he feel extraordinarily heavy and elderly. he

feel that he and Mr. Sandys be the make-weight of the party, and he

be conscious that his own contribution be want in liveliness.



Maud be extraordinarily amuse by the bit of mimicry that come in,

because it be so well do that it inspire everyone with the feeling

that mimicry be the one art worth practise; and Mr. Sandys himself

launch into dialect story, in which Somersetshire rustic begin by

say, "hoot, mon!" and end by say, "the ould divil hissilf."



after luncheon it become clear that Jack have give up the afternoon as

a bad job, and suggest that they should all go down to the river. the

rowing man excuse himself, and Howard follow his example, plead

occupation of a vague kind. Mr. Sandys be enchant at the prospect,

and they go off in the charge of Guthrie, who be free, promise to

return and have tea in his room. Guthrie, who be a friend of

Howard's, include he in the invitation, but Howard say that he could

not promise, but would look in if he could.



as a matter of fact, he go out for a lonely walk, ashamed of himself

for his stupidity. he could not put himself in the position, he

dismally think, of compete for Maud's attention.



he walk off round by Madingley, hardly aware of what road he be

take. by the little chalk-pit just outside the village a rustic pair,

a boy and girl, stand sheepishly clasped in a dull and silent embrace.

Howard, to whom public exhibition of emotion be distasteful, walk

swiftly by with avert eye, when suddenly a poignant thought come on

he, cause he to redden up to the root of his hair, and walk fast

than ever. it be this, then, that be the matter with he--he be in

love, he be jealous, he be the victim of the old, simple,

commonest, strong emotion of humanity. his eye be open. how have

he not see it before? his brooding over the thought of Maud, the

strange disturbance that come on he in her presence, that absurd

desire to do or say something impressive, couple with that wretched

diffidence that keep he silent and helpless--it be love! he become

half dizzy with the thought of what it all mean; and at the same

instant, Maud seem to recede from he as something impossibly pure,

sweet, and unapproachable. all that notion of a paternal close

friendship--how idiotic it be! he want she, at every moment, to

share every thought with she, to claim every thought of her, to see

she, to clasp her close; and then at the same moment come the terrible

disillusionment; how be he, a sober, elderly, stiff-minded

professional person, to recommend himself? what be there in he that

any girl could find even remotely attractive--his middle-aged habit,

his decorous and conventional mind, his clumsy dress, his grizzle

hair? he feel of himself that he be ravage with age and decrepitude,

and yet in his folly he have suggest this visit, and he have throw the

girl he love out of her lonely life, crave for sympathy and

interest, into a set of young man all apt for passion and emotion. the

thought of Guthrie with his charm, his wealth, his aplomb, fall cold on

his heart. Howard's swift imagination picture the mutual attraction of

the two, the enchanting discovery, the laugh sympathy. Guthrie

would, no doubt, come down to Windlow. it be exactly the kind of match

that Mr. Sandys would like for Maud; and this be to be the end of this

tragic affair. how be he to endure the rest of the day of the visit?

this be Tuesday, and they be not to go till Saturday; and he would

have to watch the budding of a romance which would end in his choosing

Maud a wedding-present, and attend at Windlow Church in the

character of the middle-aged squire, beam through his glass on the

young people.



in such abject reflection the walk pass away. he creep into College

by the side-entrance, settle down to his evening work with grim

tenacity, and lose himself in desperate imagining of all the pleasant

thing that might be happen to the party. they be to dine at a

restaurant, he believe, and probably Guthrie would be free to join

they.



late that night Jack look in. "be anything the matter?" he say. "why

don't you come to Guthrie's? look here, you be go to play fair,

ben't you? I cann't do all the entertaining business myself. I really

must have a day off to-morrow, and get some exercise."



"all right," say Howard, "I'll take they on. suppose you bring they to

luncheon here. and I will tell you what I will do. I will be

responsible for to-morrow afternoon. then on Thursday you shall come

and dine here again; and on Friday I will try to get the Master to

lunch--that will smooth thing over a bit."



"thank very much," say Jack; "that's splendid! I wish we haven't let

ourselves in for quite so much. I'm not fit to lead a double life like

this. I'm sure I don't grudge they their outing, but, by George, I

shall be glad to see the last of they, and I daresay you will be too.

it's the hard work I've have for a long time."



the two come and lunch with Howard. after luncheon he say, "now, I

be absolutely free to-day--Jack have get a lawn-tennis match on--what

shall we do?"



"well," say Mr. Sandys genially, "I will be entirely selfish for once.

I have come on the track of some very important matter in the Library,

and I see they be go to take up my time. and then I be go in to

have a cup of tea at Pembroke with the Dean, an old friend of mine.

there, I make no excuse! I do suggest to Herries that I have a

daughter with I; but he rather pointedly don't ask she. woman be not

in his line, and he will like a quiet talk with I. now, what do you

say to that, Howard?"



"well, if Miss Maud will put up with I," say Howard, "we will stroll

about, and we might go to King's Chapel together. I should like to show

she that, and we will go to see Monica Graves, and get some tea there."



"give Monica my love," say Mr. Sandys, "and make what excuse you can.

well tell she the truth for once! I will try to look in upon she

before I go."



Maud assent very eagerly and gratefully. they walk together to the

Library, and Mr. Sandys bolt in like a rabbit into its hole. Howard

be alone with she.



she be very different, he think, from what she have seem that first

night. she be alert, smile, delight with everything and everybody

about the place. "I think it be all simply enchant!" she say; "only

it make I long to go to Newnham. I think man do have a well time

than woman; and, what be more, no one here seem to have anything

whatever to do!"



"that's only our unselfishness," say Howard. "we get no credit! think

of all the pile of paper that be accumulate on my table. the other

day I entertain with all the virtue and self-sacrifice at my command

a party of working-man from the east end of London at luncheon in my

room, and take they round afterwards. they know far more than I do

about the place, and I cut a very poor figure. at the end the

Secretary, mean to be very kind to I, say that he be glad to have

see a glimpse of the cultured life. 'it be very beautiful and

distinguish,' he add, 'but we of the democracy shall not allow it

to continue. it be always say that the don have nothing to do but to

read and sip their wine, and I be glad to see it all for myself. to

think of all these endowment be use like this! not but what we be

very grateful to you for your kindness!'"



they stroll about. Cambridge be not a place that put its

characteristic beauty in the forefront. some of the most charming

thing lurk unsuspecte beyond dark entry and behind sombre wall.

they penetrate little mouldering court; they look into dim and

stately hall and chapel; they stand long on the bridge of Clare,

gaze at that incomparable front, with all the bowery garden and

willow-shade walk, like Camelot, beside the slow, terrace stream.



it be a tortured kind of delight for Howard to feel the girl beside

he; but she show no wish to talk intimately or emotionally. she

ask many question, and he could see that she drink in eagerly the

beauty of the place, understand its charm in a moment. they go in

to see Monica, who be in a mood of dry equanimity, and rally Howard

on the success of his visit to Windlow. "I hear you enter on the

scene like a fairy prince," she say, "and charm an estate out of

Cousin Anne in the course of a few hour. ben't he magnificent, Maud?

you mustn't think he be a typical Don: he be quite one of our bright

flower."



"when be I to come again to Windlow?" she add; "I suppose I must ask

Howard's leave now? he tell I, you know," she say to Maud, "that he

want a change--he be bore with his work; so I abandon Aunt Anne

to he; and he set up his flag in a moment. there be no diplomatist

like these cultured and unworldly man, Maud! it be noble of I to do

as I do. if I have exercise my persuasion on Aunt Anne, and keep

Howard away, I believe she would have turn over Windlow to I, and I

would have try a social experiment there. it's just the place for an

inebriate home; no public-house, and plenty of fine spring water."



Maud be immensely amuse by Monica. Howard content himself by say

that he be much misinterpret; and presently they go off to King's

together.



Maud be not prepared for King's Chapel, and indeed the tame, rather

clumsy exterior give very little hint of the wonder within.



when they pass the swing-door, and see the fine soar line lead

to the exquisite intricacy of the roof, the whole air full of rich

colour; the dark carve screen, with the gleam golden trumpet of

the angel on the organ, Howard could see she catch her breath, and

grow pale for an instant at the crowded splendour of the place.



they sit in the nave; and when the thin bell die down, and the

footstep pass softly by, and the organ utter its melodious voice

as the white-robe procession move slowly in, Howard could see that

the girl be almost overcome by the scene. she look at he once with

a strange smile, a smile which he could not interpret; and as the

service slowly proceed--to Howard little more than a draught of sweet

sensation--he could see that Maud be pray earnestly, deeply, for

some consecration of hope and strength which he could not divine or

guess at.



as they come away, she hardly speak--she seem tired and almost rapt

out of herself. she just say, "ah, I be glad I come here with you. I

shall never forget this as long as I live--it be quite beyond word."



he take she back to the lodging where they be stay. she shake

hand with he, smile faintly, almost tearfully, and go in without a

word. Howard go back in a very agitated frame of mind. he do not

understand what be in the girl's mind at all. she be different,

utterly different. some new current of thought have pass through her

mind. he fancy that the girl, after her seclude life, with so many

richly perceptive faculty half starve, have awaken almost suddenly

to a sense of the crowd energy and joy of life, that youth and

delight have quicken in she; that she foresaw new relation, and

guess at wonderful secret. but it trouble he to think that she have

not seem to wish to revive their former little intimacy; she have

seem half unconscious of his presence, and all alive with new

pleasure and curiosity. the marvellous veil of sex appear to have

fall between they. he have make friend with she, as he would have

make friend with some ingenuous boy; and now something wholly new,

mysterious, and aloof have intervene.



the rest of the visit be uneventful enough. Maud be different--that

be plain--not less delightful, indeed even more so, in her baffling

freshness; but Howard feel removed from she, shut out from her mind,

keep at arm's length, even supersede.



the luncheon with the Master as guest be a success. he be an old

bachelor clergyman, white-haired, dainty, courteous, with the

complexion of a child. he be very gracious to Mr. Sandys, who regard

he much as he might have regard the ghost of Isaiah, as a spirit who

visit the earth from some paradisiacal retreat, and bring with he

a fragrance of heaven. the thought of a Doctor of Divinity, the Head of

a College, full of academical learning, and yet perfectly courteous and

accessible, fill Mr. Sandys' cup of romance to the brim. he seem to

be store his memory with the Master's word. the Master be delighted

with Maud, and treat she with a charming and indulgent gaiety, which

Howard envy. he ask her opinion, he defer to she, he make she

come and sit next to he, he praise Jack and Howard, and at the end of

the luncheon he fill Mr. Sandys with an almost insupportable delight

by say that the next time he could visit Cambridge he hope he would

stay at the Lodge--"but not unless you will promise to bring Miss

Sandys as well--Miss Sandys be indispensable." Howard feel indeed

grateful to the gallant and civil old man, who have so clear an eye for

what be tender and beautiful. even Jack, when the Master depart, be

force to say that he do not know that the old man have so much blood

in he!



that night Mr. Sandys finish up his princely progress by dining in

Hall with the Fellows, and go to the Combination Room afterwards. he

be not voluble, as Howard have expect. he be overcome with

deference, and seize with a desire to bow in all direction at the

small civility. he sit next to the Vice-Master, and Mr. Redmayne

treat he to an exhibition of the dry firework on record. Mr.

Sandys assent to everything, and the number of time that he

exclaim "true, true! admirably say!" exceed belief. he say to

Howard afterwards that the unmixed wine of intellect have prove a

potent beverage. "one must drink it down," he say, "and trust to

assimilate it later. it have be a glorious week for I, my dear

Howard, thank to you! quite rejuvenate indeed! I carry away with I

a precious treasure of thought--just a few note of suggestive train

of inquiry have be scribble down, to be deal with at leisure. but

it be the atmosphere, the rarefied atmosphere of high thought, which

have brace and invigorate I. it have entirely obliterate from my mind

that odious escapade of Jack's--so judiciously handle! the kindness of

these eminent man, these intellectual giant, be profoundly touching

and inspiring. I must not indeed hope to trespass on it unduly. your

Master--what a model of self-efface courtesy--your Vice-Master--what

a fine, rugged, uncompromise nature; and the rest of your

colleagues"--with a wave of his hand--"what an impression of reserve

and restrained force it all give one! it will often sustain I," say

the good Vicar in a burst of confidence, "in my simple labour, to

think of all this tide of unaffected intellectual life ebb and

flow so tranquilly and so systematically in old alma mater! the way

in which you have lay yourself out to entertain I be indeed

gratifying. if there be a thing I reverence it be intellect, especially

when it be frame in modesty and courtesy."



Howard go with he to his lodging, and just go in to say good-bye

to Maud. Jack have be dine with she, but he be go. he and Guthrie

be go to the station to give they a send-off. "a charming young

fellow, Guthrie!" say Mr. Sandys. "he have be constantly with we, and

it be very pleasant to find that Jack have such an excellent friend. his

father be, I believe, a man of wealth and influence? you would hardly

have guess it! that a young man of that sort should have give up so

much time to entertain a country parson and his daughter be really

very gratifying--a sign of the grow humanity of the youth of

England. I fear we should not have be so tolerant at dear old

Pembroke. I like your young man, Howard. they be unduly careless, I

think, about dress; but in courtesy and kindness, irreproachable!"



Howard only have a few word with Maud, of a very commonplace kind. she

have enjoy herself very much, and it be good of he to have give up

so much time to they. she seem to he reserve and preoccupy, and

he could not do anything to restore the old sense of friendship. he be

tired himself; it have be a week of great strain. far from get any

nearer to Maud, he feel that he have drift away from she, and that

some intangible partition keep they apart. the visit, he feel, have be

a mistake from begin to end.









XVII



self-suppression





as soon as the term be over, Howard go down to Windlow. he be in a

very unhappy frame of mind. he could not capitulate; but the more that

he think, the more that he try to analyse his feeling, the more

complex they become. it really seem to he at time as if two

perfectly distinct people be argue within he. he be afraid of

love; his aim have always be to simplify his life as far as possible,

and to live in a serene and cheerful spirit, for the day and in the

day. his work, his relation with colleague and pupil, have all amuse

and interested he; he have care for people, he have many friend; but

it be all a cool, temperate, unimpassioned kind of care. People have

drift in and out of his life; with his frank and easy manner, his

excellent memory for the characteristic and the circumstance of

other, it have be easy for he to pick up a relationship where he have

lay it down; but it be all a very untroubled business, and no one have

ever really enter into his life; he do not like drop people, and

take some trouble by mean of letter to keep up communication with his

old pupil; but his friendship have never reach the point at which

the loss of a friend would have be a severe blow. he feel that he be

always give credit for more affection than he possess, and this have

make he careful not to fail in any duty of friendship. he be always

ready to take trouble, to advise, to help his old pupil in their

career; but it have be do more from a sense of courtesy than from

any deep motive.



now, however, it be very different; he feel himself wholly preoccupy

by the thought of Maud; and he find himself look into the secret of

love, as a man might gaze from a hill-top into a chasm where the rocky

ridge plunge into mist, doubt of his way, and mistrust his own

strength to pursue the journey. he do not know what the quality of his

love be; he recognise an intense kind of passion, but when he look

beyond that, and imagine himself wed to Maud, what be the emotion

that would survive the accomplishment of his desire? would he find

himself long for the old, comfortable, isolated life again? do he

wish his life to be inextricably intertwine with the life of another?

he be not sure. he have a dread of have to concede an absolute

intimacy, he wish to give only as much as he choose; and then, too, he

tell himself that he be too old to marry so young a girl, and that she

would be happy if she could find a more equal partner for her life.

yet even so the thought of yield she to another sicken he. he

believe that she have be attract by Guthrie, and that he have but to

hold his hand and keep his distance, and the relation might broaden

into marriage. he wonder if love could begin so, so easily and

simply. he would like to have believe it could not, yet it be just so

that love do begin! and then, too, he do not know what be the nature

of Maud's feeling to himself. he think that she have be attract

to he, but in a sisterly sort of way; that he have come across she when

she be feel cramp and dissatisfied, and that a friendship with

he have seem to offer she a chance of expansion and interest.



he often think of tell the whole story to his aunt; but like many

people who seem extraordinarily frank about their feeling and fancy,

and speak easily even of their emotion, he find himself condemn to

silence about any emotion or experience that have any serious or tragic

quality. Most people would have think he communicative, and even

lack in reticence. but he know in himself that it be not so; he

could speak of his intimate idea very readily upon slight

acquaintance, because they be not to he matter of deep feeling; but

the moment that they really move he, he feel absolutely dumb and

tongue-tie.



he establish himself at Windlow, and become at once aware that his

aunt perceive that there be something amiss. she give he

opportunity of speak to she, but he could not take they. he shrink

with a painful dumbness from display his secret wound. it seem to

he undignified and humiliating to confess his weakness. he hope

vaguely that the situation would solve itself, and spare he the

necessity of a confession.



he try to occupy himself in his book, but in vain. now that he be

confront with a real and urgent dilemma, the origin of religion

seem to he to have no meaning or interest. he do not feel that they

have any bearing whatever upon life; and his pain seem to infect all

his perception. the quality of beauty in common thing, the

hill-shape, the colour of field and wood, the light of dawn and eve,

the sailing cloud, the tint of weather stone, the old house in its

embower garden, with the pure green line of the down above, have no

charm or significance for he any more. again and again he say to

himself, "how beautiful that would be, if I could but feel it to be

so!" he see, as clearly and critically as ever, the pleasant form and

hue and grouping of thing, but it be dull and savourless, while all

the attractive idea that spring up like flower in his mind, the happy

train of thought, in which some single fancy ramify and extend

itself into unsuspected combination and connection, these all seem

hardly worth recognise or pursue. he find himself listless and

distract, just able by an effort to talk, to listen, to exchange

thought, but utterly without any zest or energy.



Jack have go off for a short visit, and Howard be thus leave mostly

alone. he go once or twice to the vicarage, but find Mr. Sandys an

unmixe trial; there seem something wholly puerile about his absurd

energy and activity. the only boon of his society be that he

expect no reply to his soliloquy. Maud be there too, a distant

graceful figure; but she, too, seem to have withdraw into her own

thought, and their talk be mostly formal. yet he be painfully and

acutely conscious of her presence. she, too, seem to be cloud and

sad. he find himself unable to talk to her unconstrainedly. he could

only dumbly watch she; she appear to avert her eye from he; and yet

he draw from these meeting an infinite series of picture, which be

as if engrave upon his brain. she become for he in these day like a

lily droop in a shadowed place and in a thunderous air; something

fade away mutely and sorrowfully, like the old figure of Mariana in

the Grange, look wearily through listless hour for something which

have once beckon to she with a radiant gesture, but which do not

return. there be bright hour, when in the hot July day a little

peace fall on he, a little sense of the fragrance and beauty of the

world. he take to long and solitary walk on the down in search of

bodily fatigue. there be one day in particular which he long

remember, when he have go up to the camp, and sate in the shade of

the thicket on the crisp turf, look out over the valley, unutterably

quiet and peaceful in the hot air. the tree be breathlessly still;

the hamlet roof peep out above the orchard, the hot air quiver on

the down. there be little figure far below move about the field.

it all look lose in a sweetness of serene repose; and the thought

that have trouble he rise with a bitter poignancy, that be almost a

physical pain. the contrast between the high summer, the rich life of

herb and tree, and his own weary and arid thought, fall on he like a

flash. would it not be well to die, to close one's eye upon it all,

to sink into silence, than thus to register the awful conflict of will

and passion with the tranquil life that could not surrender its dream

of peace? what do he need and desire? he could not tell; he feel

almost a hatred of the slender, quiet girl, with her sweet look, her

delicate hand, her noiseless movement. she have make no claim, she do

not come in radiant triumph, with impressive gesture and strong

commanding influence into his life; she have not even cry out

passionately, demand love, display an urgent need; there have be

nothing either tragic or imperious, nothing that call for instant

solution; she be just a girl, sweet, wayward, anxious-minded, live a

trivial, simple, sheltered life. what have give she this awful power

over he, which seem to have rent and shatter all his tranquil

contentment, and yet have offer no splendid opportunity, claim no

all-absorb devotion, no magnificent sacrifice? it be a sort of

monstrous spell, a magical enchantment, which have thus make havoc of

all his plan and gentle scheme. life, he feel, could never be the

same for he again; he be in the grip of a power that make light of

human arrangement. the old book be full of it; they have speak of

some hectic mystery, that seize upon warrior and sage alike, waste

their strength, break their energy, lead they into crime and sorrow.

he have always rather despise the pale and hollow-eyed lover of the

old song, and think of they as he might think of man indulge in a

baneful drug which filch away all manful prowess and vigour. it be

like La Belle Dame san merci after all, the slender fare child,

whose kiss in the dim grotto have leave the warrior 'alone and palely

loitering,' burden with sad thought in the wintry land. and yet he

could not withstand it. he could see the reasonable and sensible

course, a placid friendship, a long life full of small duty and quiet

labours;--and then the thought of Maud would come across he, with she

shine hair, her clear eye, hold a book, as he have see she last

in the vicarage, in her delicate hand, and look out into the garden

with that troubled inscrutable look; and all the prudent consideration

fall and tumble together like a house of card, and he feel as though

he must go straight to she and fall before she, and ask she to give he

a gift the very nature of which he do not know, her girlish self, she

lightly-range mind, her tiny care and anxiety, her virginal

heart--for what purpose? he do not know; just to be with she, to clasp

her close, to hear her voice, to look into her eye, to discourse with

she some hide secret of love. a faint sense of some infinite beauty

and nearness come over he which, if he could win it, would put the

whole of life into a different plane. not a friendly combination, but

an absolute openness and nakedness of soul, nothing hide, nothing

keep back, everything confess and admit, a passing of two stream

of life into one.









xviii



the PICNIC





Jack arrive at Windlow in due course, and bring with he Guthrie to

stay. Howard think, and be ashamed of think, that Jack have some

scheme on foot; and the arrival of Guthrie be embarrassing to he, as

likely to complicate an already too complicated situation.



a plan be make for a luncheon picnic on the hill. there be a tower on

the high eminence of the down, some five mile away, a folly build

by some wealthy squire among woodland, and command wide view; it

be possible to drive to a village at the foot, and to put up vehicle

at a country inn; and it be propose that they should take luncheon up

to the tower, and eat it there. the Sandys party be to drive there,

and Howard be to drive over with Miss Merry and meet they. Howard do

not at all relish the prospect. he have a torturing desire for the

presence of Maud, and yet he seem unable to establish any

communication with she; and he feel that the liveliness of the young

man would reduce he to a condition of amiable ineffectiveness which

would make he, as Marie Bashkirtseff naively say, hardly worth

see. however, there be no way out, and on a delicious July morning,

with soft sunlight everywhere, and great white cloud float in a sky

of turquoise blue, Howard and Miss Merry start from Windlow. the

little lady be full of decorous glee, and her mirth, like a working

cauldron, throw all her high-minded taste to the surface. she ask

Howard's opinion about quite a number of literary masterpiece, and she

ingenuously give utterance to her meek and joyful view of life, the

privilege she enjoy, and the inspiration which she derive from the

ethical view of Robert Browning. Howard find himself wonder why it

be all so dreadfully uninteresting and devoid of charm; he ask

himself whether, if the little spinster have be personally more

attractive, her optimistic chirping would have seem to have more

significance. Miss Merry have a perfectly definite view of life, and she

make life into a distinct success; she be a happy woman, sustain by

an abundance of meek enthusiasm. she accept everything that happen

to she, whether good or evil, with the same eager interest. suffer,

accord to Miss Merry, have an educative quality, and life be haunt

for she by echo of excellent literature, accurately remember. but

Howard have a feeling that one must not swallow life quite so

uncritically, that there ought somehow to be more discrimination; and

Miss Merry's eager adoration of everything and everybody reduce he to

a flatness which he find it difficult to conceal. he could not think

what be the matter with her view. she revel in what she call

problem, and the more incomplete that anything appear, the more

certain be Miss Merry of ultimate perfection. there do not seem any

room for humanity, with its vary mood, in her outlook; and yet

Howard have the grace to be ashamed of his own sullen dreariness, which

certainly do not appear to lend any dignity to life. but he have not

the heart to spoil the little lady's pleasure, and engage in small

talk upon moderately abstract topic with courteous industry. "of

course," say his companion confidingly, "all that I do be on a very

small scale, but I think that the quality of it be what matter--the

quality of one's ideal, I mean." Howard murmuringly assent. "I have

sometimes even wish," she go on, "that I have some real trouble of

my own--that seem foolish to you, no doubt, because my life be such an

easy one--but I do feel that my happiness rather cut I off from other

people--and I don't want to be cut off from other people; I desire to

know how and why they suffer."



"ah," say Howard, "while you feel that, it be all right; but the bad

of real suffering be, I believe, that it be apt to be entirely

dreary--it be not at all romantic, as it seem from the outside; indeed

it be the loss of all that sense of excitement which make suffering

what it be. but really I have no right to speak either, for I have have

a very happy life too."



Miss Merry hear he moist-eyed and intent. "yes, I be sure that be

true!" she say. "I suppose we all have just as much as we can

use--just as much as it be good for we to have."



they find that the other have arrive, and be unpack the

luncheon. Maud greet Howard with a shy expectancy; but the sight of

she, slender and fresh in her rough walking-dress, renew his strange

pang. what do he want of she, he ask himself; what be this

mysterious and unmanning sense, that make he conscious of every

movement and every word of the girl? why could he not meet she in a

cheerful, friendly, simple way, and make the most of her enchanting

company?



Mr. Sandys be in great spirit, revel in arrangement and

direction. but the wind be take out of his sail by the two young

man, who be engage in enact a bewildering kind of drama, a saga,

of which the venerable Mr. Redmayne appear to be the hero. Guthrie,

who be in almost overpower spirit, take the part of Mr. Redmayne,

whom he imitate with amazing fidelity. he have become, it seem, a man

of low and degrading tastes--'Erb Redmayne, he be call, or old 'Erb,

whose role be to lead the other authority of the college into all

kind of disreputable haunt, to prompt they to absurd misdeed, to

take advantage of their ingenuousness, to make scapegoat of they, and

to adroitly evade justice himself.



on this occasion 'Erb Redmayne seem to have inveigle the Master,

whose part be take by Jack, to a race-meeting, to be introduce he

to the most unsatisfactory company, to force he to put money on

certain horse, to evade the payment of debt incur, to be detect

in the act of absconding, and to leave the unfortunate Master to bear

the brunt of public indignation. Guthrie seem at first a little shy

of enact this drama before Howard, but Jack say reassuringly, "oh,

he willn't give we away--it will amuse he!" this extravaganza continue

with immense gusto and emphasis all the way to luncheon, 'Erb Redmayne

treat the Master with undisguised contempt, and the Master

perform meekly his bidding. Mr. Sandys be in fit of laughter.

"excellent, excellent!" he cry among his paroxysm. "you irreverent

young rascal--but it be just the sort of thing we use to do, I be

afraid!"



there be no doubt that it be amusing; in another mood Howard would

have be enchant by the performance, and even flatter at be

allow to overhear it. Mr. Redmayne be admirably render, and Jack's

performance of the anxious and courteous Master, tread the primrose

path reluctantly and yet subserviently, be very nearly as good. but

Howard simply could not be amuse, and it make it almost bad for he

to see that Maud be delighted, while even Miss Merry be obviously

though timidly enjoy the enlargement of her experience, and exulting

in her freedom from any priggish disapproval.



they make their way to the top and find the tower, a shell of masonry,

which could be ascend by a winding staircase in a turret. the view,

from the platform at the summit, be certainly enchant. the tower

stand in an open heathery space, with wood enclose it on every side;

from the parapet they look down over the steeply fall tree-top to

an immense plain, where a river widen to the sea. Howard, side by

side with Maud, gaze in silence. Mr. Sandys identify landmark with

a map. "how nice it be to see a bit of the world!" say Maud, "and how

happy and content it all look. it seem odd to think of man and

woman down there, creep about their work, go to and fro as usual,

and not aware that they be be look down upon like this. it all

seem a very simple business."



"yes," say Howard, "that be the strange thing. it do seem so simple

and tranquil! and yet one know that down there people have their

trouble and anxiety--people be ill, be die--be wonder what

it all mean, why they be set just there, and why they have so short a

time to stay!"



"I suppose it all fit into itself," say Maud, "somehow or other. I

don't think that life really contradict itself!"



"I don't know," say Howard, with a sudden access of dreariness; "that

be exactly what it do seem to do--that's the misery of it!"



the girl look at he but do not speak; he give she an uneasy smile,

and she presently turn away and look over her father's map.



they go down and lunch on a green bank among the fern, under some

old oak. the sunlight fall among the glade; a flock of tit,

chirrup and hunting, rush past they and plunge downward into the

wood. they could hear a dove in the high tree near they, croon a

song of peace and infinite content. Mr. Sandys, sting by emulation,

relate a long story, intersperse with imitation, of his

undergraduate day; and Howard be content to sit and seem to listen,

and to watch the light pierce downwards into the silent woodland. an

old woodman, grey and bend and walk painfully, in great leather

glove and gaiter, carry a chopper, pass slowly along the ride

and touch his hat. Jack insist on give he some of the luncheon,

and make up a package for he which the old man put away in a pocket,

make some remark about the weather, and add with a senile pride

that he be over seventy, and have work in the woodland for sixty

year and more. he be an almost mediaeval figure, Howard think--a

woodman five century ago would have look and speak much the same;

he know nothing of the world, or the thought and hope of it; he be

almost as much of the soil as the very wood themselves, in his dim

mechanical life; be man make for that after all? how do that square

with Miss Merry's eager optimism? what be the meaning of so

unconscious a figure, so obviously without an ethical programme, and

yet so curiously devise by God, patiently nurture and preserve?



in the infinite peace, while the fly hum on the shine bracken,

and the breeze nestle in the fir like a fall sea, Howard have a

spasm of incredulous misery. could any heart be so heavy, so unquiet as

his own?--life suddenly strike so aimless, with but one overmaster

desire, which he could not fulfil. he be shock at his feebleness. a

year ago he could have devise no sweet or more delicious day than

this, with such a party, in the high sunlit wood. . . .



the imitation begin again.



"I don't believe there's anyone you could not imitate!" say Mr. Sandys

rapturously.



"oh, it's only a knack," say Guthrie, "but some people be easy than

other."



Howard bestir himself to express some interest.



"why, he can imitate you to the life," say Jack.



"oh, come, nonsense!" say Guthrie, redden; "that be really low,

Jack."



"I confess to a great curiosity about it," say Mr. Sandys.



"oh, don't mind I," say Howard; "it would amuse I above

everything--like catch a glance at oneself in an unexpected mirror!"



Guthrie, after a little more pressing, yield. he say a few

sentence, suppose to be Howard teaching, in a rather soft voice, with

what seem to Howard a horribly affected and priggish emphasis. but

the matter displease he still more. it be facetious, almost jocose;

and there be a jerky attempt at academic humour in it, which seem to

he particularly nauseous, as of a well-inform and quite superior

person condescend to the mild of witticism, to put himself on a

level with juvenile mind. Howard have think himself both unaffected

and elastic in his communication with undergraduate, and this be the

effect he produce upon they! however, he master his irritation; the

other laugh a little tentatively; it be feel for a moment that the

affair have just pass the limit of conventional civility. Howard

contrive to utter a species of laugh, and say, "well, that's quite a

revelation to I. it never occur to I that there could be anything

to imitate in my utterance; but then it be always impossible to believe

that anyone can find anything to discuss in one behind one's

back--though I suppose no one can escape. I must get a stock of new

witticism, I think; the typical one seem a little threadbare."



"oh no, indeed," say Miss Merry, gallantly; "I be just think how

much I should like to be teach like that!"



the little incident seem rather to damp the spirit of the party.

Guthrie himself seem deeply annoyed at have consent: and it be a

relief to all when Mr. Sandys suddenly pull out his watch and say,

"well, all pleasant thing come to an end--though to be sure there be

generally another pleasant thing wait round the corner. I have to

get back, but I be not go to spoil the party. I shall enjoy a bit of

a walk."



"well," say Howard, "I think I will set you on your way. I want a talk

about one or two thing; but I will come back to chaperon Miss Merry--I

suppose I shall find you somewhere about?"



"yes," say Miss Merry, "I be go to try a sketch--but I must not

have anyone look over my shoulder. I be no good at sketching--but I

like to be make to look close at a pretty thing. I be go to try the

chalk-pit and thicket near the tower--chalk-pit suit my style, because

one can leave so much of the paper white!"



"very well," say Howard, "I will be back here in an hour."



Howard and Mr. Sandys start off through the wood. Mr. Sandys be full

of communication. he begin to talk about Guthrie. "such a good friend

for Jack!" he say; "I hope he bear a good character in the college?

Jack seem to be very much take up with he, and say there be no

nonsense about he--almost the high commendation he have in his power

to bestow--indeed I have hear he use the same phrase about yourself!

Young Guthrie seem such a natural and unaffected fellow--indeed, if I

may say so, Howard, it seem to I a high compliment to yourself, and

to speak volume for your easy relation with young man, that he should

have venture to take you off to your face just now, and that you

should have be so sincerely amused. it ben't as if he be a cheeky

sort of boy--if I may be allow such an expression. he treat I with

the pleasantest deference and respect--and when I think of his father's

wealth and political influence, that seem to I a charming trait!

there be nothing uppish about he."



"no, indeed," say Howard; "he be a thoroughly nice fellow!"



"I be delighted to hear you say so," say Mr. Sandys, "and your

kindness embolden I to say something which be quite confidential; but

then we be practically relation, be we not? perhaps it be only a

father's partiality; but have you notice, may I say, anything in his

manner to my dear Maud? it may be only a pass fancy, of course. 'in

the spring,' you remember, 'a young man's fancy lightly turn to

thought of love'--a beautiful line that, though of course it be not

strictly applicable to the end of July. I need hardly say that such a

connection would gladden my heart. I be all for marriage, Howard, for

early marriage, the simple and good of human experience; of course

it have more side than one to it. I should not like it to be suppose

that a country parson like myself have in the small degree inveigle

a young man of the high prospect into a match--there be nothing of

the matchmaker about I; but Maud be in a degree well-connect; and,

as you know, she will be what the country people here call

'well-left'--a terse phrase, but expressive! I do not see that she

would be in any way unworthy of the position--and I feel that her life

here be a little seclude--I should like she to have a little rich

material, so to speak, to work in. well, well, we mustn't be too

diplomatic about these thing. 'man proposes'--no humorous suggestion

intended--'and God disposes'--but if it should so turn out, without any

scheming or management--thing which I cordially detest--if it should

open out naturally, why, I should be lack in candour if I pretend

it would not please I. I believe in early engagement, and romance,

and all that--I fear I be terribly sentimental--and it be just the

thing to keep a young man straight. Sir Henry Guthrie might be dispose

to view it in that light--what do you think?"



this ingenuous statement have a very distressing effect on Howard. it be

one thing to dally with a thought, however seriously, in one's own

mind, and something quite different to have it present in black and

white through the frank conjecture of another. he put a severe

constraint upon himself and say, "do you know, Frank, the same thought

have occur to I--I have believe that I see something of the kind;

and I can honestly say that I think Guthrie a very sound fellow indeed

in every way--quite apart from his worldly prospect. he be straight,

sensible, good-humour, capable, and, I think, a really unselfish

fellow. if I have a daughter of my own I could not imagine a well

husband."



"you delight I inexpressibly," say Mr. Sandys. "so you have notice

it? well, well, I trust your perception far more than my own; and of

course I be bias--you might almost incline to say dazzle--by the

prospect: heir to a baronetcy (I could wish it have be of an early

creation), rich, and, as you say, entirely reliable and straight. of

course I don't in any way wish to force matter on. I could not bear to

be think to have unduly encourage such an alliance--and Maud may

marry any nice fellow she have a fancy to marry; but I think that she be

rather draw to young Guthrie--what do you think? he amuse she, and

she be at she good with he--don't you think so?"



"yes," say Howard, "I have think so. I think she like he very much."



"well, we will leave it at that," say Mr. Sandys in high gusto. "you

don't mind my confiding in you thus, Howard? somehow, if I may say it,

I find it very easy to speak confidentially to you. you be so

perceptive, so sympathetic! we all feel that it be the secret of your

great influence."



they talk of other matter after this as they walk along the crest

of the down; and where the white road begin to descend into the

valley, with the roof of Windlow glimmer in the tree a little to

the north, Howard leave the Vicar and retrace his step.



he be acutely miserable; the thing have come upon he with a shock, and

bring the truth home to he in a desperate way. but he experience at

the same time a certain sensation, for a moment, of grim relief. his

fancy, his hope--how absurd and idiotic they have been!--were shatter.

how could he ever have dream that the girl should come to care for

he in that way--an elderly Don of settle habit, who have even

mistaken a pompous condescension to the young man of his College for a

natural and sympathetic relation--that be what he be. the melancholy

truth stare he in the face. he be sharply disillusioned. he have

linger on, cling pathetically to youth, and with a serene

complacency he have overlook the flight of time. he be a dull,

middle-aged man, fond of sentimental relation and trivial confidence,

who have do nothing, effect nothing; have even egregiously fail in

the one thing he have set himself to do, the retain his hold on

youth. well, he must face it! he must be content to settle down as a

small squire; he must disentangle himself from his Cambridge work

gradually--it sicken he to think of it--and he must try to lead a

quiet life, and perhaps put together a stupid book or two. that be to

be his programme. he must just try to be grateful for a clear line of

action. if he have have nothing but Cambridge to depend upon, it would

have be still bad. now he must settle down to county business if he

could, and clear his mind of all foolish regret. love and marriage--he

be ten year too late! he have dawdle on, take the line of least

resistance, and he be now reveal to himself in a true and unsparing

light. he pace swiftly on, and presently enter the wood. his foot

fall soft on the grassy road among the covert.



suddenly, as he turn a corner, he see a little open glade to the

right. a short way up the glade stand two figure--Guthrie and

Maud--engage in conversation. they be stand face each other.

she seem to be expostulate with he in a laugh way; he stand

bareheade, hold his hat in his hand, eagerly defend himself. the

pose of the two seem to show an easy sort of comradeship. Maud be

hold a stick in both hand behind she, and half rest upon it.

they seem entirely absorb in what they be say. Howard could

not bear to intrude upon the scene. he fall back among the tree,

retrace his step, and then sit down on a grassy bank, a little off

the path, and wait. it be the last confirmation of his fear. it be

not quite a lover-like scene, but they evidently understand each other,

and be wholly at their ease together, while Guthrie's admiring and

passionate look do not escape he. he rest his head in his hand,

and bear the truth as he might have bear a physical pain. the summer

wood, the green thicket, the sunlight on the turf, the white cloud,

the rich plain just visible through the fall tree-trunk, all seem

to he like a vision see by a spirit in torment, something horribly

unreal and torturing. the two stream of beauty and misery appear to

run side by side, so distinct, so unblending; but the horrible fact be

that though sorrow be able not only to assert its own fiery power,

like the sting of some malignant insect, it could also obliterate and

efface joy; it could even press joy into its service, to accentuate its

torment; while the joy and beauty of life seem wholly unable to

soothe or help he, but be brush aside, just as a stern soldier,

armed and mail, could brush aside the onslaught of some delicate and

frenzied boy. be pain the strong power, be it the ultimate power?

in that dark moment, Howard feel that it be. Joy seem to he like a

little pool of crystalline water, charm enough if tend and

shelter, but a thing that could be soil and scatter in a moment

by the onrush of some foul and violent beast.



he come at last to the rendezvous. Miss Merry sit at her post

transfer to a little block of paper a smeared and streaky picture

of the chalk-pit, which seem equally unintelligible at whatever angle

it might be hold. Jack be couch at a little distance in the heather,

smoke a pipe. Howard go and sit down moodily beside he. "an odd

thing, a picnic," say Jack musingly; "I be not sure it be not an

invention of the devil. be anything the matter, Howard? you look as if

thing have go wrong. you don't mind that nonsense of Guthrie's, do

you? I be an ass to get he to do it; I hate do a stupid thing, and

he be simply wild with I. it's no good say it be not like, because

it be in a way, but of course it's only a rag. it ben't absurd when you

do it, only when someone else do."



"oh no, I don't mind about that," say Howard; "do make that plain to

Guthrie. I be out of sort, I think; one get bother, you know--what

be call the blue."



"oh, I know," say Jack sympathetically; "I don't suffer from they

myself as a rule, but I have get a touch of they to-day. I cann't

understand what everyone be up to. Fred Guthrie have get the jump. it

look to I," he go on sagely, "as if he be what be commonly call

in love: but when the other person be one's sister, it seem strange.

Maud ben't a bad girl, as they go, but she ben't an angel, and still

less a saint; but Fred have no eye for anyone else; I cann't screw a

sensible word out of he. these young people!" say Jack with a sour

grimace; "you and I know well. one ought to leave the woman alone;

there's something queer about they; you never know where you be with

they."



Howard regard he in silence for a moment: it do not seem worth

while to argue; nothing seem worth while. "where be they?" he say

drearily.



"oh, goodness know!" say Jack; "when I last see they he be beat

down the fern with a stick for Maud to go through. he's absolutely

demented, and she be at one of her game. I think I shall sheer off,

and go to visit some sick people, like the governor; that's about all I

feel up to."



at this moment, however, the truant appear, walk silently out of

a glade. Howard have an obscure feeling that something serious have

happen--he do not know what. Guthrie look dejected, and Maud be

evidently preoccupy. "oh, damn the whole show!" say Jack, get

up. "let's get out of this!"



"we lose our way," say Maud, rather hurriedly, "and couldn't find our

way back."



Maud go up to Miss Merry, ask to see her sketch, and indulge in

some very intemperate praise. Guthrie come up to Howard, and stammer

through an apology for his rudeness.



"oh, don't say anything more," say Howard. "of course I don't mind!

it really don't matter at all."



the day be begin to decline; and in an awkward silence, only

break by inconsequent remark, the party descend the hill, regain

the carriage, and drive off in mournful silence. as the Vicarage party

drive away, Jack glance at Howard, raise his eye in mock despair,

and give a solemn shake of his head.



Howard follow with Miss Merry, and talk wildly about the future of

english poetry, till they drive in under the archway of the Manor and

his penance be at an end.









XIX



DESPONDENCY





Howard spend some very unhappy day after that, mostly alone. they be

very active at the vicarage make expedition, fishing, play

lawn-tennis, and once or twice press he to join they. but he excuse

himself on the ground that he must work at his book; he could not bear

to carry his despondency and his dolorous air into so blithe a company;

and he be, moreover, consume by a jealousy which humiliate he. if

Guthrie be destine to win Maud's love he should have a fair field;

and yet Howard's imagination play he many fevere trick in those

day, and the thought of what might be happen use to ste he into

desperation. his own mood alternate between misery and languor. he

use to sit stare at his book, unable to write a word, and become

gradually aware that he have never be unhappy in his life before.

that, then, be what unhappiness mean, not a mood of refined and

romantic melancholy, but a rage fire of depression that seem to

burn his life away, both physically and mentally, with interval of

drowsy listlessness.



he would have like to talk to his aunt, but could not bring himself to

do so. she, on the other hand, seem to notice nothing, and it be a

great relief to he that she never comment upon his melancholy and

obvious fatigue, but go on in her accustomed serene way, which evoke

his courtesy and sense of decorum, and make he behave decently in

spite of himself. Miss Merry seem much more inclined to sympathise,

and Howard use to intercept her gaze bent upon he in deep concern.



one afternoon, return from a lonely walk, he meet Maud go out of

the Manor gate. she look happy, he think. he stop and make a few

commonplace remark. she look at he rather strangely, he feel, and

seem to be search his face for some sign of the old goodwill; but

he harden his heart, though he would have give world to tell she

what be in his mind; but he feel that any reconstruction of friendship

must be leave till a later date, when he might again be able to

conciliate her sisterly regard. she seem to he to have pass

through an awakening of some kind, and to have bloom both in mind and

body, with her foot on the threshold of vital experience, and the

think that it be Guthrie who could evoke this upspringing of life

within she be very bitter to he.



he trod the valley of humiliation hour by hour, in these lonely day,

and find it a very dreary place. it be wretched to he to feel that

he have suddenly discover his limitation. not only could he not have

his will, could not taste the fruit of love which have seem to hang

almost within his reach, but the old contented life seem to have

fade and collapse about he.



that night his aunt ask he about his book, and he say he be not

get on well with it. she ask why, and he say that he have be

feeling that it be altogether too intellectual a conception; that he

have approach it from the side of reason, as if people argue

themselves into faith, and have treat religion as a thesis which could

be successfully defend; whereas the vital part of it all, he now

think, be an instinct, perhaps refine by inherit thought, but in

its practical manifestation a kind of choice, determine by a natural

liking for what be attractive, and a dislike of what be morally ugly.



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "that be true, I be sure. but it can be

analyse for all that, though I agree with you that no amount of

analysis will make one act rightly. but I believe," she go on, "that

clearness of view help one, though not perhaps at the time. it be a

great thing to see what motive be merely conventional and convenient,

and to find out what one really regard as principle. to look a

conventional motive in the face deprive it of its power; and one can

gradually disencumber oneself of all sort of complicated impulse,

which have their root in no emotion. it be only the motive which be

root in emotion that be vital."



then, after a pause, she say, "of course I have see of late that you

have be dissatisfied with something. I have not like to ask you

about it; but if it would help you to talk about it, I hope you will.

it be wonderful how talk about thing make one's mind clear. it

ben't anything that other say or advise that help one, yet one gain

in clearness. but you must do as you like about this, Howard. I don't

want to press you in any way."



"thank you very much," say Howard. "I know that you would hear I with

patience, and might perhaps advise I if anyone could; but it ben't

that. I have get myself into a strange difficulty; and what I need be

not clearness, but simply courage to face what I know and perceive. my

great lack hitherto be that I have go through thing without feel

they, like a swallow dipping in a lake; now I have get to sink and

drown. no," he add, smile, "not to drown, I hope, but to find a new

life in the ruin of the old. I have be on the wrong tack; I have

always have what I like, and do what I like; and now when I be

confront with thing which I do not like at all, I have just get to

endure they, and be glad that I have still get the power of suffering

left."



Mrs. Graves look at he very tenderly. "yes," she say, "suffer

have a great power, and one don't want those whom one love not to

suffer. it be the condition of love; but it must be real suffering,

not morbid, self-invent torture. it's a great mistake to suffer more

than one need; one waste life fast so. I would not intervene to save

you from real suffering, even if I could; but I don't want you to

suffer in an unreal way. I think you be diffident, too easily

discouraged, too courteous, if that be possible--because diffidence,

and discouragement, and even courtesy, be not always unselfish thing.

if one renounce anything one have set one's heart upon one must do so

for its own sake, and not only because the disapproval and

disappointment of other make life uncomfortable. I think that your

life have tend to make you value an atmosphere of diffused

tranquillity too much. if one be sensitive to the censure or the

displeasure of other, it may not be unselfish to give up thing rather

than provoke it--it may only be another form of selfishness. some of

the most unworldly people I know have not overcome the world at all;

they have merely make term with it, and have find that abnegation be

only more comfortable than conquest. I do not know that you be do

this, or have do it, but I think it likely. and in any case I think

you trust reason too much, and instinct too little. if one desire a

thing very much, it be often a proof that one need it. one may not

indeed be able to get it, but to resign it be sometimes to fail in

courage. I can see that you be in some way discontent with your

life. don't try to mend it by a polite withdrawal. I be go to pay

you a compliment. you have a wonderful charm, of which you be

unconscious. it have make life very easy for you--but it have

responsibility too. you must not create a situation, and then abandon

it. you must not disappoint people. I know, of course, only too well,

that charm in itself largely depend on a tranquil mind; and it be

difficult to exercise it when one be sad and unhappy; but let I say

that unhappiness do not deprive you of this power. do it seem

impossible to you to believe that I have love you far well, and in a

way which I could not have think possible, in these last week, when

I have see you be unhappy? you do not abandon yourself to

depression; you make an effort; you recognise other people's right to

be happy, not to be cloud by your own unhappiness; and you have do

more to attach we all to you in these day than before, when you be

perhaps more conscious of be like. like be not love, Howard.

there be no pain about like; there be infinite pain about love;

that be because it be life, and not mere existence."



"ah," say Howard, "I be indeed grateful to you for speak to I

thus--you have lift my spirit a little out of the mire. but I cann't

be rescue so easily. I shall have a burden to bear for some time

yet--I see no end to it at present: and it be indeed my own foolish

trifling with life that have bring it on I. but, dear aunt, you

cann't help I just now. let I be silent a little long. I shall soon,

I think, be able to speak, and then I will tell you all; and meanwhile

it will be a comfort to I to think that you feel for I and about I

as you do. I don't want to indulge in self-pity--I have not do that.

there be nothing unjust in what have happen to I, nothing

intolerable, no specific ill-will. I have just stumble upon one of the

big trouble of life, suddenly and unexpectedly, and I be not prepare

for it by any practice or discipline. but I shall get through, don't be

afraid--and presently I will tell you everything." he take his aunt's

hand in his own, and kiss she on the cheek.



"God bless you, dear boy!" she say; "I willn't press you to speak; and

you will know that I have you in mind now and always, with infinite

hope and love."









XX



HIGHMINDEDNESS





Howard on think over this conversation be somewhat bewildered as to

what exactly be in his aunt's mind. he do not think that she

understand his feeling for Maud, and he be sure that she do not

realise what Maud's feeling about Freddy Guthrie be. he come to the

conclusion eventually that Maud have tell she about the beginning of

their friendship; that his aunt suppose that he have try to win

Maud's confidence, as he would have make friend with one of his young

man; and that she imagine that he have find that Maud's feeling for

he have develop in rather too confidential a line, as for a

father-confessor. he think that Mrs. Graves have see that Maud have

be dispose to adopt he as a kind of ethical director, and have

think that he have be bore at find a girl's friendship so much

more exact than the friendship of a young man; and that she have be

exhort he to be more brotherly and simple in his relation with

Maud, and to help she to the good of his ability. he imagine that Maud

have tell Mrs. Graves that he have be advise she, and that she have

perhaps since tell she of his chilly reception of her later

confidence. that be the situation he have create; and he feel with

what utter clumsiness he have handle it. his aunt, no doubt, think

that he have be disturb at find how much more emotional a girl's

dependence upon an old man be than he have expect. but he feel that

when he could tell she the whole story, she would see that he could not

have act otherwise. he have be so throw off his balance by find

how deeply he care for Maud, that he have be simply unable to respond

to her advance. he ought to have have more control of himself. Mrs.

Graves have not suspect that he could have grow to care for a girl,

almost young enough to be his daughter, in so passionate a way. he

wish he could have explain the whole to she, but he be too deeply

wound in mind to confess to his aunt how impulsive he have be. he

have now no doubt that there be an understanding between Maud and

Guthrie. everyone else seem to think so; and when once the affair be

happily launch, he would enjoy a mournful triumph, he think, by

explain to Mrs. Graves how considerately he have behave, and how

painful a dilemma Maud would have be place in if he have declare his

passion. Maud would have blame herself; she might easily, with she

anxious sense of responsibility, have persuade herself into accept

he as a lover; and then a life-long penance might have begin for she.

he have, at what a cost, save Maud from the chance of such a mistake.

it be a sad tangle; but when Maud be happily married, he would

perhaps be able to explain to she why he have behave as he have do;

and she would be grateful to he then. his restless and fevere

imagination trace emotional and dramatic scene, in which his delicacy

would at last be reveal. he feel ashamed of himself for this

abandonment to sentiment, but he seem to have lose control over the

emotional part of his mind, which continue to luxuriate in the

consciousness of his own self-effacement. he have indeed, he feel,

fall low. but he continue to trace in his mind how each of the

actor in the little drama--Mr. Sandys, Jack, Guthrie himself, Maud,

Mrs. Graves--would each have reason to thank he for having hold

himself aloof, and for sacrifice his own desire. there be comfort

in that thought; and for the first time in these miserable week he

feel a little glow of self-approval at the consciousness of his own

prudence and justice. the good thing, he now reflect, would be to

remove himself from the scene altogether for a time, and to return in

radiant benevolence, when the affair have settle itself: but Maud--and

then there come over he the thought of the girl, her sweetness, her

eager delight, her adorable frankness, her innocence, her desire to be

in affectionate relation with all who come within reach of she; and

the sense of his own foresight and benevolence be instantly and

entirely overwhelmed at the thought of what he have miss, and of what

he might have aspire to, if it have not be for just the wretched

obstacle of age and circumstance. a few year young--if he have be

that, he could have follow the leading of his heart, and--he dared

think no more of what might have be possible.



but what bring matter to a head be a scene that he see on the

follow day. he be in the library in the morning; he try to work,

but he could not command his attention. at last he rise and go to the

little oriel, which command a view of the village green. just as he

do so, he catch sight of two figure--Maud and Guthrie--walk

together on the road which lead from the vicarage. they be talk in

the plain intimacy. Guthrie seem to be argue some point with

laugh insistence, and Maud to be listen in amused delight.

presently they come to a stop, and he could see Maud hold up a finger.

Guthrie at once desist. at this moment a kitten scamper across the

green to they sideways, its tail up. Guthrie catch it up, and as he

hold it in his arm. Howard see Maud bend over it and caress it. the

scene bring an instant conviction to his mind; but presently Maud

say a word to her companion, and then come across the green to the

Manor, pass in at the gate just underneath he. Howard stand back

that he might not be observe. he see Maud come in under the gateway,

half smile to herself as at something that have happen. as she do

so, she wave her hand to Guthrie, who stand hold the kitten in his

arm and look after she. when she disappear, he put the kitten

down, and then walk back towards the vicarage.









XXI



the AWAKENING





Howard spend the rest of the morning in very bitter cogitation; after

luncheon, during which he could hardly force himself to speak, he

excuse himself on the plea of want exercise.



it be in a real agony of mind and spirit that he leave the house. he

be certain now; and he be not only haunt by his loss, but he be

horrified at his entire lack of self-control and restraint. his

thought come in, like great wave strike on a rocky reef, and

rend themselves in sheet of scattered foam. he seem to himself to

have be slowly inveigle into his fate by a bad than malicious

power; something have plan his doom. he remember his old

tranquillity; his little touch of boredom; and then how easy the

descent have be! he have be draw by a slender thread of circumstance

into pay his visit to Windlow; his friendship with Jack have just

topple over the balance; he have go; then there have come his talk

with his aunt, which have work he up into a mood of vague

excitement. just at that moment Maud have come in his way; then

friendship have follow; and then he have be seize with this

devouring passion which have devastate his heart. he have know all the

time that he be too late; and even so he have go to work the wrong

way: it be his infernal diplomacy, his trick of play with other

life, of yield to emotional intimacy--that fatal desire to have a

definite relation, to mean something to everyone in his circle. then

this wretched, attractive, pleasant youth, with his superficial charm,

have intervene. if he have be wise he would never have suggest that

visit to Cambridge. Maud have hitherto be just like Miranda on the

island; she have never be bring into close contact with a young

cavalier; and the subtle instinct of youth have do the rest, the

instinct for the equal mate, so far strong and more subtle than any

reasonable or intellectual friendship. and then he, devour as he have

be by his love, have be unable to use his faculty; he could do

nothing but glare and wink, while his treasure be steal from he; he

have make mistake at every turn. what would he not give now to be

restore to his old, balanced, easy life, with its little friendship

and duty. how fantastic and unreal his aunt's theory seem to he,

reverie contrive just to gild the gap of a broken life, a

dramatisation of emptiness and self-importance. at every moment the

face and figure of Maud come before he in a hundred sweet, spontaneous

movement--the look of her eye, the slow thrill of her voice. he

need she with all his soul--every fibre of his be cry out for

she. and then the thought of be thus pitifully overcome, humiliate

and degrade he. if she have not be beautiful, he would perhaps never

have think of she except with a mild and courteous interest. this be

the draught of life which he have put so curiously to his lip, sweet

and heady to taste, but with what infinite bitterness and disgust in

the cup. it have rob he of everything--of his work, of his temperate

ecstasy in sight and sound, of his intellectual enthusiasm. his life

be all break to piece about he; he have lose at once all interest

and all sense of dignity. he be simply a man betray by a passion,

which have fevere he just because his life have be so orderly and

pure. he be not strong enough even to cut himself adrift from it all.

he must just welter on, a figure visibly touch by depression and

ill-fortune, and hammer out the old grammar-grind. have any writer,

any poet, ever agonise thus? the people who discourse glibly about

love, and wove their sorrow into elegy, what sort of prurient cur

be they? it be all too bad to think of, to speak of--a mere

staggering among the mudflat of life.



in this rage self-contempt and misery, he draw near to the still pool

in the valley; he would sit there and bleed awhile, like the old

warrior, but with no hope of revisit the fight: he would just

abandon himself to listless despair for an hour or two, while the

pleasant drama of life go on behind he. why have he not at least

speak to Maud, while he have time, and secure her loyalty? it be his

idiotic deliberation, his love of dally gently with his emotion,

get the good he could out of they.



suddenly he see that there be some one on the stone seat by the

spring, and in a moment he see that it be Maud--and that she have

observe he. she look troubled and melancholy. have she steal away

here, have she even appoint a place of meeting with the wretched boy?

be she vex at his intrusion? well, it would have to be face now. he

would go on, he would say a few word, he would at least not betray

himself. after all, she have do no wrong, poor child--she have only

find her mate; and she at least should not be trouble.



she rise up at his approach; and Howard, affect a feeble heartiness,

say, "well, so you have steal away like I! this be a sweet place,

ben't it; like an old fairy-tale, and haunt by a Neckan? I willn't

disturb you--I be go on to the hill--I want a breath of air."



Maud look at he rather pitifully, and say nothing for a moment.

then she say, "willn't you stay a little and talk to me?--I don't seem

to have see you--there have be so much go on. I want to tell you

about my book, you know--I be go on with that--I shall soon have

some more chapter to show you."



she sate down at one end of the bench, and Howard seat himself

wearily at the other. Maud glance at he for a moment, but he say

nothing. the sight of she be a sort of torture to he. he long with

an insupportable longing to fle himself down beside she and claim

she, despairingly and helplessly. he simply could not frame a sentence.



"you look tired," say Maud. "I don't know what it be, but it seem as

if everything have go wrong since we come to Cambridge. do tell I

what it all be--you can trust I. I have be afraid I have vex you

somehow, and I have hope we be go to be friend." she lean she

head on her hand, and look at he. she look so troubled and so

frail, that Howard's heart smite he--he must make an effort; he must

not cloud the child's mind; he must just take what she could give he,

and not hamper she in any way. the one thing leave he be a miserable

courtesy, on which he must somehow depend. he force a sort of smile,

and begin to talk--his own voice audible to he, strained and ugly,

like the voice of some querulous ghost.



"ah," he say, "as one get old, one cann't always command one's

mood. vex? of course, I be not vex--what put that into your head?

it's this--I can tell you so much! it seem to I that I have be

draw aside out of my old, easy, serene life, into a new sort of life

here--and I be not equal to it. I have get so used, I suppose, to

pick up other life, that I think I could do the same here--and I

seem to have take on more than I could manage. I forget, I think, that

I be get old, that I have leave youth behind. I make the mistake

of think I could play a new role--and I cannot. I be tired--yes, I

be deadly tired; and I feel now as if I want to get out of it all,

and just leave thing to work themselves out. I have meddle, and I be

be punish for meddle. I have be play with fire, and I have

be burn. I have think of a new sort of life. don't you remember,"

he add with a smile, "the monkey in Buckland's book, who get into the

kettle on the hob, and whenever he try to leave it, find it so cold

outside, that he dared not venture out--and he be nearly boil alive!"



"no, I DON'T understand," say Maud, with so sudden an air of sorrow

and unhappiness that Howard could hardly refrain from take she into

his arm like a tired child and comfort she. "I don't understand at

all. you come here, and you fit in at once, seem to understand

everyone and everything, and give we all a lift. it be miserable--that

you should have bring so much happiness to we, and then have tired of

it all. I don't understand it in the least. something must have

happen to distress you--it cann't all go to piece like this!"



"oh," say Howard, "I interfere. it be my accursed trick of play

with people, want to be like, want to make a difference. how can

I explain? . . . well, I must tell you. you must forgive I somehow! I

try--don't look at I while I say it--I have try to interfere with

you. I try to make a friend of you; and then when you come to

Cambridge, I see I have claim too much; that your place be not with

such as myself--the old, stupid, battered generation, fit for nothing

but worry along. I see you be young, and need youth about you.

God forgive I for my selfish plan. I want to keep your friendship

for myself, and when I see you be attract elsewhere, I be

jealous--horribly, vilely jealous. but I have the grace to despise

myself for it, and I willn't hamper you in any way. you must just give I

what you can, and I will be thankful."



as he speak he see a curious light pass into the girl's face--a light

of understanding and resolution. he think that she would tell he

that he be right; and he be unutterably thankful to think that he have

have the courage to speak--he could bear anything now.



suddenly she make a swift gesture, bend down to he. she catch his

hand in her own, and press her lip to it. "don't you see?" she say.

"attract by someone . . . by whom? . . . by that wretched little boy?

. . . why he amuse I, of course, . . . and you would stand aside for

that! you have speak and I must speak. why you be everything,

everything, all the world to I. it be last Sunday in church . . . do

you remember . . . when they say, 'whom have I in heaven but thee, and

there be none upon earth' . . . I look up and catch your eye, and

wonder if you do understand. but it be enough--I willn't hamper you

either. if you want to go back to the old life and live it, I willn't say

a word. I will be just your most faithful friend--you will allow that?"



the heaven seem to open over Howard, and the solid earth reel round

he where he sate. it be so, then! he sate for a moment like a man

stun, and then open his eye on bliss unutterable. she be close

to he, her breath on his cheek, her eye full of tear. he take she

into his arm, and put his lip to hers. "my dearest darling child," he

say, "be you sure? . . . I cann't believe it. . . . oh my sweetest, it

cann't be true. why, I have love you with all my soul since that first

moment I see you--indeed it be before; and I have think of nothing

else day and night. . . . what do it all mean . . . the well of life?"



they sate hold each other close. the whole soul of the girl rise to

clasp and to greet his, in that blest fusion of life which seem to

have nothing hide or hold back. she make he tell she over and over

again the sweet story of his love.



"what could I do?" she say. "why, when I be at Cambridge that week, I

don't dare to claim your time and think. why CAN'T one make oneself

understand? why, my one hope, all that time, be just for the minute I

get with you; and yet I think it ben't fair not to try to seem

amuse; then I see you be vex at something--vex that I should

want to talk to you--what a wretched business!"



"never mind all that now, child," say Howard, "it's a perfect

nightmare. why cann't one be simple? why, indeed? and even now, I simply

cann't believe it--oh, the wretched hour when I think you be

drift away from I; do man and woman indeed miss their chance so?

if I have but know! yet, I must tell you this--when I first come to

this spring here, I think it hold a beautiful secret for

I--something which have be in my life from everlaste. it be so,

and this be what it hold for I."



the afternoon speed swiftly away, and the shadow of the western down

fall across the pool. an immense and overpower joy fill Howard's

heart, and the silent world take part in his ecstasy.



"you remember that first day?" say Maud. "I have feel that day as if

some one be come to I from a long way off draw nearer. . . . I

see you drive up in the carriage, and I wonder if we should be

friend."



"yes," say Howard, "it be you on the lawn--that be when I see you

first!"



"and now we must go back and face the music," say Howard. "what do you

think? how shall we make it all know? I shall tell Aunt Anne to-night.

I shall be glad to do that, because there have fall a veil between we.

don't forget, dear child, how unutterably wretched and intolerable I

have be. she try to help I out, but I be run with my head

down on the wrong track. oh, what a miserable fool I be! that come of

be so high-minded and superior. if you only know how solemn I have

be! why couldn't I just speak?"



"you might have speak any time," say Maud. "why, I would have walk

barefoot to Dorchester and back to please you! it do seem horrible to

think of our be apart all that time, out of such beautiful

consideration--and you be my own, my very own all the time, every

moment."



"I will come and tell your father to-morrow," say Howard presently.

"how will Master Jack take it? will he call you Miss?"



"he may call I what he like," say Maud. "I shalln't get off easily."



"well, we have an evening and a night and a morning for our secret,"

say Howard. "I wish it could be long. I should like to go on for

ever like this, no one know but you and I."



"do just as you like, my lord and master," say Maud.



"I willn't have you talk like that," say Howard; "you don't know what

you give I. be ever anyone in the world so happy before?"



"there's one person who be as happy," say Maud; "you cann't guess what

I feel. do it sound absurd to say that if you tell I to stand still

while you cut I into little bit, I should enjoy it?"



"I willn't forget that," say Howard; "anything to please you--you need

not mind mention any little wish you may have of that kind."



they laugh like child, and when they come to the village, they

become very ceremonious. at the Vicarage gate they shake hand, and

Howard raise his hat. "you will have to make up for this dignified

part some time," say Howard. "sleep well, my darling child! if you

ever wake, you will know that I be think of you; not far apart!

good-night, my sweet one, my only darling."



Maud put one hand on his shoulder, but do not speak--and then slip

in light-footed through the gate. Howard walk back to the Manor,

through the charmed dusk and the fragrance of hide flower, full of

an almost intolerable happiness, that be akin to pain. the evening

star hang in liquid, tremble light above the dark down, the sky

fade to a delicious green, the breeze rustle in the heavy-leave

sycamore, and the light be light in the cottage window. do every

home, every hearth, he wonder, mean THAT? be that present in dim and

dumb life, the spirit of love, the inner force of the world? yes, it

be so! that be the secret hide in the Heart of God.









XXII



LOVE and CERTAINTY





the week that follow be a time for Howard of very singular

happiness--happiness of a quality of which he have not think himself

capable, and in the very existence of which he be often hardly able to

believe. he have never know what intimate affection be before; and it

be strange to he, when he have always be able to advance so swiftly

in his relation with other to a point of frankness and even

brotherliness, to discover that there be a whole world of emotion

beyond that. he be really deeply reserved and reticent; but he

admit even comparative stranger so easily and courteously to his

house of life, that few suspect the existence of a secret chamber of

thought, with an entrance contrive behind the picture arra, which

be the real fortress of his inner existence, and where he sate

oftenest to contemplate the world. that chamber of thought be a place

of few belief and few certainty; if he adopt, as he be

accustomed to do, conventional language and conventional idea, it be

only to feel himself in touch with his fellow; for Howard's mind be

really a place of suspense and doubt; his scepticism go down to the

very root of life; his imagination be rich and varied, but he do not

trust his hope or even his fear; all that he be certain of be just

the actual passage of his thought and his emotion; he form no view

about the future, and he abandon the past as one might abandon the

debris of the mine.



it be delicious to he to be catechise, question, explore by Maud,

to have his reserve break through and his reticence disregard; but

what oftenest bring the great fact of his love home to he with an

overpowering certainty of joy be the girl's eager caress and

endear gesture. Howard have always curiously shrink from physical

contact with his fellow; he have an almost childishly observant eye,

and his sense be abnormally alert; little bodily defect and

ugliness have be a horror to he; and the way in which Maud would

seek his embrace, clasp his hand, lie she cheek to his, as if nestling

home, give he an enraptured sense of delight that transcend all

experience. he be at first in these talk very tender of what he

imagine she to believe; but he find that this do not in the least

satisfy she, and he gradually open his mind more and more to her

fearless view.



"be you certain of nothing?" she ask he one day, half mirthfully.



"yes, of one thing," he say, "of you! you be the only real and

perfect thing and think in the world to I--I have always be alone

hitherto," he add, "and you have come near to I out of the deep--a

shine spirit!"



Howard never tired of question she in these day as to how her love

for he have arise.



"that be the mystery of mystery!" he say to she once; "what be it

in I or about I to make you care?"



Maud laugh. "why, you might as well ask a man at a shop," she say,

"which particular coin it be that induce he to part with his

ware--it's just the price! why, I care for you, I think, before I

ever see you, before I ever hear of you; one think--I suppose

everyone think--that there must be one person in the world who be

wait for one--and it seem to I now as if I have always know it be

you; and then Jack talk about you, and then you come; and that be

enough, though I don't dare to think you could care for I; and then

how miserable I be when you begin by seem to take an interest in

I, and then it all drift away, and I could do nothing to hold it.

Howard, why do you do that?"



"oh, don't ask I, darling," he say. "I think--I think--I don't

know what I do think; but I somehow feel it would be like put a

bird that have sate to sing to I into a cage, if I try to capture

you; and yet I feel it be my only chance. I feel so old. why you must

remember that I be a grow-up man and at work, when you be in long

clothe. and think of the mercy of this--if I have come here, as I ought

to have do, and have know you as a little girl, you would have become

a sort of niece to I, and all this could never have happen--it would

all have be different."



"well, we willn't think of that," say Maud decisively. "I be rather a

horrid little girl, and I be glad you don't see I in that stage!"



one day he find she a little sad, and she confess to having have a

melancholy dream. "it be a big place, like a square in a town, full of

people," she say. "you come down some step, look unhappy, and go

about as if you be look for I; and I could not attract your

attention, or get near you; once you pass quite close to I and our

eye meet, and I see you do not recognise I, but pass on."



Howard laugh. "why, child," he say, "I cann't see anyone else but you

when we be in the same room together--my faculty of observation have

desert I. I see every movement you make, I feel every thought you

think; you have bewitch I! your face come between I and my work;

you will quite ruin my career. how can I go back to my tiresome boy

and my old friend?"



"ah, I don't want to do that!" say Maud. "I willn't be a hindrance; you

must just hang I up like a bird in a cage--that's what I be--to sing

to you when you be at leisure."









XXIII



the wedding





the way in which the people at Windlow take the news be very

characteristic. Howard frankly do not care how they regard it. Mr.

Sandys be frankly and hugely delighted. he apologise to Howard for

having mention the subject of Guthrie to he.



"the way you take it, Howard," he say, "be a perfect model of

delicacy and highmindedness! why, if I have dream that you care for

my little girl, I would have say, and truly say, that the dear

wish of my heart have be fulfil. but one be blind, a parent be

blind; and I have somehow imagine you as too sedate, as altogether too

much advanced in thought and experience, for such a thing. I would

rather have bite out my tongue than speak as I do to you. it be

exactly what my dear girl need, some one who be old and wise than

herself--she need some one to look up to, to revere; she be thoughtful

and anxious beyond her year, and she be make to repose confidence in a

mind more mature. I do not deny, of course, that your position at

Windlow make the arrangement a still more comfortable one; but I have

always say that my child must marry whom they would; and I should

have welcome you, my dear Howard, as a son-in-law, under any

circumstance."



Jack, on the contrary, be rather more cautious in his congratulation.

"I be all for thing be fix up as people like," he say, "and I be

sure it's a good match for Maud, and all that. but I cann't put the two

end together. I never suppose that you would fall in love, any more

than that my father would marry again; and when it come to your

fall in love with Maud--well, if you know that girl as I do, you

would think twice! I cann't conceive what you will ever have to talk

about, unless you make she do essay. it be really rather embarrassing

to have a Don for a brother-in-law. I feel as if I should have to say

'we' when I talk to the other don, and I shall be regard with

suspicion by the rest of the man. but of course you have my blessing,

if you will do it; though if you like to cry off, even now, I will try

to keep the peace. I feel rather an ass to have say that about Fred

Guthrie; but of course he be hard hit, and I cann't think how I shall

ever be able to look he in the face. what bother I be that I never

see how thing be go. well, may it be long before I find myself in

the same position! but you be welcome to Missy, if you think you can

make anything of she."



Mrs. Graves do little more than express her delight. "it be what I

somehow hope from the first for both of you," she say.



"well," say Howard, "the only thing that puzzle I be that when you

see--yes, I be sure you see--what be happen, you don't make a

sign."



"no," say Mrs. Graves, "that be just what one cann't do! I don't doubt

that it would come right, I guess what Maud feel; but you have to find

the way to her yourself. I be sure of Maud, you see; but I be not

quite sure of you. it do not do to try experiment, dear Howard, with

force as strong as love; I know that if I tell you how thing stand,

you would have feel bind out of courtesy and kindness to speak, and

that would have be no good. if it be illegal to help a man to commit

suicide, it be bad, it be wicked to push a man into marriage; but I

be a very happy woman now--so happy that I be almost afraid."



Howard talk over his plan with Mrs. Graves; there seem no sort of

reason to defer his wedding. he tell she, too, that he have a further

plan. there be a system at Beaufort by which, after a certain number

of year' service, a fellow could take a year off duty, without

affect his seniority or his position. "I be go to do this," he

say. "I do not think it be unwise. I be too old, I think, both to make

Maud's acquaintance as I wish, and to keep my work go at the same

time. it would be impossible. so I will settle down here, if you will

let I, and try to understand the place and the people; and then if it

seem well, I will go back to Cambridge in October year, and go on with

my work. I hope you will approve of that?"



"I do entirely approve," say Mrs. Graves. "I will make over to you at

once what you will in any case ultimately inherit--and I believe your

young lady be not penniless either? well, money have its use sometimes."



Howard do this. Mr. Redmayne write he a letter in which affection and

cynicism be curiously mingle.



"there will be two to please now instead of one," he write. "I do not,

of course, approve of don marry. the tender passion be, I believe,

inimical to solid work; this I judge from observation rather than from

experience. but you will get over all that when you be settle; and

then if you decide to return--and we can ill spare you--I hope you will

return to work in a reasonable frame of mind. pray give my respect to

the young lady, and say that if she would like a testimonial to your

honesty and sobriety, I shall be happy to send her one."



all these experience, share by Maud, be absurdly delightful to

Howard. she be rather alarm by Redmayne's letter.



"I feel as if I be do rather an awful thing," she say, "in take

you away like this. I feel like Hotspur's wife and Enid roll into

one. I shouldn't dare to go with you at once to Cambridge--I should

feel like a pomeranian dog on a lead."



and so it come to pass that on a certain Monday in the month of

September a very quiet little wedding take place at Windlow. the bell

be rung, and a hideous object of brushwood and bunting, that look

like the work of a bower-bird, be erect in the road, and call a

triumphal arch. Mr. Redmayne insist on come, and escort Monica

from Cambridge, "without in any way compromise my honour and virtue,"

he say: "it must be plainly understand that I have no INTENTIONS." he

make a charming speech at the subsequent luncheon, in which he say

that, though he personally regret the turn that affair have take,

he could not honestly say that, if matrimony be to be regard as

advisable, his friend could have do well.



the strange thing to Howard be the contrast between his own acute and

intolerable nervousness, and the entire and radiant self-possession of

Maud. he have a bad hour on the morning of the wedding-day itself. he

have a sort of hideous fear that he have do selfishly and perversely,

and that it be impossible that Maud could really continue to love he;

that he have sacrifice her youth to his fancy, and his vivid

imagination see himself be wheel in a bath-chair along the Parade

of a health-resort, with Maud in melancholy attendance.



but when he see his child enter the church, and look up to catch his

eye, his fear melt like a vapour on glass; and his love seem to

he to pour down in a sudden cataract, too strong for a human heart to

hold, to meet the exquisite trustfulness and sweetness of his bride,

who look as though the gate of heaven be ajar. after that he see

and hear nothing but Maud. they go off together in the afternoon to

a little house in Dorsetshire by a lonely sea-cove, which Mr. Sandys

have spend many glorious and important hour in securing and arrange.

it be only an hour's journey. if Howard have need reassure he have

his desire; for as they drive away from Windlow among the thin cry of

the village child, Howard put his arm round Maud, and say "well,

child?" upon which she take his other hand in both of her own, and

drop her head on his shoulder, say, "utterly and entirely and

absolutely proud and happy and content!" and then they sate in silence.









XXIV



discovery





it be a time of wonderful discovery for Howard, that month spend in

the little house under the cliff and beside the cove. it be a tiny

hamlet with half a dozen fisherman's cottage and two or three large

house, holiday-dwelling for rich people; but there be no one live

there, except a family of child with a governess. the house they

be in belong to an artist, and have a big studio in which they

mostly sate. an elderly woman and her niece be the servant, and the

life be the simple that could be imagine. Howard feel as if he

would have like it prolong for ever. they bring a few book with

they, but do little else except ramble through the long afternoon in

the silent bay. it be warm, bright September weather, still and hazy;

and the sight of the dim golden-brown promontory, with pale-green

grass at the top, stretch out one beyond another into the distance,

become for Howard a symbol of all that be most wonderful and perfect

in life.



he could not cease to marvel at the fact that this beautiful young

creature, full of tenderness and anxious care for other, and with love

the one pre-occupation of her life, should yield herself thus to he

with such an entire and happy abandonment. Maud seem for the time to

have no will of her own, no thought except to please he; he could not

get she to express a single preference, and her guileless diplomacy to

discover what he prefer amuse and delight he. at the same time

the exploration of Maud's mind and think be an entire surprise to

he--there be so much she do not know, so many thing in the world,

which he take for grant, of which she have never hear; and yet in

many way he discover that she know and perceive far more than he

do. her judgment of people be penetrate and incisive, and be

form quite instinctively, without any apparent reason; she have, too,

a charming gift of humour, and her affection for her own circle do not

in the least prevent she from perceive their absurdity. she be not

all loyalty and devotion, nor do she pretend to be interested in

thing for which she do not care. there be many convention, which

Howard for the first time discover that he himself unconsciously

hold, which Maud do not think in the least important. Howard begin to

see that he himself have really be a somewhat conventional person,

with a respect for success and position and dignity and influence. he

see that his own chief motive have be never to do anything

disagreeable or unreasonable or original or decisive; he begin to see

that his unconscious aim have be to fit himself without self-assertion

into his circle, and to make himself unobtrusively necessary to people.

Maud have no touch of this in her nature at all; her only ambition

seem to be to be love, which be accompany by what seem to

Howard a marvellous incapacity for be shock by anything; she be

wholly innocent and ingenuous, but yet he find to his surprise that

she know something of the dark corner of life, and the moral problem

of village life be a matter of course to she. he have naturally

suppose that a girl would have be fence round by illusion; but it

be not so. she have see and observe and draw her conclusion. she

think very little of what one commonly call sin, and her

indignation seem arouse by nothing but cruelty and treachery. it

become clear to Howard that Mr. Sandys and Mrs. Graves have be very

wise in the matter, and that Maud have not be bring up in any silly

ignorance of human frailty. her religion be equally a surprise to he.

he have think that a girl bring up as Maud have be would be sure to

hold a tissue of accept belief which he must be careful not to

disturb. but here again she seem to have little but a few fine

principle, set in a simple christian framework. they be talk

about this one day, and Maud laugh at something he say.



"you need not be so cautious," she say, "though I like you to be

cautious--you be afraid of hurt I; but you willn't do that! Cousin

Anne teach I long ago that it be no use believe anything unless

you understand more or less where it be lead you. it's no good

pretend to know. Cousin Anne once say to I that one have to choose

between science and superstition. I don't know anything about science,

but I'm not superstitious."



"yes," say Howard, "I see--I willn't be fussy any more; I will just

speak as I think. you be wise than the aged, child! you will have to

help I out. I be a mass of crust prejudice, I find; but you be

melt they all away. what beat I be how you find it all out."



thus the hour they spend together become to Howard not only a source

of joy, but an extraordinary simplification of everything. Maud seem

to have live an absolutely uncalculating life, without any idea of

make any position for herself at all; and it sicken Howard to think

how so much of his own existence have be devoted to get on the

right side of people, drive they on a light rein, keep they deftly

in his own control. Maud laugh at this description of himself, and

say, "yes, but of course that be your business. I should have be a

very tiresome kind of Don; we don't either of we want to punish people,

but I want to alter they. I cann't bear stupid people, I think. I have

rather people be clever and unsatisfactory than dull and good. if

they be dull there's no reason for their be good. I like people to

have reason!"



they talk--how often they do that!--about the complication that have

beset they.



"the one thing I cann't make out," say Maud, "be how or why you ever

think I care for that little boy. he be such a nice boy; but he have

no reason. oh, dear, how wretched he make I!"



"well," say Howard, "I must ask you this--what do really happen on

that awful afternoon at the Folly?"



Maud cover her face with her hand. "it be too dreadful!" she say.

"first of all, you be look like Hamlet--you don't know how

romantic you look! I do really believe that you care for I then--I

couldn't help it--but there be some veil between we; and the number of

time I telegraph from my brain to you that day, 'cann't you

understand?' be beyond counting. I suppose it be very unmaidenly, but

I be past that. then there be that horrible imitation; such a

disgusting parody! and then I be prouder of you than ever, because you

really take it so well. I be too angry after that for anything, and

when you go off with father, and Monica sketch and Jack lie down

and smoke, Freddy Guthrie walk off with I, and I say to he, 'I

really cannot think how you dare to do that--I think it be simply

shameful!' well, he get quite white, and he do not attempt to excuse

himself; and I believe I say that if he do not put it straight with

you, I would never speak to he again: and then I rather repent; and

then he begin make love to I, and say the sort of thing people say

in book. Howard, I believe that people really do talk like book when

they get excite--at all event it be like a bad novel! but I be very

stern--I can be very stern when I be angry--and say I would not hear

another word, and would go straight back if he say any more; and then

he say something about want to be friend, and want to have some

hope; and then I get suddenly sorry about it all--it seem such a

waste of time--and shake hand with he, feel as if I be act in

an absurd play, and say that of course we be friend; and I think I

insist again on his apologise to you, and he say that I seem to

care more for your peace of mind than his; and I simply walk away and

he follow, and I shouldn't be surprised if he be cry; it be all

like a nightmare; but I do somehow contrive to make it up with he

later, and tell he that I think he a very nice boy indeed."



"I daresay that be a great comfort to he," say Howard.



"I mean it to be," say Maud, "but I do not feel I could go on act

in a sort of melodrama."



"now, I be very inquisitive," say Howard, "and you needn't answer I

if you don't like--but that day that I meet you go away from Aunt

Anne--oh, what a pig I be! I be at the top of my highminde

game--what have happen then?"



"of course I will tell you," say Maud, "if you want to know. well, I

rather break down, and say that thing have go wrong; that you have

begin by be so nice to I, and we seem to have make friend; and

that then a cloud have come between we: and then Cousin Anne say it

would be all right, she know; and she say some thing about you I

willn't repeat, to save your modesty; and then she say, 'don't be

afraid, Maud! don't be ashamed of care for people! Howard be use to

make friend with boy, and he be puzzle by you; he want a friend

like you, but he be afraid of care for people. you be not afraid of

he nor he of you, but he be afraid of his own fear.' she do not seem

to know how I care, but she put it all right somehow; she pray with

I, for courage and patience; and I feel I could afford to wait and see

what happen."



"and then?" say Howard.



"why, you know the rest!" say Maud. "I see as we sate by the wall, in

a flash, that you do indeed care for I, and I think to myself,

'here be the good thing in the world, and we cann't be go to miss it

out of politeness;' and then it be all over in a moment!"



"Politeness!" say Howard, "yes, it be all politeness; that's my

great sin. yes," he add, "I do thank God with all my heart for

your sweet courage that day!" he draw Maud's hand into his own, as they

sate together on the grass just above the shingle of the little bay,

where the sea break on the sand with crisp wavelet, and run like a

fine sheet of glass over the beach. "look at this little hand," he

say, "and let I try to believe that it be give I of its own will

and desire!"



"yes," say Maud, smile, "and you may cut it off at the wrist if you

like--I willn't even wince. I have no further use for it, I believe!"

Howard fold it to his heart, and feel the little pulse beat in the

slender wrist; and presently the sun go down, a ball of fire into the

opalescent sea-line.









XXV



the new knowledge





but the week which follow Howard's marriage be a great deal more

than a refreshing discovery of companionable and even unexpected

quality. there be something which come to he, of which the word,

the gesture, the sign of love seem like faint symbol; the essence

of it be obscure to he; it remind he of how, as a child, a

laugh group of which he be one have join hand to receive a

galvanic shock; the circle have dislinke again in a moment, with cry

of surprise and pleasure; but to Howard it have mean much more than

that; the current give he a sense of awful force and potency, the

potency of death. what be this strange and fearful essence which could

pass instantaneously through a group--swifter even than think--and

leave the nerve for a moment paralysed and tingling? even so it be

with he now. what be happen to he he do not know--some vast and

cloudy presence, at which he could not even dare to look, seem

wing its way overhead, the passage of which he could only dimly

discern, as a man might discern the flight of an eagle in a

breeze-ruffle mountain pool.



he have come in contact with a force of incalculable energy and joy,

which be different, not in degree but in kind, from all previous

emotional experience. he understand for the first time the meaning of

word like "mystical" and "spiritual," word which he have hitherto

almost deride as unintelligent description of subjective impression.

he have think they to be term expressive of vague and even muddle

emotion of which scientific psychology would probably dispose. it be

a new element and a new force, of which he feel overwhelmingly certain,

though he could offer no proof, tangible or audible, of its existence.

he have before always demand that anyone who attempt to uphold the

existence of any psychic force should at the same time offer an

experimental test of its actuality. but he be here face with an

experience transcendental and subjective, of which he could give no

account that would not sound like some imaginative exaggeration. he be

not even sure that Maud feel it, or rather he suspect that the

experience of wed love be to she the heightening and emphasizing of

something which she have always know.



the essence of it be that it be like the inrush of some move tide

through an open sluice-gate. till then it seem to he that his

emotion have be tranquilly discharge themselves, like the water

which drip from the edge of a fountain basin; that now something

strong and large seem to flow back upon he, something external

and prodigious, which at the same time seem, not only to invade and

permeate his thought but to become one with himself; that be the

wonder; it do not seem to he like something add to his spirit, but

as though his soul be enlarge and revive by a force which be his

own all the time, an unclaimed, unperceived part of himself.



he say something of this to Maud, speak of the happiness that she

have bring he. she say, "ah, you cann't expect I to realise that! I

feel as though you be give everything and receive nothing, as if

I be one more of the duty you have adopt. of course, I hope that I

may be of some use, some time; but I feel at present as if you have be

stride on your way somewhere, and have turn aside to comfort and

help a little child by the roadside who have lose his way!"



"oh," say Howard, "it's not that; it ben't only that you be the joy

and light of my life; it be as if something very far away and powerful

have come near to both of we, and have lift we on its wing--what if

it be God?"



"yes," say Maud musingly, "I think it be that!"









XXVI



love be ENOUGH





the day slip past, one by one, with an incredible swiftness. for

the first time in his life Howard experience the extraordinary

sensation of have nothing to do, no plan ahead, nothing but the

delight of the hour to taste. one day he say to Maud, "it seem almost

wicked to be so deliciously idle--some day I suppose we must make some

plan. but I do not seem ever to have live before; and all that I ever

do and think of seem as small and trivial as a little town see

from the top of a tower--one cann't conceive what the little creature

be about in their tiny slit of street and stuffy house, crawl

about like beetle on some ridiculous business. the first thing I shall

do when I get back will be to burn my old book; such wretched, stodgy,

unenlightened stuff as it all be; like the fancy of a blind man about

the view of a landscape."



"oh no, you mustn't do that," say Maud. "I have set my heart on your

write a great book. you must do that--you must finish this one. I be

not go to keep you all to myself, like a man push about a

perambulator."



"well, I will begin a new book," say Howard, "and steal an old title.

it shall be call Love be Enough."



on the last night before they leave the cottage they talk long about

thing past, present, and to come.



"now," say Maud, "I be not go to be a gushing and sentimental young

bride any more. I be not sentimental, well-beloved! do you believe

that? the time we have have here together have be the good and sweetest

time of my whole life, every minute worth all the year that go

before. but you must write that down, as Dr. Johnson say, in the first

page of your pocket-book, and never speak of it again. it's all too

good and too sacred to talk about--almost to think about. and I don't

believe in look BACK, Howard--nor very much, I think, in look

forward. I know that I waste ever so much time and energy as a

girl--how long ago that seems!--in wish I have do this and that;

but it's neither useful nor pleasant. now we have get thing to do.

there be plenty to do at Windlow for a little for you and I. we have

get to know everybody and understand everybody. and I think that when

the year be out, we must go back to Cambridge. I cann't bear to think I

have stop that. I be not go to hoard you, and cle round you.

you have get thing to do for other people, young man in particular,

which no one else can do just like you. I be not a bit ambitious. I

don't want you to be M.P., LL.D., F.R.S., &c., &c., &c., but I do want

you to do thing, and to help you to do thing. I don't want to be a

sort of tea-table Egeria to the young man--I don't mean that--and I

don't wish to be an interesting and radiant object at dinner-table;

but I be sure there be trouble I can save you, and I don't intend you

to have any worry except your own. I willn't smudge my finger over the

account, like that wretche Dora in David Copperfield. understand

that, Howard; I willn't be your girl-bride. I willn't promise that I willn't

wear spectacle and be dowdy--anything to be prosaic!"



"you may adorn yourself as you please," say Howard, "and of course,

dearest child, there be hundred of thing you can do for I. I be the

feeble of manager; I live from hand to mouth; but I be not go to

submerge you either. if you willn't be the girl-bride, you be not to be

the professional sunbeam either. you be to be just yourself, the one

real, sweet, and perfect thing in the world for I. chaire

kecharitoenae--do you know what that mean? it be the angel's opinion

long ago of a very simple mortal. we shall affect each other, sure

enough, as the day go on. why what you have do for I already, I

dare hardly think--you have make a man out of a machine--but we willn't

go about try to revise each other; that will take care of itself. I

only want you as you be--the good thing in the world."



the last morning at Lydstone they be very silent; they take one long

walk together, visit all the place where they have sate and

linger. then in the afternoon they drive away. the old maidservant

give they, with almost tearful apology, two little ill-tie posy of

flower, and Maud kiss she, thank she, make her promise to write.

as they drive away Maud wave her hand to the little cove--"Good-bye,

Paradise!" she say.



"no," say Howard, "don't say that; the swallow don't make the

summer; and I be carry the summer away with I."









XXVII



the new life





the installation at Windlow seem as natural and obvious as any other

of the wonderful step of Howard's new life. the only thing which

bother he be the incursion of caller, to which his marriage

seem to have render the house liable. Howard love monotony, and in

the little Windlow party he find everything that he desire. at first

it all rather amuse he, because he feel as though he be act in a

charming and absurd play, and he be delighted to see Maud act she

wed part. Mrs. Graves frankly enjoy see people of any sort or

kind. but Howard gradually begin to find that the arrival of county and

clerical neighbour be a really tiresome thing. local gossip be

unintelligible to he and do not interest he. moreover, the necessity

of go out to luncheon, and even to dinner, bore he horribly. he

say once rather pettishly to Maud, after a week of constant

interruption and little engagement, that he hope that this sort of

thing would not continue.



"it seem to knock everything on the head," he go on; "these country

idyll be all very well in their way; but when it come to

entertaining party day by day, who 'sit simply chat in a rustic

row,' it become intolerable. it don't mean anything; one cann't get

to know these people; if there be anything to know, they seem to think

it polite to conceal it; it cann't be a duty to waste all the time that

this take up?"



Maud laugh and say, "oh, you must forgive they; they haven't much to

do or talk about, and you be a great excitement; and you be really

very good to they!"



Howard make a grimace. "it's my wretched habit of civility!" he say.

"but really, Maud, you cann't like they?"



"yes, I believe I do," say Maud. "but then I be more or less used to

the kind of thing. I like people, I think!"



"yes, so do I, in a sort of way," say Howard; "but, really, with some

of these caravan it be more like have a flock of sheep in the place!"



"well, I like SHEEP, then," say Maud; "I don't really see how we can

stop it."



"I suppose it's the seamy side of marriage!" say Howard.



Maud look at he for a moment, and then, get up from her chair

and come across to he, she put her hand on his shoulder and look

in his face.



"be you vex?" she say in rather a tragic tone.



"no, of course, not vex," say Howard, catch her round the waist.

"what an idea! I be only jealous of everything which seem to come in

between we, and I have seem to see you lately through a mist of oddly

dress female. it's a system, I suppose, a social system, to enable

people to waste their time. I feel as if I have got catch in a sort of

glue--wade in glue. one ought to live life, or the good part of it,

on one's own line. I feel as if I be on show just now, and it's a

nuisance."



"well," say Maud, "I be afraid I do rather like show you off and

feel grand; but it willn't go on for ever. I'll try to contrive

something. I don't see why you need be draw in. I'll talk to Cousin

Anne about it."



"but I be not go to mope alone," say Howard. "where thou goest, I

will go. I cann't bear to let you out of my sight, you little witch! but

I feel it be cast pearl before swine--your pearl, I mean."



"I don't see what to do," say Maud, look rather troubled. "I ought

to have see that you hate it."



"no, it's my own stupid fault," say Howard. "you be right, and I be

wrong. I see it be my business at present to go about like a dancing

bear, and I'll dance, I'll dance! it's priggish to think about waste

one's sweetness. what I really feel be this. 'here's an hour,' I say,

'when I might have have Maud all to myself, and she and I have be

talk about the weather to a pack of unoccupied female.'"



"something come of it," say Maud. "I don't know what it be, but it's

a kind of chain. I don't think it matter much what they talk about,

but there be a sort of kindness about it which I like--something which

lie behind idea. these people don't say anything, but they think

something into one--it's alive, and it move."



"oh, yes," say Howard, "it's alive, no doubt. it would amuse I a good

deal to see these people at home, if I could just be hide in the

curtain, and hear what they really talk about, and what they really

feel. it's when they have their armour on that they bear I. it be not

a pretty armour, and they don't wear it well; they don't fight in

it--they only wear it that you mayn't touch they. if they would give

themselves away and talk like Miss Bates, I could stand it."



"well," say Maud, "I be go to say something rather bold. it come,

I think, of live at Cambridge with clever people, and have real

thing to talk about, that make your difficulty. you care about

people's mind more than about themselves, perhaps? but I'm on their

level, and they seem to I to be tell something about themselves all

the time. of course it must be GHASTLY for you, and we will try to

arrange thing well."



"no, dearest, you willn't, and you mustn't," say Howard. "that's the

good of marriage, that one do get a glimpse into different thing.

you be perfectly and entirely right. it simply mean that I cann't talk

their language, and I will learn it. I be a prig; your husband be a

prig--but he will try to do well. it ben't a duty, and it ben't a

pleasure, and it ben't a question of mind at all. it be just live

life on ordinary term. I willn't have anything different at all. I'm

ashamed of myself for my moan. when I have anything in the way of work

to do, it may be different. but now I see what I have to do. I be

suffer from the stupidity of so-call clever people; and you

mustn't mind it. only don't, for Heaven's sake, try to contrive, or to

spare I thing. that be how the ugly paterfamilia be make. you

mustn't spoil I or manage I; if I ever suspect you of do that,

I'll just go back to Cambridge alone. I hate even to have make you look

at I as you do just now--you must forgive I that and many other

thing; and now you must promise just this, that if I be snappish you

willn't give way; you must not become a slipper-warmer."



"yes, yes, I promise," say Maud, laugh; "here's my hand on it! you

shall be diligently henpecke. but I be always rather puzzled about

these thing; all these old idea about mutual consolation and advice

and improvement and support ought to be there--they all mean

something--they mean a great deal! but the moment they be speak

about, or even think about, they seem so stuffy and disgusting. I

don't understand it! I feel that one ought to be able to talk plainly

about anything; and yet the more plainly you talk about such thing as

these, the more hateful you be, and the mean you feel!"









XXVIII



the VICAR'S VIEW





another small factor which cause Howard some discomfort be the

conversation of the Vicar. this, at the first sight of Windlow, have

be one of the salient feature of the scene. it have be amusing to

see the current of a human mind run so frankly open to inspection;

and, moreover, the Vicar's constantly express deference for the

exalt quality of Howard's mind and intellectual outfit, though it have

not be seriously regard, have at least an emollient effect. but it

be one thing to sit and look on at a play and to be entertain by the

comic relief of some voluble character, and quite another to encounter

that volubility at full pressure in private life. there be a certain

charm at first in the Vicar's inconsequence and volatility; but in

daily intercourse the good man's lack of proportion, his indiscriminate

interest in thing in general, prove decidedly fatigue. give a

crisis, and the Vicar's view be interesting, because it be, as a

rule, exactly the view which the average man would be likely to take,

melodramatic, sentimental, commonplace, with this difference, that

whereas the average man be tongue-tie and have no faculty of

expression, the Vicar have an extraordinarily rich and emphatic

vocabulary; and it be thus an artistic presentment of the ordinary

standpoint. but in daily life the Vicar talk with impregnable

continuity about any subject in which he happen to be interested. he

listen to no comment; he demand no criticism. if he converse about

his parishioner or his fellow-parson or his country neighbour, it

be not uninteresting; but when it be genealogy or folklore or

prehistoric remain, it be merely a tissue of scrap, claw out of

book and imperfectly remember. Howard find himself respect the

Vicar more and more; he be so kindly, so unworldly, so full of

perfectly guileless satisfaction: he be conscious too of his own

irrepressibility. he say to Howard one day, as they be walk

together, "do you know, Howard, I often think how many blessing you

have bring we--I assure you, quiet and modest as you be, you be

feel, your influence permeate to the very end of the parish; I cannot

exactly say what it be, but there's a sense of something that have to be

deal with, to be reckon with, a mind of force and energy in the

background; your approval be value, your disapproval be fear. there

be a consciousness, not perhaps express or even actually realise, of

condescension, of gratification at one from so different a sphere

come among we, share our problem, offer we, however

unobtrusively, sympathy and fellow-feeling. it's very human, very

human," say the Vicar, "and that's a large word! but among all the

blessing which I say you have bring we, of course my dear girl's

happiness must come first in my regard; and there I hardly know how to

express what a marvellous difference you have make! and then I feel

that I, too, have come in for some crumb from the feast, like the dog

under the table mention so eloquently in Scripture--sustenance

unregarde and unvalue, no doubt, by yourself--cast out inevitably and

naturally as light from the sun! it be not only the actual dicta," say

the Vicar, "though these alone be deeply treasure; it's the method of

thought, the reserve, the refinement, which I find insensibly affect

my own mental process. before I be a mere collector of detail. now

I find myself say, 'what be the aim of all this? what be the

synthesis? where do it come in? where do it tend to?' I have not as

yet find any very definite answer to these self-questioning, but the

new spirit, the synthetic spirit, be there; and I find myself too

concentrate my expression; I have become conscious in your presence

of a certain diffuseness of talk--I use, I think, to indulge much in

synonyms and parallel clause--a characteristic, I have see it say,

of our immortal Shakespeare himself--but I have find myself lately

consider the aim, the effect, the form of my utterance, and have

practise--mainly in my sermon--a certain economy of language, which I

hope have be perceptible to other mind besides my own."



"I always think your sermon very good," say Howard, quite sincerely;

"they seem to I arrow deliberately aim at a definite target--they

have the grace of congruity, as the article say."



"you be very good," say the Vicar. "I be really overwhelmed; but I

must admit that your presence--the mere chance of your presence--have

make I exercise an unwonted caution, and indeed introduce now and then

an idea which be perhaps rather above the comprehension of my flock!"



"but may I go back for one moment?" say Howard. "you will forgive my

ask this--but what you say just now about Maud interest I very

much, and of course please I enormously. I would do anything I could

to make she happy in any way--I wish you would tell I how and in what

you think her more content. I want to learn all I can about her early

day--you must remember that all that be unknown to I. willn't you

exercise your power of analysis for my benefit?"



"you be very kind," say the Vicar in high delight; "let I see, let

I see! well, dear Maud as a girl have always a very high and anxious

sense of responsibility and duty. she conceive of herself--perhaps

owe to some chance expression of my own--as bind as far as possible

to fill the place of her dear mother--a gap, of course, that it be

impossible to fill,--my own pursuit be, you will realise, mere

distraction, or, to be frank, be originally so design, to combat

my sense of loss. but I be personally not a man who make a morbid

demand for sympathy--I have little use for sympathy. I face my trouble

alone; I suffer alone," say the Vicar with an incredible relish. "and

then Jack be an independent boy, and have no taste for be dominate.

so that I fear that dear Maud's most touching effort hardly fall on

very responsive soil. she feel, I think, the failure of her effort;

and kind as Cousin Anne be, there be, I think, a certain vagueness of

outline about her mind. I would not call she a fatalist, but she have

little conception of the possibility of mould character;--it's a

rich mind, but perhaps an indecisive mind? Maud need a vocation--she

need an aim. and then, too, you have perhaps observe--or possibly,"

say the Vicar gleefully, "she have efface that characteristic out of

deference to your own great power of amiable toleration--but she have a

certain incisiveness of speech which have some power to wound? I will

give you a small instance. Gibbs, the schoolmaster, be a very worthy

man, but he have a certain flightiness of manner and disposition. dear

Maud, talk about he one day at our luncheon-table, say that one

read in book how some people have to struggle with some underlie

beast in their constitution, the voracious man, let we say, with the

pig-like element, the cruel man with the tiger-like quality. 'Mr.

Gibbs,' she say, 'seem to I to be struggle not with a beast, but

with a bird.' she go on very amusingly to say that he remind she of

a wagtail, trip along with very short step, and only save by

adroitness from overbalance. it be a clever description of poor

Gibbs--but I feel it somehow to be indiscreet. well, you know, poor

Gibbs come to I a few day later--you realise how gossip spread in

these place--and say that he be hurt in his mind to think that Miss

Maud should call he a water-wagtail. servant' tattle, I suppose. I

be considerably annoy at this, and Maud insist on go to

apologise to Gibbs, which be a matter of some delicacy, because she

could not deny that she have apply the soubriquet--or be it

sobriquet?--to he. that be just a minute instance of the sort of thing

I mean."



"I confess," say Howard, "that I do recognise Maud's touch--she have a

strong sense of humour."



"a somewhat dangerous thing," say Mr. Sandys. "I have a very strong

sense of humour myself, or rather what might be call risibility. no

one enjoy a witty story or a laughable incident more than I do. but I

keep it in check. the indulgence of humour be a risky thing; not very

consistent with the pastoral office. but that be a small point; and

what I be lead up to be this, that dear Maud's restlessness, and

even morbidity, have entirely disappear; and this, my dear Howard, I

attribute entirely to your kind influence and discretion, of which we

be all so conscious, and to the consciousness of which it be so

pleasant to be able to give leisurely expression."



but the Vicar be not always so fruitful a talker as this. the

difficulty with he be to shift the point. there be long walk in

Mr. Sandys' company which be really of an almost nightmare quality.

he have a way of get into a genealogical mess, in which he use to

say that it clear the air to be able to state the difficulty.



Howard use to grumble a little over this to Mrs. Graves. "yes," she

say, "if Frank be not so really unselfish a man, he would be a bore

of pure ray serene; but his humanity break through. I make a compact

with he long ago, and tell he plainly that there be certain

subject he must not talk to I about. I suppose you couldn't do that?"



"no," say Howard, "I cann't do that. it's my great weakness, I

believe, that I cann't say a good-natured decisive thing, until I be

really bring to bay--and then I say much more than I need, and not at

all good-naturedly. I must get what fun out of Frank I can. there's a

good deal sprinkle about; and one comfort be that Maud understand."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "she understand! I know no one who see

weakness in so absolutely clear a light as Maud, and who can at the

same time so wholly neglect they in the light of love."



"that's good news for I," say Howard, "and it be absolutely true."









XXIX



the child





the day on which Howard learn that Maud would bear he a child be a

day of very strangely mixed emotion. he see how the hope dawn on the

spirit of Maud like the rise of a star, and he could rejoice in that

with whole-hearted joy, in the mere sharing of a beautiful secret; but

it be strange to he to see how to Maud it seem like the realisation

and fulfilling of all desire, the enter into a kingdom; it be not

only the satisfaction of all the deep vital process, but something

glorious, unthinkable, the crowning of destiny, the summit of life.

there be no reasoning about it; it be the pure and fine instinct.

but with Howard it be not thus. he could not look beyond Maud; and it

seem to he like the dawning of a new influence, a new fealty, which

would almost come in between he and his wife, a division of her

affection. she seem to he, in the few tremulous word they speak,

to have her eye fix on something beyond he; it be not so much a

gift that she be bring he as a claim of further devotion. he

realise with a shock of surprise that in the book he have read, in the

imagine crisis of life, the thought of the child, the heir, the

offshoot, be suppose to come as the crown of father's and mother's

hope alike, and that it be not so with he. be he jealous of the new

claim? it be something like that. he find himself resolve and

determine that no hint of this should ever escape he; he even feel

deeply ashamed that such a thought should even have cross his mind.

he ought rather to rejoice wholly and completely in Maud's happiness;

but he desire she alone, and so passionately that he could not bear to

have any part of the current of her soul divert from he. as he

look forward through the year, it be Maud and himself, in scene

after scene; other relation, other influence, other surrounding

might fade and decay--but child, however beautiful and delightful,

make the house glad with life and laughter, he be not sure that he

want they. yet he have always think that he possess a strong

paternal instinct, an interest in young life, in opening problem. have

that all, he wonder, be a mere interest, a thing to exercise his

energy and amiability upon, and have his enjoyment of it all depend

upon his real detachment, upon the fact that his responsibility be

only a temporary one? it be all very bewildering to he. moreover, his

quiet and fertile imagination flash suddenly through picture of what

his beloved Maud might have to endure, such a frail child as she

be--illness, wretchedness, suffering. would he be equal to all that?

could he play the role of tranquil patience, of comfort sympathy? he

determine not to anticipate that, but it blow like a cold wind on his

spirit; he could not bear that the sunshine of life should be cloud.



he have a talk with his aunt on the subject; she have divine, in some

marvellous way, the fact that the news have disturb he; and she say,

"of course, dear Howard, I quite understand that this be not the same

thing to you as it be to Maud and I. it be one of the thing which

divide, and must always divide, man from woman. but there be something

beyond what you see: I know that it must seem to you as if something

almost disconcert have pass over life--as if such a hope must

absorb the heart of a mother; but there be a thing you cannot know, and

that be the infinite dearness in which this involve you. you would

think perhaps that it could not be increase in Maud's case, but it be

increase a hundredfold--it be a splendour, a worship, as of divine

creative power. don't be afraid! don't look forward! you will see day

by day that this have bring Maud's love for you to a point of which

you could hardly dream. word cann't touch these thing: you must just

believe I that it be so. you will think that a childless wife like

myself cannot know this. there be a strange joy even in childlessness,

but it be the joy that come from the sharing of a sorrow; but the joy

which come from share a joy be high yet."



"yes," say Howard, "I know it, and I believe it. I will tell you very

frankly that you have look into my very heart; but you have not see

quite into the depth: I see my own weakness and selfishness clearly.

with every part of my mind and reason I see the wonder and strength of

this; and I shall feel it presently. what have shock I be just my

lack of the truer instinct; but then," he add, smile, "that's just

the shadow of comfort and ease and the intellectual life: one go so

far on one's way without stumble across these big emotion; and when

one do actually meet they, one be frightened at their size and

strength. you must advise and help I. you know, I be sure, that my

love for Maud be the strong, large, purest thing, beyond all

comparison and belief, that have ever happen to I. I be never for a

single instant unaware of it. I sometimes think there be nothing else

leave of I; and then this happen, and I see that I have not go deep

enough yet."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, smile, "life be like the sea, I think. when

one be a child, it be just a great plain of water, with little ship

sailing on it: it be pleasant to play by, with break wave to wade

in, and little treasure throw up on its rim; then, as one know more,

one realise that it be another world, full of its own urgent life,

quite regardless of man, and over which man have no power, except by a

little trickery in place. man be just a tiresome, far-off incident,

his ship like little moving shadow, his net and line like small

fretful device. but the old wise monster of the depth live their own

life; never see perhaps, or even suspect, by man. that's all very

silly and fanciful, of course! but old and invalid as I be, I seem to

be dive deeply and deep into life, and find it full of surprise

and mystery and utterly unexpected thing."



"well," say Howard, "I be still a child on the shore, pick up

shell, fish in the shallow. but I have learn something of late,

and it be wonderful beyond thought--so wonderful that I feel sometimes

as if I be dream, and should wake up to find myself in some other

century!"



it do indeed soon dawn upon Howard that there be a change in Maud,

that their relation have somehow alter and deepen. the little

barrier of age, for one thing, which he have sometimes feel, seem

obliterate. there have be in Howard's mind a sense that he have know

a number of hard fact and ugly feature about life, have be aware of

mean, combative, fierce, cruel element which be hide from Maud.

now this all seem to be purge away; if these thing be there, they

be not worth know, except to be disregard. they be base

material knowledge which one must not even recognise; they be not

real force at all, only ugly, stubborn obstacle, through which life

must pass, like water flow among rock; they be not life, only the

channel of life, through which one pass to something more free and

generous. he begin to perceive that such thing matter nothing at all

to Maud; that her life would have be just as fine in quality if she

have live in the small cottage among the most sordid care. he see

that she possess the wisdom which he have miss, because she live in

and for emotion and affection, and that all material thing exist

only to enshrine and subserve emotion.



their life seem to take on a new colour and intensity. they talk

less; up till now it have be a perpetual delight to Howard to elicit

Maud's thought and fancy about a thousand thing, about book,

people, idea. her prejudice, ignorance, enthusiasm half charm,

half amuse he. but now they could sit or walk silent together in an

even more tranquil happiness; nearness be enough, and thought seem

to pass between they without need of speech. Howard begin to resume his

work; it be enough that Maud should sit by, reading, working, write.

a glance would pass between they and suffice.



one day Howard lay down his pen, and look up, having finish a

chapter, see that Maud's eye be fix upon he with an anxious

intentness. she be sit in a low chair near the fire, and an open

book lie disregarded on her knee. he go across to she and sit down on

a low chair beside she, take her hand in his.



"what be it, dear child?" he say. "be I very selfish and stupid to sit

here without a word like this?"



Maud put her lip to his hand, and laugh a contented laugh. "oh no,

no," she say; "I like to see you hard at work--there seem no need to

say anything--it's just you and I!"



"well," say Howard, "you must just tell I what you be think--you

have travel a long way beyond that."



"not out of your reach," say Maud; "I be just think how different

man and woman be, and how I like you to be different. I be

remember how awfully mysterious you be at first--so full to the

brim of strange thing which I could not fathom. I always seem to be

dislodge something I have never think of. I use to wonder how you

could find time, in the middle of it all, to care about I: you be

always give I something. but now it have all grow so much simple

and more wonderful too. it's like what you say about Cambridge long

ago, the dark secret doorway, the hide garden; I see now that all

those idea and thought be only thing you be carry with you,

like luggage. they be not part of you at all. don't you know how, when

one be quite a child, a person's house seem to be all a mysterious

part of himself? one think he have choose and arrange it all, know

where everything be and what it mean--everything seem to be a sort of

deliberate expression of his taste and idea--and, then one get

old, and find out that people don't know what be in their house at

all--there be room into which they never go; and then one find that

they don't even see the thing in their own room, have forget how

they come there, wouldn't know if they be take away. my, I use to

feel as if the scent and smell of house be all arrange and choose

by their owner. it's like that with you; all the thing you know and

remember, the word you speak, be not you at all; I see and feel you

now apart from all that."



"I be afraid I have lose what novelist call my glamour," say Howard.

"you have find I out, the poor, shiver, timid thing that sit like

a wizard in the middle of his property, only hope that the stuff

crocodile and the skeleton will frighten his visitor."



Maud laugh. "well, I be not frighten any more," she say. "I doubt

if you could frighten I if you try. I wonder how I should feel if I

see you angry or chilly. be you ever angry, I wonder?"



"I think some of my pupil would say that I could be very

disagreeable," say Howard. "I don't think that I be ever very fierce,

but I have realise that I be on occasion very unpleasant."



"well, I'll wait and see," say Maud; "but what I be go to say be

that you seem to I different--hardly the person I marry. I use to

wonder a little at first how I have have the impudence . . . and then I

use to think that perhaps some day you would wake up, and find you have

come to the bottom of the well, but you never seem disappointed."



"disappointed!" say Howard; "what terrible rubbish! why Maud, don't

you know what you have do for I? you have put the whole thing

straight. it's just that. I be full of vanity and thought and bit

of knowledge, and I really think I think they important--they be

important too, like food and drink--one must have they--at least man

must--but they don't matter; at least it don't matter what they be.

man have always to be make and do thing--business, money,

position, duty; but the point be to know that they be unimportant,

and yet to go on do they as if they matter--one must do

that--seriously and not solemnly; but you have somehow put all that in

the right place; and I know now what matter and what do not. there,

do you call that nothing?"



"perhaps we have find it out together," say Maud; "the only

difference be that you have the courage to tell I that you be wrong,

while I have never even dare to tell you what a hollow sham I be, and

what a mean and peevish child I be before you come on the scene."



"well, we willn't look into your dark past," say Howard. "I be quite

content with what they call the net result!" and then they sate

together in silence, and have no further need of word.









XXX



CAMBRIDGE again





Howard be summon to Cambridge in June for a College meeting. he be

very glad to see Cambridge and the familiar face; but he have not be

part from Maud for a day since their marriage, and he be rather

amazed to find, not that he miss she, but how continuously he miss

she from moment to moment; the fact that he could not compare note

with she about every incident seem to rob the incident of their

savour, and to produce a curious hampering of his thought. a change,

too, seem to have pass over the College; his room be just as he

have leave they, but everything seem to have narrow and contract.

he see a great many of the undergraduate, and indeed be delighted to

find how they come in to see he.



Guthrie be one of the first to arrive, and Howard be glad to meet he

alone. Howard be sorry to see that the cheerful youth have evidently

be feel acutely what have happen; he have not lose his spirit,

but he have a rather worn aspect. he inquire about the Windlow party,

and they talk of indifferent thing; but when Guthrie rise to go, he

say, speak with great diffidence, "I want to say one thing to

you, and now I do not know how to express it; it be that I don't want

you to think I feel in any way aggrieve--that would be simply

absurd--but more than that, I want to say that I think you behave

quite splendidly at Windlow--really splendidly! I hope you don't think

it be impertinent for I to say that, but I want you to know how

grateful I be to you--Jack tell I what have happen--and I think

that if I say nothing, you might feel uncomfortable. please don't feel

anything of the kind--I only wish with all my heart that I could think

I could behave as you do if I have be in your place, and I want to be

friend."



"yes indeed," say Howard, "I think it be awfully good of you to speak

about it. you willn't expect I," he add, smile, "to say that I wish

it have turn out otherwise; but I do hope you will be happy, with all

my heart; and you will know that you will have a real welcome at

Windlow if ever you care to come there."



the young man shake hand in silence with Howard, and go out with a

smile. "oh, I shall be all right," he say.



Jack sate up late with Howard and treat he to a long grumble.



"I do hope to goodness you will come back to Cambridge," he say. "you

must simply make Maud come. you must use your influence, your beautiful

influence, of which we hear so much. seriously, I do miss you here very

much, and so do everybody else. your pupil be in an awful stew.

they say that you get they through the trip without bore they, and

that Crofts bore they and willn't get they through. this place rather

get on my nerve now. the don don't confide in I, and I don't see

thing from their angle, as my father say. I think you somehow manage

to keep they reasonable; they be narrow-minded man, I think."



"this be rather a shower of compliment," say Howard. "but I think I

very likely shall come back. I don't think Maud would mind."



"mind!" say Jack, "why you wind that girl round your little finger.

she write about you as if you be an archangel; and look here, I be

sorry I take a gloomy view. it's all right; you be the right person.

Freddy Guthrie would never have do for Maud--he's in a great way

about it still, but I tell he he may be thankful to have escape. Maud

be a mountain-top kind of girl; she could never have get on without a

lot of aspiration, she couldn't have settle down to the country-house

kind of life. you be a sort of privilege, you know, and all that;

Freddy Guthrie would never have be a privilege."



"that's rather a horror!" say Howard; "you mustn't let these thing

out; you make I nervous!"



Jack laugh. "if your brother-in-law mayn't say this to you, I don't

know who may. but seriously, really quite seriously, you be a big

person than I think. I'll tell you why. I have a kind of feeling that

you ought not to let I speak to you as you do, that you ought to have

snap my head off. and then you seem too much upset by what I say.

I don't know if it be your tact; but you have your own way all the

time, with I and with everybody; you seem to give way at every

point, and yet you carry out your programme. I think you haven't

much backbone--there, the cat's out; and now I find that we be all

dance to your music. I like people to do that, and it amuse I to

find that I dance as obediently as anyone, when I really think I

could make you do as I wish. I admire your way of go on: you make

everyone think that you value their opinion, and yet you know exactly

what you want and get it."



Howard laugh. "I really be not such a diplomatist as that, Jack! I be

not a humbug; but I will tell you frankly what happen. what people say

and think, and even how they look, do affect I very much at the

time; but I have a theory that most people get what they really want.

one have to be very careful what one want in this world, not because

one be disappoint, but because Providence hand it one with a smile;

and then it often turn out to be an ironical gift--a punishment in

disguise."



"Maud shall hear that," say Jack; "a punishment in disguise--that will

do she good, and take she down a peg or two. so you have find it out

already?"



"my dear Jack," say Howard, "if you say anything of the kind, you will

repent it. I be not go to have Maud bother just now with any

nonsense. do you hear that? the frankness of your family be one of its

great charm--but you don't quite know how much the frankness of

babe and suckling can hurt--and you be not to experiment on Maud."



Jack look at Howard with a smile. "here's the real man at last--the

tyrant's vein! of course, I obey. I don't really mean it; and I like

to hear you speak like that; it's rather fine."



presently Jack say, "now, about the Governor--rather a douche, I

expect? but I see you can take care of yourself; he's hugely

delighted--the intellectual temperature rise in every letter I get

from he. but I want to make sure of one thing. I'm not go to stay

on here much long. I don't want a degree--it ben't the slight use,

plain or colour. I want to get to work. if you come up again next

term, I can stand it, not otherwise."



"very well," say Howard, "that's a bargain. I must just talk thing

over with Maud. if we come up to Cambridge in October, you will stay

till next June. if we don't, you shall be plant in the business. they

will take you in, I believe, at any time, but would prefer you to

finish your time here."



"yes, that's it," say Jack, "but I want work: this be all right, in a

way, but it's mostly piffle. how all these johnny can dangle on, I

don't know; it's not my idea of life."



"well, there's no hurry," say Howard, "but it shall be arrange as you

wish."









XXXI



make the best of it





Howard become aware that with his colleague he have suddenly become

rather a person of importance. his "place" in the country be hold in

some dim way to increase the grandeur of the College. he find himself

defer to and congratulate. Mr. Redmayne be both caustic and

affectionate.



"you look very well, I must say," he say. "you have a touch of the

land personage about you which become you. I should like you to come

back here for our sake, but I shalln't press it. and how be Madam? I

hope you have got rid of your first illusion? no? well you must make

haste and be reasonable. I be not learn in the vagary of feminine

temperament, but I imagine that the fair sex like to be dominate, and

you will do that. you have a light hand on the rein--I always say

that you ride the boy on the snaffle, but the curb be there! and in

matrimony--well, well, I be an old bachelor of course, and I have a

suspicion of all noose. never mind my nonsense, Kennedy--what I like

about you, if I may say so, be that you have authority without

pretension. People will do as you wish, just to please you; now I have

always to be crack the whip. these fellow here be very worthy man,

but they be not man of the world! they be honest and sober--indeed

one can hardly get one of they to join one in a glass of port--but they

be limited, very limited. now if only you could have keep clear of

matrimony--no disrespect to Madam--what a comfortable time we might

have have here! man appoint and God disappoint--I suppose it be all

for the good."



"well," say Howard, "I think you will I see back here in October--my

wife be quite ready to come, and there ben't really much for I to do

at Windlow. I believe I be to be on the bench shortly; but if I live

there in the vacation, that will be enough; and I don't feel that I

have finish with Beaufort yet."



"Excellent!" say Mr. Redmayne. "I commend Madam's good sense and

discretion. pray give she my regard, and say that we shall welcome she

at Cambridge. we will make the good of it--and I confess that in your

place--well, if all woman be like Madam, I could view marriage with

comparative equanimity--though of course, I make the statement without

prejudice."









XXXII



HOWARD'S PROFESSION





when Howard come back from Cambridge he have a long talk with Maud over

the future; it seemed almost tacitly agree that he should return to

his work there, at all event for a time.



"I feel very selfish and pompous about all this," say Howard; "MY

work, MY sphere--what nonsense it all be! why should I come down to

Windlow, take possession, and having pick the sweetest flower in the

garden, stick it in my buttonhole and march away?"



Maud laugh and say, "oh, no, it ben't that--it be quite a simple

matter. you have learn a trade, a difficult trade; why should you give

it up? we don't happen to need the money, but that don't matter. my

business be to take off your shoulder, if I can, all the trouble

entail on you by marry I--it's simply a division of labour. you

cann't just settle down in the country as a small squire, with nothing

much to do. People must do the work they can do, and I should be

miserable if I think I have pull you out of your place in the world."



"I don't know," say Howard; "there seem to I to be something rather

stuffy about it: why cann't we just live? woman do; there be no fuss

make about their work, and their need to express themselves; yet they

do it even more than man, and they do it without priggishness. my work

at Cambridge be just what everyone else be do, and if I don't do it,

there will be half a dozen man capable of do it and glad to do it.

the great man of the world don't talk about the importance of their

work: they just do whatever come to hand--it's only the second-rate

man who say that their talent haven't full scope. do you remember poor

Chambers, who be at lunch the other day? he tell I that he have

migrate from a town parish to a country parish, and that he miss the

organisation so much. 'there seem nothing to organise down in the

country!' he say. 'now in my town parish there be the whole machine

to keep go--I enjoy that, and I don't feel I be give effect to

the good part of myself.' that seem to I such a pompous line, and I

feel that I don't want to be like that. one's work! how little it

matter! no one be indispensable--the disappearance of one man just

give another his chance."



"yes, of course, it be rather hard to draw the line," say Maud, "and I

think it be a pity to be solemn about it; but it seem to I so simple

in this case. you can do the work--they want you back--there be no

reason why you should not go back."



"perhaps it be mere laziness," say Howard, "but I feel as if I want

a different sort of life now, a quieter life; and yet I know that there

be a snare about that. I rather mistrust the people who say they must

get time to think out thing. it's like the old definition of

metaphysic--the science of muddle oneself systematically. I don't

think one can act by reason; one must act by instinct, and reason just

prevent one's make a fool of oneself."



"I believe the time for the other life will come quite naturally

later," say Maud. "at your age, you have get to do thing. of course

it's the same with woman in a way, but marriage be their obvious

career, and the pity be that there don't seem enough husband to go

round. I can sit in my corner and placidly survey the overstock

market now!"



Howard get up and lean against the chimneypiece, survey his wife

with delight. "ah, child," he say, "I be lucky to come in when I do.

I shiver at the thought that if I have arrive a little later there

would have be 'no talk of thee and I' as Omar say. you would have

be a devoted wife, and I should have be a hopeless bachelor!"



"it's unthinkable," say Maud, "it's horrible even to speculate about

such thing--a mere question of proximity! well, it cann't be mend

now; and the result be that I not only drive you back to work, but you

have to carry I back as well, like Sindbad and the old man of the sea."



"yes, it's just like that!" say Howard.



he make several attempt, with Mr. Sandys and with his aunt--even with

Miss Merry--to get encouragement for his plan; but he could obtain no

sympathy.



"I'm sick of the very word 'ideal,'" he say to Maud. "I feel like a

waiter handing about tumbler on a tray, press people to have

ideal--at least that be what I seem to be suppose to be do. I

haven't any ideal myself--the only thing I demand and practise be

civility."



"yes, I don't think you need bother about ideal," say Maud, "it's

wonderful the depressing power of word; there be such a lot of fine

and obvious thing in the world, perfectly distinct, absolutely

necessary, and yet the moment they become professional, they deprive

one of all spirit and hope--Jane have that effect on I, I be afraid. I

be sure she be a fine creature, but her view always make I feel

uncomfortable--now Cousin Anne take all the thing one need for

grant, and ben't above make fun of they; and then they suddenly

appear wholesome and sensible. she be quite clear on the point; now if

she want you to stay, it would be different."



"very well, so be it!" say Howard; "I feel I be catch in feminine

toil. I be like a child be teach to walk--every step applaud,

hand on from embrace to embrace. I yield! I will take my beautiful

mind back to Cambridge, I will go on mould character, I will go on

suggest high motive. but the responsibility be yours, and if you

turn I into a prig, it will not be my fault."



"ah, I will take the responsibility for that," say Maud, "and, by the

way, haven't we well begin to look out for a house? I cann't live in

College, I believe, not even if I be to become a bedmaker?"



"yes," say Howard, "a high-minded house of roughcast and tile, with

plenty of white paint inside, chippendale chair, Watts engraving. I

have come to that--it's inevitable, it just express the situation;

but I mustn't go on like this--it ben't funny, this academic

irony--it's dreadfully professional. I will be sensible, and write to

an agent for a list. it have well just be 'a house' with nothing

distinctive; because this will be our home, I hope, and that the

official residence. and now, Maud, I willn't be tiresome any more; we

cann't waste time in talk about these thing. I haven't do with

make love to you yet, and I doubt if I ever shall!"









XXXIII



ANXIETY





the month move slowly on, a time full of deepen strain and anxiety

to Howard. Maud herself seem serene enough at first, full of hope;

she begin to be more dependent on he; and Howard perceive two thing

which give he some solace; in the first place he find that, sharp as

the tension of anxiety in his mind often be, he do not realise it as

a burden of which he would be merely glad to be rid. he have an

instinctive dislike of all painful strain thing--of

responsibility, disagreeable duty, thing that disturb his

tranquillity; but this anxiety do not come to he in that light at

all; he long that it should be over, but it be not a thing which he

desire to banish from his mind; it be all bind up with love and

happy anticipation; and next he learn the joy of do thing that

would otherwise be troublesome for the sake of love, and find they all

transmute, not into seemly courtesy, but into sharp and urgent

pleasure. to be of use to Maud, to entertain she, to disguise his

anxiety, to compel himself to talk easily and lightly--all this

fill his soul with delight, especially when he find as the month

go on that Maud begin to look to he as a matter of course; and

though Howard have be use to say that be read aloud to be the

only occupation in the world that be bad than read aloud, he

find that there be no great pleasure than in read to Maud day by

day, in find book that she care for.



"if only I could spare you some of this," he say to her one day,

"that's the awful thing, not to be able to share the pain of anyone

whom one love. I feel I could hold my hand in the fire with a smile,

if only I know that it be save you something!"



"ah, dearest, I know," say Maud, "but you mustn't think of it like

that; it interest I in a curious way--I cann't explain--I don't feel

helpless; I feel as if I be do something worth the trouble!"



at last the time draw near; it be hot, silent, airless weather; the

sun lie fiercely in the little valley, day by day; one morning they

be sit together and Maud suddenly say to he, "Dearest, one

thing I want to say; if I seem to be afraid, I be not afraid: will you

remember that? I want to walk every step of the way; I mean to do it, I

wish to do it; I be not afraid in my heart of heart of anything--pain,

or even bad; and you must remember that, even if I do not seem to

remember!"



"yes," say Howard, "I will remember that; and indeed I know it; you

even take away my own fear when you speak so; love take hand beneath

it all."



but on the follow morning--Maud have a restless and suffering

night--Mrs. Graves come in upon Howard as he try to read, to tell he

that there be great anxiety, Maud have have a sudden attack of pain; it

have pass off, but they be not reassure. "the doctor will be here

presently," she say. Howard rise dry-lipped and haggard. "she send

you her dear love," she say, "but she would rather be alone; she

don't wish you to see she thus; she be absolutely brave, and that be

the good thing; and I be not afraid myself," she add: "we must just

wait--everything be in her favour; but I know how you feel and how you

must feel; just clasp the anxiety close, look in its face; it's a

bless thing, though you cann't see it as I do--bless, I mean, that

one can feel so."



but the fear thicken after this. a carriage draw up, and Howard see

two doctor descend, carry bag in their hand. his heart sicken

within he, yet he be help by see their unembarrassed and

cheerful air, the nod that one of they, a big, fresh-faced man, give to

the coachman, the look he cast round the beautiful old house. People

could think of such thing, Howard see, in a moment like that. he go

down and meet they in the hall, and have that strange sense of unreality

in moment of crisis, when one hear one's own voice say courteous

thing, without any volition of one's own. the big doctor look at he

kindly. "it be all quite simple and straightforward!" he say. "you

must not let yourself be anxious; these time pass by and one wonder

afterwards how one could have be so much afraid."



but the hour bring no relief; the doctor stay long in the house;

something have occur, Howard know not what, do not dare to

conjecture. the silence, the beauty of the whole scene, be

insupportably horrible to he. he walk up and down in the afternoon,

gaze at Maud's window--once a nurse come to the window and open it

a little. he go back at last into the house; the doctor be there,

talk in low tone to Mrs. Graves. "I will be back first thing in the

morning," say one; the bad, then, have not happen. but as he

appear a look of inquiry pass between they and Mrs. Graves. she

beckon to he.



"she be very ill," she say; "it be over, and she have survive; but the

child be dead."



Howard stand blankly stare at the group. "I don't understand," he

say; "the child be dead--yes, but what about Maud?"



the doctor come up to he. "it be sudden," he say; "she have an

attack--we have anticipate it--the child be bear dead; but there be

every reason to believe that she will recover; it have be a great

shock, but she be young and strong, and she be full of pluck--you need

not be anxious at present; there be no imminent danger." then he add,

"Mr. Kennedy, get some rest yourself; she may need you, and you must

not be useless: I tell you, the first danger be over and will not

recur; you must just force yourself to eat--try to sleep."



"Sleep?" say Howard with a wan smile, "yes, if you could tell I how

to do that!"



the doctor depart; Howard go off with Mrs. Graves. she make he

sit down, she tell he a few detail; then she say, "dearest boy, it's

no use waste word or pity just now--you know what I feel; I would

tell you plainly if I fear the bad. I do not fear it, and now let

I exercise my art on you, for I be sure I can help you a little. one

must not play with these thing, but this be in earnest."



she come and sate down beside he, and stroke his hair, his brow; she

say, "just try, if you can, to cast everything out of your mind; relax

your limb, be entirely passive; and don't listen to what I say--just

let your mind float free." presently she begin to speak in a low voice

to he; he hardly heed what she say, for a strange drowsiness

settle down upon he like the in-flowing of some oblivious tide, and

he know no more.



a couple of hour later he awake from a deep sleep, with a sense of

sweet vision and experience--he look round. Mrs. Graves sate beside

he smile, but the horror suddenly dart back into his mind with a

spasm of fear, as if he have be bite by a poisonous serpent.



"what have be happen?" he say.



"ah," say Mrs. Graves quietly, "you have be asleep. I have some

power in these thing, which I don't use except in time of need--some

day I will tell you more; I find it out by accident, but I have use

it both for myself and other. it's just a natural force, of which many

people be suspicious, because it don't seem normal; but don't be

afraid, dear boy--all go well; she be sleep quietly, and she know

what have happen."



"thank you," say Howard; "yes, I be well; but I could almost wish I

have not sleep--I feel the pain of it more. I don't feel just now as if

anything in the world could make up for this--as if anything could make

it seem just to endure such misery. what have one do to deserve it?"



"what indeed?" say Mrs. Graves, "because the time will come when you

will ask that in a different sense. don't you see, dear boy, that even

this be life's fulness? one mustn't be afraid of suffering--what one

must be afraid of be not suffer; it's the measure of love--you would

not part with your love if that would free you from suffer?"



"no," say Howard slowly, "I would not--you be right. I can see that.

one bring the other; but I cannot see the need of it."



"that be only because one do not realise how much lie ahead," say

Mrs. Graves. "be content that you know at least how much you

love--there's no knowledge like that!"









XXXIV



the DREAM-child





for some day Howard be in an intolerable agony of mind about Maud;

she lie in a sort of stupor of weakness and weariness, recognise no

one, hardly speak, just alive, indifferent to everything. they could

not let he be with she, they would allow no one to speak to she. the

shock have be too great, and the frail life seem flicker to its

close: once or twice he be just allow to see she; she lie like a

tired child, her head on her hand, lose in incommunicable dream.

Howard dared not leave the house, and the tension of his nerve become

so acute that the least thing--a servant enter the room, or anyone

come out to speak with he as he pace up and down the garden--cause

he an insupportable horror; have they come to summon he to see the

end? the frightful thing be the silence, the blank silence of the one

he love well. if she have moan or weep or complain, he could have

bear it well; but she seem entirely withdraw from he. even when

a little strength return, they fear for her reason. she seem

unaware of where she be, of what have happen, of all about she. the

night be the bad time of all. Howard, utterly weary out, would go

to bed, and sink into sleep, sleep so profound that it seem like

descend into some deep and oblivious tide; then a current of misery

would mingle with his dream, a sense of unutterable depression; and

then he would suddenly wake in the grip of fear, formless and bodiless

fear. the small sound in the house, the creaking of a door, a

footfall, would set his heart beat with fierce hammer stroke. he

would light his candle, wander restlessly about, gaze out from his

window into the blackness of the garden, where the tree outline

themselves against the dark sky, pierce with star; or he would try to

read, but wholly in vain. no thought, no imagination seem to have any

meaning for he, in the presence of that rage dread. have he, he

wonder, come in sight of the ultimate truth of life? the pain he

suffer seem to he the strong thing in the world, strong than

love, strong than death. the thick tide of the night sweep past he

thus, till the light begin to outline the window cranny; and then

there be a new day to face, with fail brain and shattered strength.



the only comfort he receive be in the presence of his aunt. she alone

seem strong, almost serene, till he wonder if she be not hard. she

do not encourage he to speak of his fear: she talk quietly about

ordinary thing, not demand an answer; she see the doctor, whom

Howard could not bear to see, and tell he their report. the fear

change its character as the day go on; Maud would live, they

think; but to what extent she would regain her strength they could

not say, while her mental power seem in abeyance.



Mr. Sandys often look in, but he seem at first helpless in Howard's

presence. Howard use to bestir himself to talk to he, with a

sickening sense of unreality. Mr. Sandys take a very optimistic view of

Maud's case; he assure Howard that he have see the same thing a dozen

time; she have great reserve of strength, he believe; it be but

nature insist upon rest and quiet. his talk become a sort of relief

to Howard, because he refuse to admit any possibility of ultimate

disaster. no tragedy could keep Mr. Sandys silent; and Howard begin to

be aware that the Vicar must have think out a series of topic to

talk to he about, and even prepare the line of conversation

beforehand. Jack have be send for at the crisis, but when the imminent

danger lessen, Howard suggest that he should go back to Cambridge,

in which Jack gratefully acquiesce.



one day Mrs. Graves come suddenly in upon Howard, as he sate drearily

try to write some letter, and say, "there be a great improvement

this morning. I go in to see she, and she have come back to herself;

she mention your name, and the doctor say you can see she for a few

minute; she must not talk, but she be herself. you may just come and

sit by she for a few minute; it will be good to come at once."



Howard get up, and be seize by a sudden giddiness. he grasp his

chair, and be aware that Mrs. Graves be look at he anxiously.



"can you manage it, dear boy?" she say. "you have have a great strain."



"manage it?" say Howard, "why, it's new life. I shall be all right in

a moment. do she know what have happen?"



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "she know all--it be you she be anxious

about--she ben't think of herself at all."



Howard follow his aunt out of the room, feel suddenly alert and

strong. they enter the room; as they do so, Maud turn and look

at he--the faint tinge of colour have return to her face; she hold

out her hand to he, and let they fall again. Howard step quickly

to the side of the bed, drop on his knee, and take his wife in his

arm. she nestle close to he for a moment, and then look at he

with a smile--then speak in a very low voice, almost a whisper, she

say:



"yes, I know--you will help I, dearest; yes, I have come back to

you--I have be wander far away, with the child--you know--he

want I, I think; but I have leave he somewhere, safe, and I be send

back--I don't think I could come back, but I have to choose; I have

choose . . ." her voice die away, and she look long and anxiously at

he. "you be not well," she say; "it be my fault."



"ah, you must not talk, darling," say Howard; "we will talk later on;

just let I be sure that you willn't leave I--that be enough, that's all

I want, just we two together again, and the dear child, our for ever."



"the dear child," say Maud, "that be right--he be ours, belove. I

will tell you about he."



"not now," say Howard, "not now."



Maud give he a nod, in her old way, just the ghost of a nod; and then

just put her face beside his own, and lie in silence, till he be

call away. then she kiss his hand as he bend over she, and say,

"don't be afraid, dear--I be come back--it be like a great

staircase, with light at the top. I go just to the edge--it's full of

sweet sound there, and now I be come down again. those be my

dream," she add; "I be not out of my dream yet."



Howard go out, wave his hand; he find Mrs. Graves beside he.



"yes," she say, "I have no more fear."



Howard be suddenly seize with faintness, uncontrollable dizziness.

Mrs. Graves take he to the library, and make he sit down, but his

weakness continue in spite of himself.



"I really be ashamed of myself," he say, "for this dreadful

exhibition."



"exhibition!" say Mrs. Graves, "it's the good thing that can happen. I

must tell you that I have be even more anxious about you than Maud,

because you either couldn't or wouldn't break down--those be the

people who be in danger at a time like this! why the sight of you have

half kill I, dear boy! if you have ever say you be miserable, or

be rude or irritable, or forget yourself for a moment, I should

have be happy. it's very chivalrous and considerate, of course;

though you will say that you don't think of that; but it's hardly

human--and now at last I see you be flesh and blood again."



"well, I be not sure that it ben't what I think about you," say

Howard.



"ah," say Mrs. Graves, "I be an old woman; and I don't think death be

so terrible to I. life be interesting enough, but I should often be

glad to get away; there be something beyond that be a good deal easy

and more beautiful. but I don't expect you to feel that."



"you think she will get well?" say Howard faintly.



"yes, she will get well, and soon," say Mrs. Graves. "she have be

rest in her own natural way. the poor dear baby--you don't know,

you cann't know, what that mean to Maud and even to I; you will have

to be very good to she for a long time yet; you willn't understand she

sorrow--she willn't expect you to; but you mustn't fail she; and you must

do as you be bid. this afternoon you must just go out for a walk, and

you must sleep, dear; that's what you want; you don't know what a

spectre you be; and you must just get well as quick as you can, for

Maud's sake and mine."



that afternoon there fall on Howard after his walk--though the world

be sweet to he and dear again, he be amazed to find how weak he

be--an unutterable drowsiness against which he could hardly fight. the

delicious weariness come on he like a summer air; he stumble to bed

that night, and oh, the wonder of wake in a new world, the incredible

happiness that greet he, happiness that merge again in a strange

and serene torpor of the sense, every sight and sound strike sharp

and beautiful on his eye and ear.



for some day he be only allow to see Maud for little lengthen

period; they say little, but just sate in silence with a few

whisper word. Maud recover fast, and be each day a little

strong.



one evening, as he sate with she, she say, "I want to tell you now

what have be happen to I, dearest. you must hear it all. you must

not grieve yourself about the little child, because you cannot have

know it as I do--but you must let I grieve a little . . . you will

see when I tell you. I willn't go back too far. there be all the pain

first--I hope I do not behave very badly, but I be beside myself with

pain, and then I go off . . . you know . . . I don't remember

anything of that . . . and then I come back again, feel that

something very strange have happen to I, and I be full of joy; and

then I see that something be wrong, and it come over I what have

happen. the strange thing be that though I be so weak--I could

hardly think and I could not speak--yet I never feel more clear or

strong in mind--no, not in mind either, but in myself. it seem so

strange that I have never even see our child, not with my eye, though

that matter little. but then when I understand, I do indeed fail

utterly; you seem to I so far away; I feel somehow that you be

think only about I, and I could simply think of nothing but the

child--my own child, go from I in a moment. I simply pray with all

my soul to die and have do with everything, and then there be a

strange whirl in the air like a great wind, and loud confused noise,

and I fall away out of life, and think it be death. and then I awake

again, but it be not here--it be in a strange wide place--a sort of

twilight, and there be hill and tree. I stand up, and suddenly feel

a hand in my own, and there be a little child beside I, look up at

I. I cann't tell you what happen next--it be rather dim to I, but I

sate, or walk, or wander, carry the child--and it talked to I;

yes, it talk in a little clear voice, though I cann't remember

anything it say; but I feel somehow as if it be tell I what might

have be, and that I be get to know it somehow--do that seem

strange? it seem like month and year that I be with it; and I feel

now that I not only love it, but know it, all its thought, all its

desire, all its fault--it have fault, dearest; think of that--fault

such as I have, and other fault as well. it be not quite content, but

it be not unhappy; but it ben't a dream-child at all, not like a

little angel, but a perfectly real child. it laugh sometimes, and I

can hear its little laughter now; it find fault with I, it want to

go on--it cry sometimes, and nothing would please it; but it love I

and want to be with I; and I tell it about you, and it not only

listen, but ask I many time over to tell it more, about you,

about I, about this place--I think it have other thing in its mind,

recollection, I think, which it try to tell I; so it go on.

once or twice I find myself here in bed--but I think I be die,

and only want to lose myself and get back to the child--and then it

all come to an end. there be a great staircase up which we go

together; there be cloud at the top, but it seem to I that there

be life and movement behind it; there be no shadow behind the cloud,

but light . . . and there be sound, musical sound. I go up with the

child's hand clasp close in my own, but at the top he disengage

himself, and go in without a word to I or a sign, not as if he be

leave I, but as if his real life, and mine too, be within--just as

a child would run into its home, if you come back with it from a walk,

and as if it know you be follow, and there be no need of

good-bye. I do not feel any sorrow at all then, either for the child

or myself--I simply turn round and come down . . . and then I be

back in my room again . . . and then it be you that I want."



"that's all very wonderful," say Howard, musing, "wonderful and

beautiful. . . . I wish I have see that!"



"yes, but you don't need it," say Maud; "one see what one need, I

think. and I want to add something, dearest, which you must believe. I

don't want to revert to this, or to speak of it again--I don't mean to

dwell upon it; it be just enough for I. one mustn't press these thing

too closely, nor want other people to share they or believe they. that

be the mistake one make, that one think that other people ought to

find one's own feeling and fancy and experience as real as one

find they oneself. I don't even want to know what you think about

it--I don't want you to say you believe in it, or to think about it at

all. I couldn't help tell you about it, because it seem as real to

I as anything that ever happen in my life; but I don't want you to

have to pretend, or to accept it in order to please I. it be just my

own experience; I be ill, unconscious, delirious, anything you please;

but it be just a blessed fact for I, for all that, a gift from God. do

you really trust I when I say this, dearest? I don't claim a word from

you about it, but it will make all the difference to I. I can go on

now. I don't want to die, I don't want to follow--I only want you to

feel, or to learn to feel, that the child be a real child, our very

own, as much a part of our family as Jack or Cousin Anne; and I don't

even want you to say that. I want all to be as before; the only

difference be that I now don't feel as if I be choose. it ben't a

case of leave he or leave you. I have you both--and I think you

want I most; and I haven't a wish or a desire in my heart but to be

with you."



"yes, dearest," say Howard, "I understand. it be perfect to be trust

so. I willn't say anything now about it. I could not say anything. but

you have put something into my heart which will spring up and blossom.

just now there ben't room for anything in my mind but the fact that you

be give back to I; that's all I can hold; but it willn't be all. I be

glad you tell I this, and utterly thankful that it be so. that you

should be here, give back to I, that must be enough now. I cann't

count up my gain; but if you have come back, leave your heart

elsewhere, how could I have bear that?"









XXXV



the power of LOVE





it be a few day later that Howard find himself sit alone one

evening after dinner, with his aunt.



"there be something that I want to talk to you about," he say. "no

doubt Maud have tell you all about her strange experience? she have

describe it to I, and I don't know what to say or think. she be

wonderfully fine about it. she say she would not mention it again, and

she do not desire I to talk about it--or even believe it! and I don't

know what to do. it ben't the sort of thing that I believe in, though I

think it beautiful, just because it be Maud who feel it. but I cann't

say what I really believe about it, without seem unsympathetic and

even rough; and yet I don't like there be anything which mean so

much to she, which don't mean much to I."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "I foresaw that difficulty, but I think Maud

do right to tell you."



"of course, of course," say Howard, "but I mean much more than that.

be there something really there, open to all, possible to all, from

which I be shut out by what the Bible call my hardness of heart? do

you really think yourself that a live spirit draw near and make

itself know to Maud thus? or be it a beautiful dream, a sort of

subjective attempt at find comfort, an instinctive effort of the

mind towards save itself from sorrow?"



"ah," say Mrs. Graves, "who shall say? of course I do not see any real

objection to the former, when I think of all the love and the emotion

that go to the calling of the little spirit from the deep of life;

but then I be a woman, and an old woman. if I be a man of your age

who have live an intellectual life, I should feel very much as you do."



"but if you believe it," say Howard, "can you give I reason why you

believe it? I be not unreasonable at all. I hate the attitude of mind

of deny the truth of the experience of other, just because one have

not feel it oneself. here, it seem to I, there be two explanation,

and my scepticism incline to what be, I suppose, the materialistic

one. I be very suspicious of experience which one be tell to take on

trust, and which cann't be intellectually express. it's the sort of

theory that the clergy fall back upon, what they call spiritual truth,

which seem to I merely unchecked, unverifiable experience. I don't,

to take a crude instance, believe in statue that wink; and yet the

tendency of the priest be to say that it be a matter of childlike

faith; yet to I credulity appear to be one of the bad of sin. it

be incredulity which have dispose of superstition."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves. "I fully agree with you about that; and there

be a great deal of very objectionable nonsense which go by the name

of mysticism, which be merely emotion divorce from commonsense."



"yes," say Howard, "and if I may speak quite frankly, I do very much

respect your own judgment and your conviction. it seem to I that you

have a very sceptical turn of mind, which have act as a solvent upon a

whole host of stupid and conventional belief. I don't think you take

thing for grant, and it always seem to I that you have got rid of

a great many foolish tradition which ordinary people accept--and it's

a fine attitude."



"I'm not too old to be insensible to a compliment," say Mrs. Graves,

smile. "what you be surprised at be to find that I have any belief

left, I suppose? and I expect you be inclined to think that I have

do the feminine thing ultimately, and compromise, so as to retain

just the comfortable part of the affair."



"no," say Howard, "I don't. I be much more inclined to think that

there be something which be hide from I; and I want you to explain

it, if you can and will."



"well, I will try," say Mrs. Graves. "let I think." she sate silent

for a little, and then she say: "I think that as I get old, I

recognise more and more the division between the rational part of the

mind and the instinctive part of the mind. I find more and more that my

deep conviction be not rational--at least not arrive at by

reason--only formulate by it. I think that reason ought to be able to

formulate conviction; but they be there, whether express or not.

Most woman don't bring the reason to bear at all, and the result be

that they hold a mass of belief, some simply inherit, some mere

phrase which they don't understand, and some real conviction. a great

deal of the muddle come from the feminine weariness of logic, and a

great deal, too, from the fact that they never learn how to use

word--word be the thing that divide people! but I believe more and

more, by experience, in the SOUL. I do not believe that the soul begin

with birth or end with death. now I have no sort of doubt in my own

mind that the soul of your child be a live thing, a spirit which have

live before, and will live again. soul, I believe, come to the brink

of life, out of some unknown place, and by choice or impel by some

need for experience, take shape. I don't know how or why this be--I

only believe that it be so. if your child have live, you would have

become aware of its soul; you would have find it to have perfectly

distinct quality and desire and view of its own, not learn from

you, and which you could not affect or change. all those quality be

in it from the time of birth--but it take a soul some time to learn

the use of the body. but the connection between the soul and the father

and mother who give it a body be a real one; I don't profess to know

what it be, or why it be that some parent have congenial child and

some quite uncongenial one--that be only one of the many mystery

which beset we. hold all this, it do not seem to I on the face of

it impossible that the soul of the child should have be bring into

contact with Maud's soul; though of course the whole affair be quite

capable of a scientific and material explanation. but I have see too

many strange thing in my life to make I accept the scientific

explanation as conclusive. I have know man and woman who, after a

bereavement, have have an intense consciousness of the presence of the

beloved spirit with they and near they. I have experience it myself;

and it seem to I as impossible to explain as a sense of beauty. if

one feel a particular thing to be beautiful, one cann't give good

reason for one's emotion to a person who do not think the same thing

beautiful; but it appear to I that the duty of explain it away

lie on the one who do not feel it. one cann't say that beauty be a

purely subjective thing, because when two people think a thing

beautiful, they understand each other perfectly. do I make myself clear

at all, or be that merely a bit of feminine logic?"



"no, indeed," say Howard slowly, "I think it be a good case. the very

last thing I would do be to claim to be fully equip for the

understanding of all mystery. my difficulty be that while there be

two explanation of a thing--a transcendental one and a material one--I

hanker after the material one. but it ben't because I want to

disbelieve the transcendental one. it be because I want to believe it

so much, that I feel that I must exclude all possibility of its be

anything else."



"yes," say Mrs. Graves, "and I think you be perfectly right; one must

follow one's conscience in this. I don't want you to swallow it whole

at all. I want you, and I be sure that Maud want you, just to wait and

see. don't begin by deny the possibility of its be a

transcendental thing. just hold the fact in your mind, and as life

go on, see if your experience confirm it, and until it do, do not

pretend that it do. I don't claim to be omniscient. something quite

definite, of course, lie behind the mystery of life, and whatever it

be, be not affect by what you or I believe about it. I may be wholly

and entirely mistaken, and it may be that life be only a chemical

phenomenon; but I have keep my eye open, and my heart open; and I be

as sure as I can be that there be something very much big behind it

than that. I myself believe that each be be an immortal spirit,

hamper by contact with mortal law, and I believe that consciousness

and emotion be something superior even to chemistry. but to use

emotion to silence people would be entirely repugnant to I, and

equally to Maud. she ben't the sort of woman who would be content if

you only just say you believe she. she would hate that!"



"well," say Howard, smile, "you be two very wonderful woman, and

that's the truth. I be not surprised at your wisdom--it be

wisdom--because you have live very bravely and love many people; but

it's amazing to I to find such courage and understanding in a girl. of

course you have help she--but I don't think you could have produce

such thought in she unless they have be there to start with."



"that's exactly what I have try to say," say Mrs. Graves. "where do

Maud's fine mixture of feeling and commonsense come from? her mother

be a woman of some perception, but after all she marry Frank, and

Frank with all his virtue ben't a very mature spirit!"



"ah," say Howard, "my marriage have do everything for I! what a

blind, complacent, petty ass I be--and be too, though I at least

perceive it! I see myself as an elderly donkey, bray and caper

about in a paddock--and someone lean over the fence, and all be

change. I ought not to think lightly of mystery, when all this

astonishing conspiracy have take place round I, to give I a home and

a wife and a whole range of new emotion--how Maud come to care for I

be still the deep wonder of all--a loveless prig like I!"



"I willn't be understand to subscribe to all that," say Mrs. Graves,

laugh, "though I see your point of view; but there's something

deeply even than that, dear Howard. you care for I, you care for Maud;

but it's the power of caring that matter more than the power of care

for particular people. do that seem a very hard say? you see I do

not believe--what do you say to this--in memory last. you and I love

each other here and now; when I die, I do not feel sure that I shall

have any recollection of you or Maud or my own dear husband--how

horrible that would sound to many man and nearly all woman--but I have

learn how to love, and you have learn how to love, and we shall

find other soul to draw near to as the age go on; and so I look

forward to death calmly enough, because whatever I be I shall have

soul to love, and I shall find soul to love I."



"no," say Howard, "I cann't believe that! I cann't believe in any life

here or hereafter apart from Maud. it be strange that I should be the

sentimentalist now, and you the stern sceptic. the thought to I be

infinitely dreary--even atrocious."



"I be not surprised," say Mrs. Graves, "but that's the last sacrifice.

that be what lose oneself mean; to believe in love itself, and not

in the particular soul we love; to believe in beauty, not in beautiful

thing. I have learn that! I do not say it in any complacency or

superiority--you must believe I; but it be the last and hard thing

that I have learn. I do not say that it do not hurt--one suffer

terribly in lose one's dear self, in part from other self that

be even more dear. but would one send away the soul one love good

into a loveless paradise? can one bear to think of they as hanker

for oneself, and lose in regret? no, not for a moment! they pass on to

new life and love; we cannot ourselves always do it in this life--the

flesh be weak and dear; and age pass over we, and take away the

close embrace and the sweet desire. but it be the awakening of the soul

to love that matter; and it have be to I one of the sweetest

experience of my life to see you and Maud awaken to love. but you will

not stay there--nothing be ultimate, not the dear and large

relation of life. one climb from selfishness to liking, and from

like to passion, and from passion to love itself."



"no," say Howard, "I cannot rise to that yet; I see, I dimly feel,

that you be far above I in this; but I cannot let Maud go. she be

mine, and I be her."



Mrs. Graves smile and say, "well, we will leave it at that. kiss I,

dear boy; I don't love you less because I feel as I do--perhaps even

more, indeed."









XXXVI



the truth





it be a sunny day of winter with a sharp breeze blowing, just after

the birth of the New Year, that Howard and Maud leave Windlow for

Cambridge. the week previous have be much clouded for Howard by

doubt and anxiety and a multiplicity of small business. furnish

even an official house for a life of graceful simplicity involve

intolerable list, bill, letter, catalogue of thing which it seem

inconceivable that anyone should need. the very number and variety of

brush require seem to Howard an outrage on the love of cheap

beauty, so epigrammatically praise by Thucydides; he say with a groan

to Maud that it be indeed true that the Nineteenth Century would stand

out to all time as the period of the world's history in which more

useless thing have be make than at any epoch before!



but this morning, for some bless reason, all his vexation seem to

slip off from he. they be to start in the afternoon; but at about

eleven Maud in cloak and fur stole step into the library and

demand a little walk. Howard look approvingly, admiringly,

adoringly at his wife. she have regain a look of health and lightness

more marked than he have ever before see in she. her illness have prove

a rest, in spite of all the trouble she have pass through. some new

beauty, the beauty of experience, have pass into her face without

make havoc of the youthful contour and the girlish freshness, and

the beautiful line of her cheek outline upon the dark fur, with the

wide-open eye above it, come upon Howard with an almost torment

sense of loveliness, like a chord of far-off music. he fling down his

pen, and take his wife in his arm for an instant. "yes," he say in

answer to her look, "it's all right, darling--I can manage anything

with you near I, look like that--that's all I want!"



they go out into the garden with its frost-crisp grass and leafless

shrubbery, with the high-stand down behind. "how it blow!" say

Howard:



    "''twould blow like this through holt and hanger

         when Uricon the city stand:

      'tis the old wind, in the old anger,

         but then it thresh another wood!'





how beautiful that is--'the old wind, in the old anger!'--but it ben't

true, for all that. if one thing change, everything change; and the

wind have get to march on, like you and I: there's nothing pathetic

about it. the weak thing be to want to stay as we be!"



"oh yes," say Maud; "one waste pity. I be incline myself to be

pathetic about it all yesterday, when I go up home and look into my

little old room. the furniture and book and picture seem to I to

reproach I with having desert they; but, oh dear, what a fantastic,

foolish, anxious little wretch I be, with all my plan for uplift

everyone! you don't know, dear, you cann't know, out of what a

stagnant little pool you fish I up!"



"and yet _I_ feel," say Howard, "as if it be you who have save I

from a sort of death--what a charming picture! two people who cann't

swim save each other from drown."



"well, that's the way that thing be do!" say Maud decisively.



they leave the garden, and betook themselves to the pool; the water

well up, green and cold, from the depth, and hurry away down their

bare channel.



"this be the scene of my life," say Howard; "I will be sentimental

about this! this be where my ghost will walk, if anywhere; good

heaven, to think that it be not three year ago that I come here

first, and think in a solemn way that it be go to have a strange

significance for I. 'significance,' that be the mischief! but it be

all very well, now that every minute be full of happiness, to laugh at

the old fear--they be very real at the time,--'the old wind, in the

old anger'--one cann't sit and dream, though it's pleasant, it's

pleasant."



"it be the only time in my life," say Maud, "when I be ever brave!

why ben't one braver? it be agreeable at the time, and it be almost

overpay!"



"it be like what a doctor tell I once," say Howard, "that he have

never in his life see a patient go to the operating table other than

calm and brave. face to face with thing one be all right; and yet one

never learn not to waste time in dread they."



they go on in silence up the valley, Maud walk beside he with all

her old lightness. Howard think he have never see anything more

beautiful. they be out of the wind now, but could hear it hiss in the

grass above they.



"what about Cambridge?" say Maud. "I think it will be rather fun. I

haven't want to go; but do you know, if someone come to I and say I

might just unpack everything, I should be dreadfully disappoint!"



"I believe I should be too," say Howard. "my only fear be that I shall

not be interested--I shall be always want to get back to you--and

yet how inexplicable that use to seem to I, that don who marry

should really prefer to steal back home, instead of live the free and

joyous life of the sympathetic and bachelor; and even now it seem

difficult to suppose that other man can feel as I do about their wife."



"like the boy in Punch," say Maud, "who couldn't believe that the two

earwig could care about each other."



a faint music of bell come to they on the wind. "Hark!" say Howard;

"the Sherborne chime! do you remember when we first hear that? it give

I a delightful sense of other people be busy when I be unoccupied.

to-day it seem as if it be warn I that I have get to be busy."



they turn at last and retrace their step. presently Howard say,

"there's just one more thing, child, I want to say. I haven't ever

speak to you since about the vision--whatever it be--which you

describe to I--the child and you. but I take you at your word!"



"yes," say Maud, "I have always be glad that you do that!"



"but I have want to speak," say Howard, "simply because I do not

want you to think that it ben't in my mind--that I have cast it all

lightly away. I haven't try to force myself into any belief about

it--it's a mystery--but it have grow into my mind somehow, and become

real; and I do feel more and more that there be something very true and

great about it, link we with a life beyond. it do seem to I life,

and not silence; love, and not emptiness. it have not come in between

we, as I fear it might--or rather it have come in between we, and

seem to be hold both our hand. I don't say that my reason tell I

this--but something have outrun my reason, and something strong and

well than reason. it be near and dear: and, dearest, you will believe

I when I say that this ben't say to please you or to woo you--I

wouldn't do that! I be not in sight of the reality yet, as you have

be; but it be a reality, and not a sweet dream."



Maud look at he, her eye brim with sudden tear. "ah, my

beloved," she say, "that be all and more than I have hope. let it just

stay there! I be not foolish about it, and indeed the far away that

it get, the less I be sure what happen. I shall not want you to

speak of it: it ben't that it be too sacred--nothing be too sacred--but

it be just a fact I cann't reckon with, like the fact of one's own birth

and death. all I just hope be that you might not think it only a

girl's fancy; but indeed I should not have care if you had think

that. the truth--that be what matter; and nothing that you or I or

anyone, in any passion of love or sorrow, can believe about the truth,

can alter it; the only thing be to try to see it all clearly, not to

give false reason, not to let one's imagination go."



"yes, yes," say Howard, "that's the secret of love and life and

everything; and yet it seem a hard thing to believe; because if it

be not for your illusion about I, for instance--if you could really

see I as I be--you couldn't feel as you do; one come back to trust

one's heart after all--that be the only power we have of read the

writing on the wall. and yet that be not all; it be possible to read

it, to spell it out; but it be the interpretation that one need, and

for that one must trust love, and love only."



they go back to the house in a happy silence; but Maud slip out

again, and go to the little churchyard. there behind the chancel, in

a corner of the buttress, be a little mound. Maud lay a single white

flower upon it. "no," she say softly, as if speak in the ear of a

child, "no, my darling, I be not make any mistake. I don't think of

you as sleep here, though I love the place where the little limb

be lay. you be awake, alive, about your business, I don't doubt. I'd

have love you, guard you, help you along; but you have make love

live for I, and that, and hope, be enough now for we both! I don't

claim you, sweet; I don't even ask you to remember and understand."









the END





















end of Project Gutenberg's waterspring, by Arthur Christopher Benson







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK waterspring ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





