The project Gutenberg eBook of the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 3 of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 3 of 3)



author: Lady Charlotte Campbell Bury



Release date: January 25, 2018 [ebook #56435]



language: English



credit: produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image generously make available by the

        Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 3 of 3) ***









produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online distribute

Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

produce from image generously make available by the

Internet Archive)



















  the

  MANŒUVRING MOTHER.





  by the AUTHOR of

  "the history of a FLIRT."





  in three VOLUMES.



  VOL. III.







  LONDON:

  HENRY COLBURN, PUBLISHER,

  GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.



  1842.









  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, haymarket,

  printer to H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT.









the MANŒUVRING MOTHER.









CHAPTER XXII.





four year pass rapidly and tranquilly at Fairlee. the water of

Lochleven flow at the foot of its undulating ground, and the

mountain of Glencoe terminate the grandly-beautiful and distant

prospect which Christobelle gaze upon with untired delight, from the

different point where she love to sit in meditation, or employ

herself in paint its glow and ever-change tint. often do the

form of Anna Maria and Isabel appear before she, as she linger upon

the mountain-top which overhang the lake, and watch the golden sun

sink below the horizon.



often do the wood and smile land of Wetheral appear to her mental

view; and though its scenery, so flatly tame, sink into insignificance

before the cloud-cap Cona, and the hill of many name which

surround the rich and beautiful Lochleven--still, _there_ be the

remembrance of her first attachment; there be the form she love,

and the heart which love she, fondly. there be the scene of her

infancy, and there she have part from her kind companion and friend,

Sir John Spottiswoode.



Anna Maria's heart and eye be give exclusively to her excellent

husband, and Isabel be devoted to her child; but Sir John Spottiswoode

have be for week her instructor, her only attendant, and the

depository of her thought. she feel the loss of his society for

month; and when she gaze upon the calm lake, or muse upon the rocky

height, each and all throw back her thought to Sir John Spottiswoode.

oh! what would he, the travelled one, the lover of grand scenery--what

would _he_ say to the bold and graceful scenery? what would he say to

the combination of wood, and rock, and pleasant glen; the mountain,

the water, and all the glorious view which decorate Lochleven? surely

he would love its repose, its agitation, its sublimity; surely he

would love its grove, its island, and its storm. he would roam

with she through the lovely glen; they would together visit the fall

of Kinlochmore: they would meditate together on Eilan na Corak, and

climb the high point to watch the set sun, and think upon

absent one. why have she not a brother to accompany she in her pleasant

ramble, and why be he not Sir John Spottiswoode?



Lady Wetheral's health do not recover the shock of Lady Kerrison's

death. she sink gradually into an invalid: and, though she rarely

visit the beauteous scene around she, and never admire their

grandeur, yet her thought rest no long upon England. she be

content to remain at Fairlee, exhaust in body, and depress in

mind. her temper lose every trace of its former playfulness, and she

dwelt constantly and bitterly upon the idea of Clara's ingratitude in

not see she at the time of her decease. she tell Christobelle the

voice of Clara come to she in the dead of the night, and thunder

in the wind which roar from the mountain. she see Clara in her

dream ever point towards she, and exclaim, "oh! hard-hearted

mother!" she declare to Christobelle that if her death should prove

the consequence of such distressing visitation, she die by the hand

of Lady Kerrison, and her ungrateful conduct would have be the mean

of destroy the author of her existence, and the contriver of her

high and enviable establishment. she have indeed hear of ungrateful

child; but little could she imagine she be herself to fall a victim

to the daughter whom she have rear so carefully. Clara have die, and

she expect Julia would be equally undutiful. not once have she be

invite to Bedinfield, nor be she even apprize of their flight abroad!



such be Lady Wetheral's feeling; and her irritable and disappointed

mind vent its bitterness upon the innocent Christobelle. the

leading thought of her heart and the aim of her action have ever be

the establishment of her child, and upon her young daughter,

now in the midst of suffering and solitude, do her anxiety rest.

Christobelle be to beware of the sun and of the dew. it be ruinous to

the complexion to sit stare for hour in a hot sun upon nonsensical

view, and still bad, to roam about with a plaid round her shoulder,

and a hat swinge to her arm, like a low-live Scotch girl. lochleven

produce much gaiety in the autumn, as many family throng to

visit lake scenery; she would therefore feel oblige by Miss Chrystal

pay a little more attention to her person, that she might not be

recognize as Lady Wetheral's very vulgar daughter, or give occasion of

remark to General Ponsonby's family. General Ponsonby, as a man of high

connection, might probably have people stay at Clanmoray of some

consideration; and she insist upon her careful attention to dress and

manner. she might meet gentleman unexpectedly, and a young lady should

be upon her guard. no man could be strike with a girl whose tan

complexion give she the appearance of having tend sheep and goat

upon the hill-top.



in spite of Lady Wetheral's precaution, Christobelle meet no gentleman

"unexpectedly," nor be her study interrupt by any people of

consideration from Clanmoray. letter from England tell of Mrs. Tom

Pynsent's increase family; and Isabel's visit be defer, year

after year, by the expect death of Miss Tabitha, whose illness have

prove long and suffering. she could not bear to hear or think of her

brother's departure from Shropshire while she still linger, and

Mr. Boscawen have promise to close her eye ere he quit Brierly.

Isabel's visit, therefore, must remain uncertain: she be the mother

of three child, and her anxiety be very great to exhibit they all

at Fairlee, and listen to the roar of the cataract with Christobelle.



there be also news of Julia. the party have return to Bedinfield, and

Colonel Neville be still in the suite of the Countess-dowager; but few

ever penetrate into the mystery of Bedinfield. the Ennismores see

little company, and it be report the establishment consist chiefly

of foreigner select by the Countess mother. Colonel Neville remain

desperately attach to Julia, and Lord Ennismore rarely quit his

apartment; his lordship be become extremely invalid, and Dr.

Anstruther be supersede by a Florence physician.



Mrs. Pynsent write frequently to Christobelle, and from her chatty

pen, Miss Wetheral receive the home news of the south. "every one,"

she write, "be pretty well except 'Bobby,' who look very like a

turkey with the pip, for his head be sink between his shoulder,

and his poor back get round. however, he play with the eld boy,

and leave every thing to Tom, who--God bless him!--grew handsomer every

day, and rattle over business much well than his poor moonshine

father. Sally Hancock sit with he now and then, and her company be

get rather amusing to he: altogether, they be tolerably well at

Hatton. Sophy Spottiswoode be marry, and they talk of visit

Scotland with Sir John Spottiswoode; perhaps they would visit Lochleven

and Fairlee, and see what be act there and thereabout. Sir Jacky

seem to wish to peep about Lochleven, for reason well know to

himself." Mrs. Pynsent end by hope Christobelle be not oblige to

be in love with some red-headed Scotchman, because he be rich.



Sir John Wetheral twice visit Shropshire during his seclusion at

Fairlee, but his daughter could not accompany he. Lady Wetheral's

health detain she; and, during his absence, the magnificence of the

country, its quiet grandeur, and its beautiful variety, could not

recompense she for the misery she endure under continual and unabated

reproach, or the language of useless complaint, unceasingly utter

in doleful tone. her ladyship consider her daughter's singlehood at

seventeen year of age a severe blow upon her matronly care. up to the

moment of her seventeenth birthday, Christobelle have never receive an

offer of marriage, or hear a comment upon her beauty, save in the

somewhat coarse approbation which be bestow by Mrs. Pynsent upon her

growth at Hatton.



Christobelle have never listen to adulation, nor have she ever, in

her walk, meet a look or observation which could be construe into

admiration, or even commendation. she bound in health and freedom of

heart over the mountain, and sail on the lake with her attendant

Janet, without a thought of care, or a wish to shine as her sister have

do, before her entrance into society. she wish her father alone to

share in her ramble; if her fancy ever stray beyond his presence, it

be in a sigh to think how greatly she should enjoy the surprise and

pleasure which Sir John Spottiswoode must feel, if he ever behold the

scenery of Lochleven. but it be not so with Lady Wetheral.



every year bring newly-awaken annoyance to Christobelle, in the

ironical tone of her mother's birthday congratulation: and it bring

equal affliction to her ladyship, that she must still endure the

society of a daughter unsought, and very probably destine to remain

single. her father be in England when she receive congratulation

upon attain her seventeenth year. Sir John promise to reach

Fairlee, if possible, in time to spend that day with his daughter at

the fall of Kinlochmore; but it be not to be so, and she enter

the breakfast-room that morning depressed and without appetite. Lady

Wetheral commence her attack.



"I believe, Bell, you be now seventeen. I beg to offer my

congratulation upon the effect you have create at Lochleven. Clara

and Isabel be marry at your age, and I be expect every day to

be consult upon some affair of your own. you appear to have make no

impression upon young Ponsonby, after all your walk and sail upon the

water."



"Young Ponsonby, mamma!"



"some people never care to understand what they do not wish to know,"

reply her mother. "in the precinct of Lochleven your want of power

to please may pass unobserved, but I should have be point at in

England, as a mother hopeless of her daughter's establishment."



"but young Ponsonby never walk and sail with _I_, mamma. I be only

accompany by Janet."



"I be perfectly aware that Janet be your only companion," reply she

mother, drily.



"I never wish to be with Mr. Ponsonby, mamma. I decline Miss

Ponsonby's invitation to join her party at Ballahuish."



"you do very unwisely. I wish you to join the Ponsonby party. have I

not tell you repeatedly that wish?"



"I think you would be alone, mamma."



"I should be much oblige by your thinking to more purpose, Bell. I

never wish to interfere with your engagement, when they tend to a

proper end."



"but what end could be answer at Ballahuish, mamma?"



"you be grow extremely disagreeable and argumentative, Miss

Wetheral. I will trouble you to withhold your rather imperious

questioning, if you please."



Christobelle be silent, and Lady Wetheral proceed with her

breakfast; but nothing meet her approbation. the coffee be cold,

the egg be not fresh, and the roll be burn. every thing be

most uncomfortable since she have quit England--particularly

uncomfortable, since no one be near she to make she want a matter of

the least consideration.



Christobelle offer to ring for hot coffee.



"I shall be oblige by your remain where you be, if you please.

Ingratitude be nothing new to I: Clara teach I _that_ parental

misery--I can bear it now with patience. Clara have ruin my health

by her ungrateful conduct. I, who seek her advancement in life,

and who almost make the offer to establish she at Ripley, deserve a

well fate than to be spurn from her die bed, and see Mrs. Pynsent

prefer before I. I cannot understand a coarse personage like Mrs.

Pynsent be a proper attendant upon a deathbed. her loud voice would

disturb the dead."



"but she be so gentle and kind to Clara! she be so attentive, papa

say!"



"I shall never believe it."



"but you remember how very kindly she assist I, and how tenderly she

nurse you, mamma."



"I be not on my deathbed. close that window, Bell, the wind be rise;

and do shut out the sound of those french horn."



Christobelle rise to obey. two small vessel be traverse the loch,

contain a party of pleasure, apparently intend to pass the

morning in the island which be once the prison-house of Mary. a band

of french horn wake the echo as they row along, and the air of

"Auld lang syne," delightfully play in part, rivet her attention.

for a few moment she pause to listen, but the sound affect Lady

Wetheral beyond endurance: she tremble and wept. Christobelle close

the window.



"I cannot bear those sound," she cry, clasp her hand. "I

hear Clara's voice, and she persist in call I her hard-hearted

mother. her voice be in every sound, and that tone kill I. I be not

hard-hearted--I be an injured mother, wear down by that ungrateful

voice. I hear it in the wind at night, and the breeze of the lake

whisper it. I cannot bear to hear Clara's voice."



Christobelle endeavour to calm her mother's nerve, but repeat

attack have destroy their tone, and she could not rally at pleasure.

Mrs. Bevan be summon to attend her lady, and she be lay upon her

bed to receive the usual remedy. her ladyship be then leave in quiet

and in darkness for some hour. this scene be but the recurrence of

a now constantly repeat attack of the nerve upon every sound which

reach her ear from without. the storm, the breeze, the sighing of the

wind, the soft and delicious music which occasionally rise on the air,

all create the same terror--it be Clara reproach she for youth

and happiness blast, and constantly exclaim, "oh, hard-hearted

mother!"



Time increase the disorder. four year' residence in Scotland, far

from the scene of Clara's tragic departure, and remove beyond all

allusion to the event which have occur, do not soften by distance

the regret of Lady Wetheral's heart. year after year bring increase

nervousness; and Sir John have endeavour to lead his lady's thought

again towards Wetheral, but in vain. "she have resolve never again to

visit a country which have bring she so much disquietude. Clara be

go--go from she for ever, taint with bitter ingratitude, and the

grandeur of Lady Ennismore's establishment be to she a blank--she

have never witness it. all that she have most anxiously desire have

become a source of misery to her feeling, and she only desire now

to live far away from painful association." Sir John point out the

near neighbourhood of her two happily-married daughter, Pynsent and

Boscawen; but it fail to create pleasing thought.



"no, I have no wish to see those object which will remind I of

Julia's banishment and Clara's death. if they be happy, why be

not Julia to be with I, and why be Clara ungrateful? why be _i_

to be defeat in my view? why be Julia carry abroad without

one interview with the mother who endure so much to secure her

establishment, without even write to I? no; I be miserable, but let

I alone, and let I die here!"



Lady Wetheral would at such moment turn to Miss Wetheral with look of

reproach, and inveigh against her unattractive appearance or manner.



"if you wish to give I pleasure, Bell, you would not fly in my

face, as Clara do. if you attend to your person, I might yet be

gratify by hear praise of your beauty, and receive pleasure in

contemplate your future establishment; but I have no hope for you.

I have no inducement to quit this dreary Lochleven. I will not carry

forth a daughter who be blind to her own advancement, or subject myself

to ridicule, by the constant appendage of a young woman who be likely

to pass single to her grave. if I could rouse you to exertion, I might

rally too; but this determined indifference to future distinction

destroy I. I be doom to suffer every gradation of parental

disappointment."



what hand could pluck from her ladyship's memory "this rooted sorrow?"

what hand could cleanse her bosom of this "perilous stuff?" Haman know

no peace while Mordecai sit at the king's gate, and Lady Wetheral

would not be comfort, because the eye of admiration have not yet

glance upon Christobelle, or open a channel for her energy to rise

again under the exciting employment of speculate upon her future

establishment. what a life be this! after Lady Wetheral's departure

to her room, under the nervous effect produce by the lake music,

Christobelle stroll along its bank, accompany by Janet. the little

band still pour their sound upon the breeze, as they sit listen

to the sprightly note of "will ye gang to the bourne, my marion:" and

at its conclusion Christobelle's eager fancy suggest the idea of

sailing towards the Isle, to enjoy the softly-swell sound which now

but faintly steal upon the ear. the boatman be quickly summon to

their oar, and Christobelle order they to stretch and lie to, under

the Isle, where the party be seat beneath the tree, which once

afford shade to the royal Mary in her captivity.



a boat put out from the land as they approach, and Christobelle see

the figure of Miss Ponsonby and her brother Charles seat in its

stern. Miss Ponsonby wave her hand as the boat glide to her side,

and hail her "prisoner." a large party from Clanmoray be regale

in the "Douglas Isle," and her movement have be watch through many

telescope. Miss Wetheral have decline her party to Ballahuish; but her

captivity be now as sure as that of the unfortunate queen of Scots,

unless a Douglas again rise to the rescue.



"it be a party," Miss Ponsonby say, "in honour of her eld

brother, who have leave Ireland on a long furlough, and who have arrive

at Clanmoray, after an absence of six year. she would allow no

excuse to prevail. Miss Wetheral must and should do honour also to

Edward's arrival." Christobelle be loth to obey the mandate: she

be quite unprepared for the little incident, and feel alarmed at

the idea of encounter a large company almost unknown to she. Miss

Ponsonby, however, order the boat towards the landing-place, and the

party disembark. the Ponsonby family come forward to welcome Miss

Wetheral's arrival, and they introduce she to the assemble group.



the Duke of Forfar, lately raise to the dukedom by the death of his

aged father, be present; and there be also young Lord Farnborough,

once the Selgrave, whose name she tremble to hear from her mother's

lip, when she speak of he as a future suitor. Christobelle see also

Lady Anna Herbert, the imagine rival of Mrs. Charles Spottiswoode in

her day of coquetry; and her mind glance back to the time when she

hear so much and so often of the Farnborough Stacy family. Lady Anna

Herbert be still unmarried, and she could perceive the same lively

manner, the same coquettish look, which have so formidably alarm the

fear of Miss Wycherly.



his Grace politely acknowledge his intimate acquaintance with her

family, and his pleasure at be able to renew it with a daughter of

Sir John Wetheral upon the distant Lochleven. he have no remembrance of

Miss Wetheral, but young people spring up around he into life. his

Grace have hear of a beauteous scion, unseen at Wetheral Castle, but

it be reserve to he to meet she for the first time, on poetical

and historical ground--on the very spot where the beautiful Mary of

Scotland land in misfortune, a captive beauty, such as the vision

which now meet his eye.



"well do, papa!" cry Lady Anna, "your imagination be awaken by

this scene, and Miss Wetheral have fortunately appear to keep up the

illusion. Miss Wetheral, you should reply in character, and papa will

be charm."



"if Miss Wetheral will personate the afflict queen," say Lord

Farnborough, "I must beg to enact the faithful Douglas, and aid she

escape."



"very good, let it be so," reply his Grace of Forfar: "this be the

very spot to renew our recollection. who will be the warder, Lady

Douglas?"



"if I can in any way represent the character, I shall be happy to look

the grim gaoler," answer Lady Anna Herbert.



Christobelle stand confused and blushing, amid the group of stranger

who gather round she. among the gaily-apparelle female, she alone

appear rudely clothe in the costume of the country; she alone wear the

plaid and bonnet which decorate the humble inhabitant of Kinross, and

the hamlet around Lochleven. she feel for the moment distressed at her

appearance, so distinct from the party with whom she be destine to

mix. her confusion be apparent to the polite Miss Ponsonby. she take

her hand.



"Miss Wetheral be all good-nature to obey my bidding, and we be happy

in have _one_ of our number, at least, attire in proper costume.

Lady Anna, how came we to plan our day's amusement, and yet forget the

most material subject of dress?"



"you have ruin the effect of our _tout-ensemble_ by your sudden

appearance, Miss Wetheral," observe Lord Farnborough; "we think

ourselves unique, and you only exhibit our deficiency. you be often

here, I presume."



"it have be a favourite spot of mine these four year," reply

Christobelle, slightly confused.



"you be then the genius of the place, Miss Wetheral. will you point

out to I the favourite haunt of your long seclusion, and do the

honour of Lochleven to a stranger?"



Christobelle be very willing to be the stranger's guide; and she find

herself shortly after her arrival in "the Douglas Isle," seat between

Miss Ponsonby and Lord Farnborough, point out the beauty of the

lake scenery. Miss Ponsonby smile at her enthusiastic description.



"after this speciman of your power, Miss Wetheral, do not hope to

escape I in future. you would have grace our quiet bivouac at

Ballahuish. no one speak a word, or comment upon the luxuriant lake,

there. no one possess your happy taste for the romantic; or they keep

it all to themselves at Ballahuish. to be sure, Lord Farnborough be

not with we."



"be you so fond of scenery, my lord?" ask Christobelle, turn

towards her other companion.



"yes, his lordship be a poet and a painter," reply Miss Ponsonby; "he

must, therefore, necessarily love the stupendous and the beautiful,

such as now lie before we. his lordship muse at the view of Ossian's

'Cona,' and write verse upon Ballahuish ferry."



"Miss Ponsonby be pleased to be merry at my expense," say Lord

Farnborough; "nevertheless, I worship Nature's beautiful production."



"then you must visit the fall of Kinlochmore, my lord; and if you be

poetical, muse over those mountain-top, and visit the little ruin of

St. Mungo's Isle, to hear the breeze murmur of the clan of Glencoe and

Lochaber."



"will you, the preside spirit, attend I there?" ask Lord

Farnborough.



"we will _all_ attend you," cry Miss Ponsonby. "the more spirit the

well, my lord, upon such a mission. Miss Wetheral, you will promise

to attend my summon to St. Mungo's Isle."



"if I can quit Fairlee for a whole day, I shall be happy to attend you."



"but mind, Miss Wetheral, I insist upon your costume; you look now like

the ghost of Scotland flit among the barbarian who have ravage

her soil, and change her custom."



Christobelle continue some time in the island with Miss Ponsonby

and Lord Farnborough, as the party form in little group under the

tree, to gaze upon the calm lake and its beautiful shore, and they

wander round the tower and its precinct, which once hold a queen of

Scotland in durance. Christobelle think Lord Farnborough speak with

feel upon the event of Lochleven Castle; and she contemplate his

intelligent countenance with an interest remote from the fear which

take possession of her mind, when her lady mother first urge she

intention that she should marry Lord Selgrave.



they be soon deeply engage in scottish history, follow the

current of event which close the reign and life of Mary; and though

Miss Ponsonby contend that her existence prove a course of wicked

effort to gain the english crown, and raise rebellion in her cousin's

dominion, Christobelle defend the beautiful captive, with all the

rhetoric of youthful enthusiasm. it be, however, time to return to

Fairlee, and Christobelle could no long linger with her friend in

the Douglas Isle. General Ponsonby and Lord Farnborough gallantly

escort she into the little vessel which have await her command,

and where Janet still sit in expectation of her return. Mr. Ponsonby

return to the company with his father, as the boatman push from the

shore, but Lord Farnborough bound into the vessel, and take his seat

by the side of Christobelle, ere it drive from its mooring. he mean,

he say, to see her land safely on the ground of Fairlee, and it be

useless to deny he the pleasure, or, he might say, the propriety of

accompany she across the lake.



the vessel at that moment leave the shore, and the little horn

band almost instantly play with great taste, "my heart's in the

Highlands." Christobelle turn her head towards the shore, and gaze

upon the gay group prepare for an early meal. their form gradually

recede from view, and be lose in the distance; but the music

continue its die strain, and fall fainter and fainter upon the

breeze. the silence be unbroken for some time, as they cross the

slumber lake; but Lord Farnborough, at last, break the stillness of

the scene by ask Christobelle if she amuse herself in sketch the

lovely view on either side lochleven. from this question, answer

in the affirmative, they enter upon the subject of painting, which

gradually lead to its sister art--poetry; and Christobelle be delighted

to know that when they visit St. Mungo's Isle, she would judge of

his progress in both department. they be both to go provide with

drawing material; and, if Christobelle insist upon it, his lordship

would submit a few poetic inspiration to her "well judgment," upon a

rock overhang the lake, even before the party take place.



it be not to be suppose that their acquaintance would end here, after

the pleasure of the morning. his lordship entreat permission to wait

upon Miss Wetheral at Fairlee, and he hope to renew the happiness of

the last two hour in many agreeable walk and drive in the splendid

scene of Lochleven. Christobelle trust Lord Farnborough's polite

wish might indeed be fulfil; she be quite willing to be please

by the society of a pleasant young man, whose conversation be so

entertaining, and who appear to be so gifted in the art of music,

painting, and poetry--art so admire and value by her taste. she tell

his lordship she be sure her mother would receive his visit with

pleasure. "but will _you_ receive they with pleasure?" he ask, as the

little vessel glide into the cove from which it embark; "will _you_,

Miss Wetheral, admit my visit with pleasure, and allow I sometimes to

join you in your walk and musing?"



how could Christobelle object? yet she make no reply, or even answer

his appeal look. the young lord's countenance fall.



"you will not speak to I, Miss Wetheral; you will not say I be welcome

at Fairlee sometimes."



"my mother will be glad to see you, I be sure, Lord Farnborough," she

reply, confusedly, a second time.



"my wish be to join you occasionally in your ride, Miss Wetheral, and

_you_ must assure I I shall not be consider an intruder."



Christobelle's confusion increase at this speech, and at the earnest

look which Lord Farnborough cast upon she. she could only stammer forth

an assurance that she must be very happy also to see his lordship

whenever he pay a visit to Fairlee; and that assurance give she

companion confidence to urge the necessity of escort she to the very

door of her home. this Christobelle decline, with a seriousness which

forbid remonstrance; she have Janet with she, and Fairlee lie too near

the lake to allow of any fear for her safety. she, therefore, take

leave of his lordship, as he assist she to quit the little vessel

which belong to the Cove of Fairlee, and which her father dedicate

to her exclusive use. Lord Farnborough linger a few moment.



"Miss Wetheral, we shall meet again before the party to St. Mungo's

Isle take place."



"when may we expect you at Fairlee, my lord?"



"to-morrow. promise I you will not go out till I come."



"I seldom leave the ground before two o'clock. remember the effusion

you promise I should see."



"will you read they, and judge a poor poet mercifully?"



"I shall say exactly what I think, my lord."



"then I stand condemn at once."



"perhaps not; adieu, my lord!"



"but one moment, Miss Wetheral. how anxious you be to escape!"



"I have leave my mother some hour alone. I must return to she, and

account for my absence, Lord Farnborough."



"it be not anxiety then to leave I, to get rid of I, Miss Wetheral?"



"no, indeed!"



"then farewell for many dull hour. the Douglas Isle will have no

charm for I, since the genius of Lochleven be withdraw."



Lord Farnborough respectfully bow, and re-enter the boat.

Christobelle go forwards with Janet, but curiosity induce she to

look back upon the lake, as they gain a rise ground about five

hundred yard from the shore. the vessel be again traverse the

water, and Lord Farnborough be watch their recede step, as he

stand with fold arm in the stern of the mimic sloop. he wave his

handkerchief as Christobelle stand for a moment to contemplate the

scene; she wave her plaid in answer to the signal. twice be the

signal exchange, at separate interval, till a grove of fir close

the lake from her view; and then she walk on, slowly and silently to

the house.



she do not utter a word to her companion and attendant, the patient

Janet; her mind be revolve the event of the day, and it dwelt with

peculiar interest upon the unexpected appearance of Lord Farnborough

and his family, on a solitary island of Lochleven. it be most

extraordinary that her introduction to Lord Farnborough should take

place then and there--that her first interview with the Selgrave of

former day, whose very name bring tear into her eye, should be one

of extreme interest--nay, of grow intimacy; that she be now to be

accompany in her ride and walk by this once hate lord; and that,

without an effort on her mother's part, they have themselves agree to

draw, to sing, to become companion together, in the wild mountain of

Scotland, when none be near to urge the introduction, or plan the

scheme of their amusement.



while her mother lie in darkness, dwell upon the evil destiny of

Clara, ignorant even of her amusement, she have become know to the

Selgrave of her former speculation; and without her knowledge and

concurrence, his lordship be engage to visit Fairlee! how wonderfully

do event arrange themselves without human interference, and how

foolishly do she, in young day, reject the idea of becoming

acquaint with a young man whom she have never see, and could not

justly deprecate! how could she ever attach a feeling of dislike to a

creature so intelligent, so agreeable, so very attentively polite! how

rash to judge of any human being, unknown and unseen!



whatever her youthful fancy conjure up to deform the image of

"Lord Selgrave" in her mental reverie, not a feeling separate from

admiration and pleased remembrance hover round her meditation upon

Lord Farnborough, at this period of time. Christobelle be deeply

engage with her own thought when she enter the hall at Fairlee.

Silence reign in its precinct, and she look forward to hour of

irritable conference with her mother, ere she could press her silent

pillow, and think unrestrainedly of all that have pass. yet, she hear

voice in the sitting-room; and, above all, she hear her mother's

voice in its long-lose tone of playfulness, address a stranger. she

hear two voice reply. one she recognize to be her father's beloved

tone. he be then arrive: he have fulfil his word of promise to

be with she on her birthday at last! Christobelle enter the room in

haste, and fly into his arm.



"I think you could not return so soon, papa; I have quite give up

the idea of see you till June: how good this be of you, my own dear

papa!"



"I have keep my word, Chrystal, to salute you upon your birthday. I

make great effort to achieve the journey in time, and I have bring

another friend to congratulate you upon your look and study."

Christobelle turn towards the stranger, and a cry of pleasure

burst from her lip; it be Sir John Spottiswoode. the sight of her

instructor, her companion, her kind friend, at once obliterate all

other thought, and she catch his offer hand with feeling of most

enviable enjoyment. she have now again a companion to ramble with, to

talk with. she would no more mourn under her mother's petulance, or

roam the border of Lochleven unattended. Christobelle do say to he

at that joyful moment--and she say it in sincerity--"Oh! now I _shall_

be happy--now I _shall_ have you always with I again!"



Sir John Spottiswoode express his equal pleasure at the meeting, and

he compliment Christobelle upon her appearance of perfect health.

it be a grateful satisfaction to find she have not forget he. he

remember, with interest, their former study, and he expect to

be astonish by her rapid progress in every pursuit, during the long

interregnum of four year. Christobelle assure he of his mistake.



"I have be a wild creature for year, and, except in draw and

music, I have not do credit to your instruction. you will be oblige

to begin my education again, Sir John."



"Bell be a dear, flighty girl," say Lady Wetheral, in affectionate

accent, which have never yet gladden her daughter's heart at

Fairlee--"Bell be wild as the curlews upon the lake. she require your

society to tame her flight. she have be absent now three long hour."



"I have see extraordinary thing, and extraordinary people,"

Christobelle exclaim, as she doff her mountain-cap, and take Sir

John Spottiswoode's offer seat.



"in that dress, my love?--surely not in that dress, Bell?"



"I have be among the high one of the land," continue Christobelle,

in high spirit, delight at be with her father, and near Sir John

Spottiswoode. "I have be among the gay Southrons in Douglas Isle,

and a peer of the realm have escort I across the lake."



Lady Wetheral look incredulous, and somewhat offended. Christobelle

be oblige to detail the event of the morning, to mitigate the

rise storm; and what a change come over her ladyship's countenance,

as her daughter mention the attention and intend visit of Lord

Farnborough!--joy sparkle in her eye, and excitement draw her form to

its utmost height. she do not answer--word be too feeble to express

her deep gratification.



"what sort of a look person be Lord Farnborough, now?" ask Sir

John Spottiswoode.



"most intelligent, most agreeable," she reply, "but not handsome. I

do not consider he handsome."



"be they here for any length of time?"



"I cannot tell; they attend a party to St. Mungo's Isle soon, which I

be engage to join. but _you_ will go with I now: I shall delight in

shew you the lion of Lochleven. shall we take a walk after dinner?

I long to shew you the beauteous spot, where I have sit so often and

so long, think of England, and wish you be here to enjoy it

with I."



"I be ready to attend you over hill and dale," reply Sir John

Spottiswoode--"over mountain, and through glen."



"that be delightful. after dinner, then, we will set forth."



Christobelle have a packet of letter to read from Shropshire, entrust

to her father's care; and, till the dressing-bell sound, she be

engage in devour their content. all be well in England.

Isabel write only of her child, and she wish to exhibit they at

Fairlee, if Miss Tabitha's health would only allow the visit--but she

would neither die nor get well. Anna Maria detail the delight of

the winter's sport in Shropshire, and triumph in the glory of her

husband. they have thirty-seven "brush" of the last season, which the

child play with in the hall, and Tom have be in at the death

of each. the eld boy, Tom, could roar "Tally-ho" as loud as the

whipper-in, and the girl climb tree like a squirrel. Mrs. Pynsent

add a short postscript of one line, "take care of Sir Jacky, Miss

Bell."



Christobelle involuntarily raise her eye towards Sir John

Spottiswoode, as she smile at the concise charge. he be gaze

earnestly upon she; her eye sink under the expression of his fix

attention, and she resume her reading; but a deep blush painfully

suffuse her cheek. she have meet no closely-fix observation till this

moment, and she know Sir John Spottiswoode's eye be still upon she.

she do not dare meet his glance again.









CHAPTER XXIII.





"and you really have wish to lead I through these romantic scene?"

say Sir John Spottiswoode, as Christobelle lean upon his arm, on

the very spot where she part with Lord Farnborough in the morning;

"you have seriously think of your old friend during his absence, and

wish he with you?"



"yes; every storm which disturb the lake, and every sunny gleam which

gild its tranquillity, make I think of you, and wish you by my side

to enjoy it."



"perhaps I be equally anxious to find myself stroll with you on

these magnificent shore."



"you be otherwise engage," she reply, quickly; "you have affair to

arrange, and property to amuse and interest your thought; but I have

have no companion for year, to enliven my hour of solitary walk. I

think of you, when you be too busy to consider I."



"my thought be not always employ in Worcestershire, Miss Wetheral;

but take I to your haunt, and let I see the view you have so long

contemplate."



Christobelle lead her companion to the cliff, where she usually pass

her morning hour in alternate reading and meditation, and they seat

themselves in a natural, rocky seat, which have be wear by time into

something like a shapely kind of arbour, for the rock arch over

their head sufficiently deep to afford shelter against heat and

shower; and under its rudely construct roof Christobelle have pass

many hour of each successive day, when the weather permit she to

escape from Fairlee. she point the attention of her friend to the

grandly-indent cliff which guard Lochleven--the islet which

appear to slumber on its bosom--the plain of Kinross--its humble

abode--its little church, and the solitary magnificence of the whole

scene. "Confess," she say, "that this be a scene worthy to compete

with the boasted view abroad. Confess that Lochleven be matchless in

its golden sunset, its brace air, and calmly-beautiful water. do

not this glow scene fill your mind with wonder and praise? do it

not give soothe thought of a great and wonderful Providence, who have

create such scene for his creature?"



Sir John Spottiswoode stand some time in contemplation, and he be

silent during his companion's enthusiastic description: at last, he

turn towards she with a smile.



"I have see many lake--beautiful lake, Miss Wetheral, but I cannot

say I ever look upon their scenery with the feeling I now enjoy, in

gaze upon Lochleven."



"you will admire every bend of this graceful water," she reply,

pleased with his admire gaze, as he fix his eye upon Lochleven;

"I must shew you every lovely appendage by degree. to-morrow we will

visit the ferry of Ballahuish--no, not to-morrow...."



"and why not to-morrow?" ask Sir John Spottiswoode.



Christobelle could not tell why she colour at the question, or why

she turn her face from the speaker towards the Douglas Isle. Sir John

Spottiswoode repeat his question.



"but why not to-morrow, Miss Wetheral? why cannot we begin our tour

to-morrow?"



"I believe the Duke of Forfar call at Fairlee to-morrow," she reply.



"will that detain _you_?" say her companion, look at she with a

smile.



"not altogether--no. Lord Farnborough say something about come too;

and, as he name the time, I think perhaps I ought to remain at home."



"I do not know the nature of the understanding imply by the mention

of the intend visit to you," observe Sir John Spottiswoode,

"therefore I cannot offer an opinion."



"oh! there be nothing imply--no absolute--I make no promise of any

kind."



"you do not engage to remain at Fairlee?"



"certainly not--no, I may say, certainly not."



"then let we proceed on our little tour to-morrow."



Christobelle be catch in her own mesh. she have assuredly make no

engagement--no actual engagement; but there be an imply consent on

her part to Lord Farnborough's hope of find she at home. she have

not courage to confess this to Sir John Spottiswoode--and why be she

guilty of evasion? she must now relinquish all thought of meet Lord

Farnborough at Fairlee. Christobelle sit meditate her disappointment

for some moment.



"Miss Wetheral," say her companion, after a short silence, "do you

ever see Lord Farnborough before the meeting of this morning?"



Christobelle start at the sound of Lord Farnborough's name, but she

answer truly, "never."



"be you acquainted with his lordship's character?"



"no, indeed; my only knowledge of Lord Farnborough begin, and may

perhaps end, in this morning's interview."



"Lord Farnborough's character at college be designate as fair and

false," observe Sir John Spottiswoode.



"be it!"



"a fellow-collegian of his lordship's, Beverly, reside near Alverton.

he give I the character I now describe to you."



Christobelle feel uncomfortable at Sir John Spottiswoode's information.

it be always painful to hear depreciate account of those we admire,

or from whom we have receive kindness. she know nothing of Lord

Farnborough--his lordship be nothing to she; but she regret so

agreeable a person should prove otherwise than estimable. could Mr.

Beverly's testimony be depend upon? Character should not be lightly

treat: if Lord Farnborough's character be at the mercy of Mr.

Beverly, it be but fair to ascertain Mr. Beverly's claim to belief.

under this impression, Christobelle hastily utter her thought, after

a second pause.



"Pray, Sir John, who be Mr. Beverly?"



"a neighbour in Worcestershire, and one of the good fellow in England.

why do you ask?"



"because I think your friend be ungenerous, in speak harshly of Lord

Farnborough, who perhaps never offend he."



"Beverly be once deeply offend by Lord Farnborough," reply Sir

John Spottiswoode.



"therefore, your friend be revengeful," she answer, quickly.



"Beverly have bear his injury like a man, and like a Christian,"

return Sir John. "all injury should be forgive; but some cannot be

forget till memory fail."



again the little band of french horn swell upon the still air, and

the two vessel, which have sail to the Douglas Isle, emerge from its

deep shadow. Christobelle start up.



"they be return to Clanmoray so late! oh! listen to that sweet,

soft air."



the simple strain of "farewell to Lochaber" steal softly on their

ear, and they sit silently gaze upon the little vessel, as they

near the cliff. suddenly the music break off, as if an accident have

occur; but the pause be of short duration--it be again break by

the lively and stirring note of "my love she's but a lassie yet." the

blood mount to Christobelle's forehead with undisguised pleasure and

surprise. she be discover in her retreat by the party below, and an

indescribable feeling shot across her heart, as it grasp at the idea

that Lord Farnborough have choose the air, and that he have command its

execution, as the vessel pass the cliff. she lean over the rock,

which form a barricade before the rural seat, and in fancy she could

distinguish the tall, slight figure of his lordship, stand in the

stern, with fold arm, as he stand when she wave her plaid in the

morning. Christobelle watch the vessel with intense attention, as it

glide on, and exclaim, with eager satisfaction,



"I see him!--I could point he out among a hundred!"



"whom do you see?" ask Sir John Spottiswoode, as he rise and

advanced to her side--"Whom be you note?"



Christobelle do not immediately reply. she continue gaze upon the

lake, and several of the party be also observe they through their

telescope from below.



"but, tell I, Miss Wetheral, whom you note among a hundred, in that

party," repeat Sir John Spottiswoode.



"he be stand with--no, he be sit--that very large personage, the

Duke of Forfar--you know the Duke of Forfar?"



"oh yes, I see. how gratify his grace would be at the knowledge of

having attract your observation! I think I see Lord Farnborough."



"whom do you see?--I fancy I recognise Lady Anna Herbert's feather; and

there be kind Miss Ponsonby," reply Christobelle, colour.



"Lord Farnborough be stand in the stern of the vessel, Miss

Wetheral: he be wave something--his handkerchief. who be he wave

to?"



a little conscious feeling prevent Christobelle from return the

salutation. she fear Sir John Spottiswoode would observe and smile

at her action. she wish he have not tell her Lord Farnborough be

consider "fair and false." she have no belief in the insinuation,

but it cause a very unpleasant restraint. the vessel pass under the

jutting rock immediately below they, and it be obscure for a time:

when it reappear, the distance do not allow they to distinguish the

party. they hear the full note of the french horn, however, till a

headland conceal the vessel from sight; and, ere the last faint note

die away, the sun be considerably below the horizon. Christobelle

and her companion return to Fairlee at the moment the servant be

pass through the hall with coffee.



the evening pass in conversation upon the past and present, and Sir

John Spottiswoode's society make Christobelle speedily forget the

attention of Lord Farnborough. the compliment of an attractive and

agreeable person, for a few hour, could not compete with the presence

of a dear friend, whose taste have lead her own in many instance, and

who have devote so much time to accomplish her talent for music and

painting. that friend have be remember during an absence of four

year; he have be often apostrophize in solitary walk, and she have

wish in silence and sincerity to renew their pleasant intercourse.

that boon be now grant. Sir John Spottiswoode be again her

companion, and what desire of her heart remain ungratified?



Christobelle lay her head upon her pillow, that night, in peaceful

thought; and if Lord Farnborough occasionally flit before her

eye--if the air of "my love be but a lassie yet" linger upon her

ear--yet Sir John Spottiswoode fill her mind. his dark hair, curl

in rich profusion over his brow--his manly expression--that benevolent

dark blue eye--who be equal to he in excellence?--nay, who be

superior, even in those evanescent gift which captivate the eye of

woman? whom do she love and venerate equal to Sir John Spottiswoode?



the following morning produce a long and perplexing conversation

between the mother and daughter, which extinguish all Christobelle's

happy feeling. no two being could possibly be more opposed in

feeling, in sentiment, and in action; and never yet do a colloquy

take place, without heart-burn arise on one side, and distressed

feeling on the other part, to sever the tie between parent and child.

in this morning's conference their opinion jar more painfully

than ever; for they be now in actual collision upon point which

must materially affect Christobelle's happiness, and her future

respectability of conduct. it take place after breakfast, while the

gentleman be perambulate the terrace, and order the horse

for an intended ride. Lady Wetheral commence her attack with that

flattering address which gain so much influence over poor human nature.



"my dear Bell, the arrival of your old friend have produce wonderful

effect. I be gratify at see your eye sparkle, and your

expression of countenance become animate. I may confess I be please

at behold my quiet daughter transform into a beauty, by the mere

play of pretty coquetry which Sir John Spottiswoode's arrival have

call forth."



"I det coquette and coquetry," answer Christobelle, seriously,

though she be not insensible to the agreeable intimation of she

suddenly acquire beauty.



"Nonsense, Bell; it be a woman's most potent argument--it be her most

powerful weapon--it be her most precious gift--because it be her

great attraction: do not undervalue it."



"I have not be many hour in Sir John Spottiswoode's company, mamma.

if I feel inclined to coquet, I have have no opportunity."



"a mother's eye be open, when the daughter's eye be close,"

reply Lady Wetheral, with her most win smile. "I dare say

you be not aware how prettily your eye seek, and fall beneath

Sir John's glance, last night, and at this morning's breakfast. I

congratulate you, Bell, upon a gift which will create more decide

effect from your ignorance of possess it. but I wish to call your

attention to my anxious wish--I wish you to attend to my counsel, and

I wish you to act by my advice."



"what be your counsel, mamma?"



"I have never yet fail in establish my daughter," her ladyship

continue, "because they act upon my advice, without argue its

propriety. Julia and Clara act solely by my wish, and they win

their high establishment."



"Poor Clara!" exclaim Christobelle, involuntarily.



"it be useless to pity those who would not conform to the propriety

of life," reply Lady Wetheral. "I give Clara to Sir Foster, with long

and serious entreaty to avoid all public scene and altercation with

her husband. I never countenance opposition in a wife. I implore

Clara to be obedient in appearance--so much can be do by prudent

management! I never contradict her father in my life. I effect

all my plan without a single quarrel. there be no occasion to quarrel

in matrimony. a woman's influence be and must be feel; but it end the

instant you appear to contend. Clara be ungrateful to reproach I as

the cause--the idea always make I nervous."



her ladyship apply lavender-water to her forehead and handkerchief,

and then proceed.



"Sir John Spottiswoode will propose to you before he quit Fairlee, but

I should wish"--



"Sir John Spottiswoode propose to _I_!" exclaim Christobelle, in the

utmost astonishment.



"all that surprise be foolish, Bell. you be now old enough to command

those start and blush which look so very fresh, so very girlish.

I be certain Sir John Spottiswoode will propose, and it rest with

yourself to attract Lord Farnborough."



the blood rush with impetuous pulsation into the face of

Christobelle, and it overspread her forehead, neck, and even her hand:

if Lady Wetheral observe the suffusion her word have produce, she

affect not to perceive it.



"I should advise you to be very cautious in your conduct to both

gentleman, my dear Bell. do not be see too exclusively with Sir John

Spottiswoode, to attract attention; and yet, do not check hope on his

part. if Lord Farnborough quit Clanmoray without intend any thing,

or merely flirt with you, then, let Sir John propose. Alverton be an

excellent _au pis aller_, but I would rather my dear Bell could be

salute Duchess of Forfar."



it be some moment before Christobelle could rally her thought

and spirit, after the mention of Lord Farnborough, in the light of

a future suitor. for one instant, only, the idea of his lordship's

affection shoot a gleam of ambition into her mind, but the paltry

feeling be soon extinguish for ever, and her heart fly back to the

remember excellence of her former instructor and friend. her mother

watch the working of her spirit.



"if Lord Farnborough call to-day, my love, I shall invite he to

dinner."



"his lordship be a guest at Clanmoray," observe Christobelle, hastily.



"he will be a guest at Fairlee soon," answer my mother, gaily. "I

could fancy myself quite well again, my dear child; quite alert, as I

use to be; your little '_minauderie_' will raise I into new life and

spirit. I be sure Lord Farnborough be handsome and of high bearing. I

be sure he be clever and agreeable; your little coquetry will divert

I into health again."



"but, mamma--"



"no 'if' and 'but,' my dear Bell. I have every dependence upon your

attraction. Sir John Spottiswoode be astonish at your improved

appearance."



"listen to I, if you please, mamma. I be no coquette; and I would

rather die than be consider a character so repugnant to all that be

holy and upright."



"my dear girl, forbear sentiment. a little sentiment, if you please, to

Lord Farnborough, but not to I."



"I have no wish to marry, mamma," plead Christobelle, with earnest

seriousness. "I have no wish to leave papa, and--I have no wish

to marry Sir John Spottiswoode, and I cannot try to attract any

body. pray, do not advise I to avoid Sir John, or to think of any

establishment. don't let I endure the fate of Clara, or Julia's long

banishment."



Lady Wetheral's hand begin to tremble, and her feature become

agitated as she speak.



"I be well use to disobedience, and this only add to my accumulation

of vexation. every thing have conspire to make I miserable, and I

have one child leave to reproach I with bitterness. how could I expect

obedience from a headstrong girl, whose masculine education defy

restraint!"



"indeed, mamma, I be anxious to do right. indeed, my wish be to please

every one; but I cannot think it right to treat Sir John Spottiswoode

ill."



"who enjoin you to do so?" say her ladyship, in a querulous tone.



"I cannot--indeed, I cannot trifle with two gentleman, till I ascertain

the intention of one of they. do not ask I to do so, I beseech you,

for it go against every feeling of my heart." Christobelle burst into

tear.



"I detest such stupid folly! pray, don't imagine that your frown will

destroy the peace of either gentleman. man do not now suffer more than

an hour's annoyance; a new flame soon light the expire ember of an

old _penchant_."



"I be very glad to hear it, mamma."



"I only counsel you to mete out your attention to each gentleman

alike, Bell, and to distinguish neither at present. I imagine nothing

unholy in a line of conduct which preserve a proper and just decorum

in your manner."



"I will do any thing you please, mamma; only do not ask I to trifle

with Sir John Spottiswoode."



"you will do every thing which please yourself, and nothing which

please I. I perfectly understand your meaning; but allow I also to

observe, that I will hold no intercourse with a daughter who presume

to lecture her parent. I will have no communication with a young woman

who insolently defy her mother, and insist upon act accord to

her own weak judgment."



"do not suppose I defy you, mamma. there be nothing I would not do

to give you pleasure--nothing I would not do to increase your comfort;

only I beseech you not to compel I into a conduct my heart disown as

ungenerous and wicked."



"of course, a parent be wrong--of course, a mother be not a proper

judge, compare with a child's great wisdom, in any affair connect

with that child's welfare. I be aware of your high opinion of yourself.

I have long know your freedom, from every proper feeling which

soften and decorate a woman's mind. remain single, Bell, and be the

prototype of your great aunt, Miss Christobelle Wetheral; sink like

she into insignificant old maidism. but don't let my eye contemplate

you, an excrescence in your family--an incubus upon its glory. all my

daughter have marry splendidly, and I cannot be encumber by a

stupid daughter, who throw every advantage from she, and consider an

admirer an unholy appendage."



Tears flow silently down her daughter's cheek. Christobelle could

hold no dialogue with a mother, whose ironical manner and determinedly

oppose view distress she, and darken the prospect of her life.

her silence become a matter of offence.



"if weeping be to accompany your talent for continual and insolent

opposition, Miss Wetheral, I will request you to leave I: my own

nerve be sufficiently shatter."



Christobelle rise, and quit the room; Sir John Spottiswoode

come towards she from the hall, as she close the door of the

breakfast-room. he do not notice her emotion; he do not even speak,

but he gently draw her arm within his own, and lead she upon the terrace

which command the view of the lake. they take one turn in silence,

and then Sir John Spottiswoode speak of his admiration of Lochleven,

and gradually draw Christobelle into cheerful conversation. he ask

her opinion concern the morning's plan of amusement. "if she do not

prefer riding, he should feel inclined to consider the day just the

very thing for a water excursion." Christobelle be very willing to

resign herself into Sir John's hand. the conversation of the morning

have damp the glow of pleasure, and give a melancholy tinge to her

thought, which could not be immediately shake off. she therefore

answer slowly--"Yes, any thing; let we go upon the water, if you wish

it."



Sir John Spottiswoode press her arm to his side so slightly, that she

could scarcely write it down a pressure, as he reply:



"I will have nothing do without your full concurrence. if you do not

feel inclined to go on the water, let the original plan be adopt."



"I believe my tone be rather dismal this morning," she reply, with

more cheerfulness; "but I quite approve of your idea. we will certainly

row to the Douglas Isle."



Sir John Wetheral accompany they in their little excursion; and as

they glide towards the Isle, the fresh air, the light dip of the oar,

and the conversation of her two companion, restore Christobelle's

spirit to its usual buoyancy. Sir John Spottiswoode watch the ebb

and flow of her countenance, and bent towards she. "this be perfect

enchantment. tell I now why you be so melancholy."



Christobelle shake her head smilingly. "do not put I in mind of it,

but sing I a swiss air; that air I love to hear at Wetheral."



"you have remember it, even among these distant scene?"



"it have never fade from my recollection. on the contrary, these rock

and mountain bring it still more freshly to memory."



Sir John Spottiswoode instantly sing the swiss air with spirit, and

his voice sound melodiously on the water, which lie so calmly,

so beautifully still: not a breath of air curl a ripple upon its

surface. again and again the song recommence, and all Christobelle's

trouble be forget in the delicious harmony. she do not know

she sit gaze upon the singer, till Sir John Spottiswoode suddenly

pause, and their eye meet: Christobelle be not aware her attention

be so exclusively bestow upon he, till the expression of his glance

recall her thought. she turn from he in confusion, and fix

her contemplation upon the mountain which rise gradually above each

other, till their head be lose in cloud. she look no more towards

Sir John Spottiswoode.



the little party sit converse some hour on a small pile of stone

raise under a tree, which, in former day, constitute the _plaisance_

of Lochleven Castle. this spot command the rich plain of Kinross, the

rocky hill which swell on either side, and the house which dot

the plain, and gleam in the sunshine. they think of the suffering

of Mary, when she inhabit the now-ruin building under which they

repose, not as a restless queen of Scots, but as a captive woman,

banish to an isle where her eye could only rest upon rock and water,

far from her home and friend.



Sir John Spottiswoode also tell of foreign scene, and compare the

beauty of Lochleven with the gigantic lake of the south. they could

not bear comparison; yet lochleven possess, in its diminutiveness,

every requisite for poetic beauty. it be lochleven; and lochleven

contain a succession of captivate scenery, delight to the eye

and mind. many might prefer the impose immensity of Geneva, of

Constance, or of Zurich; but all must admire lochleven. he do not see

the chamois bounding from cliff to cliff; but the mind love to repose

on the bold yet tranquil scene which he contemplate. he do not dread

the avalanche; but the soft landscape please an eye, sate with

precipice, glazier, torrent, and cataract. it be delightful to sit

by the side of friend, in the midst of scenery so beautiful, and yet

be able to say, "it be in our own land."



Christobelle listen, and forget Lord Farnborough. far more attractive

to her mind be the manly conversation of Sir John Spottiswoode,

than the empty compliment of a new acquaintance. how could she, for

an instant, feel disappointment at the thought of be absent from

Fairlee when his lordship call?



their return to the mainland be late; it be later still when they

reach Fairlee. they have linger by the way, and every turn present

new object to admire, and fresh subject for discussion. the half-hour

bell be peal its tone, and the echo reverberate from rock to

rock, as they gain the terrace. this incident produce another

pause: Sir John describe the effect of the echo among the mountain

of Switzerland, and the wild cry of the Switzers. Christobelle have

scarcely time to hurry into her room, and change her dress, before

they be summon into the dining-room. Lady Wetheral do not address

her daughter during dinner. she direct her discourse exclusively to

her husband, when any subject be intend particularly to attract

Christobelle's attention; otherwise, her manner be captivate as

ever, when she play the hospitable and agreeable hostess, at the head

of her table.



"my dear John, the Duke of Forfar call this morning." Christobelle's

colour rise, and her quick eye detect the little emotion. "I be

gratify by the call: his grace look remarkably well, and Lady Anna

Herbert as sprightly as usual. four year have roll by, and leave

their 'flow hair' unthinned. Lady Anna look quite as youthful as

she do when a '_belle confess_,' at your mother's ball, Sir John

Spottiswoode."



"she be a very fine girl, and an excellent flirt," remark Sir John.

"Charles and Lady Anna be great friend some year ago."



"I be very much pleased with Lord Farnborough," continue Lady

Wetheral, address her husband, and pass her eye slightly over

Christobelle. "Lord Farnborough accompany his party, and I have not

see such a finished gentleman many year."



Sir John Spottiswoode make no remark; and Christobelle be silent. Sir

John Wetheral ask if the great boy have grow into a fine-look

youth?



"I set Lord Farnborough down as decidedly handsome at the first glance,

my love; but I forget his beauty in his very finished manner."



Sir John make no further remark, and there be a short pause, till Lady

Wetheral resumed--



"Lord Farnborough speak with polite pleasure of his introduction to

my daughter yesterday; and he bring a note from Miss Ponsonby,

request we to join a party next Tuesday to St. Mungo's Isle. you

be include, Sir John, when our friend learn you be at Fairlee."



Sir John Spottiswoode bow.



"it be to be an early party, and there be sundry message deliver

which my poor head could not contain; but Lord Farnborough will call

again with more ample instruction. I tell he it be cruel to load my

memory with such matter."



"do the Forfar party continue long at Clanmoray," say Sir John

Spottiswoode, some moment after the subject have drop.



"I believe so," be Lady Wetheral's reply; "indeed, Lord Farnborough

mention his own protract stay, when the rest leave for Farnborough

Stacy. I forget when _they_ depart."



"perhaps there be attractive metal in Miss Fanny Ponsonby," observe

Sir John Wetheral.



"there be attraction somewhere," reply his lady, "for there be a

lover's touch in his description of Lochleven, and in his anxiety for

the party to St. Mungo's Isle."



"allow I the pleasure of take wine with you, Miss Wetheral," say

Sir John Spottiswoode, bend forward. the subject again drop.



the half hour's interregnum after dinner, be pass in lecture on

Lady Wetheral's part. the lady have scarcely enter the drawing-room,

when Christobelle's attention be again require upon the subject so

painfully argue in the morning.



"I wish to try your narrow capacity once more, Bell, and to ascertain

whether you really possess one spark of that wholesome ambition which

dignify a woman of birth."



"indeed, mamma, I hope so. I would not for world stoop to commit a

mean action, or indulge a mean thought. my very great ambition be to

act like a lady, and, by so do, meet every one's respect."



"that be all very well, Bell, but that be not exactly my meaning. to

be respectable, you must soar. it be vain to content one's-self with

grovel just above the head of the canaille. the proper ambition be

to grasp at high thing, and possess they."



"I have no wish for high thing, mamma."



"because your nature be common-place, Bell, because your mind be low

set. however you may pique yourself upon your accomplished education,

that very education have cripple my hope, and your own prospect. you

will live and die, satisfied with mediocrity."



"but, mamma, what do you mean, and what be I to do to give you

satisfaction? I cannot understand you."



"I will explain myself, Bell. be you a girl of such a mean spirit,

as to accept a baronet, when a duke's son enter the list of suitor?

answer I--be you so mean-spirit, so mediocre in your wish, as to

content yourself with a man who cannot raise you above your fellow?"



"certainly not, mamma, if I do not love he."



"love he! could you love a man--would you dare to plead attachment

to a man, as an excuse for lower yourself in marriage below your

sister' fortune? would _you_ meanly creep, while _their_ flight have

carry they to this world's pinnacle? I hope, I trust, you would not

do so, Bell!"



"whom can you allude to?" exclaim Christobelle, distress beyond

measure at her mother's word; "tell I at once, I beseech you, what

you mean. do not speak to I in parable."



Lady Wetheral become extremely agitated. she walk to the window,

throw open the sash, and close it again, as she speak.



"I have say enough to waken your understanding. any one might

comprehend my meaning--any one would know I detest the idea of your

marrying Sir John Spottiswoode."



Christobelle look up in her mother's face with astonishment. she

continue with increase nervousness.



"you cannot deceive _I_, Bell. you cannot deny your predilection for

that man, which will at once decide the intention, and end all hope

of Lord Farnborough. you be determined to pursue your will, and I will

act upon my own resolution. the very hour in which you accept Sir John

Spottiswoode, shall be the last of your residence with I."



"good heaven, mamma, I have not a thought of Sir John Spottiswoode, or

Sir John Spottiswoode of I! what can have cause such a supposition in

your mind?"



"you do not care for he--you _will_ not care for he--be that your

meaning, Bell?"



"I do not care for any one, half so much as for my own papa, and I hope

I shall always prefer he," she exclaim, energetically.



"Folly, and nonsense!--girl's folly," resume Lady Wetheral, "by your

blush I might have give you credit for ambition; but your walk and

sailing with Sir John Spottiswoode, incline I to fear you will give

yourself to a poor baronet."



"I do not know he be poor, mamma."



"comparatively speak with Sir Foster Kerrison, he _be_ poor. what

be a paltry income of three thousand pound, compare with the wealthy

dukedom of Forfar?"



"be I to marry the Duke of Forfar?" exclaim Christobelle, start

from her chair in horror.



"not the present duke, Bell, though he be a remarkably fine man, and

not more than sixty year of age. many young lady might approve the

Duke of Forfar; but I allude to his very handsome, very accomplished

mannered son."



Christobelle could have listen to her mother's eulogium with infinite

pleasure at an early period, and before she have deprecate Sir John

Spottiswoode. but her soul rise against persecution. she could not

endure to hear her friend lower, or to be at once command not to

like a man whom she love in innocence, and without a thought of future

connexion. from that moment, Sir John Spottiswoode become a martyr in

her eye, and Lord Farnborough sink into a secondary personage. Lady

Wetheral await her daughter's reply some moment, but her mind be

too busily employ decide her feeling.



"you be very thoughtful, Bell. think well upon my word, and act with

become spirit."



"I have think, and I have decide," reply Christobelle, firmly.



"but do not look so ashy pale, my dear Bell; these little struggle

be trifle, compare with a long existence of nonentity. I give up a

very powerful attachment, to please my wise and reflect mother. I

relinquish Captain Blennerhasset for your father, and I find she

remark perfectly just, by the course of event. she implore I to

forbear marry an irish officer, with little more than his pay, when

a prospect arise before I of become mistress of Wetheral Castle.

she assure my romantic fancy, that Love could not survive the attack

of poverty, and she warn I to avoid the misery of follow my

husband into disagreeable quarter, where I must sink into a captain's

lady, a title of far less importance than the general's mistress. I

follow my dear mother's prudent advice, and break off my engagement

with Blennerhasset."



Christobelle be interested in the fate of her mother's unfortunate

lover, and she ask what have become of Captain Blennerhasset?



"he marry somebody of distinction," she reply, "and fall at

Badajos. his widow and four child be now live upon the bounty

of their friend. my mother's counsel be wise, and I be fortunately

prevail upon to act with propriety."



"Poor Captain Blennerhasset!"



"poverty be always pitiable," resume Lady Wetheral. "I consider

people equally poor, whose income will not allow they to compete with

their neighbour. I should say poor Lady Spottiswoode, if you be the

wife of our excellent guest,..."



"Alverton be a handsome estate," remark Christobelle.



"very well for a nobody," reply Lady Wetheral, haughtily, "but a

wretched pittance for a Miss Wetheral, who have attract the notice of

Lord Farnborough. I see his watchful look towards the door, Bell. I

mark his lordship's glance towards the lake, when he hear of your

visit to the island; every thing be in your power, if you will but

listen to your mother's counsel."



"do not talk to I of marriage, mamma, I implore you," cry

Christobelle, as the gentleman enter from the dining-room. Sir John

Spottiswoode take his seat near she as usual; she think he look

more benevolent, more interesting than ever. Matrimony never couple

itself with her admiration of Sir John, but to be command to approve

he less than Lord Farnborough--to consider _he_ poor and undesirable,

who have improve her well taste, and increase her store of good!

no, that should never be. Christobelle be too young to wish to marry,

too happy and free to think of fetter: but her right hand would forget

its cunning, ere she cease to esteem Sir John Spottiswoode beyond

every human being.



"shall we walk this evening?" he ask, as thought pass too rapidly

through her mind to allow of speech. Christobelle colour, and turn

mechanically towards her mother. Lady Wetheral see her emotion.



"my dear child look fatigue, Sir John. shall we advise she to be

quiet this evening? a long morning upon the water have lessen she

bloom."



"one little turn upon the terrace only, Miss Wetheral." Sir John

offer his arm.



"my dear Bell, even the terrace will fatigue you," observe she

ladyship, with anxiety.



"one turn to watch that sunset, Lady Wetheral! I will bring Miss

Wetheral back before fatigue attack she."



"my dear Bell!..."



"I will not detain her many minutes--_one_ turn, my pupil."



Christobelle could not resist that title. she rise, and accompany

Sir John Spottiswoode upon the terrace. one turn be take, and they

pause to watch the golden beam sink behind the mountain. another and

another be agree upon, just to watch the pale gleam depart. be

it, indeed, her mother's prohibition which give so much interest to her

companion's remark? be it her prohibition which throw a charm over

his conversation, and cause Christobelle to linger in his society? she

know not--but it be dark when they return into the drawing-room, and

the coffee have be forget. Lady Wetheral's eye turn upon her

daughter with an offended expression, but Christobelle forget their

glance in please retrospection that night. Christobelle dream of

Sir John Spottiswoode, and their early first day of acquaintance, when

Lady Wetheral approve and seek his intimacy, and she have enjoy it

undisturbed, without a reference to Lord Farnborough.









CHAPTER XXIV.





Lady Wetheral complain the follow morning of her nerve. she

assure Sir John Spottiswoode her alarm about her daughter's health

induce the attack, and she hope Christobelle would not think of

quit Fairlee ground that day. when that dear girl be long absent,

her fear become overpower, and a frequent recurrence of such

disquietude might bring on a serious illness. she hope Bell would find

amusement in the house, and be prevail upon to forego her long walk.

Sir John Spottiswoode should not suffer by her nervous feeling. she

be aware her husband admire and seek out point of scenery almost

as enthusiastically as Bell, and he would be delighted to attend he in

his ride.



Sir John Spottiswoode smile. "I will also decline leave the house,

if you please. since my pupil have suffer by my selfish pleasure, I

will dedicate myself to her entertainment--we will sketch the lake from

the terrace."



"that would be most pleasant; but I fear my poor nerve be in the way

again, my dear Sir John. I do not like to see my daughter bend over

her drawing."



"Miss Wetheral shall not bend over her drawing: I will read to you

both; I will read the 'Lady of the Lake.'"



"that will be most agreeable--most entertaining," observe she

ladyship. "my dear Bell, you be so partial to Sir Walter Scott's

poem!"



yes, Christobelle be a warm admirer of Sir Walter's poetry; but she

think still more of the pleasure she should experience in hear it

read aloud by Sir John Spottiswoode. Christobelle acknowledge "how

gratify she would feel, by hear the 'Lady of the Lake'--that she

preferred '_la lecture_' even to a sketch of the bright Lochleven.

she would bring her netting, and her father should sit by she in his

comfortable chair."



every thing be arrange, shortly after the conclusion of breakfast,

for the reading; but, ere the gentleman return from their morning

visit to the stable and garden, Lady Wetheral express she

satisfaction at the arrangement.



"I have manage to withdraw you from a walk, Bell. I dislike those

walk. your name would soon become couple with Sir John Spottiswoode,

which I will not allow. if Lord Farnborough call to-day, every thing

be in its proper order. place a chair for the reader, between your

father and myself, my love: our ear be old than your youthful

member."



"I think the Clanmoray party call yesterday, mamma?"



"they do so--and yet I have a presentiment that Lord Farnborough will

appear again to-day. remember, Bell, I do not extend my prohibition to

Lord Farnborough. you may walk with Lord Farnborough."



"that would give offence to Sir John Spottiswoode, mamma."



"leave _I_ to manage Sir John Spottiswoode, my love."



"I shall not wish to walk; I shall remain at home to-day, if you

please, mamma."



"I do not prescribe your hour, my dear Bell. Walk when and where you

like, so you be not conspicuous with Sir John Spottiswoode. I warn you

in time, that I will listen to no proposal which do not emanate from

Lord Farnborough; and no plea from yourself, which have reference to our

present guest. you be warn in time, remember!"



"I should never think of, or hope to attach, Sir John Spottiswoode,"

Christobelle reply, calmly; "I only wish to be allow free liberty

to enjoy his conversation."



"there be a very homely adage, Bell, which say, 'prevention be well

than a cure.' Lay its meaning to your heart."



Christobelle do not continue the dialogue. she give her whole

attention to her netting, till the gentleman return, and till Sir

John Spottiswoode commence his reading: her whole soul be then

engross in the fate of the fair and gentle Ellen. gradually her hand

relax their grasp, as the story proceed--gradually her eye turn

upon the reader, and her netting fall disregard upon the carpet. she

be listen to the scene where Malcolm hear the praise of Ellen

from the lip of Douglas:



    "if a father's partial thought

    O'erweighed her worth and beauty aught--

    well might the lover's judgment fail

    to balance with a juster scale;

    for with each secret glance he stole,

    the fond enthusiast send his soul."



the eye of Sir John Spottiswoode rest upon Christobelle as he speak

these line, and she feel a pain at her heart before unknown, and now

indescribable. Lady Wetheral catch the mutual expression, and be

strike by the sudden paleness of her daughter's countenance. she turn

to Sir John Spottiswoode.



"you will smile at a lady's nerve, and decide we to be

incomprehensible being; but the continual flow of your voice vibrate

upon my nerve in a peculiar manner. I _must_ feel unwell, since a

voice like your own create nervousness. I will retire, for a short

period, to appeal once more to camphor-julep. my dear Bell will give I

her arm."



Sir John Spottiswoode rise in alarm.



"my dear sir, these trifling attack be become less and less

frequent. my daughter and myself will leave you and Sir John together.

I trust these attack be not to be often repeat; but we shall meet

at luncheon, I hope, quite recovered."



the mother and daughter quit the sitting-room; but, as they

pass through the door, hold open by Sir John Spottiswoode, he take

Christobelle's hand, and kindly hope she would not be too ill to enjoy

a breeze upon the terrace. "oh! yes, this evening I shall truly enjoy

the pure air," she reply, withdraw her hand as they pass on.



"if there be any thing most displease to I," observe Lady Wetheral,

as they enter her dressing-room, "it be comprise in that familiar

action of shake hand upon every occasion. I beg you will avoid it in

future."



"it be merely to express a kind wish, _en passant_," Christobelle

remark, "that Sir John Spottiswoode just touch my hand."



"familiarity which begin _en passant_, end in contempt _pour

toujour_, Miss Wetheral."



"would you wish to lie down, mamma, or shall I ring for Mrs. Bevan?"

ask her daughter, willing to change the subject.



"Neither, Miss Wetheral. I wish simply to remain here, and, if you

please, you shall read to I."



Christobelle continue read to her mother, who sat recline in a

lounging-chair, till a tap at the door announce Mrs. Bevan in wait.

her ladyship touch a little silver hand-bell by her side, to indicate

to Mrs. Bevan that she might enter. she bring a summon from her

master, to beg the lady would make their appearance.



"tell Frederick, Mrs. Bevan, to inform your master we will descend when

the luncheon be announce: I be very nervous and unwell."



"my lady, I believe my Lord Farnborough be in the drawing-room."



"oh! very well, Mrs. Bevan, we be come immediately." Mrs. Bevan

vanish. "my dear love, just draw out your beautiful curl; and if you

could pass a narrow blue ribbon negligently through your hair, it would

give great effect to its jetty abundance. a little more animation in

your manner, Bell, and a little less paleness, be to be desire. yes,

that blush have have great effect--now let we proceed, ere it vanish."



they enter the drawing-room, and Christobelle's eye first seek

Sir John Spottiswoode. he be stand at the window, but he turn

towards the lady, as the little bustle of their entrance reach his

ear, and advance with alacrity. Lady Wetheral hold out her hand. "I

be much well, my dear Sir John--your countenance ask the question.

I have have repose--perfect repose--and I be well. my daughter be

my medicine." her ladyship still hold Christobelle's arm, and move

gracefully forward. "my lord, you be the bearer of Miss Ponsonby's

wish. my poor memory have part with the recollection of your message

yesterday, before my daughter's return."



Christobelle bow to Lord Farnborough, and would have apologize for

her absence the precede day, by state Sir John Spottiswoode's

arrival, have not the attention of the latter be fix upon she.

she could perceive that he watch she narrowly, and that knowledge

impart an awkwardness to her manner which she could not shake

off. Christobelle stop abruptly in her speech, and hesitate.

Lord Farnborough have greatly the advantage in perfect ease of

manner. Christobelle feel her insufficiency, and it cause great

agitation--for what would Sir John Spottiswoode think of her folly?



Lord Farnborough enter gaily into conversation, and he do not allude

to his disappointment, or recur to the event which have pass. he be

charge with Miss Ponsonby's complimentary fear lest Christobelle

should become a defaulter to St. Mungo's Isle, and her hope that the

party would assemble at Clanmoray, before the aquatic expedition take

place. it be hope that Lady Wetheral would accompany the Fairlee

party, and forget her fear of the water.



"you will be under my guidance, Lady Wetheral," continue Lord

Farnborough, "and I be an experienced sailor. Ponsonby head a

detachment also, but I particularly request your daughter and yourself

will place yourself under my care."



"we will certainly enlist under your banner, Lord Farnborough; we

prefer the sailor to the soldier, upon the water," say Lady Wetheral,

her countenance light up with pleasure, and all her ailment

forget. "I shall accept, with pleasure, Miss Ponsonby's invitation,

and I will _try_ to forget my fear."



"I shall ride over on Tuesday, to escort you," resume Lord

Farnborough. "since you consider yourself my peculiar care, I

shall certainly take charge of you from your own door. Miss Ponsonby

declare, if I monopolize the lady, she will insist upon be

attend by the gentleman. she therefore appropriate Sir John Wetheral

and your guest."



"a charmingly novel arrangement," exclaim Lady Wetheral, delight

to believe that Sir John Spottiswoode would not enter her appoint

vessel. "I be amuse by the peculiar novelty. tell I who form your

exclusive party?"



"oh! I have secure Lady Anna and Fanny Ponsonby--Mrs. Ponsonby have

declare off altogether--the Greys, and the two Quintens."



"the handsome Quintens?"



"yes, the handsome, tall Quintens--second only to the incomparable

Fanny Ponsonby."



Christobelle think Lord Farnborough handsome--very handsome, that

morning. if Sir John Spottiswoode have not arrive at Fairlee--if Lady

Wetheral have not torture her heart, by _compel_ its obedience--by

endeavour to lower her opinion of the friend she esteem--if,

a thousand if--Christobelle have perhaps admire his lordship, and

fall a victim to her mother's wish. but, now!--a thousand Lord

Farnboroughs could not fill up the sum of her preference to the society

of Sir John Spottiswoode. love be a deity unknown, unwished for. she

only pray to pass her existence with her father, and to see sometimes

the friend she so greatly venerate.



Lord Farnborough remain some hour at Fairlee; and when

Christobelle's confusion, which arise at Sir John Spottiswoode's

scrutiny, have subside, she could also join in the passing

conversation. many complimentary nothing fall from Lord Farnborough's

lip, to which she reply with a banter which arise from the

collision of their wit--not from a heart gratify by empty verbiage.

Christobelle be at rest from reproach; and her spirit rise from their

contact with lively observation and sprightly repartee.



Sir John Spottiswoode do not join in the wordy war, but her father

smile in pleased approbation, and often rescue his daughter from the

horn of a dilemma. Lady Wetheral's satisfaction lie deep in her heart,

but she sit composedly silent, as the brilliant scintillation of wit

play round she. it be after the departure of Lord Farnborough, that

she speak her feeling in one concise, but too dangerous, sentence.



"Bell, walk _now_ when and where you please, with Sir John

Spottiswoode."



Christobelle be again at liberty to walk by the side of her

friend--again free to claim his society, without reproachful look and

unkind expression! how joyfully do she avail herself of the bless

privilege! her mother smile at their repeat absence, and express

no curiosity to learn their subject of conversation. Christobelle

draw fearlessly to the side of Sir John Spottiswoode, or lean upon

his arm with confidence, as they watch the sun's decline from the

terrace. she be the happy creature breathing, till the day of their

engagement to Clanmoray.



and yet Christobelle fancy there be symptom of reserve on the part

of her companion. conversation become, she think, less gaily free,

less continuous. there be repeat and long pause, which she could

not break, and Sir John Spottiswoode appear to covet. they sit one

morning in their rocky seat, without exchange a single word, till Sir

John suddenly exclaimed,--



"this be, indeed, perfect happiness."



Christobelle smile.



"we be _silent_ adorer of Nature; but our feeling be not the less

sincere."



"powerful admiration be in the heart, not upon the lip," reply she

companion, sigh.



"yet we admire the scene as fervently when we chat and sing upon

the lake," observe Christobelle.



"that be eye-service, Miss Wetheral. the glorious scenery _then_

delight my eye, but have not reach my heart; its effect now be

very soothing, yet melancholy."



"don't let I interrupt your meditation, then," Christobelle reply,

with a little feeling of offended pride, which have never rise in

her bosom till that moment. she be ashamed of its existence, but it

_would_ display itself.



"I have not the sprightly and win tongue of Lord Farnborough, Miss

Wetheral. I cannot be witty and yet feel deeply."



"Lord Farnborough," reply Christobelle, colour, "be not in my

thought."



"I speak unadvisedly, my dear pupil: forgive the stern schoolmaster."



Sir John Spottiswoode hold out his hand, and when do Christobelle

resist that affectionate title, which recall his instruction, and

their happy day at Wetheral? she give her own hand with the delight

of heart which every one experience who renew a happy intercourse

with half displeased friend. Sir John Spottiswoode hold it for some

moment; and when it be withdraw gently from his grasp, they again

relapse into silence. the dressing-bell startle they from their long

reverie.



"oh, that tiresome bell!" exclaim Christobelle, "how dismally and

faithfully it summon one from mental enjoyment to the creature

comfort!"



"it be wisely order!" reply Sir John Spottiswoode, place she

arm within his own. "I will tell you why I judge it so, as we climb

this steep. we enjoy all thing by comparison, and in their variety.

mental pleasure depend upon calm bodily tranquillity; and where the

constitution suffer, there be little leisure for the mind to absorb

itself in its own reverie. there! you have slip, and hurt your

foot!"



"but the dressing-bell--you have not yet illustrate your position!"

exclaim Christobelle, in some confusion, as her companion catch she

fall, by throw his arm round her waist, though it be instantly

withdraw.



"I be go to enter upon it as you fall, my argumentative pupil. a

calm mind depend upon bodily repose, which demand support, which

be effect by food, which be denote by the dressing-bell to be

prepare. have I not state it truly and concisely."



"yes; a perfect 'House that Jack build,' in its tripping measure. you

will rival Lord Farnborough."



"what be the meaning of this extraordinary arrangement, that all the

lady be to sail in one vessel, Miss Wetheral?"



"Miss Ponsonby's whim, I believe. I look forward with pleasure to our

party to-morrow."



"do you?"



"yes: I feel light as the heather-bell, and quite ready to aim poison

arrow at Lord Farnborough. will it amuse you?"



"not particularly."



"you do not like Lord Farnborough?"



"I have no reason to feel entertainment in his lordship's society. I be

not an admirer of his conversation."



Christobelle think Sir John Spottiswoode speak a little bitterly

of poor Lord Farnborough, but it do not surprise she. doubtless,

Mr. Beverly's suppose injury have take effect upon his friend's

mind, and prejudice he against his lordship. Christobelle do not,

however, continue a subject in itself uninteresting. Lord Farnborough

have no charm for she; she only feel amuse by his sprightly power.

while her father and Sir John Spottiswoode be near, Christobelle's

spirit ever rise into gaiety: she would be gaiety itself during

the water excursion, and Sir John would be gay too, only he speak

so deprecatingly of the affair. they do not linger on the terrace.

Christobelle have only time to promise her companion that the evening

should be devote to music, and she hurry to her room. the second

bell sound ere she could reach the drawing-room.



the following morning rise in sunny smile. a mist have clear away,

leave the sparkle water of the lake bright and clear; and

Christobelle's spirit be unusually high at the prospect of she

happy day of pleasurable anticipation. she speak in metaphor, and

think in rhyme; but her astonishment be great, in behold the

coolness of Sir John Spottiswoode's manner, and view the gravity

of his countenance at breakfast. Christobelle's most lively sally

pass perfectly unnoticed and unheeded. she could not win one smile,

or obtain one remark from her friend. his eye appear heavy, and

Christobelle fancy he must suffer from conceal illness, otherwise

he would have catch the infection of her spirit. the thought of Sir

John Spottiswoode suffering sober her vivacity. she become grave, and

gradually even sad, to witness his dejection. Christobelle approach

he when they rise from the breakfast-table; her mother have quit the

breakfast-room, and she fear no misconstruction of her anxiety.



"I know you be ill. I be sure you be unfit to join a party full of

mirth."



"I believe I be unequal to this morning's gaiety; certainly quite

unfit for mirth," be the dejected answer.



"how very annoying that it should take place to-day; or how provoking

that you should ever be ill! do you rise unwell?"



"no; I be perfectly well when I enter the breakfast-room; but a

few turn on the terrace with Lady Wetheral, before you appear, have

cause a head and heart ache. I cannot remain at Fairlee solitary, but

I be too ill to mix in a party of pleasure."



"I wish we be both go in our own boat, to our own island, to be

quiet," Christobelle exclaim. "I do not enjoy large party when my

friend be ill."



"you will not observe my sickness of heart, Miss Wetheral. you will be

gaily engage."



"not if you be ill."



Christobelle be not aware of the compliment convey in her

observation. she speak from her heart simply and sincerely, without

consider its flattering tendency. Sir John Spottiswoode catch she

hand, and release it again suddenly. he turn abruptly away.



"do not speak so recklessly, so heartlessly, I beseech you!"



"I never be suspect of heartlessness, Sir John Spottiswoode!"



Christobelle also turn away, for proud tear rise at the unexpected

attack. she be quit the room.



"stay one moment, and say you forgive I," he cry with energy.

"forgive I, Miss Wetheral--forgive I, my generous pupil!"



Christobelle turn at the last expression, and her emotion be

apparent, for he catch she in his arm.



"I cannot support this sight! what right have I to presume to give pain!

what right have I to breathe a harsh expression towards a creature all

heart, and all nobleness!"



"I be not angry," she reply, withdraw from his embrace--"I be not

angry, Sir John Spottiswoode; only I do not deserve the appellation of

heartless. I speak in sincerity and truth."



"I know you do. I be wrong to speak as I do--forgive I!"



"I do forgive you," she answer, smile, and another long pressure of

the hand attest their reconciliation.



"calm a penitent spirit by a stroll on the terrace, and talk to I,

that I may forget my fault and its cause. let I hear your voice

again, and let I hear it till Lord Farnborough arrive."



the friend walk nearly an hour together. Christobelle's spirit

be again elevate, and she chat with renew vivacity. Sir

John Spottiswoode walk smilingly by her side, listen to her

anticipation of his illness disperse in the fresh air of Lochleven;

but he be not himself. he reply to her remark, and lend his power

in playful conversation; but they be not _give_. he often sigh,

and repeatedly compel his companion to bespeak his attention.



"you tell I to chat, and your mind be far away," she say, at last,

weary with receive no reply.



"but I have not lose a word. I hear you with the most vivid attention,

because you will not long honour I."



"why so, I pray you, gentle coz?"



"you will be engross by Lord Farnborough!"



"that, then, will be your own fault!"



he look earnestly in Christobelle's face, and shake his head.



"say it once more, my pupil."



"it will be your own fault, if _any one_ engross my attention. why

should I be inattentive to my naughty schoolmaster?"



Lord Farnborough bound from the drawing-room window upon the terrace,

and advance towards they. Christobelle feel her companion's arm relax;

she look reproachingly towards he.



"you wish already to get rid of your poor pupil?"



"never, never!" be the subdue reply; but Lord Farnborough stand

before they.



"you be ready, I see. be not this a glorious day? Clanmoray be in a

proper bustle, and the lake never look so beautiful. Miss Ponsonby

declare she will be the 'Lady of the Lake,' and dress in costume as

you do, Miss Wetheral. she hope some 'Malcolm' of Lochleven will

start forth and woo she, but she rather despair of such good fortune.

Malcolm will be attract elsewhere."



a low bow from his lordship point the compliment, and Christobelle

curtsey to its meaning. Sir John Spottiswoode would not enter into

the unmeaning dialogue which succeed: he pertinaciously avoid

even lend a smile to Lord Farnborough. how deeply he resent, in

Christobelle's eye, the offence offer to his friend Beverly!



it be a beautiful drive to Clanmoray. Lady Wetheral, forgetful of she

long confinement--her nervous feeling--and the painful remembrance

of Clara's death, chat through the carriage-window with Lord

Farnborough, as gaily and as sportively as ever. Christobelle amuse

herself with rally Sir John Spottiswoode upon his illness, which

she assure he be affect, to try the sympathy of his friend. he

rebut the idea with excellent good humour, and they enter the

ground of General Ponsonby in most merry mood.



two or three groupe be seat in picturesque attitude, listen to

Captain Ponsonby, who strike a guitar with great spirit, and amuse the

company with Spanish Boleros and moorish song. the wetheral' arrival

be the signal to embark; and, in the confusion of introduction,

reception, compliment, decision upon the fit and unfit, and Miss

Ponsonby's determination to be the Lady of the Lake, Christobelle find

herself descend the woode hill which slope to the water' edge,

escort by Lord Farnborough and Mr. Ponsonby. Lady Wetheral follow

closely upon her daughter's step, lean upon the arm of the Duke of

Forfar. Christobelle cast linger look at the groupe which dot

the pathway, but she could not distinguish the figure of Sir John

Spottiswoode.



"well, we look neat, however," say Mr. Ponsonby, crack a whip,

which never depart from his right hand.



"be my father near, Mr. Ponsonby?" Christobelle ask, anxiously. she

be sure Sir John Spottiswoode would be near _he_, and her heart

wish to ascertain his movement. she dared not appear interested in

the whereabout of her "tutor," to attract notice. Mr. Ponsonby crack

his whip, and look behind he.



"Sir John Wetheral and your friend be escort my sister. do observe

the pretty effect of the groupe descend the glen."



they turn to admire the picturesque figure which adorn the woody

scene. Lady Wetheral also linger with his Grace of Forfar, to gaze

upon their effect.



"these scene be not to be find in Shropshire," observe his grace.

"the Wrekin lie upon the plain, like a whale in a dish, will be tame

work when we can remember Lochleven."



"and yet I sometimes sigh for the scene I have quit," say she

ladyship. "I confess I love the busy hum of man, and Lochleven be

dreary in the winter month. I wish I could persuade my daughter she be

dull at Fairlee."



"Miss Wetheral love the grand seclusion of Lochleven, because she

taste have not be vitiate by society."



"my daughter be wed to calm life, and love no agitation beyond the

ruffle lake. I believe her spirit would pine in the gay world."



"so much the well, my good lady; her young mind be uncontaminate by

the art of a worldly life."



"my endeavour be to preserve its purity, and watch over its happiness,"

reply her ladyship, sigh.



at this moment the whole party become united again. Sir John

Spottiswoode quit Miss Fanny Ponsonby, and approach Christobelle.

Lady Wetheral perceive the movement, and she turn hastily round.



"my dear child, you be tired, you look pale. my lord, you have

outwalke even your 'genius of the Lake.'"



Lord Farnborough offer his arm, with many polite regret.

Christobelle decline it, courteously. she be quite equal to the

walk;--she feel no fatigue.



"Oblige I, my dear child," say Lady Wetheral, anxiously; "I cannot

be satisfied unless you accept his lordship's assistance. my dear girl,

make I happy."



Christobelle could hesitate no long. all eye be upon she; she be

actually in the way, and a remark from his grace confuse she.



"my dear young lady, you stand there, turn all the young man's

head. Harry, take away your prize, for we be at fault till you

proceed."



Christobelle be lead away, accordingly; and she see no more of Sir

John Spottiswoode, till they gain the shore of the lake. he be

walk still with Miss Fanny Ponsonby, when she behold he again.

he be apparently explain something to her comprehension, for she

be lean upon his arm, and he be point to the peak of Cona.

be he quote Ossian to the beautiful Fanny Ponsonby, regardless

of the party, and of the friend who would have listen so gladly?

do he mean to become the partner of Fanny Ponsonby, when he tell

she, in their early walk, that he should hear her own voice only on

the terrace?--when he tell she, _she_ would be appropriate by Lord

Farnborough? a pang of jealousy pierce her heart at the moment,

indescribably bitter; it be a pang so sudden, so tinctured with

despair, that she close her eye, and press her hand tightly upon

her heart. the movement attract the notice of Lord Farnborough.



"I fear you be ill, indeed, Miss Wetheral. I be sure you have find

the descent very fatiguing."



"I _be_ rather ill," exclaim Christobelle, still keep her eye

close. she could not endure the light, or the figure which flit

before she. she feel extremely giddy; so much so, she be apprehensive

of fall. an exclamation from her companion catch the ear of Lady

Wetheral, who be immediately at her daughter's side. Christobelle be

place upon a bank, and she lean against her mother's shoulder. she

wave away the gentleman.



"let no one come near I, mamma. let no one speak to I, just now."



the duke and his lordship politely retreat. Lady Wetheral bestow

her sweetest smile upon her daughter, but it be not see; and it would

have add only to Christobelle's disquiet, if it have meet her eye. her

ladyship be very soothing.



"no one shall distress you, Bell; but if, as I suspect, Lord

Farnborough have speak to you rather warmly, you must accustom

yourself to this sort of thing. only silly girl be overpower by a

love-speech or two;--do collect yourself, my love, and avoid attract

notice. this be all as it should be, but collect yourself."



"Lord Farnborough have not--" Christobelle could not proceed: she feel

gasp for breath.



"of course not, my dear Bell. a symphony precede an air--every thing

will steal on in proper order. rouse yourself. your father be come to

we--do not appear girlish."



her father's presence and touch revive the spirit of Christobelle.

she rise, and lean upon his arm; she feel well when her father be

near she. she entreat to be allow to walk with _him_--to be with

he on the water and on land. she should be quite well and happy, quite

compose, if she walk only with _him_--with her father.



"my dear Bell, do not shock I by any display of folly. Lord

Farnborough be linger near we--resume his assistance, and let we

rejoin the company. we be detain they on the shore." Lady Wetheral

rise, as she speak, with great composure, but a smile of pleasure

lurk beneath her grave and calm expression of countenance. how

greatly be she mistaken in the cause of her daughter's emotion!



"you shall be my companion, Chrystal," say her father, draw his

daughter's arm within his, "and I will take charge of you. we will not

delay the party."



this be not quite in the fitness of thing. her ladyship be

discompose.



"but, my love, Lord Farnborough will have every reason to feel

offend: it wear a very extraordinary appearance that his lordship

should be so suddenly deserted. my dear Bell, you cannot altogether

desert your companion."



"a father's care will not give umbrage to any gentleman, Gertrude. I

will attend to my daughter, since she request it. no one will plead

desertion when I be in question."



this step discompose her ladyship's "arrangement," but impediment

only rouse her mind, and find employment for her energy. all the

resource of her genius be bring into full operation by this

unfortunate occurrence; and never, in Christobelle's early day, do

she remember her mother more present to herself--more fitted to contend

with the exigency of the moment. Lord Farnborough join they as they

proceed towards the lake. Miss Ponsonby fly towards Christobelle, at

the same moment.



"my dear, I would not intrude while you be under such proper

protection, but I hope you be recover. what be it?--a little

megrim?"



"we have forget its proper designation, and even its existence,"

reply Lady Wetheral, smilingly; "I be only anxious my daughter should

not undertake too much fatigue. I fear her effort in try to promote

amusement for our guest, Sir John Spottiswoode, have overcome she

strength."



"Miss Wetheral shall not suffer from effort of any kind this morning.

my lord, take possession of your fair cargo, but reserve the seat of

honour for our young friend."



Christobelle clung to her father's arm, but Miss Ponsonby do not

observe the movement.



"Sir John Wetheral, you be my property; you must relinquish your fair

daughter."



"be we not admissable together, Miss Ponsonby?"



"I will have no rival--yes, I change my mind; I will have Miss Wetheral

for my Eucharis, and be myself Calypso, instead of Ellen Douglas. where

shall I find a Telemachus?"



"Sir John Spottiswoode," answer Lord Farnborough.



"no, I hate a flirt Telemachus--he be say sugar sentence to

Fanny."



"Mortimer Grey," rejoin his lordship.



"Nonsense, Telemachus with a hare-lip?--now, out upon you! Miss

Wetheral, you be mine, and you be Eucharis. I steal you from my lord."



"I cannot resign my fair assignment--rack and torture shall not

extort my consent," reply Lord Farnborough.



Captain Ponsonby come up.



"what be we wait for? your boat be fill, Mary--we must not

delay. Miss Wetheral, be you of our party? allow I to lead you to the

boat."



"Miss Wetheral be mine," cry Lord Farnborough, "and I give she to no

mortal."



"it be a freight worth contend for, Farnborough: state your claim."



"the lady's own fair word, Ponsonby."



"I will hear it from her own lip. Miss Wetheral, Genius of the Lake,

as they truly style you...."



"I dispute the title," exclaim Miss Ponsonby. "I have also adopt

the costume, and I choose to share the distinction."



"Unfortunate Mary!--name fatal to peace upon Lochleven, be still. do

Miss Wetheral consign herself wholly and solely to Lord Farnborough?"



"I wish to go with my father," eagerly reply Christobelle.



Lord Farnborough bow proudly and coldly. Captain Ponsonby wave his

hat in the air.



"Hurrah for Miss Wetheral and independence! for once, my lord, you be

refuse--check in your high careering. Miss Wetheral, will you give

your fair hand to a portionless son?"



Captain Ponsonby hold out his arm to escort she to his vessel, but

Christobelle's hand be take gently yet firmly by her mother.



"my dear daughter thank you, gentleman, for your polite and

amusingly-agreeable knight-errantry. Captain Ponsonby, however, be only

unsuccessful from be too late. I believe honour be a treasure too

delicate to endure a breath of reproach, and we be pledge to my Lord

Farnborough."



"then, 'soft idea fly,'" say Captain Ponsonby, lay his hand upon

his heart.



"'see our oar with feather spray,'" exclaim Miss Ponsonby. "we

must stay here no long. I must not be Calypso--fair Eucharis be take

from I. I believe I have well remain only Mary Ponsonby."



"your sound judgment soon crush imagination," cry her brother.

"as Mary Ponsonby, you be a good-temper, noisy kind of girl--but

Calypso, or Ellen Douglas, would prove a failure."



"no lack of mentor, however," observe Miss Ponsonby, as she nod

her adieus, and take possession of Sir John Wetheral's arm. Captain

Ponsonby call after she.



"Mary, I be go to take charge of Lady Wetheral. tell Mortimer Grey,

to take my place."



"but your party will lose such a dominant spirit, my dear Captain

Ponsonby," say her ladyship, as Miss Ponsonby wave her hand, in token

of assent.



"disappointment be the lot of mortality," reply Captain Ponsonby,

gaily--"I cannot divide myself into two, and my heart be with _you_."



the party be soon launch upon the lake. Captain Ponsonby insist

upon take his station between Lady Wetheral and her daughter, and

his gay spirit almost while Christobelle into cheerfulness. she see

Sir John Spottiswoode enter the first boat with Miss Fanny Ponsonby,

but he never turn to cast a glance towards Christobelle--never once

come forward to say he hope she be well and happy. her heart swell

with sorrow so poignant, that she heed not Lord Farnborough's anxious

arrangement to make her comfortable--his effort to secure she from

the breeze which rise upon the water. she heed nothing--care for

nothing. Miss Fanny Ponsonby might consider the excursion a party

of deep delight, and Lochleven might be to she a remembrance of

pleasurable thing--but Christobelle feel the whole affair a mockery.

her mother endeavour to arouse her faculty.



"my love, Lord Farnborough have speak twice--his lordship hope you

feel no inconvenience from the sun?"



"thank you, I be very comfortable."



"my dear Bell, you be not aware Lord Farnborough have place his cloak

under your foot."



"thank you, my lord."



"for Heaven's sake," whisper her ladyship, "throw off the girl, and

be a woman of dignified, compose manner."



"I wish I be any thing but what I be, mamma."



"nonsense; not one of your sister act so girlishly. I beg you will

consider my shocked feeling."



Christobelle do make an effort to shake off the bond which seem to

bind her spirit with link of iron. she turn from the contemplation

of Sir John Spottiswoode and Fanny Ponsonby, but they rise before

she like the undying Hydra. she see they, in imagination, engage in

agreeable conversation--the beautiful eye of Fanny Ponsonby fix

upon her companion's face, and her mind inform by his remark.

Christobelle see he, in fancy, fascinate by her loveliness--eager to

please--absorb--forgetful of their own pleasant walk together--their

reading--their long and happy pause on the terrace, watch the last

beam of the summer sun. she start with terror.



"my dear Bell, you be not alarm?" exclaim her mother. "Lord

Farnborough be kind enough to take the helm."



Captain Ponsonby smile. "what! the Genius of the Lake alarm upon her

own element? forbid it, storm and cloud!"



"Miss Wetheral, you would feel more undisturbed if you be at my

_leave_ hand," whisper Lord Farnborough.



"indeed, Miss Wetheral would deceive herself, if she look for rest

near _you_, farnborough: I will not part with my supporter. Miss

Wetheral, do not be inveigle away from I. no whispering, unless it be

allow to all, if you please."



"you be point north this morning, Ponsonby; and now the wind sit

easterly."



    "East, west--alas! I care not whither,

    so thou art safe, and I with thee!"



exclaim Captain Ponsonby, turn towards Christobelle, with a smile.



Lord Farnborough become silent and sullen. a deep gloom spread over

his handsome face, and its bland expression fade. Lord Farnborough

wear a countenance, which Christobelle could never have recognise as

the agreeable set of feature which first please she at Lochleven.

his lordship turn with indignant pride from his friend, and give his

attention to the Miss Quintins.



"Bell!" whisper Lady Wetheral, as Captain Ponsonby again stoop

forward, to adjust his cloak, "you will lose he."



"lose he!" think Christobelle--"yes, I have lose he--for be he

not utter 'sugar sentence' to Fanny Ponsonby?--and be he not

regardless of his old acquaintance? how easy it be to sit in happy,

careless tranquillity, when no cloud veil our hope! how happy be

I, till the Clanmoray party break through the seclusion of Fairlee,

and bring a Fanny Ponsonby between I and my peace! how happy be

I in my freedom, rove amid the grove of Fairlee, before Sir John

Spottiswoode arrive, to teach I the glow of friendship, and then to

withdraw its light!" Ill, unhappy, and indifferent to the scenery,

which be her former object of devotion, Christobelle heed not the

sullen silence of Lord Farnborough, or the fear of her mother. the

little attention she could spare from the conjuration of her wretched

fancy, Christobelle give to the gay and kind-hearted Ponsonby.









CHAPTER XXV.





"Miss Wetheral," say Captain Ponsonby, "when I quit Clanmoray, six

year ago, I never dream of a fair neighbour at Fairlee."



"six year ago I be nurse a doll, Captain Ponsonby."



"even so. you tease your doll in youth, and tease our heart in age.

like a fall star, you have shoot from your sphere, upon the bank of

this lake, and where shall you make your rest?"



"you have be some time in Ireland, Captain Ponsonby, and have catch

the true hyperbole."



"I have no practice there, Miss Wetheral. if I tell a lady she be

charming, it be 'ah now, you're joking'--and if I advance with

classical allusion, or sparkle metaphor, it be 'ah now, Captain

Ponsonby, you're so droll!'"



"the irish lady possibly guess your character, Captain Ponsonby, as

it appear to have be a general answer. they know you be either in

jest, or sarcastic."



"upon my honour, you be wrong. I be sincere in word and deed. I be

neither fair nor false, the motto of some of my neighbour. don't look

this way, Farnborough."



"Miss Wetheral," say his lordship, "do not believe half you hear from

Ponsonby's lip."



"it hit my lord hard, you perceive, Miss Wetheral."



"my friend Ponsonby be a rover--san eye, san heart, san every

thing, Miss Wetheral."



"Excellent--ha, ha!" laugh Captain Ponsonby. "I can disprove the

charge, Miss Wetheral. I be in love three whole day, once, at

Castlebar."



"and why so speedy a cure?" Christobelle demand.



"the lady keep silence three day," he reply, "but, on the fourth

morning, the charm dissolve, for she speak."



"what could she have speak, to break a spell so powerful, Captain

Ponsonby?"



"I meet the lady in a pour rain, and, though I have not be

introduce to she, we have meet often, and be acquaint by name and

sight. I offer she my escort and my umbrella. 'ah, now, Captain

Ponsonby, there's rason in what you say, and I'll be obleege to

you'--was her good-humour reply. I could bear the brogue tolerably,

Miss Wetheral, for six month' residence have enure I to its twang;

but I could not away with the perfect nonchalance with which she

exhibit a pair of enormous ancle, and appeal to I upon their use.

'ah now, Captain Ponsonby, if I've get no understanding above, there's

plenty below, and I'll be charge for two pair of leg through the

penny turnpike.' farewell the glow complexion and bright eye of my

love!--I never more gaze upon Miss M'Nab."



"be that your _only_ enlargement of heart, Captain Ponsonby?"



"some few relapse there might have be, but none of any

consideration. Miss M'Nab be the most serious love."



"you be difficult to please."



"no, I think not; but I desire to find a sufficiently lovely woman,

with sweetness of temper, and delicacy of manner, to love with

constancy. if I ever love sincerely, it will be my life-string--the

very breath of my life."



"then be very cautious, Captain Ponsonby," say Christobelle, with

a feeling of painful interest. she feel how sorrowful be the

disappointment of friendship. what would the pang of unrequited

affection be?



"will you be my guardian angel, and watch over I, Miss Wetheral?"



"I cannot undertake such a momentous charge," she reply. Lord

Farnborough watch the conversation in gloomy silence, and converse

no more with Miss Quintin. Lady Wetheral be gratify by the

expression of jealousy which darken his lordship's fine face, for,

during the little bustle of debarkation, she smile, and hastily

whispered--"Christobelle, very well manage, my love; a little jealousy

be useful, but beware of give _offence_."



"Mamma, you be quite mistaken, indeed you be."



"Nonsense, Bell; I be keenly watch and decide." Lord Farnborough

offer his hand to assist her transit at that moment, and the subject

be of course drop. Captain Ponsonby offer his hand to Miss

Wetheral, and they follow in succession: he place her arm within his

own, as they touch the shore of the little island. "mind, you belong

to I, Miss Wetheral; I shall not relinquish you now."



Lord Farnborough consign Lady Wetheral to his father's care, and

immediately return. his lordship appear offend at the disposition

of thing.



"Miss Wetheral, I be depute by Lady Wetheral to bring you to she:

allow me--" Lord Farnborough put forth his arm. Captain Ponsonby

interfere.



"no one take my guardian angel from I. I will take charge of Miss

Wetheral with equal care. Miss Wetheral be mine."



"my claim begin early, Ponsonby," remark his lordship, with a look

of fierceness.



"I will fight for every inch of mine. my good fellow, the Quintins be

unattended."



"my delegate place be by the side of Miss Wetheral." Lord Farnborough

throw a look of defiance at her companion, which terrify

Christobelle. "oh, pray take I to my father, Captain Ponsonby," she

cry; "pray let I walk with my father."



"you shall be obey." Captain Ponsonby draw she among the group, who

be decide the plan of refreshment, or arrange their dress, and

give she into her father's care; but Christobelle still dread the

look of Lord Farnborough. she do not withdraw her arm from Captain

Ponsonby's support: he smile.



"you _be_ my guardian angel, after all. I see your fear, and, while

they operate to my advantage, I hope they will continue. how delightful

it be to be the object of a woman's tender care! every thing be so

kindly and silently do."



"I do not like Lord Farnborough's look, Captain Ponsonby."



"nor I, at all. I be very much alarmed, and I beg you will keep near

I." Christobelle laugh.



"what be you laugh at?"



Lady Wetheral approach, lean on the arm of his grace; and Lord

Farnborough also come up. Captain Ponsonby affect to tremble, and

assure Christobelle, if she quit his protection, he should be a

lifeless corpse. he could not bear the lightning of Lord Farnborough's

eye, or the thunder of his angry voice, at be deprive of his prey.

he think they have well contemplate the ruin of the little chapel,

while the party be quarrel about the dinner-table. Sir John

Wetheral be willing to move, and Christobelle also be anxious to

leave the spot where Sir John Spottiswoode stand pertinaciously by the

side of Fanny Ponsonby. Sickness of heart come over she, and she turn

from the scene.



lochleven crowd all its beauty into the panorama view from St.

Mungo's Isle, but Christobelle gaze upon they with vacancy: her eye

could not distinguish, and her mind would not relish they. she sit upon

a low, ruin wall, in utter listlessness; and, in silence, listen

to Captain Ponsonby's statement of the scene which have take place on

the spot where they rest, when it have be the sepulchre of the clan

of Glencoe and Lochaber. Christobelle's adoration of ancient legend

be sink in apathy. she dared not turn her head, lest the fearful form

of Fanny Ponsonby and her companion should startle her sight. she

gaze on the height, without perceive their beautiful outline. she

listen to Captain Ponsonby, without the power of retain his word.

a summon to the rural dinner alone rouse her spirit and energy.



"Bell, my love, I have preserve a seat for you, near _I_," say Lady

Wetheral, hold out her hand--"Come to I, my love; you have play

truant."



Captain Ponsonby seat Christobelle, and prepare to take possession

of an empty chair on her left hand, but Lady Wetheral smilingly

interfered--



"my dear Captain Ponsonby, I believe your seat belong to another, but

probably we can make room for you. ah! the bench interfere so; but

where will you find a seat? spottiswoode, be there not a vacant seat

near you?"



"do not disturb yourself, Lady Wetheral. I be perfectly satisfied with

my present quarter; and when a turn out be beat, I shall take a

sentinel's place."



Captain Ponsonby accordingly seat himself, and devote his time and

attention to the want of Christobelle, till Lord Farnborough join

they, with a cold fowl upon his silver fork.



"I have be my round for a supply, and can only gain one recruit,

Lady Wetheral, a fowl screen from observation by a bed of parsley.

Ponsonby, you'll excuse my resumption of a seat which be mine by right

of conquest."



"I only hold it in fear and trembling, Farnborough. I relinquish my

seat with regret; but if I must, I must. Miss Wetheral, pity my sorrow,

and admire my resolution." Captain Ponsonby rise, and station

himself behind her chair.



"my dear fellow, there be two seat at the bottom of the table for

you," say Lord Farnborough.



"I be very happy in my present situation," reply Captain Ponsonby; "I

be attend upon Miss Wetheral."



"but the Greys be quite by themselves, Ponsonby; do go down, and offer

your service there."



"Miss Wetheral, you be wish for a slice of cold turkey; I see you

contemplate it," observe Captain Ponsonby, who take no notice of his

friend's speech. "I fly for it."



"I wish Ponsonby would attend to the Greys," say his lordship, as

Captain Ponsonby quit his station. "I shall be most happy to attend

upon you and Miss Quintin."



the eye of Christobelle be rivet in the direction of the turkey,

as Captain Ponsonby remark; for there sit Sir John Spottiswoode, and

Fanny Ponsonby be at his side: she try to withdraw her eye, but

they be fix by leaden weight, and she gaze on. she see Sir John

Spottiswoode turn to ask Captain Ponsonby whom he should assist to a

slice of the breast; and when Miss Wetheral's name be mention,

he do not look towards she; he turn and speak to Fanny Ponsonby.

Christobelle would not allow the tear to rush from their fountain,

or a sigh to escape from her heart, however pained be her feeling.

she only resolve never again to walk as she have do with Sir John

Spottiswoode, never again to feel for he those kind and friendly

sentiment which he know not how to appreciate. Captain Ponsonby

return laugh from his mission.



"I wish you could hear Fanny and your handsome friend, Miss Wetheral.

they be try which shall make the most glaring compliment to each

other. I leave your friend talk about the heart of a lover, which

make Fanny grave. do look at she, now." Christobelle glance towards

his sister; her sprightly countenance have fade into deep attention,

as Sir John Spottiswoode speak earnestly; her glow complexion have

change its bloom, and be become pale. Christobelle would have give

world to have be acquaint with their subject.



"Ponsonby, you be devilish rude; no one have take wine with the

Greys," exclaim Lord Farnborough, as his friend resume his station

behind the chair of Christobelle.



"Ponsonby," cry Mr. Grey, "be you under order there, that you stand

sentinel over Miss Wetheral?"



"I wish the guard be relieve, Grey," say Lord Farnborough. "beg your

sister to send a deputation to Ponsonby."



"they would prefer your lordship," answer Mr. Grey. "I speak in their

name, because they decline the publicity of confession."



Lord Farnborough's countenance again become gloomy, but he make no

reply to Mr. Grey. his lordship turn to Christobelle.



"Miss Wetheral, allow I the pleasure of drink wine with you."



Christobelle be happy to do so, and by that action she gratify

her mother, who sit by she, proudly happy to witness his lordship's

vexation at the conduct of Captain Ponsonby. every one appear happy

but christobelle: she see every face deck with smile, and each

person appear content with the merriment of the scene. she alone

sit ill at ease, and receive no satisfaction in the attention of

Lord Farnborough and his friend. she wish to be silent and alone:

she wish to think over the event of the morning, and reckon

with her heart. she wish to ascertain if her disquietude arise

from unrequited friendship, or whether she indeed love Sir John

Spottiswoode. the noble friendship which Christobelle have contemplate

in history, teem with grand and inspiring action, but she read not

of eye turn away from the object, or misery create through jealous

misgiving. if she love Sir John Spottiswoode, what would become of

she, should another engross his attention and his heart? while she

be linger with he among the cliff of the Lochleven, all be so

tranquil, so happy, so calmly and fearlessly happy! why be it not so

with she in this gay group?



Christobelle be lose to all sound, till a general move be make. the

table be abandon to the attendant, and the party retire to the

extremity of the little island, to amuse themselves till the boat be

again load with the spoil of the entertainment. Christobelle be

attend by Lord Farnborough and Captain Ponsonby, who appear tacitly

determined to struggle for her attention, and annoy each other.



"Miss Wetheral," say his lordship, "you will honour I by accept my

arm _now_."



"Miss Wetheral cannot desert her old companion," remark Captain

Ponsonby, again step forward and take her hand; but Christobelle

withdraw it.



"I should like to understand your claim to Miss Wetheral's notice,

Ponsonby."



"never mind, my good fellow. a lady possess her own right to select

and approve."



"be I to understand, Miss Wetheral, that Captain Ponsonby be select

by you?"



Lord Farnborough speak with a bitter sneer, and stand before

Christobelle with a raise complexion, await her answer. she be

fearful of unpleasant scene; she wish to avoid notice: she could

only decide not to receive assistance from either gentleman. they

however walk on either side of she, and the trio silently mix

among the retire group. Sir John Wetheral relieve his daughter's

perilous situation by his approach. Lord Farnborough might conceal

much beneath the restraint of polished society; but his temper be

strongly irritable; it glisten in his eye, and fire his countenance,

whenever Captain Ponsonby address Christobelle. the company form

into little party, on a green bank which swell towards the water's

edge; and, by some unseen chance, Christobelle be group in the

little knot which contain Sir John Spottiswoode. their eye have not

meet since they quit Clanmoray. Captain Ponsonby and his guest be

crouch at her foot, her father sit beside she, and Mr. Grey, with

the Miss Ponsonbys, complete the number. the rest of the party sit

only a few pace apart, but they be engage in different subject of

conversation, and do not unite with they.



Captain Ponsonby request his sister Fanny to enlighten the company

upon the interesting conversation which have take place between herself

and her companion at dinner.



"it be vain to say," he continue, "that the subject be forget, for

I leave you discourse upon a lover's heart; and your face, Fanny,

be so full of interest, I be oblige to bespeak Miss Wetheral's

attention."



Fanny Ponsonby colour, but disclaim any peculiar interest in the

subject. her eye seek the ground, and Christobelle fancy they

fill with tear. her sister beg to be hear a few moment upon

the subject. she be rather inspire by the dinner, the party, and the

beautiful scenery, and she venture to think she could define a lover's

heart, if her audience be inclined to listen.



"silence in the court!" exclaim Lord Farnborough. "the deponent

speak."



"a lover's heart," resume Miss Ponsonby, wave her hand, "be ennoble

by affection, grand in its conceptions--"



"there you be out, Mary," cry her brother; "on the very threshold

you have stumble. what be a more jealous, narrow, dull, complain

concern than love, and a lover's heart? can any thing be more

disturbing, distrustful, and moody, or more capricious?"



"speak on, Arthur; I know very little about the matter, I believe,

while your long absence have doubtless teach you knowledge," cry Miss

Ponsonby.



"do not love create suspicion?"--Christobelle cast her eye

involuntarily towards Sir John Spottiswoode, and meet his fix,

melancholy look. his eye be instantly withdraw.



"do not love create melancholy?" continue Captain Ponsonby, turn

to Christobelle, "do it not produce the desire to please, while it

restrain the ability, Farnborough? do it not bow down the head, and

make pale the cheek, Fanny?"



Fanny Ponsonby start at her brother's address, but she smile

good-humouredly at the question. her head have bend forward, and

her attention be earnestly give to the definition of the lover's

heart. her attitude have attract the notice of her lively brother,

and draw down his remark, but its purport be receive as gently, as

its intention to give offence be innocent. not so Lord Farnborough.

he rise proudly from the humble position he have assume, and retire

to the group detach from his party. Captain Ponsonby continue his

remark, while a satisfied smile play on his lip.



"altogether, love deform and beautifie; it make the humble and

silent man talkative; and it cause the violent man to throw off the

mask which veil his fiery spirit. the less we know of the subtle

deity, the happy we be in freedom of heart and spirit; but once

receive he to your bosom, and adieu for ever to the calm pleasure of

life."



"I think, Arthur, 'love be heaven, and heaven be love;' at least,

that be my idea of the passion."



"Mary!" exclaim her brother, "presume not to touch upon ground where

your foot have never yet trod. be wise, and remain in your ignorance,

uninteresting, and uninformed. there can be no heaven in the dire

suspense, the conscious feeling, the fear of scorn, the unrequited

pang, the jealous agony of heart, the sigh of uncertainty."



Fanny Ponsonby rise hastily from her verdant seat, and Sir John

Spottiswoode accompany she, but they move in different direction,

when they reach the site of the chapel which once stand in this

island, a place of worship for the living, and an asylum for the dead.

Fanny Ponsonby appear to seek refuge in solitary contemplation; for

she seek the most distant spot, and stand gaze upon the lake. Sir

John Spottiswoode remain among the relic of the dead, and seat

himself on the low wall where Christobelle have listen to Captain

Ponsonby's legendary tale in listless indifference.



"in general," say Captain Ponsonby, "an orator draw an audience by

his power of speak, but I have chase mine into every corner of

this little earth. either I have say too little or too much. Mary and

Mortimer be my good supporter. Sir John Wetheral, you be consider

a veteran. come, Miss Wetheral, let we follow the multitude; it be vain

to waste my talent in empty space, so I dissolve the meeting."



Captain Ponsonby spring to his foot, and the little group gradually

disperse. Miss Ponsonby declare her brother should have be educate

for the bar in lieu of the army, he hold forth so fluently upon

unintelligible subject; and she challenge Mortimer Grey to assist she

in discover the lost victim to Arthur's oratory. they set forth in

the direction of the spot where Fanny Ponsonby still stand absorb,

and alone. Captain Ponsonby walk chat by Christobelle, who lean

upon her father's arm, and all bent their step towards the little

ruin chapel.



"who would have suppose so many grave, heraldic device, and rude

sculpture, to lie forget and desert here?" say Captain Ponsonby,

point to the various relic of other time which lie half bury in

the earth around. "how many stir event have fill this soil with

mouldering bone, and cause the tear to flow from maidens' eye!"



"how many fearful feud have make these mountain echo with shout and

cry of blood!" remark Sir John Wetheral.



"ay, but picture to your mind's eye the funereal procession of the

clan, slowly wind down those bold cliff in silent sorrow, while

the pibroch scream its wild note to wail the dead." Captain

Ponsonby's countenance assume a graver expression as he speak, and

Christobelle think it infinitely become the cast of his feature. it

pass away quickly, as they advance towards Sir John Spottiswoode,

and he resume his playful mood.



"Sir John Spottiswoode, Miss Wetheral liken you to a lover bewail

his mistress."



"Pray, Captain Ponsonby, do not say so," exclaim Christobelle, in

alarm.



"you look as if you think so, Miss Wetheral. why be your eye so

expressive?"



Christobelle feel distressed beyond measure at Captain Ponsonby's

thoughtless speech, which elicit a cold smile from Sir John

Spottiswoode. how could he smile so coldly upon she?



Christobelle have no spirit to reply to the cheerful remark of Captain

Ponsonby, who continue chat with enviable ease of heart, upon

every subject which offer itself to his notice. she be listen

to a conversation infinitely more attractive between her father and

Sir John Spottiswoode; but Captain Ponsonby's vivacity perpetually

interrupt her attention, and call forth an unwilling and absent

reply. there be no annoyance so gall as the society of the happy,

when a heart be struggle with grief, which seek silence and solitude.



"Miss Wetheral, I bespeak your attention to those masse of cloud

rise in the west; be they not beautiful? do you ever fancy form

in the cloud? I do, often. see, Miss Wetheral, I can outline a lion

rampant perfectly in that fleecy cloud--can you see it?"



Christobelle be disturb: Sir John Spottiswoode have speak about

Alverton, and she wish to catch his word as they become indistinct.

she answer Captain Ponsonby hastily, "no, indeed."



"I will point it out more distinctly. fix your eye upon the third dark

cloud, and by the side of that cloud stand the lion rampant. now do

you see what I mean?"



"yes," reply Christobelle, almost peevishly, "I think I see what you

mean." she trust the subject be now end.



"well, can you distinguish a chariot and pair, Miss Wetheral? I see

they distinctly, and in excellent proportion."



"it pain my sight, Captain Ponsonby, to fix my eye upon the heaven."



"I will shade the light with my hat," say Captain Ponsonby; "there,

now your eye be safe: the sun be behind my hat."



Christobelle be oblige to give her attention to the indefatigable

Captain Ponsonby, and she lose all hope of Sir John Spottiswoode's

remark. her spirit be powerfully depressed; happily, as the morning

have open upon her cheerful expectation, every pleasant prospect

be cloud now. Sir John Spottiswoode have be gay and playful in

conversation, till they alight at Clanmoray, and from that moment

her evil genius have pursue she. why be the companion of her walk so

change, and why be he so cold and silent to his friend?



it appear to Christobelle that Sir John Spottiswoode suffer under

an equally potent spell. the tone of his voice as he speak to her

father be low and melancholy, and there be an expression in his

withdraw eye, which particularly affect she. it be not of anger,

he be too kind to feel angry; it be not of irritability, such as

she have see flash and dull by turn, in her mother's countenance.

there be an expression, touch and attractive in his disquietude,

which go at once to her heart, and occupy its thought. she could

ill endure the rapid remark and conversation of Captain Ponsonby:

how she wish to be again at Fairlee, free from observation, and

at liberty to think upon all that have occur, in the solitude of

her own apartment! oh, that she have never see Fanny Ponsonby! it be

Fanny Ponsonby who point the arrow of jealousy at her heart, and

tear the veil from her eye. it be Fanny Ponsonby who teach she that

friendship be but a cloak for deep feeling, and that the pain she

inflict betray a heart prostrate before that deity whose arrow,

under a borrow name, enter unsuspiciously into the soul of his victim.



"but, Miss Wetheral, you be meditate too gravely," resume Captain

Ponsonby, after a pause of some minute, "the tomb of a thousand soul

cause your eye to grow heavy. let we sing away care upon these swell

earth. where be the mirthful one, and where be the singing-man, and

the singing-woman? the Greys be all musical."



the vivacious Captain Ponsonby call the party round he, and they

seat themselves on the mound which be scatter thickly round

the chapel. the Greys form the centre of the groupe, and their

full voice waft along the water that beautiful glee of Calcot's,

"Desolate be the dwelling of Morna." the effect be truly delicious.

Desolate, indeed, be the ground upon which they sit; and silent,

indeed, be the sound which in former time burst from the shore of

Lochleven. the harmony and its wildly poetic word accord well with

the scene before and around they. "yet, a few year, and the blast of

the desert come," fall upon Christobelle's ear, and rouse a thousand

emotion.



it seem to describe in one short sentence the tale of life; and it

too truly illustrate her own wretched position. she could not repress

the tear which flow at the thought, that even in her early youth,

care be begin to do its work. she turn involuntarily to look

upon Fanny Ponsonby, the author of her wretchedness. she be seat

a little apart, and her head have sink upon her breast, as though the

harmonious sound have lull she into deep repose; but Christobelle see

the heaving of her bosom, and know she weep.



the Greys conclude their song, and Captain Ponsonby be call upon to

lend his talent towards the harmony of the scene. the young officer

be nothing loth: with inexpressible softness, and in excellent taste,

he sing:



    "there's something in that bonny face,

      I never see before, lassie;

    your action a' have sic a grace,

      I gaze and I adore, lassie."



Captain Ponsonby turn towards Christobelle, as he conclude the last

line of the first stanza, and he press his hand gallantly upon his

heart, as he give the last verse:



    "Sweet be the spring, and sweet the rose,

      when moisten by the shower, lassie;

    bright on the thorn the dew-drop glow,

      at morn refulgent hour, lassie:

    but bright, purer far than these

      Thou art, and charm'st I more, lassie,

    than tongue can tell; I wonder gaze,

      I gaze and I adore, lassie."



Christobelle blush deeply at the general notice which Captain

Ponsonby's manner attract towards she, and Lady Wetheral think it

prudent to break up the party, lest the offended countenance of Lord

Farnborough should deepen, and produce result in his conduct, which

would overthrow her dear plan. she turn to Miss Ponsonby.



"my dear Miss Ponsonby, be not those cloud threaten? I have

observe they some minute with fearful foreboding: my dear Bell, fold

your plaid round you, the air be become fresh."



the attention of the party be turn anxiously to the west, and

General Ponsonby advise an immediate return to the opposite shore.

Captain Ponsonby go forward to order the boatman to their oar, and

Lord Farnborough take his vacant place by the side of Christobelle. his

lordship speak with much vehemence of manner.



"you have be bore with your neighbour, Miss Wetheral, yet you have

prefer he to I."



"Captain Ponsonby do not weary I, my lord."



"I hate those talk fellow, yet lady love to be attend by they.

I cann't think why all lady like Ponsonby to run after they."



Christobelle be offend by Lord Farnborough's expression. when his

lordship attend she from Lochleven Castle to Fairlee Cove, all be

courtesy and gallant bearing--but his lordship have become overbearing,

and, if she might so express it, he be actually offensive in St.

Mungo's Isle. she make no reply.



"allow I to take charge of you to the shore, Miss Wetheral," continue

his lordship.



Christobelle hesitate. "Captain Ponsonby, I believe--I rather

think...."



"of course I must give way," reply his lordship, drily, "of course

every thing must give way to Captain Ponsonby."



Captain Ponsonby come up, to announce all be in readiness; and the

party rise to prepare for departure. Lady Wetheral approach she

daughter.



"Bell, you be devote yourself very publicly to Captain Ponsonby.

I intreat you to be cautious, and accept Lord Farnborough's offer of

attendance."



"Mamma, I be offend with Lord Farnborough."



"do not be silly, Miss Wetheral; this be not the moment to exhibit

offend feeling. I wish you to walk with my lord, and return under

his charge."



Lady Anna Herbert pass, lean on Mr. Grey's arm. "be quick, fair

lady, for there be every chance of rain," she exclaim; "the boatman

prognosticate weather before we reach the main land."



there be much bustle in hurrying into the boat, and the wind rise

suddenly, sweep in gust over the lake, ere the party leave the

island. Christobelle be hurry rapidly into the little vessel,

between Lord Farnborough and Captain Ponsonby, and the rain begin to

descend in torrent, as they place she, in the confusion, between Sir

John Spottiswoode and Fanny Ponsonby.



"on, on, for your life!" cry Captain Ponsonby, address the

boatman, and the party be launch upon the water of Lochleven.



Christobelle be by the side of Sir John Spottiswoode, and her mind

be tranquil as they row rapidly towards Clanmoray. he hold an

umbrella over her head; and endeavour to guard she from the storm, by

spread his cloak round her foot and knee. she feel distressed and

uncomfortable at the thought of his own exposure to the rain and wind.

she intreate he to suffer she to return the cloak, without which he

must be cold and comfortless.



"no," he reply gravely, "I do not consider my own feeling, I wish to

secure your comfort."



"but I have _no_ comfort in deprive you of warmth and shelter: you

will catch a severe cold."



"never mind, Miss Wetheral; my mother and Sophia will nurse I well at

Alverton."



"at Alverton!" exclaim Christobelle, in astonishment, "at Alverton!"



"why not, Miss Wetheral?" he ask in low tone, and his fine dark

eye be fix upon she with such deep expression!



"oh, no, if you be ill, I will nurse you; and Fairlee shall be

your----."



Christobelle stop: her heart beat thickly--she could not speak

the conclusion of her sentence--a weight, as of iron, bear down her

eyelid, and she remain silent.



"you have be happy to-day, my pupil?" say Sir John Spottiswoode,

after a moment's pause.



Christobelle wave her hand silently. she could not trust her voice;

but Fanny Ponsonby be talk to Lord Farnborough, and she be

wretched at the allusion to Alverton. Curiosity, anxiety, and the

horror of suspense, give her courage to address her companion again;

and she ask, in the recklessness of despair, why he contemplate

return so soon into Shropshire.



"because," he say, "lochleven be now a fever spot upon my heart."



Christobelle weep silently. Captain Ponsonby sit in the stern of

the boat without speak, as though even his gay spirit could not

resist the heavy rain, and every one appear to be cold, weary, and

dispirit. except Fanny Ponsonby's voice, which sing, in low tone,

a plaintive air, not a sound escape the party till they reach the

shore; and then commence another disagreeable contention between Lord

Farnborough and Captain Ponsonby.



"Miss Wetheral, I claim you _this_ time," say his lordship, hastily

pass Fanny Ponsonby, and offer his hand.



"my good fellow," cry Captain Ponsonby, "I be before you half a

minute, and have win the prize."



"I cannot understand why you persevere so pertinaciously in

appropriate Miss Wetheral, Ponsonby."



"can you, indeed, be ignorant upon such a point, Farnborough? take

care, Miss Wetheral--step firmly, and hold my hand."



"I must observe that you be needlessly officious, Ponsonby."



"tell I so elsewhere, Farnborough; at present, I be attend upon

Miss Wetheral."



Christobelle look imploringly at Sir John Spottiswoode, but he be

uncloak Fanny Ponsonby, and she have take his arm, to share with he

the shelter of his umbrella. Christobelle care not, then, who become

her escort. Captain Ponsonby would not understand Lord Farnborough's

anger, or reply to his observation; he chat gaily, as he unclasp

the heavy boat-cloak, which shroud and encumber Miss Wetheral's

figure.



"in spite of the storm, Miss Wetheral, you spring brightly from your

nest, untouched by the raindrop; how do you manage to be so unlike

the rest of the world? we will not wait for the other boat, which

would detain we some time. let I get you safely to Clanmoray. take

my arm fearlessly, and I will guide and support you up the pathway.

Farnborough will be kind enough to escort the Miss Greys."



Lord Farnborough throw a haughty look at Captain Ponsonby, but he make

no answer. his lordship fold his cloak round his tall, slight figure,

and ascend the pathway in silence, and without a companion. the Miss

Greys remain unattended on the shore of Lochleven.



"Farnborough be offend in earnest," observe Captain Ponsonby, "and

the gentle syren be to suffer. Miss Wetheral, you have put a feud

between I and my noble guest."



"I be sorry, Captain Ponsonby, if any thing unpleasant should arise

between you and my lord. it be altogether innocently do on my part."



"oh! yes, you look so dove-like and so guileless, and yet you wield

such warfare."



"Lord Farnborough appear easily irritated."



"Farnborough have be use to such easy conquest, that he resent

the appearance of indifference. you have pique he, Miss Wetheral;

nevertheless, I be concerned to see the Miss Greys climb the path

alone in this rain. this be an unexpected termination to our agreeable

day. it have be a really delightful day to I."



"Lochleven can never disappoint its visitor, Captain Ponsonby; even in

this rain how beautiful it be!"



"Lochleven would, though, if certain person and thing do not combine

to please I. I have enjoy myself to-day--but you be my companion;

I be with you at dinner--on the wall of the ruin--every where; and

I have spend an extremely captivating day. I wonder what kind of day

Farnborough will represent it?"



"as very agreeable, no doubt."



"I differ with you, Miss Wetheral. Fanny and your friend have

seven league boot on, I fancy--how they be bound on! I admire

your friend, Miss Wetheral--fine, handsome fellow, only he look

melancholy."



"do he?"



"yes; his eye be fix upon your hand a full half hour at dinner--an

hour, as we sit talk, and all the voyage; yet, like Lady Macbeth,

his eye be open, but their sense be closed. he have a lady-love in

the south."



Christobelle start at Captain Ponsonby's suggestion. impossible! she

would not believe it! she never hear such a thing allude to. if Sir

John Spottiswoode love in the south, Mrs. Pynsent would have name it.

how come Captain Ponsonby to imagine such folly! the very supposition

of Sir John's attachment, however, create pain, and chill she into

silence. Captain Ponsonby's conversation soon become wearisome, and she

be glad when they reach Clanmoray.



it be a relief to find Lord Farnborough absent, and still more a

relief to perceive the second party approach in the distance. she

want to be at Fairlee, to enjoy rest, and silence, and free communion

with her thought. Captain Ponsonby's spirit be oppressive, and his

polite anxiety amount to absolute annoyance. Christobelle be ill,

and restless, and eager to return home.



the carriage be order as soon as Lady Wetheral arrive, and

the Fairlee party be supply by Miss Ponsonby with comfortable

refreshment in the article of stocking and shoe. every other apparel

have be spare, by the thoughtful care of Mrs. Ponsonby, who have

wisely order a _depôt_ of cloak and umbrella on board. Lord

Farnborough do not appear during their short rest at Clanmoray, and

Captain Ponsonby lead Christobelle to the carriage, after the ceremony

of leave-taking have conclude. Miss Ponsonby hope to enjoy Miss

Wetheral's society a little more exclusively at a future time; but she

seem to be the entire property of Arthur and Lord Farnborough at

St. Mungo's Isle. there be policy in allow novelty to exhaust its

power of pleasing; and she would reserve her society till it would

fill up a chasm, form by the secession of an admirer. "depend upon

it, all this cannot last, fair Christobelle, and, like I, you will

some day search in vain for a Télémaque."



"_i_ shall not live to see the day, Miss Wetheral," say her brother,

as he lead Christobelle forward.



"don't attach the small credit to Arthur's compliment," cry Miss

Ponsonby, kiss her hand.



"Mary be very incorrect in her statement, Miss Wetheral," say Captain

Ponsonby, as they pass through the hall. "you will receive I with a

smile, if I call at Fairlee to-morrow?"



"with many smile, Captain Ponsonby."



"no, one little particular welcome smile be my hope--give your many

smile to Farnborough. fare you well!"



Christobelle enter the carriage, and Sir John Spottiswoode follow;

but he seat himself by Lady Wetheral's side. Captain Ponsonby wave

his hand, and stand in the rain, till the tree conceal he from

sight.









CHAPTER XXVI.





Lady Wetheral speak of the morning's entertainment with perfect

approbation, as they drive home. "every thing be so agreeably

arrange--every body be so inclined to be amuse, which constitute

the charm of a party _al fresco_. Lord Farnborough, perhaps, be less

disposed to consider himself at ease than the rest of the group; but

circumstance do go a little '_à tort et à traver_' with poor Lord

Farnborough. some people be in the wrong place, assuredly, which

might create a little uneasiness; but, consider the difficulty of

select and arrange a large morning party, it have be admirably

conduct. there be a little too much vivacity in Captain Ponsonby's

manner: he be rather too _empressé_--but Lord Farnborough display

the man of fashion in every movement." Christobelle do not argue

against her mother's opinion, and Sir John Spottiswoode sit,

determine to be silent.



"Lord Farnborough," continue Lady Wetheral, "tell I he intends

wander round Lochleven some week long."



"at Clanmoray?" ask Christobelle.



"no, my love, he think of building at Kinross." Christobelle sink back

into her former position, quite indifferent to the whereabout of Lord

Farnborough. her ladyship resumed:--"Sir John, what a lovely creature

be Fanny Ponsonby! I think I never behold more beautiful eye!"



"Miss Ponsonby be a beautiful woman!" reply Sir John Spottiswoode.



"I mean Fanny Ponsonby, the lady you monopolize, my dear Spottiswoode."



"I mean the same lady; but I be guilty of no monopoly, Lady Wetheral."



"she be most lovely indeed. my dear Bell, what an agreeable companion

Miss Fanny Ponsonby would be to share in your lake diversion!"



"no, mamma, pray don't ask Fanny Ponsonby--pray think of no companion

for I. I be a solitary being. I love to be alone."



"my dear girl, you be jealous!"



"I be not jealous of any one, I hope. I admire Miss Fanny Ponsonby--I

think she very lovely--but I require no companion."



"would you live quite alone, my love? it be not the wish of a young

lady in general."



"when I feel particularly dull, mamma, I will ask for Miss Fanny

Ponsonby."



Christobelle could not clearly define her fear of Miss Fanny Ponsonby's

society, but her name would evermore be couple with painful feeling.

the first emotion of jealousy towards another have be elicit by she,

and perhaps the recollection of that suffering incline she to shun the

innocent cause of the subtle intruder. Christobelle become restless at

the mention of such a visitor at Fairlee; and though she endeavour to

reason away her alarm, the internal struggle increase. what could she

mother mean?



the cloud break away towards the evening, and the rain cease; the

terrace be soon dry, though the raindrop hang upon every leaf, and

the bright lake lie tranquil after the storm. Lochleven be beautiful

in its freshness, and the green tint of its woode side stand out in

deep and bright light and shade from the heavy shower. yet Sir

John Spottiswoode do not ask Christobelle to walk with he; he do

not ask she to admire with he the set sun, or to look with he

upon the deepening shade of evening. he sit profoundly attentive over

"Bacon's essay," and not once do his eye or lip address she. she

also endeavour to read, but her thought wander over the incident

of the morning. her eye fix themselves upon the lake, and not upon

the page of history, as she consider the disappointment of the day,

and muse upon the change manner of Sir John Spottiswoode. she wish

they have never join the party to St. Mungo's Isle--she wish she have

persevere in her solitary habit, and never accept the invitation to

Clanmoray.



Captain Ponsonby have weary she, and Lord Farnborough's manner have

offend she. be these thing an equivalent to the estranged manner

of her friend? she wish she have be Fanny Ponsonby, for then Sir

John Spottiswoode would have seek she. she wish she have be Fanny

Ponsonby, for then the gentleman would have avoid she. she have no

pleasure in be so publicly attend by Captain Ponsonby and his

guest. she would have give world to have be silent and free from

remark.



Lady Wetheral take her seat by Christobelle's side, as she gaze

vacantly upon the sparkling water.



"your thought be far away, my love, and yet I can guess their flight.

they be at this moment at Clanmoray, and you be think of Fanny

Ponsonby."



the truth of the remark startle Christobelle. it bring the colour

into her face and forehead.



"never mind Fanny Ponsonby, Bell. you have no rival there!"



"do you think so, mamma?" she exclaim. "how can you possibly tell his

feeling?"



"his attention be exclusively give to you, Bell, though I confess you

coquet rather rashly."



"with whom do I coquette, mamma? I cannot endure that expression, it

sound so frivolous and vain."



"my love, stranger would remark you flirt too much with Captain

Ponsonby, though _I_ could comprehend your intention, and I be amuse

with your little _tracasserie_."



"but how can you judge of his feeling towards Miss Fanny Ponsonby,

mamma?"



"because her attachment to he could not be conceal; it be apparent

in her look, and in the pain she discover during his attention to

you."



"we hardly exchange word, mamma," remark Christobelle, in great

surprise; "and then only in the boat return from the island."



"I be ignorant of what take place during your return, my love; but I

see enough to convince I that Lord Farnborough do not return the

love of poor Fanny Ponsonby."



Lord Farnborough!--and her thought be with Sir John Spottiswoode!

her eye fall upon the Lake in bitter disappointment. "I think _he_

have watch I--I think _he_ have not care for Fanny Ponsonby!" be

her silent reflection.



"I see," continue Lady Wetheral, in tone of triumph, "his lordship be

jealous of Captain Ponsonby; and there you act with great tact. I be

sure it will lead to a proposal. he will be afraid of Arthur Ponsonby,

and it will lead he to take a hasty step, but that step will exalt

you into the future Duchess of Forfar. I fancy his grace asthmatic

this morning; he certainly wheeze very painfully as we walk up the

pathway. this will raise you far above your sister, my love; far more

exalt than Julia. Lord Farnborough have prove my physician; he have

entirely chase away my nervous complaint."



Christobelle could not answer. she quit the room in haste, and take

shelter in her own apartment. there she prostrate herself, and pray

for a tranquil spirit. she know her mother's temper, and be aware of

her ambitious spirit; but she do not like Lord Farnborough, and never

would she sell herself to be his wife. she would not confess that she

love Sir John Spottiswoode, or that she have give her affection to

one who do not value the gift; but she would surely and perseveringly

decline Lord Farnborough, if indeed that hasty step be ever take

which be to proceed from anger towards his friend, Captain Ponsonby.



Christobelle have witness Clara's misery, and suspect that Julia be

not happy in her grandeur, therefore, she would not become the third

prey to her mother's overweene ambition. she might suffer reproach

and harsh conduct, but she would not marry for wealth, and pine away in

silent misery, a beacon to the thoughtless and the avaricious. if Sir

John Spottiswoode quit Fairlee, and if Lochleven be a fever-spot

upon his heart, Christobelle feel she must endure sorrow: it could not

be more despairing than the feeling of Fanny Ponsonby, to whom her

heart now clung in sympathy, and without pain. Fanny Ponsonby would

be now a companion most grateful to her taste; all jealous fear be

end, and they could walk and weep together in fellowship. poor Fanny

Ponsonby! Christobelle weep for she and for herself. she remember she

abstract look, and the haste with which she flee from her brother's

remark upon love. she remember the downcast eye when Sir John

Spottiswoode address she upon the subject of a lover's heart, and she

see she weep during the singing of "Desolate be the dwelling of Morna."

how her heart yearn now to be near she!



Christobelle feel too unwell to return again into the drawing-room. the

struggle of her thought bring on severe headache, and she try to

forget her disquietude in sleep. Lady Wetheral visit her daughter,

before she retire for the night, and smile as she speak of her hasty

retreat.



"do Sir John Spottiswoode miss I?" Christobelle ask in some

perturbation, as she rise from an unrefreshing doze, to listen to she

remark.



"no, my love, I believe not. he express very polite regret at your

indisposition, but he have be read the whole evening. he mention

his return into Shropshire the end of this week."



Christobelle sink back in silence upon her pillow.



"good night, my love, I will not keep you awake; but I trust

your headache will be sleep away. take sal-volatile, and those

nervous-drop, they always do I good, and we shall see what to-morrow

will bring forth."



"so soon do he go, mamma?"



"yes, my love. I think it would be advisable to ask Lord Farnborough to

Fairlee, to superintend his intended little sporting-box at Kinross. I

shall sound your father. good night Bell."



Lady Wetheral retire, and leave Christobelle again in silence and in

darkness. she could not sleep. the night pass _so_ slowly, as she lay

revolve all these thing in her mind! when she be happy, her night

fly by, and she rise refresh; but now the hour lag heavily, and

her wake thought be upon the departure of Sir John Spottiswoode,

and the introduction of Lord Farnborough in his place. she do not

rise refresh. she be tired and unhappy when she descend into

the breakfast-room. Sir John Spottiswoode be there alone; and, as he

pay the compliment of the morning, his voice be thick, and sound

hoarse. Christobelle be sure he have catch cold upon the water, and

it be to protect she that he expose himself to wet, and have throw

off his cloak. she be overcome by the recollection, and, though she

approach he timidly, she be in anxious fear lest he should suffer

by his attention. his hand be heat as it touch hers in salutation,

and she hold it in alarm.



"oh, you be feverish and ill, and you have catch cold by give I

your cloak! what can I do for you?"



"I have a little headache and sore throat," he reply, smile; "but

it will pass away, I hope, in the course of the day."



"it be that cloak," reply Christobelle, quite absorb with fear,

and totally forgetful that her hand be still hold by him--"it be that

cloak which you take off so suddenly, against my wish. I be sure you

would be ill!"



"I be not ill," he answer, feelingly: "your kind sympathy have cure

I; but let I observe _your_ pale cheek in return, and let I mourn

over _they_." Sir John Spottiswoode lead she to the window, and look

so kindly at she, that tear spring into her eye. "here be token of

a restless night," he said--"here be sign of sleepless hour, and

heavy thought, my dear pupil. would I could calm your gentle heart!"



"then stay at Fairlee!" she exclaim, as she weep without control,

and care not for the consequence of her indiscreet words--"stay at

Fairlee, and be as kind as you use to be!" Christobelle feel the arm

of her companion draw round she, and she be press to his heart, as

he replied.--



"I _will_ remain, dear pupil, I _will_ remain at Fairlee, whatever

pain it may cost I! I will do whatever you bid I do, to give you

pleasure. God forbid _I_ should ever give you a moment's sorrow! I

would soon suffer a thousand pang, than see you weep one moment. why

do you weep, and distress my heart?"



Christobelle could not help it. be it, indeed, painful to remain at

Fairlee? Captain Ponsonby be right, then, in his suggestion--there

_be_ a lady in the south! she could not reply; a suffocating sensation

preclude all speech.



"why be you here so early?" continue Sir John Spottiswoode, in

gentle accent, as Christobelle still lean against he; "and why

be your spirit so agitated, and your rest break? if such be your

present state, what will your affectionate heart endure hereafter? your

delicate frame be unequal to contend with such deep emotion!"



Christobelle make a strong effort to check her weeping fit, and she

become more tranquil. Sir John Spottiswoode's arm still surround

and support she; but she feel that, when its dear support should be

withdraw, she would be cast upon the wide world for ever.



"your friend be round you," resume her companion, "and you shall

be the arbitress of _my_ movement. I will not quit Lochleven while I

can be of use to its dear inmate. oh, my dear Christobelle! how the

schoolmaster will guard his pupil! but when," he add, hesitatingly,

draw she close to he, and even clasp she to his heart--"when

will he be here again?"



"whom do you speak of? Captain Ponsonby?" she exclaim; "he weary

I, and every body weary I!"



"I do not speak of he. I do not speak of Captain Ponsonby," reply

Sir John Spottiswoode, withdraw his arm hastily, and move a few

pace. "I mean another and happy man. you know whom I would name." he

advance again to the window, where Christobelle remain rooted. "you

know whom I allude to, Miss Wetheral."



"Lord Farnborough?" she articulate, with difficulty.



Sir John would not meet her eye.



"I do mean that person. will he not visit Fairlee, Miss Wetheral?

will he not? no, he be not worthy of such a heart--of such powerful

affection!" he walk from the window to the door, and again he turn,

and approach Christobelle. "it be a severe trial to have wait

and love as I have do, and yet suffer disappointment. it be a

strange fancy--be it not, my pupil?--to wait so long, and hope so

perseveringly? but I will not quit Fairlee, since you bid I not."



Christobelle could not comprehend Sir John Spottiswoode's emotion. she

could not divine his allusion; she only grasp at his promise to

remain, and even that be balm to her heart.



"oh, yes," she repeat, "stay, and take my part, for I know I shall

appeal to papa and you, if I be reproach."



"who dare presume to reproach you? who dare to offer a harsh word to

you? by the heaven above, if I hear his false lip utter one syllable

of unkindness to a creature too gentle and excellent for his worthless

mind, I would strike he dead!" Sir John Spottiswoode's eye strike

fire, and his tall figure become still more erect.



"of whom be you talking?--whose lip be false?" ask Christobelle,

in stupid amazement.



"I know he!" continue Sir John Spottiswoode, kindling as he speak;

"but I will follow he through the world, if he give one pang to such

a heart as your's, dearest and lovely pupil, creature of my fancy

and my heart! he be not worthy of you, Christobelle." he stop, and

fix his eye upon she with an expression so wretched, that she take

his hand in terror: he snatch it from she.



"do not break my heart, Christobelle; and do not touch I, if you have

mercy. withdraw your wish, and let I quit Fairlee for ever!"



"oh, no, no," she cry, clasp her hand, and sink into a chair;

"if you go, who will stand between I and my mother?"



"your mother!" Sir John Spottiswoode gaze upon Christobelle with

astonishment. "your mother!" he repeat.



"I cannot, will not marry Lord Farnborough," exclaim Christobelle,

almost bend in agonized feeling; "and who will save I from her

anger!"



"Christobelle!" burst from her companion. she heed not.



"I will not be drive into misery to minister to ambition. it be so

cruel--so very cruel."



"Christobelle!" again ejaculate Sir John Spottiswoode, "look at I!"



Christobelle could not look up--she could not shake off her weight of

misery. she sit with her hand press tightly upon her heart. "if you

leave I, who will assist my father in ward off my reproach? who

will soften her heart, and soothe my poor spirit? who will plead for

I, and save I?"



Sir John Spottiswoode kneel by her side, and take her cold hand in

his. "Christobelle," he say, "I will plead for you, and save you.

will you recompense I in return? will _you_ love and cherish the

heart which adore and blesse you?--which would suffer all evil, all

indignity, for your dear sake?"



Christobelle sit transfix. she dare not breathe, lest the vision

should vanish from her sight.



"shall I tell you, Christobelle, how I have wait for you, and live

upon the hope of make you love I, when I be far away? shall I tell

you how I watch over you, and linger till I could ask for you?"



Christobelle could only smile a reply to her lover's question, and she

be again fold in his arm. oh, happy, thrice happy moment!



"shall I tell you," demand her companion, "how your mother deceive

I, yesterday morning, when I speak of you upon the terrace? no, I will

not allude to it now, since all my horrible fear be end."



"tell I nothing now," she reply, "but let I return to my room, to

think--to assure myself this be not a vision--to consider all thing

over." Miss Wetheral rise.



"will you go with I to our rocky seat, after breakfast," he ask,

"if I resign you now? I be loth to lose you from my sight; stay a few

moment long, dearest."



"not now; but I will walk with you to our old place of refuge. the bell

will ring, and I be too agitated to meet my mother. I could meet no one

at this moment."



"but, my Chrystal, one--one more embrace!" and Christobelle be

encircle again in the arm of the good and dearest of human being.

she fly from his embrace to the sanctuary of her own apartment, and

her first movement be prayer. she pray for humility; she pray for

strength to bear her load of happiness; and she pray that she might

not love the creature beyond the Creator. when Christobelle rise from

her knee, she sit down to think upon all these thing.



Sir John and Lady Wetheral be at the breakfast-table, when

Christobelle descend the second time. she do not once meet she

lover's eye, for she could not endure its brightness; but her bosom have

cast its load of sorrow, and her thought dance in the beam of a new

happiness. Lady Wetheral be pleased by her appearance.



"my dear Bell, that little headache be a _tour de jongle_ to get rid

of we all. your dream be pleasant, for your eye sparkle, and you

look most amusingly demure."



Christobelle cast her eye upon the ground; a deep and most distressing

suffusion crimson her face.



"perhaps," continue her ladyship, "your gay dream may have

prognosticate good. I have also my dream. I be dream that friend

from Clanmoray will call to-day."



Christobelle be silent. she know her mother dream not of the

blow which await she. she know her ladyship do not dream of her

attachment to Sir John Spottiswoode. she could not awaken she at that

moment to the fallacy of her hope, neither could she lend herself to

deception. she be aware her mother's ambitious wish believe she

young heart unable to contend against a dukedom, and that her fear of

Sir John Spottiswoode have cease from the morning of Lord Farnborough's

visit. she have then chat to his lordship, in the full flow of happy

spirit, and her mother's ambition have "o'ertopped" its meaning. she

could not lead she into deep error.



Christobelle's appetite be go, and she scarcely touch the small

french roll which lie upon her plate. she have eat and drank in

sorrow, though the meal do not afford nourishment; but, in joy, the

very sight of food become loathsome. it appear to Christobelle's

mind, that Sir John Spottiswoode's love--his expressed love--be

intellectual food, sufficient for many day; that her spirit would

renew under its bless influence, and that creature-comfort suit

only the labourer and the hireling. it be impossible to remain long at

the breakfast-table. she feel the triumphant glance of her lover be

upon she, and her heart long for solitude, to question itself again

upon its sudden happiness. she want to ask herself, over and over,

if it be really true that she be love by Sir John Spottiswoode--if

it be really true that her affection be return, and that she be

happy?



Christobelle quit the breakfast-room as early as politeness would

admit, for the desultory conversation of her companion be painful to

her thought, and disturb her train of mental reasoning. Sir John

Spottiswoode watch her retreat, but she could not meet his imploring

look. she know its purport, and she would surely keep her promise of

walk with he to the rocky seat; but she _must_ be alone for some

time. she require a short season of solitude, to task her thought and

collect her scatter energy; and, above all, she wish to see she

father. before Christobelle could surrender herself to the float

vision of joy which crowd on her brain, she must see her father!



Christobelle remain an hour walk up and down her dressing-room,

ere she could quell the emotion of her soul, and then she descend

into her father's study. he be read; and, for some moment, an

indefinable sensation of shame keep she silent. at last, Christobelle

gain courage to address her kind and indulgent parent. "Papa, if you

be not engage, I wish to speak to you, if you please."



Sir John Wetheral lay down his book, and assure his child his

attention be ever alive to his Chrystal's summon: but she become

agitated and confuse as she approach the subject. "Papa," she

stammer forth, "I come to say something, and I don't know how to say

it."



Sir John Wetheral smile, and draw she to he. "well, my love, which

be it--my Lord Farnborough, or the humble Captain? it must be a novel

subject which confuse my poor little companion, and it _must_ be a

love affair. which of they be intend to deprive I of your society,

Chrystal?"



"neither, papa." Christobelle become still more distressed and confuse

at his mistake.



"well, then, it must be the old duke, or that young man with the whip.

I cannot approve of either, my love."



Christobelle throw her arm round his neck. "no, no, papa; think again."



"ah, I have it, Chrystal. it be that young wanderer upon the

terrace, who be watch the window of your apartment so eagerly."

Christobelle's head fall upon his shoulder. "be not alarmed, my child.

if there be a heart as kind as Boscawen's, and as affectionate as

Pynsent's, it be the heart of Spottiswoode. now go, and tell he what I

say."



Christobelle be too confused and too joyful to speak her gratitude,

but her heart be know to the parent who have love and watch over

she from the hour of her birth. he lead she to the door. "go, my good

love, and tell your friend, and my friend, that he have set at rest all

my hope and fear for your welfare. tell he it be only into his hand

I would relinquish my child. there, fly to the poor puzzled youth, for

he be linger under your window." Sir John Wetheral close the door,

and his daughter be alone in the hall, almost stun by the rapidity

of the morning's eventful incident. she would have proceed to the

terrace, but her mother's voice call she to the sitting-room.



"Bell, be that you?"



Christobelle find her ladyship seat in a lounging chair, employ

with her knotting. she look up.



"I think I recognize your step, my love; the fairy step, as Lord

Farnborough call it. I wish you to remain entirely in the ground,

Bell; indeed, I wish you not to quit the house this morning. stay with

I, and wind these silk; they plague and impede my work."



"I be only go to the cliff, mamma: if any body come, you will be so

good as to send for I, perhaps."



"my love, I cannot send the whole establishment in different direction

for you, upon all occasion. your walk become a serious evil."



"I will remain on the terrace, then, mamma: I have promise to join Sir

John Spottiswoode."



"I do not approve of such daily walk, Bell--such wild roam over

the hill. I wish you to wind these obdurate skein for I: you forget

caution and propriety. I insist upon your avoidance of Sir John

Spottiswoode this morning. Lord Farnborough must not always find you

appropriate."



Sir John Spottiswoode appear at the window which open upon the

terrace at this moment. Lady Wetheral kiss her hand to he, and he

enter.



"my dear spottiswoode, assist I to persuade my restive daughter that

so much exercise be hurtful. I wish she to remain with I this morning."



"the day be so beautiful, Lady Wetheral, and the air so reviving!" he

observe. "I be sure this fresh breeze will exhilarate she, and bring

the rose into her cheek."



her ladyship raise her glass to her eye, and slightly examine she

daughter's countenance.



"Bell, my love, your bloom be less vivid, but I think I prefer the

delicacy of its present tone. I have very essential reason for wish

you to remain with I this morning. I feel languid and unwell--very

languid after the fatigue of yesterday." Lady Wetheral's voice grow

fainter as she utter the last sentence: and she sink back in her

chair, in an attitude of languor. "my love, pray wind those skein for

I. I be a poor creature, you see."



it be useless to contend: Christobelle's destine walk must give

way to her mother's quiet determination that she should not become

conspicuous with Sir John Spottiswoode, and it be her duty to yield

to her wish. Christobelle relinquish, therefore, all hope of a

_tête-à-tête_ with her lover, and prepare to obey her command, by

occupy herself with the silk. she have not courage to meet the

disappointed eye of her companion, nor indeed do she wish he to

discover, by the expression of her own orb, how severely she suffer

by her obedience.



Sir John Spottiswoode be silent under the exist order of thing,

and forbore to offer an opinion upon its unfitness; but he quietly

assist Christobelle's operation, and hold the skein for her well

convenience in wind they. the whole affair arrange itself in such

perfect pantomime, that she could not resist a smile and glance at

her assistant, which amply repay her self-control. an expression of

gratified happiness play upon his manly countenance, and light up

his eye, which communicate itself to Christobelle's heart, and cause

intense gratitude for the blessing confer upon she in the gift of

his affection. she feel that she could meet her mother's opposition,

her irony, her bitterness, with patience, since she have win all that

seem valuable upon earth--all that be excellent, and affectionate,

and kind--the heart of Sir John Spottiswoode. she have receive

the blessing too, at the very moment when her fear believe he

indifferent to her love: and when she suffer the pang of jealousy,

elicit by Fanny Ponsonby, and continue by the surmise of Captain

Ponsonby; yet it be a change so suddenly effect, that she could

scarcely believe in its reality. her lover kneel before she, hold

the extended skein, yet she could not place faith in the certainty that

all be not a dream: she hear her mother speak, and yet it appear a

vision, from which, she trust, she might never wake.



"my dear spottiswoode, you be Hercules with the distaff."



"I have make my choice too, like Hercules, Lady Wetheral. I have

select virtue, and I find I have also gain pleasure, for they be

seldom separate, after all. pleasure do not include virtue always:

but virtue rarely move without pleasure; I find it so now. I be

virtuously employ, and it be my great pleasure. I have great

pleasure in assist your labour, Lady Wetheral."



"you appear to great advantage, Spottiswoode; but I hope you be not

make a pain of pleasure. Bell have already break her thread twice."



"Miss Wetheral be all kindness; she bear with my awkward attempt

to be useful. I know I be very try to her patience. another thread

break! my dear Miss Wetheral, be calm."



"I believe I must relinquish it, for a few moment," Christobelle

observe; "my hand be so tremulous."



"I be go to lecture you, Miss Wetheral, to spare your mamma the

trouble of pronounce an exhortation in her languid state. pray,

make another trial, and hold your hand steadily--_so_." Sir John

Spottiswoode press her hand affectionately, and hold it as he

continued--"Now, my dear pupil, you must try to feel tranquil, and be

assure all effort succeed, if they be make with perseverance."



"very well," say Christobelle, laughingly; "my next effort shall be

boldly make."



"but, stay," he add, detain the hand she would have withdraw,

"stay one moment, while I examine this entanglement." Sir John

Spottiswoode bend forward to conceal his movement and Christobelle's

confusion from Lady Wetheral's notice. "this be rather a puzzle

affair at this moment, Miss Wetheral, but we must succeed in time by

mutual perseverance--if you be calm, and I be near you, to offer

counsel. do you perfectly understand I?"



"I believe I do. I be to be calm, and try to unravel this puzzle work

in patience. I quite understand you, and I will try to do so."



"when do my pupil ever misunderstand my word?" he reply, with

energy; and, forgetful of his own caution and Lady Wetheral's

presence, he catch Christobelle's hand to his lip. she be terrify

at the action, but her mother have little time to express she

indignation, for the door be suddenly throw open, and the servant

announce Lord Farnborough.



his lordship enter with a heated and raise complexion, and he

attentively survey the apartment, as he speak.



"so I be before he at last. I think I should find the fox in his

earth, for he be off an hour ago: this be capital."



"my dear lord, you be most welcome. this be really a neighbourly

action." Lady Wetheral rise promptly from her languid repose, and

receive her visitor with bright smile of pleasure. Lord Farnborough

recollect himself, and recover his self-possession, as he pay his

_devoir_ to the party.



"I fear I come in rather hastily, Lady Wetheral; but you will excuse

my eager manner, when you learn its motive. I think Ponsonby have be

before I. we have have a race for it, I assure you."



"Captain Ponsonby have not call, I believe," reply Lady Wetheral,

in tone of mingle triumph and hope, "unless he be closet with my

husband."



"ha!" exclaim his lordship, "then he have precede I? Lady Wetheral,

allow I an immediate conference, if you please."



"certainly, my lord; we will retire into my own sitting-room."



"here, if you please, for time be very precious. will you allow I

to lead you upon the terrace, Lady Wetheral? you must excuse my

impetuosity."



Lady Wetheral accept Lord Farnborough's offer arm, and she be

hurry upon the terrace; but not a glance or movement on her part

betoken fatigue, or a remnant of her past languor. her step be firm,

and her eye beam with expect triumph.



"Chrystal, my own Chrystal," cry Sir John Spottiswoode, as the

recede figure be lose to sight, "if ever I love and admire you

more truly and fondly than I fancy I could do, it be at the moment

you renounce your plan to obey a parent, with a smile on your lip,

and regret in your dear heart."



"but my real misery be yet to come," exclaim Christobelle, though

she feel herself press to the warm heart of her lover, and there be

blessedness in the pressure.



"but why so?" he ask tenderly; "what have Chrystal to fear?"



"Lord Farnborough's visit be connect with _myself_; I know it as

surely as if I hear the word speak. I know I have so much to endure

from my mother!"



"but you be mine, Chrystal; and who can take you from I now? be you

not my own, my very own?"



"I know it: I feel secure of _you_; but my mother will say such harsh

thing!"



"fear not, my beloved. if we be true to each other, surely we can

endure a little trial of patience."



yes, he speak truly. Christobelle could endure a long, long trial

for _his_ love. she could suffer a protract misery, to deserve a

heart so excellent. she have, too, a dear hope to sustain she, for she

father approve her sentiment, and he would shelter she from the

harsh reproach of her mother's ambitious spirit: she could meet

her lover's entreaty to be patient with smile. she tell he she would

endure all thing with firmness--that she would not anticipate evil.

she call upon he to rejoice with she in her father's approval, and

she tell he of her interview and confession. how swiftly do their

short _tête-à-tête_ glide by! and how delightedly do Christobelle

listen to his fear respect Lord Farnborough!



"but why do you not tell _I_ all this? why do you suppose such

incredible thing in silence--to leave I in such cruel and useless

suspense? oh, Spottiswoode, _one_ word yesterday morning, and all this

have be spare we!"



"no, I be silence by your mother for ever, in our morning lounge

upon the terrace. have you not disclaim all idea of Lord Farnborough

this morning, and have not hope rush into my heart unbidden, by the

confession of your misery, I have never dare to breathe a word of my

sentiment. I believe you love Lord Farnborough."



"she could not tell you _that_! surely my mother do not tell you

so--oh! she never tell you I care for _he_!" Christobelle shudder

at the thought; but the encircle arm of her lover restrain the

movement which impel she to start from her chair.



"I be assure your heart be on the point of acknowledge Lord

Farnborough's power, Chrystal--and your mother speak in term of proud

approval."



"oh, my mother, my mother!" exclaim Christobelle, weep at the

thought of her cruel policy; "I might have be sacrifice for ever to

your ambitious wish! I should have be give in utter wretchedness

to a man I do not love, and consign to hopeless misery!"



"weep not, dearest," say her companion, "and I will tell you how your

presence shall brighten and bless the scene of my solitary wandering

at Alverton--how it shall illumine my future life, and reward I for my

patient waiting. do you but know, my love, how I fear you would be

appropriate, ere I could claim an interest in your heart, and, yet,

how firmly I resolve to leave you to the working of its own resolve,

you would pity and love I for my resolution."



"I _do_ love you!" Christobelle conceal her face upon his shoulder.

they be silent for some moment, but his lip be press upon

her forehead, and she be in his arm--both too engross, with

the certainty of be at last happy, to break the deep silence.

Christobelle forget her mother--she forget Lord Farnborough; she

think not of his errand, or her future anger. she be in a

trance:--she think all reproach--all suffering--all unkindness, have

no further power to wound, for she belong to her lover, and he would

shelter she, as he do at that moment, in his beloved embrace. the

world without might struggle with deep and mighty commotion--it might

drink deeply of the element of strife, and do battle with the stirring

nature of mortality--but _she_ be safe from strife and suffering now.

she have give herself, heart and soul, to the man she love dearer than

herself, or aught in creation besides. she be the promise bride of

Sir John Spottiswoode!









CHAPTER XXVII.





Lord Farnborough's mission be speedily develop to Lady Wetheral,

as they pace the terrace together. his lordship at once open the

subject, which lie so closely upon his mind's peace, and at once lay

his dukedom at Christobelle's foot.



"upon my honour, Lady Wetheral, my respect for your daughter be

excessive, and I wish to make known my sentiment at such an early

period, because I see I have rival. Ponsonby be over head and ear

in love, and there's no knowing how many more will become so; for

her beauty be really something extraordinary. Miss Wetheral be the

lovely creature I have ever see."



"my daughter be flatter by such remark, my dear lord, and her mother

feel proud of such an encomium. she be a treasure to I, in every

sense of the word, as she will prove to the man who win she."



"I can offer much more than Ponsonby," continue Lord Farnborough;

"and I think, at this very early stage of our acquaintance, an earl's

coronet in possession, and a duke's strawberry-leave in prospect, may

perhaps entitle I to her notice beyond the claim of humbler man."



"Lord Farnborough may claim a lady's preference upon still high

ground than mere rank or fortune," say her ladyship, with smile

approbation, and gently press his lordship's arm. Lord Farnborough

be gratify by the compliment.



"it be very soothing, Lady Wetheral, to my feeling, to be assure that

my suit be not displease to her parent. may I hope Miss Wetheral's

affection be disengage?"



"I can answer for my daughter's free heart, my lord. I be sure--indeed,

I know her affection be untouched."



"you think Ponsonby have not get before I into her good opinion?"



"I have authority to say, Captain Ponsonby have not _yet_ succeed, my

dear lord."



"Ponsonby have be very successful with the female heart, and I know

he be attentive yesterday--but he have nothing to offer. I think Sir

John Spottiswoode flutter round Fanny Ponsonby--nothing _there_, you

think, Lady Wetheral?"



"my daughter's affection be not so lightly win, my lord; and my

interest be not with Sir John Spottiswoode."



"it would be a great feather in my cap, to win Miss Wetheral from all

competitor. she would be a star in town, and cause a great sensation.

she shall be the well-dress woman in St. James's, if she appear

there as Lady Farnborough. she would have the most splendid jewel in

the drawing-room."



"my dear child's taste be simple and unexpensive, Lord Farnborough.

she do not court notoriety. her heart be happy in her own home."



"that be a lady's throne," observe his lordship, "and man be happy,

who marry a creature devote to his comfort."



"be the duke aware of your present application, my lord?"



"I believe he surmise what I be about, Lady Wetheral, for your

daughter's charm almost lead to a quarrel this morning with Ponsonby.

it decide I at once to announce my wish here, or he would be

lay siege to Miss Wetheral. I see that pretty clearly. however, if

you stand my friend, Lady Wetheral, I be safe."



"my lord, I _think_ my wish will point my daughter's affection;

I believe I possess her entire confidence, and the control of her

judgment; and the very proper way in which you announce your wish of

an alliance with our family, prompt I to exert my influence in your

favour. I admire your high-spirited address, my lord, in consulting

_I_ before you apply to the lady."



"I wish to do every thing in order," reply his lordship, "and I know

Ponsonby have serious intention, which give I some alarm. when may I

pay my respect to Miss Wetheral? will she allow I an interview soon,

Lady Wetheral? you may conceive my impatience to be receive as one of

your family."



"I will summon my daughter, my lord, and leave you together: I be sure

of my child's ingenuous heart; and she will scorn to allow any man to

remain in suspense, when his full intention and hope be disclose."



Lady Wetheral's appearance at the sitting-room window unfold she

thought and expectation to Christobelle's mind in one glance. the

subdue look of triumph, the force calmness of manner, contrast

with the glowing expression of every feature, leave her daughter not an

instant in ignorance of what have take place. she feel that her hour

of trial be already arrive--that she must collect her thought, and

meet, with patient firmness, all the crosse in her path--that she must

redeem her promise of patience to her lover. Christobelle have little

leisure for mental reflection, for Lady Wetheral enter the room, and

compel attention.



"my dear love, Lord Farnborough request the honour of your attention

for a few moment: I have promise that you will join his lordship

on the terrace. your instant acquiescence will oblige I, Bell." Sir

John Spottiswoode quit the room. she continued--"It be a relief to

lose sight of one's friend for a few minute; I wish Spottiswoode have

find amusement elsewhere. Hasten, my dear girl, and meet I after your

little consultation in my room. I willn't say a word till you rejoin I;

but, my dear child, this be the very happy hour in my existence--a

happy hour than when my Julia tell I she have win Ennismore. my wish,

Bell, have be gloriously fulfil; every thing have crown that

wish, without an effort. I be a proud and happy mother!"



"oh, mamma," cry Christobelle, kneel before she, "do not

misunderstand I, and do not hope against hope. I cannot marry Lord

Farnborough!"



"do not rouse I into anger, Bell, as you hope for peace in this world;

and do not let I find you a mean-minded creature, content to live in

insignificance. go instantly, and meet Lord Farnborough."



"I cannot go, mamma; I have no affection to bestow upon Lord

Farnborough--do not let I meet he! tell he, I deplore his

disappointment, if it prove such--but I cannot see he!"



Lady Wetheral's face turn pale as marble, as she catch

Christobelle's hand, and drag she forward.



"tell I only that you be think of Captain Ponsonby, to break my

heart at once, Bell!"



"oh, no, not Ponsonby--I care not for Captain Ponsonby, mamma: but do

not look so pale and angry--you terrify I!"



"so you have lead I into error--deceive my hope--and destroy I,

while you seek the love of Spottiswoode! be that truly so? be it

spottiswoode you love?"



Christobelle shrink from her grasp in terror. Lady Wetheral's face and

manner become fearfully change; she catch the back of a chair to

support herself.



"Bell, I have answer for your dutiful submission to my wish. I have

promise for you--I have tell Lord Farnborough you be free. go to he,

and say that I speak in truth. a dukedom, Bell!--a dukedom!--my last,

my only child, a dukedom be offer you!"



Christobelle sit in terrified silence: she could not endure to see

her mother suffer, but she have no consolation to offer. Lady Wetheral

approach she, and take her cold hand in her.



"Bell, a child never yet prosper that give pain to her parent, and

now you can raise I into happiness by your obedience. to see my

daughter a duchess--a duchess, move in stately magnificence, be the

dearest wish of my heart. it have be my hope, ever since your first

introduction to Lord Farnborough--my dear project by day and by

night, my earthly contemplation for many day! go to he, Bell, for I

have answer for you, and you _will_ go; think well of it, think of

your future regret, when repentance will come too late! go to Lord

Farnborough, I command you, Bell."



a mother's command have never be dispute by Christobelle, and it

be, perhaps, well to meet his lordship. by an open declaration of

engaged affection, which would end all further hope on his side,

Christobelle's disquietude would cease; and her mother would reconcile

herself to a step which must be unavoidable, by every honourable and

upright principle of justice. Christobelle have no doubt to solve, no

inquiry to make with her own heart. every feeling of her soul be

give to Sir John Spottiswoode, and Lord Farnborough have not deserve

to endure suspense. she obey her mother's command, therefore, to meet

his lordship upon the terrace. her step be slow, and her mind be

tear with contend feeling, but she go forward.



"Bell," say Lady Wetheral, as she pass through the open window, "do

not be rash."



Lord Farnborough approach with respectful pleasure. Christobelle

return his greeting with a silent bow, but she could not command

word, and she stand in silence before he. his lordship hesitate.



"Miss Wetheral be aware, I presume, of my errand here--of my anxious

wish--of my hope?"



"my mother have inform I, my lord, of your wish--of the honour do

I, but...."



"will you do I the honour to walk up the terrace, Miss Wetheral, while

I explain my feeling and motive." his lordship offer his arm;

Christobelle decline it silently. "I trust you will not misinterpret

my action, Miss Wetheral. I be not a confident man, or one who presume

upon a parent's interest in my behalf--it be do in all respect, Miss

Wetheral."



"I be sure it be so, my lord--my only motive for decline your

assistance, be the fear of give a hope, where none be intend."



his lordship appear startled and annoyed.



"when I have explain my wish, Miss Wetheral, to you, and when I

state my hope that you will allow I to visit you at present, simply as

a friend, till you can give I a dearer title, I trust you will listen

calmly to what I be far anxious to say."



"Lord Farnborough," reply Christobelle, with trepidation of voice and

manner, "I will not deceive you for one moment. pray do not think of

I, for it be useless. I--I--cannot love you, or even give you hope

that I ever shall love you. pray do not think of I."



Lord Farnborough bow with great stiffness. "I beg your pardon, Miss

Wetheral, for this annoyance, but, allow I to say, I be assure you

be disengage."



"my lord, I was----, I am----." the word die upon Christobelle's

tongue; she could not utter they.



"Ponsonby have make an impression upon your heart, Miss Wetheral! I

think--I be _sure_ of it yesterday! that fellow be bear to be my

misery."



Christobelle lay her hand upon his lordship's arm, and endeavour to

speak distinctly, but she could only articulate, "no, no, no!"



"do not fear I, Miss Wetheral," reply his lordship, with offensive

hauteur, "I be not intend to wreak vengeance upon a man you approve,

but this be the second time he have traverse I!"



"Captain Ponsonby be nothing to _I_, my lord; Captain Ponsonby can

never be any thing to I!" Christobelle exclaim, "but pray excuse I

if I drop the subject for ever. I be honour--I be flattered--but it

never can be, Lord Farnborough."



his lordship gaze eagerly in her face. "repeat those word again, Miss

Wetheral! assure I again that Ponsonby be, and will be, nothing to

you!"



"I do repeat it, my lord."



"then, Miss Wetheral, I be content. I will believe your assertion, and

it give I hope. do not be in haste to reply. allow I your attention

for a few moment."



"I cannot listen, my lord. I have speak the truth, and I beg to be

allow to say this subject must end for ever. I have no affection to

bestow upon yourself, or upon Captain Ponsonby."



"I beseech you to listen one moment--one moment, Miss Wetheral! I do

not ask for your affection yet. I could not presume to hope even for a

preference, upon our short acquaintance. I only pray for leave to visit

you--to try and interest your heart, by my attention and my love. Lady

Wetheral give I hope, Christobelle!"



"no one can give hope for another, my lord."



"Lady Wetheral assure I your heart be free."



Christobelle hesitate. why do she feel ashamed to utter the truth,

and end at once the displeasing subject? why hesitate? she suffer

many struggle between shame and timidity, but at last the victory be

gain, and she speak with resolution.



"my lord, I love another--I have give my affection to another

person--excuse I."



his lordship bow low, with peculiar frigidity of manner. "I wish you

good morning, Miss Wetheral. I regret my intrusion: I be answer."



Christobelle curtsey with equal hauteur.



"I be sorry my word have produce dissatisfaction, my lord. it be

but just that my sentiment should not be misunderstood, and I do not

reproach myself for having withhold an ungenerous and delusive hope.

good morning, my lord."



they part with a second silent and distant salutation, and Lord

Farnborough quit the terrace.



Christobelle stand some moment, vainly endeavour to gain fortitude

to meet her mother--but now the deed be do, and his lordship have

depart, the terror of Lady Wetheral's anger fall upon her heart, and

she fly to her father for protection. Sir John Wetheral be in his

study converse with Spottiswoode, when Christobelle appear, and

both gentleman rise, smile at her entrance; but she throw herself

into her father's arm with hurried step, and besought he to save

she from her mother's reproach. she feel it be impossible to meet

she alone, or bear the indignant flash of her eye. she implore she

father to be the bearer of her refusal, and to endeavour to soften her

mother's anger, when she learn that Lord Farnborough be return to

Clanmoray, a reject and offend suitor.



Sir John Wetheral soothe his daughter's fear with kind approval of

her conduct. he speak affectionately of her attachment to his friend,

and commend the propriety of her sincere avowal to Lord Farnborough.

he would leave she now under the soothe care of Spottiswoode, who

be destine, he hope, to be her future guide through life. he would

give his Christobelle to his care, to listen to his reasoning and his

affection, while he himself seek the presence of his lady. he bid

his daughter fear nothing. he would shield she from all the storm of

life, till he relinquish she into a husband's care. and, while she

continue to act with honourable and high principle, untouched by

sordid temptation, and the misery of an insatiable ambition, she

must be free from self-reproach, and would be patient under trial

which could not greatly affect her peace of mind. Sir John Wetheral

then place his daughter's hand within the warm grasp of Spottiswoode,

and leave they together.



lover' happiness be compose of a million nothing, and every

indescribable rapture, which in after day provoke the laughter and

ridicule of its votary. all those who have love understand it

well--and to those who have never know a sincere attachment, it be

a seal book. Christobelle utterly forget all mundane concern, as

she listen to the fond effusion of her lover's heart, and own an

affection deep and imperious as his own. Christobelle almost forget

there be a drop of bitter yet leave, in her cup of joy.



Sir John Wetheral pass on to his lady's apartment, little aware of

the scene which await his peaceful nature, produce by defeat

ambition, in an ardent spirit. Lady Wetheral be suffer severe

nervous excitation as he enter her sitting-room, for Christobelle's

protract absence bode evil to her hope. she look earnestly in

her husband's face, to read its import.



"you have see Bell, you have see Bell--tell I at once, if I be to be

the mother of Lady Farnborough."



"Gertrude," reply her husband, calmly, "do not destroy your health by

these nervous excitement."



"Sir John, my nerve be excite by the conduct of my child. be I

the mother of the future Duchess of Forfar? be I to be the proud mother

of a child raise to the very pinnacle of worldly grandeur?"



"you will be the mother of a child truly happy in her worldly

prospect, if your mind will but look rationally upon its promise, my

dear Gertrude."



"be I to be the mother of Lady Farnborough?" repeat the excited

parent.



"our daughter have not commit the base folly of accept one man,

when her heart belong to another, Gertrude."



"do _i_ not do so before she, Sir John? I never repent _my_

marriage!"



"it might be so, my love, but Chrystal never possess your ambition,

to soar over affection and honour, through its cold dictate."



"be I to understand Bell have refuse Lord Farnborough, Sir John? be

that the reading of your word? pray speak it in intelligible word."



"Christobelle have decline his lordship, Gertrude. her heart prefer

Spottiswoode, and my concurrence go with it."



"perhaps you will convey a message from I to the future Lady

Spottiswoode of Alverton, among the flat meadow of Worcestershire, Sir

John," reply his lady, in the calm tone of suppress anger. "tell

my Lady Spottiswoode it be my request she never presume to appear

before I during the day of her singlehood."



"Gertrude, Gertrude," exclaim her husband, "be this request a fit

message from a mother to her child?"



"I have always a dislike to scene," observe her ladyship, "therefore,

I shall not reproach Miss Wetheral with her deceptive conduct in

allow attention from a quarter which I never countenance, and

after my express command to avoid they. I ever deprecate scene

before Lady Kerrison--but her violent spirit scorn restraint. she

give I deep pain; and Lady Ennismore's banishment have cause I

pain--but this stroke lie far deeply in my heart!"



Lady Wetheral become all nerve: her whole person be in a nervous

trembling. her husband fail in every effort to tranquillize her

spirit.



"you may dilate upon the supreme excellence of your favourite

Spottiswoode, my love, and you may assure I your daughter be an

enviable and a happy being; but I know she have cast aside a ducal

coronet, to wed the poor baronet of Alverton! I will see she no more. I

will never see she again."



"my dear Gertrude, be tranquil, and be rational." Sir John Wetheral

never could be persuade to lose his temper.



"I be perfectly tranquil and calm, Sir John. I be perfectly tranquil,

and very rational in my command, when I persist in banish my

unnatural child from my sight. Miss Wetheral have take her measure,

and I assert mine. we do not meet again."



"this be wrong, a wicked wrong, towards an innocent child, Gertrude!"



"she be very innocent," retort Lady Wetheral, with bitterness. "she

innocence have cause she to oppose my wish, and to dare that which

her sister never presume to do. they never contravene my view, nor

thwart my wish in their establishment, and they marry well!"



"be it _well_ with Clara?" demand her husband, with earnestness

of manner as startling as it be novel--"was it _well_ with Clara?

do she not quit her home clandestinely, to become the wife of

Kerrison?--miserable in her short career, and sudden in her death, be

she happy? be Clara to be hold forth as an evidence of maternal care,

in such a momentous concern?"



"Forbear, Sir John, forbear!" cry his lady.



"Nay, but Gertrude, have it be well with Julia, whom you teach to fly

at quarry so distasteful? wed to imbecility--banish from her home

and country, unseen and unheard of--be she, too, an evidence of your

talent in contrive establishment?"



"I tell you," exclaim her ladyship, "Julia be an earl's wife; and

Clara's position be high and grandly place, but her own hand pluck

she down. who can reproach _I_?"



"I will not reproach you, Gertrude, but I counsel you to spare this

last poor child. remember only your fatal mistake, and do not add a

third victim. I will not allow Christobelle to be sacrifice to your

ambition."



"ring for Bevan, I be very ill--ring for Bevan, but let no one else

come near I. I be _not_ hard-hearted! Clara call I hard-hearted:

I be not hard-hearted! I be a disappoint, deceive mother. where be

Bevan?"



Mrs. Bevan appear with the remedy, which time have teach she to

dispense as judiciously as her predecessor, Mrs. Daniel Higgins, have

do; but Lady Wetheral's attack threaten a long continuance than

usual. she would fain have retire to her own room, but Sir John

perceive her inability to move without assistance: her ladyship

tremble excessively. he bear she in his arm to her bed-side, and

Mrs. Bevan, after assist her lady to repose, proceed to close the

shutter, and exclude the bright sunbeam. Lady Wetheral become still

more nervous.



"Bevan, let I have light--let I have light! if I cannot see the sun,

it will be darkness of body and mind. don't leave I, Bevan. Sir John,

where be you?"



Sir John stand near, in a state of offend alarm: his mind be

discompose--it never become angry.



"Sir John, I cannot remain at Fairlee: take I back to Wetheral. Bell

have destroy my health. I be quite well till this wretched match,

which have destroy all my plan, and throw down all my hope! it have

make I ill--bad than ever!"



it be not in the power of reason, much less in Sir John Wetheral's

power, to check the indignant feeling which affect his lady's

mind upon the subject of Lord Farnborough's refusal. each attempt to

argue away their violence do but increase the evil. nothing could

induce her ladyship to receive Christobelle at her bed-side, or hear

a word plead in her defence. Christobelle's attachment to Sir John

Spottiswoode, and her subsequent refusal to accept Lord Farnborough's

proposal, appear to destroy the tie of affection which have never

be closely weave together, for his ladyship declare her daughter's

presence would kill she upon the spot. the sad event which occasion

her flight from England, fade under the shock of Lord Farnborough's

dismissal. Scotland would be to her sickened heart a remembrance of

misery. either Christobelle or herself must quit the shore of the now

desolate and cold Lochleven, upon whose bosom she have once enjoy

such bright anticipation. all be end, and joy have close her

brilliant wing for ever. this be an irrecoverable stroke.



Sir John Wetheral do not conceal from Christobelle the mandate which

banish she from her mother's presence; and the consolation of

Spottiswoode's presence be indeed necessary to soothe her distress of

heart. Christobelle would cheerfully have contribute to her parent's

comfort, have her wish extend to less than the sacrifice of all

happiness; but surely it be not reprehensible to withhold a shadow

of hope, when her heart be not with Lord Farnborough! surely it be

not right to turn from the man she love, when her affection be

his beyond the power of recal, and when the voice of ambition alone

demand it! true, Julia and Clara's view be mould by her mother's

spirit, but then their heart be untouched, and their unshackle

affection might submit to her dictation. ambition also impel they

to meet her wish, and no private feeling struggle within their soul

to deaden its influence; but Christobelle be another's!--she might

suffer, but she could not change!



Sir John Spottiswoode believe that time would soften Lady Wetheral's

displeasure, but Christobelle know too well the bitterness of the

disappointment, to lay such unction to her soul. have she ever be a

favourite with her ladyship--have her youth be pleasant in her sight,

she might have hope to obtain an influence through the operation of

time, sufficient to effect a reconciliation in favour of her present

attachment. but that have never be the case. her birth be consider

out of time--her sex displease she--her education be unintereste

to her mother's mind. it be only at interval, and under particular

circumstance, that Christobelle receive any commendation, and it

expire with the cause which elicit its birth. Christobelle felt

assure her mother would never forgive the wound inflict upon her

ambition. she feel assure her mother would never forgive the dismissal

of Lord Farnborough.



Sir John Wetheral decide upon quit Fairlee as soon as his lady

feel equal to undertake the fatigue of a journey; and he also express

a wish that a twelvemonth should elapse ere Christobelle become the

wife of Spottiswoode. "his daughter," he say, "be young, and a

twelvemonth might effect a change in her mother's feeling. it be

Christobelle's duty to make some concession to an offended parent,

and twelvemonth would operate as a fair trial of the constancy of her

own nature."



Christobelle submit most willingly to this arrangement. the

least wish of her father have ever be her rule of conduct, and his

indulgence would have win obedience, have his wish extend the period

of the engagement. but Sir John require no painful sacrifice, no

useless trial. spottiswoode might visit Christobelle whenever his

avocation enable he to become a guest at Lidham, and he trust time

would soften Lady Wetheral's disappointed view. he dare not pronounce

upon its certainty, but they have a right to hope the good.



the continued mortification which embitter Christobelle's repose, by

Lady Wetheral's harsh mandate, at last induce Sir John to resolve upon

his daughter quit Fairlee. it be a painful and perpetual grievance

to Christobelle, to know that her mother be ill, and confine to

her apartment, yet that _she_ be not suffer to alleviate her

confinement, or attend she. it be a grief which the affectionate

attention of her lover could not control, and which her father's

soothe presence do not lessen. her appetite decline and her spirit

flee. Spottiswoode also become dispirit and uneasy in witness she

regret, and Sir John Wetheral, alarm at his daughter's increase

depression, write to Mr. Boscawen to meet they at Edinburgh, and

conduct Christobelle to his own home for a season.



it be judge, that absence from a scene so painful, and the society of

Isabel, would cheer her spirit, and soften her present sorrow; while,

under the protection of Mr. Boscawen, she might receive the visit

of Sir John Spottiswoode, and move among the friend she love, and

whom she have not see for some year. Spottiswoode would remain some

time long at Fairlee, and it might be, that his lengthened sojourn

in the north would produce a favourable effect upon the invalid's

mind. it might be, that the knowledge of her daughter's withdrawal

would rouse she, and if any human being could amuse and soften a harsh

determination in Lady Wetheral's soul, that be be the good and kind

Spottiswoode.



Christobelle wander each day with her lover through the scene of

their early walk, and if the exercise fail to bring the bloom into

her cheek, yet she be happy while lean on his arm, and listen

to his hope. they speak of Alverton in the rocky bower which she be

so soon to quit. Christobelle look upon the water, and she think

of the year of careless freedom in which she have wander among those

beautiful scene with Janet for her sole companion. she think of the

Douglas Isle, where she have first see Lord Farnborough, and the spot

from whence she have wave her plaid at their parting. Christobelle

think of she gradually increase passion for Spottiswoode--the hope

and fear of St. Mungo's Isle--the pang of jealous feeling which

she endure when Fanny Ponsonby engross the attention of he she

loved:--she think, too, of her present situation, the betrothed of

Spottiswoode, yet the banish one from her mother's side. would that

mother, indeed, continue to drive her child from her presence, or might

she yet receive her smile and hear she welcome? should she be indeed

the happy wife of Spottiswoode, and become, as he fondly style she,

the bright star of Alverton? Christobelle weep. Spottiswoode press

she to his heart.



"my own Chrystal, this silent grief destroy I, for it be through I

you suffer. would to Heaven you be safe at Brierly with your friend,

and that I be with you! I shall soon follow you, for here I cannot

remain without you. I should hear you sigh, and see your weeping figure

in every spot where we have be together. I shall look like the ghost

of depart pleasure. you will leave I on Friday, my Chrystal."



"for a few day only, Spottiswoode."



"I shall know you be in kind protection, dearest. you will be with the

good of man in Boscawen's company, and you love he as well as Isabel.

her child will amuse you. you will see the pynsent. you will hardly

have time to think of _I_, Chrystal."



"I will try to forget you sometimes; I wonder if I shall succeed."



"you have nephew and niece to engross your attention; you will be

joke by Mrs. Pynsent, Chrystal, for fancy your poor lover. every

body will crowd round you, to admire your loveliness, and wonder at

your graceful figure; and yet I must not be there to witness it. what

shall _I_ do without you?"



the tear spring to Chrystal's eye; she endeavour to disperse they,

but they fall unbidden. her mind be weaken by recent event. she

clasp her hand, and exclaimed,--



"oh, do not say you will suffer, Spottiswoode, by my absence."



"no, no, my love," he reply, with fond endearment, "I will not think

of our little trial. you will go from I on Friday; but be you not my

own betrothed bride, and be we not one in heart and hand? you will

rejoice your friend, and be rejoice in meet they. I shall also

rejoice, in the knowledge of your happiness. our thought will meet

often and often in our absence; and then, my Chrystal, we shall meet

again in peace. I cannot and will not remain a week absent from you."



Christobelle smile again to think their separation be not eternal.

how many attach heart have be tear asunder, while they be

mourn over the parting of a few short day! how many heart have bid

a long farewell, while they should meet again and be in peace! again

she lean against her lover's shoulder, and her thought be of

grateful thank. she be not call to severe affliction--she be not

belove by a man whose birth or character be repugnant to her friend,

and to whom her happiness be a source of discomfort and disgust.

even her mother have not deprecate Spottiswoode: his offence in her

eye arise from having win her daughter from Lord Farnborough. her

father love he, and approve her attachment. yes, Christobelle have

reason to be thankful to the hand which minister so wisely for her

happiness. her mother would not always be harsh; surely she might in

time be summon into her presence! she would never be forgive; she

never _have_ be love; and the slight cord of affection be break for

ever between they: but they might meet without pain, she hope, on her

mother's part; and she herself would exert uncease effort to win she

into complacency. her mother _must_ love Spottiswoode, when time should

soften her remembrance of Lord Farnborough's attention.



Christobelle speak of Fanny Ponsonby to her companion, now that her

heart be at rest; and allude to her emotion in St. Mungo's Isle.

Spottiswoode have, from the first hour of their introduction, discover

her predilection for Lord Farnborough.



"I could trace it, Chrystal, in the agitated and close attention

she bestow upon yourself, and in her anxiety to remove from your

vicinity. I see the distressed feeling of her heart, as she watch

the engross attention of Farnborough at dinner: and I feel for she

suffering during the singing. I feel for she and for myself at that

moment, Chrystal, for I also fancy you approve his lordship."



"how could you think so, Spottiswoode?"



"Lady Wetheral's word be in my ear, Chrystal, and I have

relinquish all hope for myself."



"what a day of misery it be to I!" Christobelle exclaim, as she

think of all she have endure. "Fanny Ponsonby's feeling be all

echo by my own."



"it be a painful day to many, Chrystal; but to we it have prove a

blessing, for it confess our sentiment at once, and prepare the

way for our mutual understanding. have you not express disapprobation

of Lord Farnborough, I have not dare to tell my feeling. be it not a

blessing, my love?"



"but poor Fanny Ponsonby, what will be _she_ destiny?" Christobelle

ask, as she return the pressure of Spottiswoode's hand. "what will

be her fate in her attachment?"



"Miss Ponsonby have sow her seed among thorn," he reply, with

feeling, "and her heart must wrestle with its feeling, unless she

become his wife. Lord Farnborough may turn to Miss Ponsonby, since you

have reject he, and she may become the envy Lady Farnborough; but

she will only sink into a neglect wife. he cannot make a woman happy."



"oh! if I have see he with my mother's eye, and fall a sacrifice!"

observe Christobelle, with a shudder.



"I should have quit England, Chrystal. I would not have witness

your misery, or remain within hearing of your gradual decay. you

could not long live under his harsh treatment, and I could not have

bear to hear the world remark upon your pale cheek and fade form."



"how grateful I be! how happy I ought to be, Spottiswoode! when you

come to see I at brierly, and I do not suffer daily under my mother's

angry prohibition, you will find I so changed and happy! when I think

of Lord Farnborough, I turn to you with such grateful delight! yes,

Spottiswoode, I _will_ be happy!"



and Christobelle exert herself to be happy, even the few day which

intervene between she express gratitude and her long farewell to

Fairlee. she sit hour after hour upon the terrace, with her father

and Spottiswoode, look with deep interest upon the lake, the scene

of all her pleasure, while she be happy in ignorance of a deep

affection, and the scene of suffer during the stir incident

which have awaken her heart to the strife of worldly sorrow. lochleven

be endear to Christobelle by a thousand recollection, by the

enjoyment of her young age, and by the happy hour pass by the side

of Spottiswoode. she be go to the south, to a new scene that would

be change in its aspect; gayer, full of friend, and still bl by

the society of he she love. but would it be to she like the grand

Lochleven?--that shelter from the world's care? that spot where she

have enjoy such long tranquillity? Adieu for a long, long time, the

cloud-cap mountain, the heather hill, the placid water! farewell

the island on its bosom--the grove, the far Cona! farewell the

stir breeze, the lonely Eilan na Corak--the repose, the grandeur of

the shore of Lochleven!



Christobelle endure much, ere she set forth with her father from

Fairlee. she bear her parting interview with Spottiswoode with great

intrepidity; but she weep at her mother's obdurate determination not to

see she before she quit the parental roof. Sir John Wetheral soothe

she as she gaze upon the lake, till it vanish from her ache sight:

and he prophesy that her trial would not be lengthen beyond her

power to endure it. he speak kindly and well to her overpowered spirit,

of the sorrow which must accompany a progress through life, and of

the consolation which attend a patient and pray spirit. he do

not consider it right to allow Spottiswoode to accompany they, as she

mother evince such decide repugnance to the match; but at brierly,

Christobelle might enjoy her lover's society in peace; and he would

accompany his lady to Wetheral as soon as she express a wish to set

forth on the long journey. new scene, new face, and a new set of

idea would, he hope, drive gloomy fancy from her mind, and bring

comfort to all party. she be on her road to Isabel, and with she and

Boscawen she must enjoy the calm pleasure of domestic happiness. they

would lead she to agreeable thought, and Spottiswoode would speedily

add his society to the enjoyment of Brierly.



such be Sir John Wetheral's reasoning, and its effect be apparent

upon Christobelle's spirit. she gradually recover cheerfulness

under his indulgent soothing, and she could even admire the change

scenery which vary their route to Edinburgh. Mr. Boscawen be true to

his appointment; they find he at the place of rendezvous, ready to

conduct Christobelle to the county of her birth, and induct she once

more into the domicile which have shelter she so kindly year before.



Mr. Boscawen be surprised at her growth, and wonder at the girl who

have glide into womanhood so rapidly. he think her feature bear a

strong resemblance to her unfortunate sister Clara; but he politely

assure she, her manner be entirely her own. she be no long, he

say, "the gay little half-grow girl, who have delight to nurse she

nephew under the mulberry tree at brierly. she must be look upon in a

very different phase; and he fear the quiet haunt of Brierly would

ring with the charm of the beautiful Miss Wetheral. he be pleased to

think she possess a protector whose claim would at once put an end

to the fearful contention of furious rival." Christobelle's blush

be the only answer she could give to the agreeable remark of Mr.

Boscawen.



Sir John Wetheral's absence would not be of long continuance, therefore

Christobelle do not sorrow much as she bid he adieu. she pray he

to speak of she to her mother, and to express her deep regret at

having incur her displeasure. she pray for her pardon, and that

they might meet again in reconciliation. she look to her forgiveness

with anxious desire, with a fervent and unceasing hope. she embrace

her dear father, and bid he remember she kindly, affectionately, to

the friend she have leave at Fairlee, and then she give her hand to Mr.

Boscawen.









CHAPTER XXVIII.





how delightedly do the eye of Christobelle rest upon the matronly form

of Isabel! she be clasp in her arm, as she descend the step of

the chaise at Brierly.



"well, I never see such a beautiful creature in my life! my dear

Christobelle, who would have think you would turn out so very pretty?

my dear Mr. Boscawen, be you not surprised at Christobelle's beauty,

when you first see she?"



"I be not so overcome at your sister's handsome face, as I be

astonish at Isabel's neglect of her long-absent husband," reply Mr.

Boscawen, smile. Isabel fly towards he.



"I cann't think how I come to be so wicked; but, indeed, it be the

sight of my sister's face. my dear Boscawen, I have so long for your

return, and so have the child! I be oblige to tell the dear thing

papa be go a long way off, for some cake and their pretty aunt, or

they would not have be comfort. I do not know what hour you would

arrive, therefore I be wise enough not to say a word to they about it."



"they shall be summon after dinner, Isabel. we be hungry traveller

now, and a meal will be most gratefully welcome."



"my love, ring the bell, and order it in now, if you please, while I

escort my sister to her room. follow I, dear Christobelle. well, I

declare I never see such a change in a human being! you be tall and

handsome, and have such beautiful ringlet! I shall certainly have

ringlet too. I cann't fancy you be the little, jump Chrystal, who

be dress out so fine at my wedding, five or six year ago. well--and

don't you think _I_ be change?"



Isabel be change. her sylph-like figure have swell into a stout

form: her waist have increase materially in breadth, and her dress be

rather disorder.



"the child be so playful, Chrystal, that my collar have always

a ragged appearance; and corset of any kind be so very painful,

because I be get large, that I never wear they. Boscawen, though,

do not mind my appearance: he be not particular. he allow I to do

just what I like, and I be so happy! ah! do you remember my geography

day, Chrystal? how I detest that dreadful map of the world! I be

determine my little Bell shall be happy and ignorant, as I be before

she. she be call Bell after you, dear--not your long name, but simply

Bell. I hope she will be as pretty as you; but what do it signify?

who can be happy than I be, with my broad waist and rumpled collar?"



the moment the servant have withdraw, after dessert be place upon

the table, Isabel continue her happy prattle.



"I have so much to tell you, of one kind or the other, dear Bell, that

I don't know where to begin. what shall I tell first, my dear Boscawen?

oh! Bell, such thing be whisper of Julia!--I don't believe a word

of they--not one word. however, you will find Anna Maria more French

than ever, for the Count de Nolis have be stay every Christmas at

Hatton, and Félicé do lay on the rouge terribly. it's quite amusing

to hear Tom Pynsent boast of his wife's bloom, when it's rouge all the

time. I think I write you word, that odd Mrs. Hancock have a paralytic

stroke some time ago?"



"no, indeed, Isabel, I never hear of it."



"don't you? oh! it's the case, I assure you--her mouth be all on one

side. poor Miss Tabitha be not dead yet, bell: I don't think she mean

to die at all; and Mrs. Ward write word, she find fault with every

thing, poor soul, that be say or do. shall I ring for the darling,

my dear Boscawen? I be sure Chrystal be die to see her little boy,

whom she nurse so carefully. ring the bell twice, my love, and the

little wild thing will soon rush in."



"do not give Tom wine, Isabel; I have a dislike to child take wine

so early in life."



"no, my dear Boscawen, certainly not. I think, with you, that wine be

very improper for child--but little Tom have such a win way of

coax his poor mother!"



the child soon burst into the room, and run bound round the

table. Isabel be all triumphant pleasure. "now, Charles--my dear

Charles, go quietly to papa, and ask he how he do, and whether the

cake be come from merry Scotland. ah, ha, Charley go for his cake.

Tom, my beauty, come to mamma; and Bell, go to your aunt--your new

aunt, and admire her pretty hair."



Christobelle endeavour to attract her little fat niece to her side,

but she hide her face in Isabel's lap.



"oh, Bell, I'm ashamed of you!--your pretty aunt, too--oh, fie! my dear

Tommy, don't touch mamma's glass. no, no wine, Tommy--papa say no. a

few strawberry, my dear little boy, and a biscuit, but no wine."



Tommy, however, advance his mother's wineglass to his lip, watch

her countenance with a cunning glance.



"now, my little, good Tommy, mamma will be angry, very angry, if you do

what she tell you not to do. Bell, my love, go to your aunt, like a

good girl."



Isabel take some pain to persuade her little girl to raise her head,

but her appeal be useless. in the mean time, Tommy have silently

quaff the remainder of the content of her glass. Mr. Boscawen rise,

and take he from Isabel's knee.



"my dear Boscawen, what be you go to do with Tommy? he be very good

with I, my love."



"I be go to banish he, Isabel, for disobedience."



"oh, my dear Boscawen, it be the least little drop of wine in the

world! it be scarcely a teaspoonful--pray don't punish Tommy for that

little drop, my love."



"the disobedience be the same in the action, Isabel. I shall send he

into the nursery. I shall take he there myself."



Isabel's eye suffuse, as Mr. Boscawen leave the dining-room with the

cry recreant Tommy. she turn to her sister.



"oh! Chrystal, be it not severe to carry away that dear child, for one

drop of wine only?"



"Boscawen be quite right, my dear Isabel."



"do you really think so? do you really think he be right to banish the

darling child, when it be such a pretty, coax trick? do you see

his little, cunning, dear eye?"



"Boscawen justly think, Isabel, that cunning habit and disobedience

will increase, if it be not check."



"oh! I hope it willn't increase--dear child--I should be sorry to see he

grow sly." Mr. Boscawen return. "my love, do Tommy cry? be he very

much hurt--poor dear? do you leave he cry?"



"my dear Isabel, you have bring this upon he, by not check

disobedience in the first instance. you have allow the child twice to

steal your wine."



"my dear Boscawen--steal! indeed, that sound dreadful! I hope my

child will never steal! it be indeed my fault! poor, dear

child!--I dare say he be cry dreadfully now. let I beg for my

child, Boscawen."



"let he remain where he be, isabel: he have be very naughty."



"but I have teach he to steal, and I ought to suffer for he, dear

Boscawen. let I go to my child, my love!" the tear stand in Isabel's

eye, and Boscawen be still under their influence. he soothe his lady

as fondly as when in early day she weep for the droop ostrich

feather.



"my dear Isabel, when we retire into the drawing-room, your child shall

come down again. don't weep, my love. I cannot wonder at your fondness,

but he be very naughty. wait a few moment, Isabel, and the child

shall join we in the drawing-room. don't let I see you weep--stay, I

will bring he down to you."



Isabel smile, and little Tommy be restore to her arm, as he enter

the drawing-room. Mr. Boscawen feel he have act unwisely by his child;

but how could he resist Isabel in tear? thing be totally change at

brierly. a tear from the bright blue eye of Isabel melt Boscawen's

good resolve, and operate against the excellence of his own system

of education. Isabel hold the rein of government in her hand. she

never argue with her husband--she never offer a word of opposition

to his wish--but she rule by submission, and win his acquiescence

by her tear and gentle self-upbraiding. fortunately, her child

possess her own sweet disposition, which defy indulgence, or they

might have suffer through Isabel's inability to check their bud

fault. as it be, they love she too well to persist in offend a

parent so devoted; and it must have prove a very serious offence, ere

the light-hearted Isabel could lament conduct which be ever palliate

by her affectionate heart. she be indeed the happy of wife and

mother.



Mr. Boscawen and Christobelle resume their occupation instinctively,

as if year have not intervene since they last walk and read together

at Brierly. Isabel be delighted.



"ah, there you go again!--read, read, talk, talk, all day long. I

like to hear you argue, when I have time to devote to you both; but

the child require so much attention, and the dear little thing

love to be with I so often, that dear Boscawen have be a great deal

alone, haven't you, Boscawen? it be such a pleasure to have you here,

Chrystal--my poor, dear husband willn't have to endure my ignorance."



"who say my Isabel be ignorant?" say Mr. Boscawen, pat his lady's

shoulder affectionately.



"yes, dear Boscawen, I be very ignorant, and very unfit for you; but

I do very well to play with the darling, and superintend every thing

but their education--_that_ you will do, except for poor little Bell:

let she be happy and ignorant, Boscawen. if she be half as happy as her

mother, she will not require knowledge--only her husband and child.

I never wish for any thing beyond you and they." Isabel cast an upward

and affectionate look at Boscawen, who bent his long figure to kiss his

laugh wife.



Mr. Boscawen tell Christobelle he have engage to take she for a day

or two to Hatton. the pynsent be very anxious to see she, and

Mrs. Pynsent have make it a point with he to bring the "tall, gawky,

good-look girl" to she, as soon as she have rest a few day at

brierly. the Charles Spottiswoodes, also, be wish to see she

again, to contemplate the improvement which five year must have

effect in her appearance. the name of Spottiswoode bring blush

into the face of Christobelle.



"my dear Bell," exclaim Isabel, with laugh delight, "how droll

it be to think you have a lover; when I see you last, you be such

a bit of a girl! Sir John Spottiswoode be just the man I would have

choose for you--just the very person I should have single out--be he

not, Boscawen?--just the sort of man, with curl dark hair and high

forehead, that you ought to like, dear Chrystal!"



"_i_ have not dark curl hair, Isabel?" say Boscawen, smiling--"I have

not a high forehead, have I?"



"my dear Boscawen, your hair be always dreadfully wiry, and I think

you very plain, but I like you for all that, you know."



"then why _ought_ Chrystal to choose and love such thing, my Isabel?"



"ah! I dare say I be talk nonsense again," cry the humble Isabel,

"for I should really recommend no one who do not resemble you, dear

Boscawen. I should advise every woman to wait till they could find a

kind, dear man, like yourself, and then they would not care about wiry

hair, or...." Isabel hesitate and colour.



"say on, Isabel." Mr. Boscawen look amused.



"I be go to say, they would not mind great long leg. don't be

angry, my love, with I."



Mr. Boscawen laugh. "you see, Isabel, the triumph of good sense over

mere personal advantage. you cannot be ignorant, since you choose I

in spite of my deficiency. I hope all your young acquaintance may

exhibit your indifference to mere good look. Miss Wetheral, when shall

we visit Hatton? Isabel, will you join the party?"



"I wish I could drive over with you, my love; but Charly be cut

a double-tooth, and I think little Bell be not quite well. I think I

cannot leave my little one two day, Boscawen!"



"then Chrystal and myself will depart to-morrow for Hatton," say

Boscawen, smile, with gratified feeling, at his wife's love of she

home and her little one.



"yes, Bell will amuse you, dear Boscawen, and you will not miss _I_.

you can talk away upon history and the art and science, and enjoy

the novelty of a clever companion, for once. I be only fit to nurse my

child."



"you be only fit to be a very excellent creature, and to be my dear

little roundabout wife," exclaim Boscawen; and Isabel look so

happy! it be delightful to witness the joyous expression which

revel in her look, whenever she speak with her husband and

child. it be such a contrast to the Isabel whom Christobelle

remember, low-spirit, in her dressing-room at Wetheral, pine

over "Burnet's Reformation!" it be such a contrast to the Isabel who

watch in alarm the fond, but search, glance of her excellent,

elderly husband!--Christobelle tell she so, when they be alone. she

laugh.



"I remember, Bell, how frightened I use to be, and there be no cause

for it! Boscawen be always kind, only I be so unwilling to receive

improvement, and then I fancy his anxiety be annoying. when Miss

Tabitha leave brierly, every thing be comfortable to I; for then, you

know, there be no one to point out my fault. but, Chrystal, tell I

now all about John Spottiswoode. Boscawen tell I not to be curious,

but I be _very_ curious. I want to know how it all begin, and why mamma

be so foolish about Lord Farnborough."



Christobelle recapitulate her story to Isabel, who wonder, and

be pleased, and weep, by turn, as her sister recount all her

suffering. she clasp her arm round Christobelle.



"never mind, Chrystal, never mind; and every thing will end as

it should do. every body know mamma's match have turn out

shockingly; and John Spottiswoode be so love by all his relation, so

good to his mother and sister, that you be fortunate in attract

he; but you be so very handsome, dear Chrystal, you would attract

every one, high and low. People be now scandalize poor Julia, and

point at she and Colonel Neville; but I will never believe that

Julia would do wrong, though I dare say she be very unhappy, poor dear

girl."



"what do Boscawen think, Isabel?"



"oh, Boscawen never think _that_ match would answer. he do not like

the Dowager's manner and character; and he say to I, at Julia's

wedding, that if my sister fall from her high estate, the two mother

would answer for it hereafter. he say, too, that Julia be the victim

of two machinating Machiavels. of course, he mean mamma and the

Dowager. Lord Selgrave be always dislike as a cruel, disagreeable

boy, I hear; so he would have make you a sad husband, in spite of be

Earl of Farnborough, and a trumpery Duke in expectancy."



Isabel's remark only corroborate the observation of Spottiswoode,

and Christobelle believe herself indeed save from ruin, though she

pay a severe penalty for her escape, in the angry prohibition of

her mother's disappointed view. her present pain, she feel assured,

be far more bearable than the misery of an unhappy matrimony; and

she be grateful beyond expression to know that she be give to a

man, so loved and so well appreciate as Spottiswoode be, among she

near friend. their approbation must be balm to her heart; and,

when her mother hear how all lip concur to praise he, would she

continue her ungenerous dislike to her presence? would she persist in

hold back her consent, and still pertinaciously revenge upon she

head her dismissal of a man so little respect as Lord Farnborough?

Christobelle hope not in fear and trembling; she _would_ hope. as she

dear father observe, she have a right to hope that her prayer would be

hear and answer, if she persevere in the path of principle.



Christobelle's spirit be considerably improve, by view the happy

lot of Isabel, in the enjoyment of those tranquil domestic scene which

be so adapt to her taste and nature. in Mr. Boscawen, she meet the

highly-inform mind which impart knowledge with a flow so gentle,

that it do not startle or confound the listen neophite. his be a

mind which fertilize as it steal along, improve all, and delight

every ear, but the ear of Isabel. to she the stream of his intellect

flow by, without a wish to understand, or kindle under its influence,

one spark of sympathetic fire. yet she glory in her husband, and

their life be peaceful and happy.



it be temper which create the bliss of home, or disturb its comfort.

it be not in the collision of intellect, that domestic peace love

to nestle. her home be in the forbearing nature--in the yielding

spirit--in the calm pleasure of a mild disposition, anxious to give

and receive happiness. in the sweet humility of Isabel, and in the

indulgent forbearance of Boscawen, peace dwelt undisturbe by rival

animosity; and she do not suffer those alarm which chase her timid

presence from the hearth of the contentious, and from the bosom of the

envious. such be the blessed comfort and true charm of Brierly.



Isabel be all bustle and kindness, as her husband and sister

prepare to depart for Hatton. "have dear Boscawen forget his

shaving-apparatus?--his tooth-brush? be he sure he have his eye-glass?

she hope they would return very soon; but, at any rate, till they make

their appearance again, she should live in the nursery. Dear Boscawen

be to be sure and remember every thing that be say of Chrystal, for

she be sure every one would admire her pretty face; and Chrystal be

particularly to be amuse with Tom Pynsent's remark upon Anna Maria's

borrow bloom. where be Charly and Bell? they have beg to ride as

far as the Lodges, and she would put on her hat and meet they."



Isabel run off to the nursery, and return with her three child.

Tommy be a soldier, and a drum be append to his neck. Charly have

a new fiddle in his hand, and little Bell be sort with a trumpet,

that she might approach as nearly as possible to her brother's style of

amusement. Isabel place they in the carriage. "now, Charly and Tommy,

don't make a great noise; and don't snatch your sister's trumpet from

she, my love. papa will put you out at the Lodge, and mamma will be

ready to take you. charly, don't squeeze your aunt's pretty dress; and,

Bell, my love, don't push back your bonnet--I don't like to see little

girl push back their bonnet. Chrystal, give my love to every body, and

say I could not leave the little one; I should have do nothing but

think of they. my dear Boscawen, come back very soon; and, Chrystal,

don't stay long."



"any thing more, Isabel?" demand Boscawen. "any thing about curl

head and high forehead?"



"ah, you be laugh at I, now, wicked man! I believe I talk a

great deal of nonsense, but little Bell will not have her mother's

infirmity, I hope."



"I hope she will possess all of they," reply Boscawen, "and only

inherit half her mother's sweet temper. she will then have enough to

raise my pride."



Isabel laugh gaily, and blush at her husband's energetic speech;

but she kiss her hand, with such a happy expression of countenance,

as they drive from the door! how pleasing be the sight, and how it

tend to raise the spirit of Christobelle!



the child do not make more noise than usual, as they drive to the

Lodge; and little Bell only lose her trumpet and her temper once,

during the transit. they be then deposit with the Lodge-keeper

till their mamma should join they, and Mr. Boscawen proceed on his

journey. they stop to change horse at Bridgnorth, and, as they

remain some minute at the Crown, Christobelle remember the

appearance of Thompson, at her first visit there, and the cause of

her sudden recal home. it be after the luckless elopement of Clara,

that she be hurry to Wetheral, to be the companion of her mother,

under circumstance most annoying to herself, connect with the very

marriage she have promote so anxiously. Christobelle be now herself

the object of her anger, for decline to enter into an engagement,

hateful to her heart and principle! how and when would her mother's

soul be divest of its ambitious worldly anxiety?



Christobelle's reception at Hatton be gratify to her feeling in

the high degree. she be surround by affectionate greeting and

congratulation. Mrs. Pynsent wring she hand with kind violence.



"Hollo, Miss Bell, so we have get you back again, and I willn't ask where

Sir Jacky be, because and because. got your blush still, Miss Bell!

so much the well--and I'll be bind you have bring back your good

heart. no, not your heart, but your good temper. here, Bobby, come and

look at our new beauty. I tell you what, Miss Bell, you be a fine

girl than any of your sister; not even that unfortunate, poor Lady

Kerrison come up to you in good look."



"come, come, I'll match my little wife with the good of you," exclaim

Tom, more good-humour, more red-faced than ever. "I'll match my

little wife's bloom even against the handsome 'Bell.' Bell's fine

colour come and fade away again in an instant; but Anna Maria's

cherry cheek be everlaste. look at they!" Tom Pynsent drag his

laugh wife before Christobelle.



"ay, ay," reply Mrs. Pynsent, wink her eye, "we know Anna Maria's

bloom be the right sort--renewable at pleasure. look at Bobby, screw

up his eyes.--What's the matter, Bobby?"



Mr. Pynsent never do, and never could appear to advantage, under the

ridicule which his lady's address always throw around he; but he

do not observe the _de haut en bas_ manner, or else long custom have

take away all feeling upon the extraordinary nature of her remark.

probably he have long felt assure the evil be irremediable. his own

manner be very courteous, but Mr. Pynsent be not a man of many word.

he surrender all speech quietly into the hand of his lady, and

content himself with silently listen to the remark of other,

without adventure his own. Mr. Pynsent take no notice of her question.



"what's the matter, Bobby?" repeat Mrs. Pynsent. "cann't you admire

Miss Bell, without screw up your poor old pair of grey? it's a fair

face to look upon, ben't it, after gaze upon poor Sal. Miss Bell,

poor Sally Hancock be in a precious pickle."



"I hear of it from Isabel."



"you never see such a poor thing!--all over with Sal, Miss Bell; but

the poor creature be so cast down! she have a room here now, to be

amuse by the child, and watch their antic; and, luckily, you know,

she cann't speak plain, to put bad word in their mouth. poor Sally! I

could not let she remain at Lea, in that state; and I think she be very

comfortable here with the child and Bobby."



"where be the child? where be Tom, and where be Moll and Bab?"

ask Tom Pynsent. "Bell must see the child--Bell will want to see

the child--I think I hear they scream just now, somewhere."



"they be fight over a brush just now in the second hall," reply

his mother, "and they nearly kill the baby. I expect the poor

little thing would have get a broken head in the scuffle, but he fight

like a fury, and send his fist into Moll's eye."



"they do fight dreadfully," observe Anna Maria.



"let they alone, I willn't have they check," cry their grandmother;

"when they have have thumps enough, they will be quiet. Moll be bad

than the baby; but their spirit be so high, I willn't have they cow."



"Bell," say Tom Pynsent, with a tone and look of honest pride, "you

have pretty scamp for your relation. Tom ride a shetland after the

hound, and Moll run up a tree like a young squirrel. Bab and the baby

be improve, too, by their example. Tally ho! I hear they!" he run

to the door, and open it. "Tally ho, there! Tom and Moll, bring the

litter this way!"



the four child burst into the drawing-room like a pack of hound,

and the baby, a stout child of a year old toddle in, he fall down,

and the other run over he. Tom Pynsent catch up the sturdy boy.



"don't give tongue, you young rascal, but fight 'em, Bill--here, double

your fist at they all."



the child mechanically close his little fist, and his father place

he before Miss Bab.



"battle she well, Bill, rattle she."



the child, who have not yet cast his cap, deal a blow at his sister,

which Miss Bab return by knock he down. the child do not attempt

to cry at the blow, but, rise from the floor, he again double his

infantine fist for the battle. Tom Pynsent be delighted.



"well do, Bill, well do, my sharp lad! come, that's enough at a

time! live to fight another day, Bill!"



"come to your granny, my sharpshooter," cry Mrs. Pynsent; "I have

something in my pocket for stout-hearted man!"



Billy toddle to his grandmother, who draw a box of sugarplum from

her capacious pocket, and reward his prowess by a shower of sweet.

Tom and Moll be likewise engage in a controversy, which threaten

to end in an engagement. they be quarrel over Christobelle's

parasol, Moll demand it to walk with, and be a lady, like aunt Bell,

while Tom insist upon shoulder it like a bayonet, as the Count de

Nolis have teach he. the dispute run very high.



"Tom, dear, don't let the child fight," say Anna Maria, as she

examine the make and material of her sister's silk pelisse, "they have

be fight all day."



"Aunt Bell, mayn't I have it?" scream little Moll, as she struggle

with her brother for the possession of the parasol.



"I will have it first!" roar Tom, drag the handle from her grasp.



Mr. Boscawen extricate the parasol from their hand, and keep

possession of it during their stay in the drawing-room, but no one else

attempt to release Christobelle's property from the struggle. Tom

Pynsent call their attention from their defeat.



"now, Tom, catch papa if you can, and show your aunt whether your leg

be as stout as your lung. Moll! Bab! Bill! now for it!"



the drawing-room become a scene of dreadful confusion. Tom Pynsent,

delight to show off his child, and always the foremost to give

they pleasure, thread the maze of the table and chair, while the

little one race scream and halloo after he. Mr. Boscawen

seek a retreat from their deafen shout by quit the room,

and even Anna Maria half close her eye, as she assure her sister

they make really more noise that day than ever, in compliment, she

suppose, to her arrival. Mrs. Pynsent sit with the box of sugarplum

on her lap, enjoy the din of voice, and incite they forward,

by clap her hand and exclaiming:--"Hurrah, my lad and lass,

catch he! round the chair, Bill!--down you go--up again--well do,

my hearty! halloo there, Moll! Bab, you be hang!" Mr. Pynsent look

overpower, but he say nothing.



such be the sport of Hatton. the commotion continue till both

party, the chaser and the chase, became weary with their

exertion, and then the child wish to go and ride their

rock-horse. Mrs. Pynsent load they with sweetmeat and good

advice, as she dismiss each from her presence.



"I say, you young Tommy, don't suck your finger, but look to that poor

morsel of a Bill, and don't run over he. if he fall, pick he up, and

wipe his nose, like a little gentleman. here, my Moll in the wad, look

at your torn frock, and don't thump Bab upon the back so hard. never

mind, Bab, here's six sugarplum for that thump, and you must give it

Moll well, to-morrow. what, Bill, old boy! you must have sugarplum,

too, must you? there then, and toddle after they, my sharpshooter. go

all of you to old aunt Hancock."



when the child be go, Christobelle have time to give she

attention to Anna Maria. the elegance of Miss Wetheral have in a

great degree lose its tone, but Mrs. Tom Pynsent be fashionably

french still in her dress and appearance. rouge very highly give an

unnatural brilliance to her eye, and her figure have become enlarge,

though not in the same proportion with Isabel: Christobelle think

her handsome and striking, but she be not the pale, still, and

interestingly elegant woman, who have volunteer her affection to the

stout, good-look, red-faced Tom Pynsent. many might have consider

Anna Maria improve by the change which have gradually take place in

her appearance; but Christobelle have admire she so greatly in she

more youthful day, that her eye could not reconcile itself to her

present style. there be, she think, something too garish in the

deeply-rouge cheek and glitter eye of her sister.



her affection for her husband be quite unchanged: she still speak of

he with powerful affection, and dilate upon his unvaried kindness and

good temper with vivacity. during Christobelle's long absence, Tom

have never change towards she in indulgence and interest. Mrs. Pynsent

be all that could be desire in a mother-in-law, for her warm heart

never fancy she could do enough for those she love; and poor Mr.

Pynsent be in nobody's way. Anna Maria dote upon her child, and

she confess herself to be "the happy woman in the world, when the

child do not fight, but they certainly do fight furiously, and Tom

and his mother encourage it."



Christobelle ask after the health of Félicé.



"oh, Félicé be very well, but she cannot comprehend a word of English,

stupid girl, and I be lose my French. every body borrow Félicé, and

she travel all round the county before any public meeting take place.

Félicé be always borrow by Pen Spottiswoode before the race, and,

when she appear, you would declare her clothe be cut out by the

Lidham cook, instead of Félicé. Pen never dress well, you know, Bell."



"Miss Bell," cry Mrs. Pynsent, from a distant corner of the

drawing-room, "have you hear any tiding from Bedinfield? because

there be a rod in pickle for somebody in that quarter. your poor sister

have make a sorry concern of that grand match, which be to her so

desirable. not much well a business than Lady Kerrison's! report be

say the deuce and all of poor Miss Julia and that colonel. that

dowager never be like by any one, for her acquaintance be always a

blight upon the poor soul who make it."



Christobelle ask if her sister have be in Shropshire, since their

removal into Scotland.



"no, my dear; Lady Ennismore have never suffer her son to bring your

sister into Shropshire, since her return to England. she have her own

reason for it. I know what I could call she, only I have promise

Sally Hancock never to use large word, now her own mouth be stop,

poor thing! if your sister elope with that moustache fellow, it will

be the fault of those who marry she to such a poor creature as my

lord."



"have you hear any thing in _particular_ about Julia, my dear Anna

Maria?" ask Christobelle, in a low voice.



"report only," be her reply, "but they begin to assume a form. there

be very strange report about Colonel Neville, but we do not hear from

Julia; she have never write to I since I go to the altar with she,

and I be tired with write unanswered letter. Papa tell we when he

return with you from Bedinfield, that it be vain to hope she would

ever be withdraw from the dowager; and if she do discover treachery,

it would only make she wretched, without a hope of escape. Lord

Ennismore be devoted to his mother, and Julia would suffer, he think,

by any complaint on her side. we hear Lord Ennismore be in a poor way,

but we know nothing: Julia might as well be in another hemisphere,

since we neither meet nor correspond. how miserably Clara and Julia

have be in their choice, Bell! I cannot be too thankful I win my dear

Tom at last."



"I say, Miss Bell," cry Mrs. Pynsent from her corner, where she sit

knitting, "I say, Miss Bell, when do Sir Jacky return to we?" Anna

Maria smile at her sister's confusion. Christobelle hesitate for a

moment to reply.



"Miss Bell, Sir Jacky be a great favourite of mine, and I want to hear

a little about he. come here, Miss Bell, come near to I, I want to

ask a question."



Christobelle approach Mrs. Pynsent, amuse at the idea of she

intend joke, which could not offend, since only Anna Maria be

now present. the two gentleman have seek for Mr. Boscawen when the

child disperse. she, therefore, seat herself near she.



"what have you to say to I, Mrs. Pynsent, that be not kind and

pleasant at all time?"



"I have this to say," she reply, with a seriousness foreign to her

usual manner, "I have to say, that, much as I like you as a girl, I

love you far well than ever, _now_, because you have the sense to

refuse a young coroneted rascal some time ago, and choose a man who

will be a jewel to you. you show sense and spirit in refuse to be

manœuvre into wickedness, to lead the abominable life which two of

your sister have be doom to suffer; and you show a right woman's

warm heart, in take a man whom I like and respect next to my own Tom

for comeliness and godliness. when a young woman marry such a tight

lad as Jacky Spottiswoode, she know she will be happy to the day of

her death, and be respect among her friend. now, Miss Bell, what do

you say to that?"



Christobelle say nothing. tear fill her eye, and speak volume

for she. she be affect with the idea that all her friend, except

_one_, approve the connexion she be about to form. Mrs. Pynsent's

remark affect she still more, because they be speak with unusual

quietness of manner and phrase, and her word ever come from the

fountain of her heart in all truth and sincerity. she speak, too, the

sentiment of those around she; Christobelle judge so, by Mrs. Pynsent

assure she of the respect of her friend. it be a deep gratification

to think her attachment be sanction by those she love and honour;

and it be a grateful pride to feel assured the finger of scorn or

ridicule have never point observation offensive to the high character

of her beloved spottiswoode. be it to be wonder at that she sit

silent by the side of Mrs. Pynsent, enjoy feeling too bless for

utterance? she see her agitation, and forbore to notice it; but Mrs.

Pynsent be not want in real delicacy to those who do not offend

her notion of right; and to Christobelle she have ever show peculiar

kindness. she address her daughter.



"I say, Anna Maria, we'll have old Sally Hancock to spend the evening

with we, to compliment Miss Bell. it's all over with Sal now, so she

willn't shock the company. you need not be afraid of Sally Hancock any

more, for she cann't speak, if she be die for it. I can see her poor

eye glare up sometimes; you willn't mind Sally Hancock. she like to

watch the child, and when they don't pull her crutch from she, they

be great friend. Moll and Bab often imitate her walk, but Sally

Hancock only laugh at they."



"I wish the child would not fight so much," remark Anna Maria.



"Fiddle diddle! my Tom fight Pen Spottiswoode like a dragon when he

be their age, and he be all the well for it. I don't like to keep

down their spirit. how would our little Moll climb the sycamore,

if she haven't a fearless spirit? well, look at Bobby, between those

two great monster upon the lawn! Boscawen look such a long animal,

compare with Bobby. don't you think Bobby be wear into half a goose,

Miss Bell? he looks truss for the spit."



"I think Mr. Pynsent look very well--well than your letter

insinuate, Mrs. Pynsent."



"Poor Bobby! no, he's nothing well than half a goose now; but Sally

Hancock and myself remember he a smart lad. there go the half-hour

bell!"



"come, then, Bell, we will depart, for my toilette be a long affair,"

say her sister, rise.



"I say," call Mrs. Pynsent, as they leave the room, "I say, Anna

Maria, don't let Bell into the secret of the prison-house."



"oh! Bell know all about _that_!" reply the laugh Anna Maria.

"Tom be the only person who do not know my secret. every body know I

only rouge to please Tom."









CHAPTER XXIX.





Hatton be by no mean so agreeable a _séjour_ to Christobelle as in

former day. the pynsent be never happy without the four unruly

child constantly in their sight; and their amusement be the chief

subject under consideration. the child scramble over the table to

snatch at the dessert; they be admit in the drawing-room at all

hour, and in every phase of dirt and fighting; they be to drag heavy

weight round the room at pleasure, and every one make themselves a

party in their quarrel.



Mrs. Pynsent generally advocate the part of the baby, whom she

designate "that proper divil of a bill," with a hearty vehemence which

increase the uproar and confusion; while her son, with stentorian

voice, argue in favour of the girl. Anna Maria rarely interfere

in the alarum which occur. she sit smile at the fray, only her

distress be occasionally awaken by the length and frequency of the

battle, and her taste be offend at interval, by the disagreeable

abbreviation of their name. she "wish her Mary could be call by

her right name, and not Moll. she would give any thing they would call

the baby Willy, instead of that horrid 'Bill;' and as to Bab, it be a

shocking word; but bab she would be call for ever. Barbara be too

long a word for her mother and Tom to pronounce. sometimes she fancy

their noise must be disagreeable to their guest, but Tom love to have

the little thing round he."



the Pynsents be, therefore, the happy people possible in

themselves; but it be extremely disagreeable. every body must think

Hatton a very disagreeable place to stay at now; and Christobelle be

glad to escape with Mr. Boscawen the follow day to Lidham. she

have little difficulty in privately persuade he to curtail their

intend stay at Hatton, and proceed to the Spottiswoodes. he, as well

as Christobelle, feel the utter hopelessness of procure a peaceful

moment, where every thought and feeling be absorb in four remarkably

noisy child. how very different to the Hatton of other day, when

she enjoy the society of her sister undisturbed, and spend there such

happy hour of her life! it be there, too, she meet first the man whom

she hope to make happy for long year of futurity.



Christobelle think they should never be allow to enter the carriage

when it draw up to the door. the child be delighted to get in and

out, and Tom particularly amuse himself with put up the step and

throw they down again with as much noise as the leather would allow.

Tom Pynsent detain Christobelle in the hall, to enable she to enjoy

a scene which he consider most delectable; and Mrs. Pynsent utter

exclamation of delight, as she watch the baby try with all its

might to imitate his companion.



"I say, Tom, do look at that divil of a Bill, try to clamber into

the carriage; do you ever see such a young dog? Moll, put Bill into

the carriage. let my sharpshooter take his turn. Moll, you'll break his

leg!"



the "sharpshooter" be hand into the carriage by the butler, for

"Moll" could not lift the scramble child, and they all begin jump

upon the seat till a battle commence, through the instrumentality of

Bab, who have pull Tom's hair rather too roughly. the scream of Tom

be echo by the baby; and Bab cry violently at her own ferocity.

Tom Pynsent and their grandmother both speak at once, in their loud

key.



"Halloo there, you young one. Bill, what be you at, all of you? hand

out that young dog," cry Mrs. Pynsent.



"what the devil be you all roar at? Moll, what's the matter?"

call out Tom Pynsent.



"Pa, Bab pull Tom's hair!" scream Miss Mary, alia Moll; Mrs.

Pynsent's word now became confound with those of her son.



"what the devil!--don't fight there, you rascals!--Hand out Bill,

James; they'll kill that poor Bill.--Here, Tom, never mind your hair:

bring some cake here, Dick, to stop this row.--Hand out that bill

thing, Thomas, he's on his head.--They're murder bill!"



"I declare my child will fight themselves to death," say Anna

Maria, who take no part in the affair, "I be sure they will kill each

other. Tom, dear, don't let the child fight so."



Mr. Boscawen take advantage of the moment when the carriage be empty

of its noisy content, and hurry Christobelle into it. she be too

willing to quit the uproar of Hatton not to rejoice at his polite

movement, and both be glad to remain silent for some time after they

have quit its ground.



"I fancy," say Mr. Boscawen, after a long pause, "that Isabel

spoil her child, till I have now compare they with their cousin.

I shall remain satisfied in future that they be not more vivacious

than healthy child should be."



"it be altogether a different form of government at brierly. you be

monarch, though an indulgent one; but it be a frightful democracy at

Hatton."



"I shall keep my young one out of the infection," he observe; "for

though Mary and Barbara may have heart as kindly affectione as their

grandmother, those manner be deplorable. I should be sorry to see my

little Bell become coarse and loud in her way of speak."



"what could be the cause of the Miss Wycherlys imbibe such manner,

in the first instance?" ask Christobelle.



"Old Wycherly be a broker," reply Boscawen; "and he retire to

Lidham with an immense fortune, and a young wife whose connection

be far superior to his own. Mrs. Wycherly do not live many year,

and the daughter be allow to educate themselves, and to act, in

every respect, as seem good in their own eye. they be always the

subject of conversation; and, though they never be suspect of any

thing more reprehensible than extreme wildness, their conduct subject

they to many extraordinary scene, and much objectionable remark.

Captain Hancock drank, I believe, to drown care, and Mrs. Hancock be

infinitely the bad of the two. how the young lady learn their

swearing propensity, I cannot tell; but I have hear that their

brother Wycherly lead they into very exceptionable society in his

youthful day. they be an extraordinary trio. no one, however, speak

ill of they."



"they have great good nature, I suppose."



"they have great wealth, Bell, or they never could have hold any

position in society. four hundred thousand pound draw the first

gentleman in the county to Lidham."



Christobelle chat till the Lidham wood rise in sight, and then she

become silent. every thing connect with the name of Spottiswoode hold

a powerful interest in her heart, and concentrate her thought upon

himself. she have hear from he once since her arrival at brierly, and

then he speak so cheerlessly of her mother's spirit, that he linger

to assist and console her father. he know, he say, that he be give

her pleasure by attend upon her father, and he hope so much from

his assiduity! dear Spottiswoode, how much more sanguinely than

herself do he expect a change in her mother's sentiment!



as the carriage drive through the lodge, a gentleman on horseback

gallop towards they. "here come Charles full of news," say

Boscawen; "and he be ride fast, I suppose, to carry it fresh into

Shrewsbury. a little news be a passport among one's neighbour."



Christobelle bend forward to observe Charles Spottiswoode; but no, it

be _not_ Charles Spottiswoode. her heart beat thickly, and her eye

strain to gaze. she know the horseman from afar: she know the air,

the figure, and the style of riding, well. be her lover wing his

way to her?--was he think of Brierly, and one there who love he

well than herself? Christobelle catch her brother's hand. "Boscawen,

it be not he, it be _John_ Spottiswoode! what bring he so soon from

Fairlee?"



"God bless I!" cry Boscawen, "it be indeed our friend from the

north, and I must stop he, or he will never condescend to look at

we." he put his head out of the carriage-window, and wave his hand:

Sir John Spottiswoode heed not the movement. he be ride rapidly

by, and would have pass with a slight inclination of the head, have

not Christobelle catch his eye. his handsome face glow with surprise

and delight, while her own feeling, so very suddenly call into

action, completely take away her power of speech. she could only hold

out her hand, as he check his horse, and wheel round to the window,

but it be press _so_ fondly--and he look _so_ bright and happy!



"why, Spottiswoode, what fair lady be you scamper after, that you

nearly pass by _us_?" exclaim Boscawen, shake he by the hand.



"never mind, I be go to turn back with you. indeed, I be gallop

to Shrewsbury, to get upon the coach for Brierly. I only arrive this

morning."



"my _mother_, Spottiswoode," utter Christobelle, in alarm--"how be my

mother?"



"on her road to Wetheral, by short stage; I be but their _avant

courier_, Chrystal. I have bring a letter for you. you will now,

perhaps, offer I a seat in your carriage to Brierly, when you return.

my brother say nothing about your visit--do they expect you?"



"no, I be make a tour with my young sister--but let we reach Lidham

before we enter into particular."



the carriage move on, and Spottiswoode ride by its side. how

unexpected be this meeting, and how busy be Christobelle's thought,

conjecture upon the motive of her mother's early journey! if it have

but a happy reference towards herself, how would her cup of joy be

fill! but, no, her mother never forgave an offence like her!



Christobelle be prepare to meet astonishment at Lidham, as she have

find it every where else, since her return into Shropshire, and she

be not deceive. Mrs. Charles Spottiswoode hold she from she at arm's

length, as she examine her person and growth.



"my dear little Bell, be this really and truly yourself? I have hear

of you from person whom I do not consider altogether unprejudiced in

their account; but, indeed, I now see it with my own eye! John, you

have not say half enough of this creature. I recognise her eye--those

large eye--but these ringlet--that figure--no, John, upon my honour,

you do not do her justice!"



Spottiswoode stand by Christobelle, and his eye flash a proud

satisfaction at the remark of his sister-in-law.



"but, Charles, Charles," she continue, "tell I if _you_ could

recognise Bell Wetheral in this grand creature! tell I if it be not a

vision, for I cannot think I really see the prim little Bell, always

pore over book, and diving out of her father's study with a little

shock head, like my terri Tarter!"



"yes, I recognise Miss Wetheral," answer Mr. Spottiswoode, "for I

see the same expression of good-humour, and the same fine outline,

which give such promise of what we behold. Miss Wetheral, you be most

welcome to Lidham."



"by the Lord Harry!" cry Mr. Wycherly, emerge from his own room in

spectacle, "here's a _posse comitatus_! well, I'm come to welcome the

new filly myself. how d'ye do, Miss Wetheral?--how d'ye do, ma'am? God

help we, how the young people grow! they run we down, Mr. Boscawen! you

be come to stay a week--a month with we, I hope? come in, come in,

all of you!" they enter the sitting-room, and the conversation be

general for a short time, till Mrs. Spottiswoode suddenly turn to

Christobelle.



"my dear Bell, I know what your anxiety must be, to hear of those whom

John have leave behind. I see, by the expression of those large eye,

that you be long to hear news of Fairlee. come with I, and I give

John alone leave to follow we. we will adjourn into the library. I

can quite understand your feeling. John, you may follow we with your

letter."



Mrs. Spottiswoode lead Christobelle into the library, and there she

again embrace she. the first reception, she say, belong to Miss

Wetheral, but now she embrace her future relation--the bride of her

excellent John--the brother belove by all! she be embrace now

the future Lady Spottiswoode. Christobelle return her embrace with

fervent pleasure. she say her heart rejoice in the congratulation

of her friend, and in the language of praise which always accompany

the mention of Spottiswoode's name. she only hope--and she express

the hope with tear--that her mother would in time see Spottiswoode

with the eye of all who know his great worth; that she would in time

receive he as a dear son, and remove the only impediment to her

happiness, by extend the hand of friendship towards he, and her

pardon towards herself. Mrs. Spottiswoode hope all thing.



"my dear Chrystal--which, by the by, be a pretty designation than

Bell--there be bitter in every cup. rest happy in the knowledge that

Lady Wetheral's offend feeling proceed from disappointed view,

and not from unworthiness in the object. it must always be painful to

displease a parent, but it cannot, in this particular case, strike

deep into your happiness. your excellent father long wish for the

match--he confess it to John. come in!" a gentle tap at the door be

hear, and Spottiswoode enter.



"you allow I to follow you--be I welcome now?"



"ever welcome, wherever you appear, John; and most welcome to Chrystal

and myself," say Mrs. Spottiswoode; "I will leave you while you read

your letter together. I shall allow you a quarter of an hour, to

acquaint yourself with their content, Chrystal."



"one hour, Pen--only one little sixty-five minute!" cry

Spottiswoode, beseechingly.



"indeed, you shall not monopolize my guest an hour, John. do as you

please at Brierly--but I will only relinquish Chrystal a quarter of an

hour from this moment."



"Chrystal!" say Spottiswoode, as the door close upon his

sister--"Chrystal!"



Christobelle behold her lover's arm extend. away with every feeling

but unfeigned joy to behold he again. she fly towards he, to be

clasped to his dear, warm heart! "and now," she say, when their

spirit have become somewhat tranquil, "tell I of my father, and tell

I of my mother. be they on the road?"



she listen with tremble eagerness to his reply. Spottiswoode have

not see Lady Wetheral since Christobelle quit Fairlee. she could

not be persuade to leave her room, or resume the direction of the

establishment. Sir John Wetheral suffer greatly from her determine

resolution to avoid the man on whom he have bestow his daughter;

and he feel deeply, also, the privation of domestic comfort. it be

that privation which keep Spottiswoode at Fairlee--he be anxious to

be useful to the father who mourn her daughter's absence, and feel

alone, in his own house.



Spottiswoode know Christobelle would wish he to stay and solace she

father--and he do stay; but his thought be chain to brierly,

while he linger at Lochleven. he have never trust himself to visit

place where they have roam together. he have not once dare to seat

himself on the rocky bench, or walk the terrace by moonlight. he have

sit constantly read in the window which witness their first

confession of attachment, and he number the day which lag heavily

between he and his rest. he have be three week absent from all he

love.



how Christobelle dwelt upon the word which fall from Spottiswoode's

lip! she could not sorrow for her mother's harshness while he be

near she. she only feel the calm of his presence, and the absence of

every regret. but she should weep when she be alone again! she should

suffer when she have time to reflect upon every thing--but not at _that_

moment, for the arm of Spottiswoode encircle she, and she be too

happy to reflect.



Christobelle receive no letter from Lady Wetheral, but her father

write to she of all he suffer; and he say, his happy moment be

pass in contemplate her prospect. his Chrystal be give to a man

who would value the blessing confer upon he. she would be the wife

of a good man--a wife as happy as Isabel, or as Anna Maria prove to

be--a wife whose hope be anchor upon high principle and religious

feeling, and who, therefore, would not be call upon to endure the

undying torment of self-reproach.



he could not allow himself to think upon Clara--but she have be

remove early from her strife. what Julia's destiny would be, he could

not venture to assert. she be a banished child to he. they be to

begin their journey the day after Spottiswoode quit Fairlee, but

the passage would be very slowly make, as her mother could not endure

travel long--her nerve be bad than ever. her father urge she

to be at Wetheral to receive they. if her other parent would not see

she, Wetheral be large enough to contain they apart, but _he_ could

not live without she, and she must not disappoint he of her presence.

her father conclude his epistle with a thousand parental blessing and

care for her future comfort.



Spottiswoode watch Christobelle as she read. "be it a letter of

comfort, my Chrystal?" he ask, as she finish its perusal. "yes, I

think so, by those large eye, as Pen call they. it _be_ a letter of

comfort, be it not, dearest Chrystal?"



Christobelle place it silently into his hand, and she now watch

Spottiswoode as he read. she see the deepen red upon his cheek, as

he linger over her father's commendation, and his eye meet her own.



"every word of it be true, Spottiswoode," she observe.



"you be a partial, dear creature, Chrystal; but I will try to deserve

his opinion so kindly express."



Mrs. Spottiswoode enter. "three minute past the quarter, John,

and every one be impatient to see Chrystal again. Papa say she be

as beautiful as his celebrate colt, which be the height of his

commendation. I be jealous, too, myself of your society. you must

return with I, good people." she lead they forth.



Christobelle confer with Boscawen upon the content of her father's

letter. since he wish she to be at Wetheral when he arrive, she

think she have well not return to Brierly. they might travel more

rapidly than be anticipate. Lady Wetheral might feel more equal to

the journey than she imagine, and Christobelle might be at Brierly the

moment they reach Wetheral. she feel she would prefer return to

Wetheral from Lidham; and Isabel would understand the circumstance,

which leave she no power to act otherwise. she would return to Brierly

at a future time.



"do as you please, my dear chrystal: I think you be right in your

decision. your trunk shall be forward to Wetheral, and I will see

you safely there to-morrow."



"oh, nonsense, nonsense!" say Mrs. Spottiswoode. "Mr. Boscawen, you

be an excellent guardian, but I cannot think your scheme a good one.

leave Chrystal with we: we be only three mile from Wetheral, and

I will drive she over every day, to make preparation. if Sir John

Wetheral should arrive unexpectedly, she will be there in twenty

minute--Chrystal shall not remain alone in that enormous place!"



much consultation take place, and it be decide, at last, that

Christobelle should accept Mrs. Spottiswoode's invitation, and remain

at Lidham: Mr. Boscawen consequently change his own plan, and

determine to return immediately to Brierly. the horse be yet at

Lidham, and they should take he back to Shrewsbury.



"now what extreme folly, my dear Mr. Boscawen! you intend to stay

here with Chrystal: why not allow we still the pleasure of your

company?" Mrs. Spottiswoode would not hear of his departure. "Charles,

persuade Mr. Boscawen to remain at Lidham!"



but Mr. Boscawen be resolve to return to isabel: "he be in

attendance upon Christobelle when he leave his home; and now that charge

be remove, he must return to Brierly and Isabel. he should acquaint

she with Christobelle's movement, and he felt oblige by their wish to

detain he, but he never leave Isabel unless a momentous care devolve

upon he, such as watch over the personal safety of his attractive

sister Bell, or a child's tooth to be extract. he should return _now_

in time for Isabel's tea."



Excellent Boscawen! how fortunate be Isabel in secure a man so

devoted to her comfort, and so loth to be absent from she. her father

be indeed right when he say Boscawen's age be the only objection he

could urge against he.



and Christobelle be leave at Lidham with the Spottiswoodes--the Miss

Wycherly of other day, when Julia be her bosom-friend, and the

Charles Spottiswoode with whom she suffer so long and despairingly,

till Julia's bold confession end the painful suspense on both side!

she be also wed in heart to the eld brother, and their renew

acquaintance spring at once into friendship at the very moment of its

renewal.



but where be Julia, who use to gladden her friend' heart so often?

where be the confidante of Penelope Wycherly, who use to fly to

Lidham, to console and assist her friend in adversity, cause by her

own transgression? where be that sprightly, affectionate creature?

alas! she be lose to her friend, and her voice have cease to be hear

among they! More than five year have elapse since Julia's marriage,

and from that hour she have never see Lidham, or its inmate; she have

not even notice the nuptial of its mistress. what a change must have

come over Julia!



it be a day of exquisite enjoyment at Lidham. Mrs. Spottiswoode

love to look at Christobelle, for she say she be strangely like

Julia, and her heart bound towards she as to an old and dear friend.

Spottiswoode be also at her side, and there be no noisy child

to break the tranquillity of her enjoyment by their unwelcome mirth.

how could she be otherwise than most happy? what evil could reach she,

while those she love be near, and she could listen to the voice of

her beloved one? none!



Mrs. Spottiswoode engage the follow morning to drive Christobelle

to Wetheral, and the lady agree to remain quietly in the house with

their work, till the hour arrive for their airing. it be then that

Mrs. Spottiswoode open her heart, and tell Christobelle all her fear

respect Julia's happiness. she hear only report like the rest of

the world; but they be report which fill she with uneasiness and

apprehension. she feel assure her friend have be sacrifice, and she

be equally certain the Dowager-countess have be the mental vampire

which clung to Julia, and destroy her peace, by interfere with and

withhold her correspondence. Sir John Wetheral have suspect as much

at Bedinfield himself--she know it be not Julia's nature to forget her

friend--she would never credit the assertion, let who would insinuate

it.



report breathe suspicion on her fame, with regard to Colonel Neville;

but she would stake her existence that, however Julia's taste must have

turn disgusted from her wretched lord, she be pure as unsunned snow.

any one who dare to question her friend's purity of mind before she,

would rouse the blood of all the Wycherlys in her vein. Charles do

not like the subject ever bring forward in her presence, because

she feel keenly every remark which touch upon her friend's miserable

fate; but now the gentleman be out of the way, she could unfold she

fear to Christobelle.



"if ever there be a wretch in the form of mortal, Chrystal," she

continue, "it be that wicked dowager; and we shall live to see it

confirm in the case of my poor Julia, the friend of my youth, whom I

love so dearly. I tell Charles she be go to woe, when she be lead

like a lamb to the slaughter! oh, Julia should _not_ have marry Lord

Ennismore, Chrystal!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode became affect as she dwelt upon the scene of the

past; and she detail to Christobelle many incident which have escape

her young observation. it be delightful to Christobelle to hear she

talk of Julia, and her eye often bear testimony to the sympathy she

feel in the narration of their long friendship, and the event of

their early day. the hall-door bell peal its sound as they weep

and talk. Mrs. Spottiswoode be surprised and annoyed; she breathe

hastily upon her hand, and apply they to her eye.



"how very disagreeably early some people be call; and our eye,

Chrystal, be quite unfit to be see! I must draw down the blind. I

really cannot receive any one with such a pair of eye and such a heavy

heart, comfortably."



the door be throw open, but no name be announce. a female figure,

however, appear, and approach slowly and unsteadily towards Mrs.

Spottiswoode. she speak in tone which startle her ear and heart.



"I be come to try my friend's truth; for she tell I that in evil

report, or in good report, in weal or woe, _here_ I should find rest!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode stand motionless.



"Julia!" she faintly uttered--"is this Julia's voice!"



"it be Julia, Penelope! I be come to seek my promise home, for

elsewhere there be none!"



"welcome, a thousand welcome!" cry Mrs. Spottiswoode, spring

towards Lady Ennismore, and clasp she to her heart with a strain

pressure--"oh! welcome, whatever event may have bring my lose Julia

home!"



"home!" reply Lady Ennismore--"home! have I be oblige to return

from whence I come, to find a home!" Lady Ennismore shudder as she

speak, and fall senseless in the still close embrace of her friend.



"Chrystal!" cry Mrs. Spottiswoode, "bolt the door: let no one enter

this room!"



Miss Wetheral obey in silence, and she then assist Mrs.

Spottiswoode in convey her sister to the sofa, where she remained

extended till her consciousness gradually return. Mrs. Spottiswoode

tremble, but her power of thought be clear and undisturbed. she

speak low, as Lady Ennismore lie in blessed forgetfulness of present

suffering.



"Chrystal, we will carry Julia into your room when she recover, and

here my angel friend will be tranquil. I will trust--I _know_ she be

blameless! but a thousand error would not change my love, or the

devotion with which I will watch over she for ever. if all the world

desert she, she would be _my_ own dear friend; but for her fame's

sake, I hope--no, it be _not_ so--it be _not_ so!"



Christobelle gaze in astonishment at her sister's extended form. she

mechanically obey Mrs. Spottiswoode's direction, but her mind be

a chaos. she hear her remark, though she do not reply to they; she

could not withdraw her eye from the object which absorb all her

wonder.



"Chrystal," continue Mrs. Spottiswoode, as she chafe Julia's temple

with eau de Cologne, "there have be dreadful work to bring my blessed

friend to this! her spirit have be deal with beyond her power of

endurance, to urge this step; but I, Penelope, be with she, and she

be again at Lidham. I bless the event which have bring she from

banishment, and give she again to her friend!"



a slight pressure from the hand which be clasp by Mrs. Spottiswoode,

attest return animation in Lady Ennismore, and prove that she

hear and understand her friend' word. Mrs. Spottiswoode proceed

with deep feeling.



"Julia, you hear I--you hear your friend declare, that she cannot

mourn the cause which have give she back the companion of her early

day. we be ever together, Julia, and together we enjoy our first

step upon the gay stage of our pleasure. we will also walk together

through the water of adversity, and our sorrow shall be, as our joy

have be, bear in fellowship. I be Penelope Wycherly in _heart_, and

you be Julia Wetheral. we will part no more, my own dear, ill-use

friend!"



Lady Ennismore raise her head from its pillow with effort.



"I have be hardly deal with, I have be cruelly treat, Penelope!

I must have be very treacherously use, since I believe in the

desertion of all my friend!"



"I see it all; I have long see and fear all this, Julia! I know

the snare which have be set to wreck your happiness, and throw you

from your husband's heart! I know the influence which be fear and

counteract by that vile woman, with all the energy of vileness!"



a fit of trembling attack Lady Ennismore, and cold perspiration

bedew her face and hand.



"if _you_ have see it, or can understand it, Penelope," she exclaim,

"how must _i_ have feel it!" Lady Ennismore sink back with the effort

of speak.



"Chrystal," say Mrs. Spottiswoode, "let we support Lady Ennismore

to your room at once. there alone will be security and quiet. the

gentleman may be return."



"what gentleman?" exclaim Lady Ennismore, hastily. "don't allow

Neville to come near I. I will never see he again."



"no one be come, my own Julia, but Charles Spottiswoode. you remember

Charles Spottiswoode--your friend and mine, and now my husband?"



"yes, I remember he, but I never hear of your nuptial; every body

be so silent, every thing be keep from I!"



"do Colonel Neville never inform you of Shropshire event, through the

medium of the paper, dearest?"



the name of Neville pronounce by other lip produce extreme terror.

Lady Ennismore start up, and seize Mrs. Spottiswoode's hand.



"don't believe a word of it, Penelope!--don't credit that horrible

assertion! it be untrue! as I be look for the peace which can only

reach I beyond the grave, I never lose my own respect, or forgot I be

a wife!"



"I know it--I know it!--I never would believe a word of their vile

report!" exclaim Mrs. Spottiswoode, burst into tear: "but oh,

Julia, your word be balm to my heart!"



"I have fly from treachery, Penelope; and if you receive I, so will

my father. oh, my father!--my poor father!--you tell I your heart be

not in my marriage! I heed you not! I cling to my mother's prophecy

that I should be great and happy!"



Lady Ennismore's emotion become alarming; and it be with some

difficulty she be convey into her sister's apartment. she lean

upon her friend, and Christobelle assist in support her trembling

form. Christobelle mark her sister's emotion, and hear her deep

suppress sob. the last time she behold Julia Wetheral she be lead in

the pomp and circumstance of bridal glory, anticipate the excellent

thing which wealth and station be suppose to command.



Lady Ennismore be lay upon the bed, and it be hope repose would

give comparative tranquillity, but Julia's disease be of the heart:

she could not rest.



"Penelope," she say, as her pale cheek grow hectic in its deep glow,

"I have fly _from_ Neville!--I have not fly _with_ he! the world

may say my flight be wrong, but they cannot say it be infamous!"



"Heed they not who dare say so, Julia. we be together, and my love

shall be your shield from the world's remark--but it will soon

distinguish your innocence--it will not lay the burthen on the innocent

long. you will be justify in your action, my own dear friend!"



"I hope so--I hope so! I flee from my own heart, too, Penelope; I

might have fall like other, but I flee from my own heart, and

from persecution. oh! don't let any one come near I but yourself,

Penelope. that young lady be very kind. I tell Neville to follow I no

more. do not persecute I, Neville--let I alone to grieve silently. I

be unhappy, but I be yet a guiltless wife. I will go to Penelope...."



Lady Ennismore's spirit wander: fever be upon her cheek, and she

cease to remember her own friend.



"I will go to Penelope--she always love I, and she will save her poor

friend. I wish I could get to Lidham! a chaise, Conynham--a chaise to

the lake-house! if I could only get in--but my foot will not move. lift

I in, Conynham, if you would save I from the Countess!"



a slight shriek break from Julia's lip, as if in her vision she have

encounter her mother-in-law. Mrs. Spottiswoode send instantly for

advice, and she summon her husband, to consult with he upon the

extraordinary arrival of Lady Ennismore. while the short interview take

place in her dressing-room, Christobelle sit by the bed-side of the

invalid, who have relapse into total forgetfulness of her situation;

and she could gather from her wandering the nature of her suffering,

and the reason of her flight from Bedinfield. it break Christobelle's

heart, to hear her mournful voice in its raving.



"let I attend my lord, I beseech you. if he be ill, who dare close

the door of his apartment upon his wife? it be my duty to wait upon

my lord--no, I will not be leave whole hour and day with Neville. I

know his kindness and his love for I. where be my father? will any one

seek my father?--no, Neville, never--I be a wife--a guiltless wife--do

not persecute I. I will go to Penelope, for she never cease to love

I--they be dead, I think--all that belong to I be dead!"



low moaning succeed, till again Julia burst forth in complaint, as

her idea dwelt upon the painful scene of Bedinfield. all her anxiety

manifest itself in reproach to Colonel Neville, and in fancy

inability to enter her lord's chamber. not one self-reproach mingle

among her move cry--all be purity of thought, as Mrs. Spottiswoode

have unceasingly believe and maintain, in her remark upon Julia's

conduct.



Charles Spottiswoode hear her complaint, as she ramble in alarm

lest the Countess should intercept her flight to Penelope, and he

could not endure the sound of her voice in sorrow: he quit the

dressing-room in distress almost as poignant as that which agonize the

heart of his lady, who sit in silence and in tear, hope fervently

that the step of the physician would soon be hear. it be vain to

soothe her complaint; she do not hear the voice of consolation. she

be converse with herself upon circumstance which absorb she

attention, and her mind be evidently in the home she have quit

so eagerly. he come at last. the voice of Dr. Darwin sound in the

gallery, and there be hope and comfort in the knowledge that all would

be do which science and kindness could effect. this be the second

member of the Wetheral family whom he have attend under circumstance

peculiarly painful.



Dr. Darwin at once discover the secret of Lady Ennismore's state, and

apply himself to give temporary tranquillity to her disordered mind.

it could be, he say, but temporary rest: he could not make her forget

the sorrow which rage within, or mitigate she wake grief--_that_

must be effect by other hand--but anodyne would lull its fury,

and bestow rest upon the frame. since Lady Ennismore speak fondly

of her father and Mrs. Spottiswoode, they must be near she; and, if

possible, they should be present whenever she wake from her unnatural

rest. the sight of esteemed object be grateful, and would prevent the

immediate recurrence of painful thought. it be very fortunate Sir

John Wetheral be expect shortly, and he would advise the constant

attendance at present of Mrs. Spottiswoode alone.



Mrs. Spottiswoode remark that Lady Ennismore have not recognise

Christobelle during the whole scene. she think it a remarkable

instance of forgetfulness in a person so nearly connected. Dr. Darwin

consider it only a proof of the depth of her suffering, which feed

exclusively upon itself. till the recognition take place, he prohibit

Christobelle's return into her room, but the soon it be name to she

ladyship the well--it would rouse her attention from more afflict

thought.



Dr. Darwin remain at Lidham till the medicine take effect upon

Julia's nerve, and she sink into sleep. Mrs. Spottiswoode and

Christobelle then sit in the dressing-room, with its door half close,

and ponder over the event of the morning. it be too evident that

the Dowager have throw Colonel Neville constantly into the society

of Julia, and that she have be debar all communication with Lord

Ennismore.



what could be the reason which prompt the Dowager to poison the

fountain of their domestic peace? it be that insatiable love of

power, which thirst for entire dominion over the imbecile mind of

her son, and for which every tie, moral and religious, must be tear

asunder. it be that devouring passion for domination, which swallow

up every kindly feeling, and bear down all impediment to its terrific

stride. it have sacrifice the happiness of Julia, the good and

gentle of create being--it have aim at her reputation; and, to

sever Julia's influence from her son at one fell swoop, the Countess

have endeavour to make she a prey to infamy. she have endeavour to

cause an eternal separation between two unoffending being, that her

reign at Bedinfield might be perpetual! she have succeed only in

drive Julia from her husband's house. oh, Power! how gradually and

wickedly do its votary consume every right principle, to feed its

fiercely-burn fire!



Christobelle see Spottiswoode but once after her sister's mournful

entrance into Lidham, and she be too much overpowered with regret

to enjoy his society. she could not recall her thought from Julia,

to concentrate they even upon he--but he be also in low spirit.

his feeling heart sympathise in the general sorrow, and they mourn

together over the fallen hope and the short career of Julia's

brilliant prospect. like a shooting star, she have fall from the

altitude of a princely marriage, to the cold, dark nothingness of

disappoint earthly pleasure. how Christobelle mourn over her

brightly gay sister, whom she remember so lovely and so loved! she

do not remain long with Spottiswoode. she leave he, to pass the

evening and night in her dressing-room, to assist Mrs. Spottiswoode in

her care, and to think of Julia.









CHAPTER XXX.





Lady Ennismore's illness be long in its continuance and severe in

its effect. Mrs. Spottiswoode watch over she with unceasing and

affect attention; and it be often painful to witness her agonized

fear, lest her friend should sink beneath the combine attack of

mental and bodily suffer. it be sad to look upon a creature so

change as Julia, and hear her touching exclamation under the effect

of almost constant delirium. it be heart-rend to hear her call upon

Lady Ennismore with passionate entreaty, demand admittance to she

lord, and implore she to save she from Neville--it be still more

touching to hear her imprecate sorrow upon the head of those who could

lure a desolate wife to her destruction.



the sight of Dr. Darwin terrify the invalid for many day. she

address he as Colonel Neville, and her wander fancy conceive

that Colonel Neville be seek an interview. she wave he from the

room with an impetuous movement, and implore he to leave an unhappy

wife in peace. she say he know she love he--he know she love the

friend who be kind to she when all other have desert she, but she

command he to fly from her!--she be the wife of Lord Ennismore, and

no power on earth should induce she to listen to he. "if her father

be alive to protect she," she say, "he would shelter she from woe and

treachery--but all be go who ever love she, and she would go to

her long lose friend Penelope."



it be evident Lady Ennismore have fly from Bedinfield to escape

from her own heart, as she avow to Mrs. Spottiswoode. it be

evident, also, that the Dowager-countess have act an unholy part by

her daughter, in throw she constantly into the society of Colonel

Neville, and bar her entrance into the apartment of her sickly

and weak-minded husband. such cruelty towards an innocent and trusting

creature affect the heart of Mrs. Spottiswoode almost to illness: she

mind dwelt long and strongly upon the distress of heart, which must

have be endure by her friend before she could have flee from her

husband's house; and Mr. Spottiswoode become alarmed lest his wife's

health should fall a sacrifice to her devoted attachment to the friend

of her early day.



in this time of severe trial to all party, Sir John Spottiswoode

act with the kind consideration; and he undertake to meet Sir John

Wetheral upon his arrival, and break to he the mournful intelligence

of Lady Ennismore's situation. before his arrival, however, her

ladyship have regain her consciousness of all that be pass

round she, and the parch fever, which consume her animal power,

yield to the judicious treatment of her medical adviser. Julia

again recognize her friend, and again receive pleasure in feel

herself watch over and protect by those she love. her weakness be

excessive, and her mind still dwelt upon the sorrow which oppress

she; but it be no long accompany by that fearful aberration of

intellect, which waste her strength, and tear the heart of those who

witness its effect. Mrs. Spottiswoode pass her wake hour at

her friend's side, for it be a cordial to Julia's spirit to see she

near, and to know Penelope be watch over she; but Christobelle be

depute to guard her short and uneasy slumber. it be a period of

deep and tremble anxiety.



Sir John Wetheral's care be crowd upon he. he have be destine

for some year to witness the shattered nerve and depressed spirit

of his lady, and he be now call upon to witness the suffering of

Julia, and to support she through the difficulty of her situation. it

be a severe trial to his feeling; but he meet the intelligence with

fortitude. his unworldly action cause no self-reproach, and he have

never sacrifice his sense of right to the idol of a vain imagination,

therefore his regret, however bitter, be untinge by the gloomy

reflection that his own hand have barb the arrow which strike his

heart.



not so Lady Wetheral. the intelligence of Julia's flight to Lidham

prostrate she to the earth, and bow down all her hope. she confine

herself to her own room, and talk incessantly to Mrs. Bevan of the

misery which overpower she. "she have do such thing for Clara and

Julia!--she have form, and prosecute, and bring into effect, plan

for their advancement, which should have raise they far above their

companion; yet they be dash to the ground, after such anxiety

and fear! the daughter whom she peculiarly consider under her own

rule have prove themselves unequal to enjoy the exalt situation she

have mark out for they; and Bell, a perfect child, foster among the

wild hill of Lochleven, have presume to refuse a dukedom, in order to

follow her mean affection, and content herself with a small estate

in Worcestershire! what be Julia, now? a truant wife--a woman, so

lose to propriety, that her future position in people's mind must be

equivocal--a creature who would in future be gaze upon as a deserter

from Bedinfield. such be the fate of those who create scenes!--a

world's wonder, and a thing of nought!" a period of silence would

ensue, subsequent to each irritable complaint; and Lady Wetheral would

sink into deep fit of despondency, follow by sudden reaction, which

threaten to undermine her constitution.



when Julia become sufficiently calm to bear the sight of a third person

without alarm, Christobelle be silently admit to her presence, and

be recognize immediately with a joy which give unfeigned satisfaction

to Mrs. Spottiswoode. it seem as if Lady Ennismore's spirit be

not dead to emotion which must eventually lure her thought from

melancholy image, and reconcile she to life. Lady Ennismore fix

her eye upon her sister with a momentary expression of delight, which

gradually change into sadness, and the tear steal down her cheek.

she press her hand to her heart. "Chrystal," she say, "when I see

you last, I be not as I be now!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode embrace she, and bade her think of happy time.

Julia look at she with eye swim in tear.



"Penelope, it soothe I to talk of the past, for my sorrow have

be confine too painfully to my own bosom. let I tell Chrystal

how useless be the aid of grandeur and gratified ambition to

give comfort to a break heart. it may make she less careful

of the folly of worldly gift--less ambitious than I be. yet,

I love he; I love Ennismore, once; but what heart will love

through coldness--through indifference, and separation? who can

love, when kindly affection be throw aside, or make the sport of

unfeele ridicule? Chrystal, marry not, unless you be sure you be

value--unless you love a man for the goodness of his nature, and not

for his earthly possession."



Christobelle bend forward, and press her lip upon Julia's hand, as

it lie upon her own. she could not speak.



"if they tell you, Chrystal, that life have no blessing beyond high

station and the luxury of wealth, look at I, and believe they not.

it be false to say so. my father tell I it be false, and I do not

heed he. I smile at his anxiety, and think he prejudice. where be

my father?--Where be my dear father? be he alive, Penelope? oh, do not

say that good father be go, who mourn so, after my hapless choice

be make--who look so calm and so sad at Bedinfield!"



Christobelle assure she every member of the family still live, and

then she repeat to she the message which her father have charge she

to deliver when Julia's return reason could bear its import. it be

a message of kindness: they be word of indulgent goodness, for none

other ever pass _his_ lip. "tell my poor Julia," he say, "that her

father's eye long to behold she, and his arm be open to embrace she,

when she can bear the meeting. there be a home at Wetheral, to shelter

she; and his fond affection be anxious to make she forget she ever

leave its protection." Julia weep abundantly.



"yes, we resist advice, and defy the truth which tell we how weak

and insufficient we be to reason upon thing which concern our peace

hereafter. I believe my mother-in-law be all truth--all sincerity.

I feel for Lord Ennismore's ailment. I do not know how deeply those

ailment affect the temper and weaken the mind. I be ambitious--I be

resolve to soar: and see, Chrystal, how I have fall! thank Heaven,

I be guiltless!--thank Heaven, I can return to my father's house,

untainted by crime! I shall never more be happy, but I can demand

respect, and bow submissively to a just punishment for my sordid view.

I fancy I could command all, as the wife of Ennismore! but I come

to Penelope's house--a poor, solitary, wretched wife--a fugitive from

Bedinfield--flying, above all, from myself. oh, my friend, my dear

Penelope, save I from myself!"



"fear not," reply Mrs. Spottiswoode, kneel by her bed-side, and

clasp Julia's hand in her own, "fear not, my companion and friend!

I will be with you, and my counsel and affection shall support you.

think no more of the past, but hope every thing from the future: forget

all that have occur, and look around you, upon the friend of your

youth, all prepare to welcome and cherish you, dear Julia."



"I wish I _could_ forget--I wish I could struggle, and burst the bond

which destroy my tranquillity, Penelope! I wish I could wipe away

remembrance which will embitter my existence, and which have shorten

the day of my youth, and multiply my sorrow--how I wish I _could_

forget!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode sign to Christobelle to withdraw, and she retire

into the dressing-room. Penelope continue kneeling, and embrace the

hand of her complain friend.



"Julia, open your heart to your old favourite, and remember there be a

time when we never conceal a thought from each other's knowledge."



Julia gasp and tremble.



"Julia, your friend have guess the struggle you have endure, and

your flight have increase her love and high respect, if it could allow

an increase. it be not every ill-use wife--it be not every desolate

heart--that could have fly from Neville." Julia's hand become cold

as marble in Mrs. Spottiswoode's grasp, and she turn her face from

her friend's gaze in terror.



"Julia," continue Mrs. Spottiswoode, "by every recollection of our

childhood pass together--by the tenderness which ever exist

between we, and by our attachment, which have survive absence and

silence, open your heart to your poor Penelope! it be only know to

Chrystal and myself, that your temptation have be severe, and your

virtue severer still. it be to our bosom alone that your confession

have be make, Julia; and we love, with a deep feeling of esteem,

the virtue we could not emulate under the same trial. do not speak in

humility to _us_--do not fear to boast of the victory over your own

heart!"



"have I then be delirious, Penelope? have I speak of he in

bitterness? have I say any thing of Ennismore in anger? I have no

anger towards he. he be but weak and devote to his mother. my father

caution I! I have no excuse, Penelope. how anxiously my father

caution I, and how stupidly I reject the caution!"



"you be young, Julia; you could not suspect an artful and

cold-hearted woman!"



"so we say, when a parent's anxiety have be scoff at, and we be

crush by a dreadful experience. I know my father's indulgence--I know

his fear for my happiness--yet I turn to listen to the dictate of a

wretched ambition. oh, my mother, my mother, _you_ sacrifice I!"



Julia sink upon the pillow from which she have rise with a strong

effort, and continue, in falter accents--"Penelope, do I mention

another name? if I do, have mercy on I, and forbear to judge your

friend! you do not know how I have strive to do right!"



"I do know it, my beloved, I do know it--" exclaim Mrs. Spottiswoode,

"and I guess it, before your overcharged heart declare it in

delirium. I, your friend, know it; and may those who have shadow your

day with evil, drink deep of the cup they prepare for you, Julia!"



"oh, my mother, my mother!" cry Julia, "how could you guide I into

misery! how could I think you be prepare sorrow for the child who

love and believe in your word!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode weep over the friend who lie prostrate, in body and

mind, before she. Julia essay to rise, but her exhaustion be too

great; she could only press the hand of her faithful friend.



"Penelope, as you love I, never name even to myself the horrible

secret of my soul. let it be for ever forget between we, and

strengthen I by your wise counsel and friendship, my own bless

companion of once happy day!"



"rest, rest, Julia," say Mrs. Spottiswoode, "and do not exert your

fail strength. I understand you. we will in future only speak of

calm day, and look forward to the sober pleasure of friendship. among

your friend, the friend of your youth, Julia, there will be peace."



Lady Ennismore shake her head, and the tear which trickle through her

closed eyelid evince her hopelessness of future tranquillity, but she

remain silent. Mrs. Spottiswoode kiss her pale cheek.



"exert yourself no more, dear Julia. I know all that be pass in

your heart, and its struggle for oblivion upon the past. weep not,

my ill-use friend--my heart shall comfort you, and my love shall

heal the wound of betray affection. you do not know the heart

which be rally round you, and be only wait your convalescence

to declare themselves your sympathise and devoted friend. be at

rest, my dear Julia--I fear for the consequence of this weakening

conversation. try to be compose and sleep, to quiet your poor friend's

alarm."



but the conversation have not weaken Lady Ennismore. her spirit be

lighten by the knowledge that her secret be discover, and that her

friend still love and honour she with unabated affection. it be a

relief to her heart, to feel assured that her friend do not judge she

severely; but that, with true friendship, she have pour balm upon she

broken hope, and sympathise in her suffering. the load of care which

press upon her mind and strength be cast upon the confide friend

of her youth, whose consolation soothe and tranquillize the sorrow

which have consume she. the husband, for whom she have quit her home

and friend, have cause many misery; but the hand of friendship have

support she. what woe be not assuage by that gentle and cheer

consolation!--that gift accord by Providence to soften the ill of a

patient and submissive spirit!



Lady Ennismore weep silently for some time, but she do not weep with

the bitterness which destroy rest. Doubtless, her tear fall with

mingle feeling of joy and grief; doubtless, her heart be fill with

grateful thank, that her destiny be yet cheer by the consolation

of tender and affectionate friend; doubtless, she weep to feel the

tear of Penelope upon her cheek; that Penelope Wycherly, whom _she_

have befriend in her hour of affliction, and who have share with she

the joy and fear of childhood. no wonder Lady Ennismore weep! though

her emotion cease to be of that distressing nature which give she

friend so much pain to witness. it be weep which relieve her

heart, and produce favourable result; for she become gradually more

tranquil, and her pale thin hand relax in its grasp, give happy

assurance to Mrs. Spottiswoode that her unhappy friend slumber.



when Dr. Darwin call again at Lidham, Lady Ennismore still sleep

and lie compose. from that moment Julia's most distressing symptom

disappear, but she suffer from a languor which be oppressive;

a languor which pervade mind and body to such a powerful degree,

that she scarcely seem to exist. it have one excellent result. Lady

Ennismore cease to suffer pain: it be a state apparently of perfect

torpor, cause by intense distress, and its tranquillity must be to she

enjoyment. she cease to feel the extent of her misery.



Sir John Wetheral's visit to Lidham be of daily occurrence; he

long to clasp his poor fugitive to his heart; but Lady Ennismore's

present situation require care, and all agitate interview be

prohibit. it be only when the torpor which have seize upon she

become alarming by its continuance, that her father's presence be

advise, to try its effect upon her mind. if that interview do not

awaken her power, it be fear that nothing henceforth would rouse

she from the stillness of death, till she forget for ever the care

which have disturb her short pilgrimage. Mrs. Spottiswoode urge the

interview with anxious hope: she know Julia's strong affection, and

she feel firmly convinced that if any earthly object _could_ rouse she,

it would be the sight of her indulgent parent. Sir John Wetheral be

accordingly summon to appear unexpectedly before Lady Ennismore.



Julia be seat in her arm-chair, with her eye fix on the ground,

when Christobelle enter her chamber in the evening; but, as usual,

no sign of recognition take place. Miss Wetheral advance towards her

sister, and offer her arm. "Julia, let we take one turn round the

room."



Lady Ennismore rise without speak, and mechanically take the arm of

Christobelle, but she do not raise her eye. Miss Wetheral speak again.



"Julia, look there!"



Lady Ennismore's eye slowly follow the direction of her sister's

hand, which point towards the door. a scream burst from her lip, as

she behold her father stand before she, and she fly into his arm.

the sight of her father _do_ rouse every recollection!



it be needless to dwell upon a scene so fraught with distress, or to

describe the affecting interview. it would be painful to repeat Lady

Ennismore's self-upbraiding, or to recount her father's soothe,

and most parental word of comfort. he welcome his Julia to his

heart and home, with endearment which go deep into her grateful

heart, and speak peace to her broken spirit. it be a scene which Mrs.

Spottiswoode and Christobelle never forget. the tear they shed that

evening bore testimony to their deep emotion.



when Sir John Wetheral and his daughter become more tranquil, Mrs.

Spottiswoode would have terminate the interview, but Julia clung

to her father's arm, and would not be separate from he. she would

now, she say, open her heart to those so dear to she, that the work

of a long absence might be confide to her parent's breast, and he

should judge if her flight be rashly do. Mrs. Spottiswoode fear a

relapse; but Julia would not hear of rest. "let I speak now, Penelope,

while my spirit be equal to the task. I may be ill, but my story must

be tell; my father must be tell; it will be a relief to know I need

recur to the past no more. let I speak _now_, Penelope."



Lady Ennismore recapitulate the event which have take place since her

father's visit to Bedinfield, and describe her distress at find

he have depart without bid her farewell. "her mother-in-law have

assure she so calmly that they _would_ depart, and decline remain

another day to ascertain my lord's sudden attack, that she could not

disbelieve the assertion, and the thought have give she severe pain.

Profound silence, too, rest upon the transaction at Wetheral; not

once have she receive a letter from the home which profess to love

she so tenderly. not once do they acknowledge the numberless letter

she have write, to entreat their consideration, and to implore they to

answer her anxiety.



"after her father's departure from Bedinfield, as she think, so

coldly, so unkindly! her heart sink, and she become gloomy. her lord

receive she as a stranger into his apartment during an illness of

long continuance, while the Dowager remained station by his side,

and her spirit could not endure the insulting banishment. she pray

to visit her home, to see again her friend Miss Wycherly, to ask the

reason of their silence, and demand their withdraw affection. her

request be refuse; but it be do so gently, so persuasively by her

mother-in-law, that she could only weep while she acquiesce in their

wish to remain at Bedinfield.



"she begin to fear Lord Ennismore do not love she; she begin to

suspect the politeness of his mother, whose manner have so long blind

her reason by their soft fascination, but who have never, in a single

instance, yield to her wish, or consider her right as the

real mistress of Bedinfield. that unchangingly-polite and flattering

suavity have prove the firm bar to her happiness; for it have leave

she without the power of complaint, while her heart be wring with

disappoint feeling. they have carry she almost break-hearte to

Florence."



Julia stop; deep sigh burst from her bosom, and her head fall

upon the shoulder of Mrs. Spottiswoode: her father become powerfully

agitated; and Christobelle weep, without the power of control she

tear. Lady Ennismore proceeded:--



"at Florence, a complete separation be silently effect between Lord

Ennismore and herself. his lordship confine himself entirely to his

suite of apartment, and month often elapse without an interview.

sometimes he accompany they into public, but he would retire

complain from the exertion; and, though her own spirit demand

retirement, and even solitude, his lordship's command be imperative

upon she to appear with his mother at all the diversion where English

family attend.



"she become at length a mere machine in the hand of the Dowager

Countess. without one friend to consult--absent from her near

relation--unable to speak the language of the country--melancholy and

careless of existence, she follow her mother-in-law into society

without enjoyment, and retire from it without satisfaction. her day

become a blank, and she pass hour in silent weeping. at length

an Englishman be introduce to she by the Dowager, who pity she

situation, and seek to amuse her heavy hour with news of her native

land. he tell she he have see her sister Clara's marriage with Sir

Foster Kerrison in the paper, and he have also see the mention of

her death. by this statement alone she know that Clara be no more.

no letter from England announce it, no intimation from her family

inform she of a sister's loss. she stand alone in the midst of her

greatness. there be none to do she a kindness, or to offer she the

consolation which be tender to the humblest individual; none save

that Englishman speak to she of home; none save he come forth from the

crowd, to speak of her country and her friend."



Julia's emotion increase, and she be nearly faint, but she wave

away all assistance. "let I say what I have to communicate, my dear

friend, and then I will be silent for ever on all that be past. ah!

my dear papa, you tell I I be sign your misery, when I would not

listen to your word. you tell I you would rather follow my silent

remain to the grave than see I the wife of Ennismore. would to Heaven

I _have_ die! I should now be at rest."



Sir John Wetheral press his unhappy daughter to his bosom, and

promise her rest under his own protection, and in the society of

her friend. he wish she to defer her hapless story till time have

somewhat recruit her strength; she be too weak to proceed in

detail misery which must distress and exhaust her power. he

entreat she, for his sake and her own, to recur no more to the past.



"let I proceed," cry Lady Ennismore, "and judge I not hardly; judge

I as Penelope judge I, kindly and graciously. I see little of my

husband--never, in private. Lady Ennismore could have effect any

thing with her son, but she smile at my repining, and do not comfort

I. she urge I to be gay, to shake off gloomy thought in wild

amusement, and smile as other smile. she seek Colonel Neville's

society, and domesticate he in our palace. wherever we go, he go

also; and our home be the home of Neville."



Lady Ennismore sink upon her knee before her father, and clasp his

hand.



"as I live to breathe again my native air, and see the form I love,

I do believe she wish I to become the prey of evil passion, and

fall a victim to her art! I do believe she trust I might be thrust

for ever from her sight, and become the vile thing which would banish

I eternally from a husband's presence. but I be enable to withstand

temptation. I pray for strength to endure my destiny: and, when I

dare not confide in my own effort--when my heart be distract, and

my principle totter, then I know I should find help at Lidham; for

Penelope tell I, in sickness or in sorrow, her home should be my home;

and I have fly to she for safety."



Poor suffer Julia! how she tremble as her father raise she from

her suppliant attitude, and call she his long-suffer, virtuous

child! how gratefully she raise her eye in silent prayer, when her

father glory in her principle, and say he love she with a parent's

deep affection and pride, for the danger she have so religiously

withstood. yes, he bless she for the firmness she have evince, for

the virtuous conduct which have not desert she, and for the prayerful

spirit which have lead she to seek refuge in her God, instead of throw

herself into the arm of man. how do a father's blessing soothe the

lacerated heart of the ill-use Julia!



from the hour of her confession, Lady Ennismore become more tranquil;

and, though her constitution have receive a powerful shock, it be

hope that time would bring back some portion of her once excellent

health. Sir John Wetheral resolve to escort his daughter to their

home as soon as Lady Ennismore could endure a removal; and, under

the shelter of the parental roof, Julia would feel protect from

the sorrow which have darken her married life. there she would be

surround by her friend, and in its sanctuary she would feel no

more the slight and insult which have press so heavily upon she

affectionate heart. Mrs. Spottiswoode's near neighbourhood, and the

friendship which have form so conspicuous a part of her character,

would throw a halo of consolation round the futurity of Julia; and when

her father and her friend congregate round she, the breath of public

opinion dare not whisper a thought injurious to her honour.



as Lady Ennismore slowly recover the tone of her mind, her anxiety

to hear of her family increase, and she be gradually inform of the

change which have take place. her ladyship have greatly wonder at

Lady Wetheral's absence from her room, and she mourn sincerely to

hear her mother's shattered health keep she closely confine at the

castle. Clara's death be also detail to she, and Lady Ennismore weep

to hear that her sister have strive with evil day. she dwelt with

constant and painful interest upon her short career.



it seem that Clara and herself have be doom to woe; and, though

she smile to think of Isabel's happiness, and love to hear of the

contentment of Hatton, her ladyship's thought fly back to the direful

scene at Ripley, and sorrow for the early death of Lady Kerrison.

the remembrance of Clara draw Julia's contemplation from her own

exclusive situation; and her tear would flow, to think of the sister

whose temper could not brook the call upon its patience. how different

have be their fate, yet how alike in misery! she herself have bear

daily and hourly provocation with unfaile submission, while Clara

have spurn to tax her patience under trial, and die beneath she

rouse disgust. both have suffer--both have fall; but Clara have

burst the bond which fetter her happiness, and she be rest in

her early grave; while _she_ be doom to exist a widow wife, and

struggle under contumely!



when Lady Ennismore hear of Christobelle's engagement, she throw she

arm around her youthful sister, and press she to her bosom, but she

could not wish her joy.



"Chrystal," she say, with a look of sadness, "I can wish no one joy

when they quit their home, for I be congratulate by all my friend,

yet my portion be the cup of bitterness! I know Sir John Spottiswoode

be worthy--at least, it be report so--but it be all uncertainty.

when we quit our father's house, we know not what we do!"



"but I be not marry for wealth or title, Julia; I be engage to a

man whose claim to my affection be his worth and excellence!"



Christobelle stand in distress at her inadvertent speech; for world

she would not have bruise a broken reed; for world she would not

wound the heart of her suffer sister. but Lady Ennismore be too

high-minded to believe a blow be aim at her own conduct.



"it be true, Chrystal, you say it truly. you _have_ choose a good

and kind-hearted man, and your fate will not be like mine. I _can_,

therefore, wish you joy. may you know only indulgence, and be as Isabel

and Anna Maria be! I can wish you no high felicity. but I have

cause much trouble, for you have devote your time to a poor creature

who feel deeply the kindness of her friend, and who grieve to

separate the happy. where be Sir John Spottiswoode?"



Sir John Spottiswoode be at Alverton. he devote the period of

Christobelle's constant attendance upon Lady Ennismore, to the

arrangement of his affair in Worcestershire; and when Julia's health

release her sister from the care of a sick room, Christobelle be to

recal he. Miss Wetheral be easy also when she know her lover be

not near she. she could give undivided attention to her poor Julia,

when she do not hear his step linger in the gallery, or distinguish

his voice under the window, in conversation with his brother. on both

side it be a relief to part at once, till they could meet in peace.

their mutual comfort be destroy by the knowledge that, though under

the same roof, they could only meet in short and hurried interview;

and Christobelle rejoice when her friend summon resolution to visit

Alverton.



Charles Spottiswoode also depart with his brother for a short season,

and Lidham be the scene of perfect tranquillity during the distressing

illness of Lady Ennismore. for the sake of Mr. Spottiswoode, who so

generously relinquish his lady's society to her unfortunate friend,

Sir John Wetheral hasten to withdraw with his daughter from Lidham,

and Lady Ennismore sigh to see again the home of her early happiness,

and to find repose in the once gay hall of Wetheral. Christobelle be,

therefore, depute to recal Sir John Spottiswoode, and she be charge

also to summon he to Wetheral Castle. Ere he could arrive, Julia would

be re-establish in her father's house, and the painful event which

have take place would, it be hope, become soften by time, and the

society of her early friend.



Lady Ennismore could not be expect to forget that "such thing be;"

but there be blessedness in feeling that her youthful error have not

be accompany by guilt, and that her sorrow could not be past hope,

since she be free from self-reproach. she have endeavour to perform

the duty of a wife--she have keenly feel the influence which separate

she from her husband's love--and every art have fail to render she

faithless to her vow. in all these reflection there be consolation,

and Julia's reward be in the love and esteem of her numerous and

attach friend.



Sir John Wetheral write a calm and powerful appeal to the heart

of the feeble-minded Lord Ennismore. he speak of "his daughter's

suffering--her forbearance--and her return to the protection deny

by her husband. he inform he of his resolution to protect that

daughter whose fame must suffer by his barbarous treatment; and never

more would he allow she to return to the man who have so deeply injure

her feeling, and her spotless reputation. he beg to say all future

intercourse must end for ever between the family of Ennismore and

Wetheral."



in due time a note be receive, in the handwriting of the

Dowager-countess, bear these concise sentences:--



 "the Dowager-countess of Ennismore regret that the increase disorder

 of her son, Lord Ennismore, must compel she to become his amanuensis.

 the flight of Lady Ennismore be well know to herself; and the flight

 of Colonel Neville, at the same period, be also well understand by her

 ladyship. Lord Ennismore be content to remain deserted by his lady,

 and his mother will endeavour to supply her place by devoted attention

 to his offended and outraged feeling. Lady Ennismore be happy, if

 not respectable, in be uphold by her friend. the family of

 Bedinfield and Wetheral will meet no more."



this note be date from Florence, and its content be withhold from

Julia. it would have cause the wound of her heart to bleed afresh. it

be well for her peace of mind, to remain in ignorance of Neville's

flight, and to be unconscious of the remark which point at her fame.



Julia decline see even Mrs. Pynsent, till her nerve have recover

their tone by long quiet, and till she have see her mother. it would be

a painful meeting with Anna Maria, because their last interview be at

the altar, and that event have seal their life to prospect strangely

oppose to each other. Anna Maria have give her vow to the man whom

Julia reject, and her lot be cast in a goodly heritage. she be a

happy wife--a happy mother--and her child be grow up round she,

under happy auspex: but Julia have return home, to be protect

from those who have vow to love and honour she. it would be a very

overpowering and painful meeting; it would force recollection upon she

mind, fatal to her tranquillity; and the first sight of Anna Maria's

happy face would, for some time, overthrow the placidity which she have

acquire under the gentle soothing and support of Mrs. Spottiswoode.

Julia contemplate the meeting with alarm, and in tear.



Mrs. Spottiswoode accompany Sir John Wetheral and Christobelle, as

they escort Lady Ennismore to the home of her singlehood. Julia do

not speak during the little journey; but her eye fill with tear,

as they rest on each well-know object in her route. her emotion

be excessive as the carriage enter the Lodges of Wetheral, and the

avenue produce a thousand reminiscence of the past, which occasion

a strong hysteric. but there be those near she who temper the blow

to the sufferer, and soften her regret by kind commiseration. her

father's voice alone appear to fail in bring calm to her heart.



"let I not hear that voice!" she exclaim, "for it bring to my

mind how mournfully it implore I to avoid repentance! every thing

I see remain unchanged; it be only Clara and myself who be doom

to sink into death and wretchedness! my mother--cruel mother!--it be

all my mother!" oppress with grief, Julia sink into silence, and she

suffer herself to be carry into the room which once constitute

the sleep apartment and dressing-room of herself and Anna Maria.

Julia place her hand upon her heart, but she do not give utterance

to her thought, as she glance round upon well-remember furniture,

and fix her eye upon the large mirror which have reflect her gay

appearance upon her bridal-morn. Mrs. Spottiswoode, her bridesmaid,

stand by she; and her father hold her hand, as he have affectionately

hold it when she kneel to receive his blessing as Julia Ennismore.



this powerful picture of the past affect her heart. she throw herself

at her father's foot.



"forgive me!--forgive my obstinate presumption, papa! I feel how

truly you speak! how blindly I follow my own judgment! this be a

bitter stroke to I! all be here who do not advocate my ambitious

choice!--but where be they who tell I I should be greatly envy?

where be my mother, who prophecie worldly happiness, and tell I I be

right to persevere? who assure I of bright reality, and year of

happy freedom?"



Julia rise from her kneeling attitude, and the expression of her eye

be fearfully wild, as she hold out her hand to her father.



"why do she tell I my father love lowly thing, and could not

comprehend a woman's heart? why do she tell I Ennismore be easily

influence, and that a wife's word would supersede a mother's

management? have it be so? have I not suffer scorn, and ridicule,

and banishment, in silence? have I not endure a thousand regret--a

thousand struggle--a thousand insult?"



Julia pause as her eye again wander over the mirror, and she see

the reflection of her own waste figure and pale countenance. for one

moment her whole attention be engross by the change which have take

place in her person. she gaze at her thin form, and raise her hand

to examine the waste finger which have lose their once plump roundness

and extreme beauty. she then flee from the apartment.









CHAPTER XXXI.





sorrow, renew by the association which press upon her mind,

impel Lady Ennismore to seek her mother's apartment. Mrs. Bevan be

attend her mistress, and Julia's noiseless step glide across the

carpet floor of the dressing-room, where Lady Wetheral lie extended

on the sofa, complain to her attendant of her own wretched feeling.



"Bevan, I be very ill to-day: I cannot see Mrs. Tom Pynsent, or admit

any one. my nerve become bad and bad, and I be in a dreadful state

of tremour at this moment. I cannot hold my salt bottle, it fall out

of my poor nervous finger--I be very ill to-day."



Mrs. Bevan speak pleasing word of comfort, but her ladyship reject

they.



"don't talk nonsense, Bevan. I hate to hear people say thing which be

not likely to occur. how can I expect to be well, when Miss Wetheral

obstinately defy my wish, and all my child be determined to

fly in my face? I have a dream, too, last night, which increase my

disorder; I dream I see Lady Ennismore brilliantly dress, walk in

a procession; and she walk so stately in jewel, and her rank place

she so high among the great one, that I be proud of my daughter, and

I smile to see she in grandeur. poor Julia, where be she _now_!"



"she be here," exclaim Lady Ennismore, stand before her mother,

with her thin hand cross upon her bosom; "here be the envy

Countess of Ennismore!"



Lady Wetheral gaze upon the vision in dumb amazement.



"look at I," continue Julia, "look at my figure, and tell I if you

believe all this would come to pass? when you assure I that wealth

and rank be happiness and virtue, do you think I should return a

fugitive, to seek shelter at your hand?"



"Julia!" gasp Lady Wetheral, "Julia! go! who be _you_?"



"go?" exclaim Lady Ennismore, "where shall I go? to Clara? shall I

rest with poor Clara? must I be lay by poor Clara, to find peace

after my sacrifice, my absence, and my grief?"



the tremour which attack Lady Wetheral's frame be alarming. it

preclude speech: she hide her face with her hand, as Lady Ennismore

proceed.



"for quit a husband's home, I may be censure and avoid by the

world, for it may never know my provocation and my struggle, but

I should not be turn from my mother's presence! I should not be

banish by the author of all my misery, as if she have no part in the

misery which I endure!"



"do not say so--oh, do not say so! do not blame I, as Clara do!" Lady

Wetheral sob aloud.



"I reproach no one," answer Lady Ennismore, mournfully. "I reproach

no one, though I be promise happiness as the wife of Ennismore. where

be that happiness? you foretold it, mother. you say I should for ever

enjoy wealth and station, and become the envy gaze of thousand!

where be it all?"



"cease, cease!" cry Lady Wetheral, wring by feeling of alarm and

self-reproach. "I wish you to marry Pynsent, Julia!"



"cruel mother," exclaim Lady Ennismore, as she catch her hand, and

look earnestly in her face, "do not say so, to drive I wilder than

my poor brain feel now! do you not hold up Ennismore to my view, as a

creature to worship? do you not tell I his coronet be worth a daring

grasp, if I could gain the courtly bauble? oh, you bid I secure the

lofty establishment, and I do so, and have suffer! I wish I be with

poor dead Clara! we both turn from our father, and would not heed

his mild precept. we listen to project which suit our ambitious

nature, though he deprecate the unholy passion. oh, mother, you

foster the wild and dangerous feeling! I wish I be lay by the side

of Clara! I wish I be at rest, like she!"



"Bevan, Bevan," ejaculate Lady Wetheral, "where be you?"



Mrs. Bevan curtsey as she stand in mute astonishment behind her

lady's sofa. she be unable to speak: her eye be rivet upon Lady

Ennismore, who still grasp her mother's hand, and still continue her

wild address.



"this have be a fearful affair! two of we have fall--one into the

grave, and one into living sorrow--self-banish from a heartless

home. be it not a fearful thing?"



"do not blame I, as Clara do--do not blame I for your flight,

Julia," say Lady Wetheral, endeavour to withdraw her hand, but Lady

Ennismore clasp it more closely.



"I blame no one--but two of we be lose for ever. I blame no one!"



"I detest scene--I ever detest scene, Julia!" Lady Wetheral rise

into a sit posture as she speak. "I warn you from the beginning,

all of you, never to offend I by violent measure, which draw down

ridicule and disgust. Clara and yourself be marry greatly, Julia!"



"where have be our greatness?" say Lady Ennismore, despondingly.



"you be both place in affluence," retort her mother, with

nervous trepidation, "and your high position be exalt above your

companion. you be greatly marry--that be _my_ do: but you have

throw yourself from the pinnacle of earthly honour--and that be

_your_ do!"



"Mother, I have be betray, banish from my husband's

presence--unhappy, and uncare for," say Lady Ennismore, release

her hand, and sink upon the floor in despair.



"I tell you," continue Lady Wetheral, become almost vehement in her

manner, "I tell you many thing might occur to distress your heart, but

nothing could arise to make you an object of ridicule to the world,

except your own folly. you have fly from Lord Ennismore's house--who

will receive you? who receive a truant wife?"



"I be miserable," say the prostrate Julia.



"how few be otherwise," return her mother, "if all secret be

disclose? happiness be a nonsensical word--a rock to shipwreck

romantic hope. we may not command happiness, but we _can_ command

external blessing. with every luxury that reflect honour upon human

being, what right have you and Clara to be otherwise than content?"



"how cold--how cruel to speak so harshly!" ejaculate Lady Ennismore.



"have you not rank?" continue Lady Wetheral--"had you not a princely

home--an earl's coronet? have you not all the world can bestow, when you

flee from your husband's protection?"



"I flee from treachery and from infamy!"



"Infamy! who dare report of infamy?" Lady Wetheral start to her

foot, and support herself by grasp the back of a chair. "have my

daughter, Lady Ennismore, allow herself to become--? have the breath

of suspicion breathe upon a Wetheral!--has _one_ suspicion glance

upon you, Julia?"



"I have fly to my father, to avoid my own reproach," cry Julia; "I

care not for the world--I have fly to escape the reproach of my own

heart."



"Folly--madness!" observe her mother--"flown from your heart! what

heart have you which be not wed to your station--to the eminence in

life upon which you be call to stand above your companion? be you

not wed to the title of Ennismore? be you not the proud wife of a

British peer?--an earl's wife? be not your heart hide behind the fold

of your ermine, and bury in the magnificence of your lot?"



"no, no--it be not there!" cry Julia, clasp her hands--"it

be not there! my heart be give to kindness. I would have love

he faithfully, but I be banish from his presence--second to

his artful mother in his thought--betray by the person I most

trust--proscribe as the mistress of his house. many woman would

have resent the indignity I have bear--but I have fly from the

temptation which surround I, and my father have give I shelter.

oh! you have sacrifice I, but do not upbraid I--I have do no

wrong to any one. why should _you_ look hardly upon I, who promise

I happiness, and have break its fulfilment? poor Clara! how we have

suffer for our fault. my father warn I of my wickedness!"



"do _i_ not warn you, Lady Ennismore?" ask Lady Wetheral, with a

raise complexion, as she behold, unmoved, poor Julia's suppliant

attitude. "do _i_ not say, I scorn a woman who be mean enough to

seek the world's upbraid by her conduct? you be the Countess of

Ennismore--your flight have bring down obloquy upon the name. who will

believe the statement of a runaway? who will believe the fugitive Lady

Ennismore have be unaccompanie in her flight? the voice of the world

will be loud in censure upon the step you have take."



"oh, my father, my father! save I from the world--save I from

reproach like these!" exclaim Julia, rise from her prostrate

attitude, and endeavour to quit the room; but her mother catch she

dress, and detain she. there be something awful in the expression of

her countenance, as she address Lady Ennismore.



"if a mother sacrifice her time and endeavour to form a child's

happiness, have she not a right to expect its completion? do I not act

for you--think for you--and labour for you? do I not place you in

affluence and grandeur? be you not the Countess of Ennismore? tell I,

be you not Countess of Ennismore, the mistress of princely Bedinfield?"



"I be the unfortunate and unhappy wife of Lord Ennismore," answer

Julia, "the nominal mistress of Bedinfield, but the real proprietor of

only sorrow and degradation."



"away with such folly!" cry Lady Wetheral, with vehemence; "let I

not hear such mad complaint, such horrible madness! have you not

all that be covet by human beings?--state, high rank, wealth, and

influence? what do your arrogant heart covet _now_? what do you

presume to wish, beyond the splendid lot you have obtain?"



"happiness--I ask for happiness! I ask for my husband's heart--I ask

for domestic peace," reply Julia, press her forehead with she

tremble hand. "I ask for the simple pleasure of domestic peace. I

will not accept grandeur without they!"



"you have bring public remark upon the name of Wetheral," resume she

mother, her eye dart fire. "you have betray the confidence of

your mother, who hope to see her daughter an envy creature! you have

throw away the jewel of life, to grasp at shadow. Happiness!--_who_

be happy?--not those who be bear to stand apart in grandeur--not those

upon whom the eye of the multitude gaze in admiration. it may be a

word bandy by the humble, to balance the evil of poverty, and give

a zest to lowly destiny--but the great one hee it not. _they_ live

in a sphere set apart from grovel notion--they spurn the folly

of romantic, sickly fancy, to hold on their course like meteor! I be

a parent most miserable. I be deprive of all I labour to advance.

my heart be anchor upon the glorious destiny of three child,

who have betray their high calling--but Bell have do the bad. a

dukedom be offer her!--a dukedom be tender to she, I say! and the

puny coward strike it from her!--oh, that hour to a mother's heart!..."



Lady Wetheral's vehemence overpower her strength. the sudden

and unaccountable appearance of her daughter, without any previous

warning, almost lead she to suppose a spirit from the dead have rise

to taunt she with her deep disappointment. it seem as if a spirit

from another world have seek she, to jeer and mock at her misery as

a defeated mother, and that form assume the likeness of her banish

Julia. what! have she hear the word "infamy" spoken?--did she hear

that Lady Ennismore have fly from her husband? be this to be add

to Clara's death, and Christobelle's ingratitude? be she indeed to

endure this accumulate burthen of crushed hopes?--to see _all_ her

long year of anxious effort destroy, and behold the very being

she have raise so high, turn to rend she? what spirit could bend under

such fearful ingratitude, that possess one spark of _her_ indomitable

determination?



a deep pause succeed. Julia still listen, with her face bury in

her hand, and her dress be yet in the grasp of her mother's hand,

when a cry from Mrs. Bevan startle she. Lady Ennismore look up in

terror. she behold her incense parent stand before she, in the

attitude of reproach, but her eye be dull, and her form have become

rigid: contend passion be war with terrible violence in her

heart.



it be a fearful and affect scene to witness, but it could not

long last. Lady Ennismore's terror at her unfortunate mother's state

obliterate for the moment her own sorrow, and she fly to assist Mrs.

Bevan in her care. Sir John Wetheral and Christobelle be instantly

summon, and the Castle become a scene of alarm and confusion. Mrs.

Spottiswoode be again a true-hearted and valuable friend in their

affliction.



Lady Wetheral sink into a long illness. her strife of heart--the strife

of a high and determined spirit contend with bitter mortification

in all those thing which she have so fondly cherish--have nearly

prove fatal to her frame, and she be long vibrate between life

and death. but her naturally good constitution, and the unremitting

attention of her daughter, overcome the attack of a dangerous

malady, and gradually Lady Wetheral become again convalescent. the

body slowly acquire some portion of renew health, but the mind be

fix in gloomy irritability. nothing could exceed her ladyship's

unbearable tyranny to those gentle being who strove to soothe she

long confinement. the victim of her ambitious project be now the

object of constant petty and vexatious attack. Christobelle have one

near she who could lure her disquiet into happy tranquillity--but Lady

Ennismore almost sink under their distressing influence.



Sir John Wetheral bear all his trial with the resignation of a man

who receive good and evil thing from his maker's hand, and accept

they as mean of evidence his patience and resignation. he endure

his lady's most disagreeable taunt with the fortitude belong to

his estimable character: he only appear to suffer when those taunt

be level at the heartbroken, gentle Julia. Lady Wetheral's

tyrannical temper seem irrecoverable even by the operation of time,

or gentle forbearance. Mrs. Bevan remark "that her lady's eye

and manner be peculiarly vehement in their expression, during her

reproach address to Lady Ennismore." it _must_ have be a powerful

feeling which could produce such a change of manner in one whose whole

existence have be devote to the exercise of self-command, and who have

ever deprecate the bad taste and uselessness of "scene;" it must have

be an overwhelming feeling of ambition trample to the earth, which

bear down a mind so keenly alive, so restless in its purpose, and so

successful in its scheme.



Christobelle have the blessing of Sir John Spottiswoode's society,

to balance she many hour of disquietude. she could turn to he for

happiness, when her spirit be sad, and, under his soothing, her

mother's harsh remark be forget. every disagreeable feeling

pass away in the sunshine of his presence. she only bent, in grateful

acknowledgment, to the being who have commit her infancy to her

father's care, to receive his wise admonition, and be caution to

renounce the fearful dictate of ambition. Christobelle see how it have

lure its victim to woe. she know it have destroy the happiness of

Julia--that it have aim the death-blow to Clara--that it have work

desolation upon her mother. every one who drink of the cup which a

reckless ambition present to their lip have taste a deadly poison,

which slowly and surely produce desolation of heart. Christobelle feel

she have be spare. she have not be overwhelm by its cold precept:

she have receive strength to endure oppression, and have not barter

peace of mind for the empty glare of worldly distinction. Christobelle

be indeed grateful, as she ponder these thing in her mind.



Lady Ennismore be call to a less fortunate destiny. her spirit

be break by the continual and ruthless observation which be

shower upon she by her irritable parent, under the pressure of time

unemployed, and the total failure of resource. Lady Wetheral's mind

turn to the past, for material to employ her weakened energy;

and the past could only give back harass recollection. such

recollection produce a constant state of irritation, which be

hurtful to herself, and intolerable to those around she. Wetheral

Castle appear the grave of every hope, and the "_oubliette_" to

rational, tranquil comfort. the heart of Lady Ennismore be depress

beyond recall, by continued and unsuccessful effort to appear cheerful

under accumulate suffering. it be impossible to give satisfaction to

an exact and imperious mother. she could only weep in privacy, and

pray to be "lay by Clara."



Mrs. Spottiswoode be unwearied in her kind visit during Lady

Wetheral's illness. the Penelope of former day be the same attach

friend at the present hour; and Lady Ennismore feel how blessed be the

possession of a gentle heart, which have clung to she through good and

evil report--which never exact selfish sacrifice, or shrink from the

task of endure much, to soften the distress of an uncomplaine

spirit. Mrs. Spottiswoode bear the petulant remark of Lady Wetheral

with patient good-humour. if the "blood of the Wycherlys" rise

occasionally into her cheek, and latent fire sparkle in her eye,

the door of her lip be hermetically seal, and she never resent

the offensive petulance of a defeated and angry manœuvrer. her only

desire aim at ward off for a few hour the painful observation

which must otherwise have be level at two unoffending object.



Lady Wetheral do not object to receive Mrs. Spottiswoode. however

strongly her character approximate to that of her aunt Pynsent in its

outline, her manner be less abrupt, and her temper more yielding.

Mrs. Spottiswoode have also "creep in" so silently and regularly, that

a visit every other day be consider a thing of course; and if Lady

Wetheral have any thing particularly disagreeable or offensive to say,

she contrive to say it to Mrs. Spottiswoode. Mrs. Spottiswoode bore

every thing with smile: she know it spare the feeling of her own

friend--the suffering, the injured, and dependent Julia.



Lady Wetheral confine herself entirely to her apartment, and

decline all society. she derive no satisfaction from the visit of

friend, whom she be sure come on purpose to deride her sorrow. she

particularly command to be deny to Mrs. Pynsent. she tell Mrs.

Spottiswoode it be unpleasant to be restrict from communion with her

neighbour, but she must be aware her aunt Pynsent be inadmissable

from her loud tone of voice, and uncouth way of blurt out offensive

remark. her aunt be a misery in a sick room, and she only wonder

how Clara could endure it, to the exclusion of the mother who have

promote her marriage, and endure so much to effect it.



Lady Wetheral also confide to Mrs. Spottiswoode her opinion upon

Christobelle's folly.



"your brother, Mrs. Spottiswoode, be a very gentlemanly man, but a poor

baronet be a sad match for Bell--I will never lend myself to it. I know

Sir John allow he to visit here, and Bell be engage to he in some

way or other, I dare say. perhaps they be wait for my death? Bell

refuse a dukedom, and be content to accept a Worcestershire baronet!

can you believe any thing so degrading?--and waiting, too, for her

poor mother's death! this be very dreadful! how can I look any of my

neighbour in the face? I be tell Lord Farnborough be go to marry

Fanny Ponsonby: it serve Bell quite right, and I hope she will feel

it severely. a pleasant sight it will be to see the forfar equipage

dash by, while Bell be only a poor baronet's wife in a britzska. I

cannot endure such thought. Bevan, where be my salt?"



"but, my dear Lady Wetheral, if my brother make Christobelle happy,

and if he indulge she with all the comfort of life, what more can a

human being require?"



Lady Wetheral shudder.



"the comfort of life! bread and cheese to eat, and a stuff gown and

straw bonnet to wear--be this the vulgar and popular idea of existence?

you, Penelope, have marry into the family, and be justify in

uphold it, but I will never see Bell, if she can endure degradation!

my health be sacrifice to outraged feeling! Lady Ennismore, if it

be not too much trouble, will you be so considerate as to move this

cushion a little high. your ladyship have have little practice, I

fancy, in the nursing department: it never occur to you how much I be

suffer."



Lady Ennismore silently adjust the cushion, but the allusion to

her banishment from her lord's sick room, renew the grief of her

heart: tear spring to her patient, expressive eye. this could not be

overlook by Penelope Spottiswoode.



"Lady Wetheral, I demand, and insist upon the necessity of Lady

Ennismore's removal for a few day to Lidham. I must not allow you

all to waste away in witness each other's depression. Christobelle

and Sir John will take Julia's place, while I run away with my friend

this very morning. I shall not return to Lidham till you be ready to

accompany I, Julia."



there be "a Pynsent tone" in Mrs. Spottiswoode's speech, which Lady

Wetheral feel unable to contend against: her ladyship detest that

_hatton_ expression of voice. she reply languidly, with an injure

and offended air,



"pray do as you please, Mrs. Spottiswoode. every one have do, and, I

suppose, _will_ do, as they please with I. I be too feeble to resist

violent resolution. I beg to decline have any one force upon I.

Lady Ennismore have renounce control of any kind, and, of course,

she will continue to act as she think proper, without consult

her mother. Sir John and Christobelle, I suppose, will visit I,

without be 'offer.' I conclude my family will relieve my solitude

voluntarily, though I be consider of secondary importance. Bevan,

where be my pocket-handkerchief?"



"in your hand, my lady."



"oh, very well. I wish I be equally blind to more distressing

annoyance. I wish I could lose sight as easily of other thing."



Mrs. Spottiswoode turn a resolutely deaf ear to all covert attack.

it be imperative, in her opinion, to withdraw Lady Ennismore to

Lidham, and the harsh conduct of Lady Wetheral only rivet she

resolution. Sir John concur in her view. he be aware his daughter

endure much, and he wish she to be remove altogether from a scene

so destructive to her peace. it be impossible to hope Julia could ever

regain tranquillity, when the wound of her heart be tear open by

daily and hourly invective. Christobelle and himself would attend the

querulous invalid, in patient hope that time would soften the asperity

proceed from a diseased mind, but he see the absolute necessity of

withdraw Lady Ennismore from her attendance. Sir John Wetheral

hope she would remain a long season in the society and hospitality of

Lidham.



yet Julia quit her father with great reluctance. she know she

sister be happy, and support by the occasional visit of Sir John

Spottiswoode. her heart be occupy by a powerful attachment, and

sorrow have not throw a mantle of gloom over _her_ young vision yet.

her affection be bless by a father's approval, and the smile of

rejoice friend; yes, Christobelle could contemplate her futurity

fearlessly--but who would, or could, pour balm upon her father's

solitary hour? his study be still a sanctuary, but he carry into

its precinct a disturbed and heavy spirit. Julia could not bear the

idea of quit her father.



Mrs. Spottiswoode smooth every thought which could ruffle her

friend's equanimity, and plane away all difficulty. she unburden

her mind to the four friend who surround she, as she hastily partook

of sandwich.



"my dear Sir John, I have achieve a scheme, which will set my

Julia's heart at rest, and your, too. I counsel you to keep the

'poor Worcestershire baronet' at Wetheral, till happy time arrive.

why should not he bear some share of the evil, when the good be

before he? and by his sparkling eye, and intelligent glance at

Christobelle, I judge he be willing to undertake the task. this be

my advice, as far as concern _yourself_; now for my brother-in-law:

listen, young man, and be guide! I counsel you to be gentle mannered,

and prompt in action, as I have be. _Creep in_, as I have do;

and bear all irritate remark, as I have bear they. learn to be

enduring, patient, and silent, and I will undertake to promise you

sufficient success. who undertake to refute my word?"



Mrs. Spottiswoode look round at her auditor, but there be no

refutation. Sir John Spottiswoode alone reply, and he only speak his

eager wish to assist in tranquillizing Lady Wetheral's objection

to his suit. he would wait in patience and persevere attention, to

attain that bless reward of his labour, if it be require, even for

year.



"six month will do, John, if you be politic. Sir John Wetheral, pray

lead Lady Ennismore to my carriage, and I will follow, after a few

word in a corner with my brother."



Sir John lead out his daughter, while Christobelle clung to her sister's

hand. she be go to lose she for an indefinite period, and she

should miss her gentle voice and affectionate smile. Spottiswoode would

be with she, and she could not but own his society be a charm to

balance a thousand ill. nevertheless, she must miss Julia every hour.

she would have the satisfaction, however, of know how much she would

be prize by Mr. and Mrs. Spottiswoode.



Mrs. Spottiswoode do not long detain her friend. her word be few,

and decisive.



"John, that unhappy woman be as mad as a March hare. I never can

believe she sane, therefore, I bear with she. let her abuse you and

your friend; and allow she to speak whatever she think of aunty

Pynsent, and I be sure you will become necessary to she. her manner

be so completely change, that I be confident she be derange, and it

be no use quarrel with mad people."



"it be an extraordinary method of make oneself acceptable, Penelope.

I be not sure I can endure to hear my friend abuse, but I will

endeavour to be pleasing, and you may be sure I shall 'creep in' after

Christobelle. once fairly admit into the invalid's room, you need

not fear my second dismissal."



"very well, I have no more to say, then. I will not relinquish Julia,

as long as I can prevail upon she to remain at Lidham. she be endure

too much for human nature to bear. farewell." Mrs. Spottiswoode then

join her friend.



Sir John Wetheral press Mrs. Spottiswoode's hand, as he assist she

into the carriage. "accept," he say, "the grateful thank of a father

for this kind and thoughtful step. may _you_ never be call to sorrow

which your warm heart be seek to alleviate in your friend!"



Mrs. Spottiswoode return the pressure.



"I do not ask you to come to we very often, because I know you cannot

exist long from Julia; but be sure you always bring good news with you

from Wetheral. God bless you all!"









CHAPTER XXXII.





Lady Ennismore recover some degree of tranquillity under the soothe

influence of her friend, who congregate round she at Lidham, but

her spirit never recover their tone of elasticity. she meet the

Pynsents with severe distress, and struggle visibly for fortitude,

as recollection of the past crowd to memory; but when that fearful

interview be once effect, Anna Maria's society be productive of

much good. Tom Pynsent be unchanged; he be the same excellent and

honourable creature: he be an affectionate and value husband; they

appear to be, and be, the happy couple in the world. no wonder

Anna Maria look young and handsomer than ever. her heart be at

rest. how warmly have her father speak of Tom Pynsent's good quality.

alas! _she_ have prefer splendid misery, and be now reap a

harvest of woe. she would not, dare not, think too deeply.



Lady Ennismore could contemplate Mrs. Boscawen with unmixed

satisfaction. she be change in person, and improve in manner. Mr.

Boscawen be proud of his lady; and how could he help it, since he be,

in her eye, the good and handsome of create being? it must be a

new and delightful existence to the once alarming, grim-look, though

excellent, Mr. Boscawen.



the sight and sound of those she love be of important benefit to

Lady Ennismore. the accent of affection, the voice of mirth, the form

of her long banish friend glide before she, rouse her dormant

energy, and awaken she to the joy of life. she pay short visit

to Hatton and Brierly, to see her nephew and niece; and, though her

lip never utter a remark, Mrs. Spottiswoode fancy she more languid

and pale after her brief absence. Doubtless, the "rural sport" at both

place be too powerful for her weakened frame and shattered nerve.



Lady Ennismore continue three month with Mrs. Spottiswoode. Sir

John Wetheral bring a bulletin daily of his lady' health, and

each account be less favourable in its purport. Christobelle write

despondingly upon the subject to her sister. she regret to say

her poor Spottiswoode fail in all his patient exertion to win her

mother's approbation. she be happy to think there be no cause of

complaint against he of any serious nature. his crime consist in

having step in between her poor mother's ambition and a dukedom; and

this would ever be unpardonable in her eye. her mother be relentless

towards Spottiswoode. she would not pronounce his name, or receive a

message from he. she only allude to he as the "poor baronet," or

"the man whom Sir John uphold." it be vain to hope against hope. her

mother's dislike grow more powerful as her strength decline, and it

would end only in the grave. her mother receive no one; she appear

to have renounce society, and her movement be exclusively confine

to her own range of apartment. Mrs. Daniel Higgins be admit

frequently, because she have be the depository of her lady's secret

in day of yore, and be now a patient listener to her regret; but,

beyond that, all be silent at Wetheral. Christobelle consider she

father in much well spirit. he have become apparently reconcile to

her mother's change of habit; and he be more cheerful, more call

forth, she think, than when her mother be the dominant spirit. it

might be that his mind be at rest concern his child; that he be

no long dread plot and system, and be gratify by the constant

society of Spottiswoode, who be so attentive and companionable to

he. she could not tell, but so it be. she be distressed to think

they be so happy together, when her poor mother's situation be so

cheerless, and her health so visibly decline!



such be the tenor of Christobelle's communication to Lidham, and they

renew Lady Ennismore's anxiety to return to Wetheral. she long to

relieve Christobelle from some portion of her fatigue; and, above

all, her spirit fly back to her father. she could never sufficiently

value his parental anxiety, or the protection he be afford her

sorrow. a father's presence be a shield from every worldly blast; and

the perfect seclusion of Wetheral Castle suit well with her present

state. Lidham be almost too gay, though she only meet look and word

of kindness and approbation. it be time that Christobelle should

also enjoy a period of happy communion with Sir John Spottiswoode;

and that period could not arrive, unless some one assume the rein

in her place, and bear the disagreeable of the nursing department.

Mrs. Spottiswoode's good sense acquiesce entirely in Lady Ennismore's

reasoning.



"my dear friend, _you_ be perfectly right, and _i_ be only perfectly

sorry to lose you. I anticipate much comfort in the present state of

thing, however dismally Christobelle represent they. you will all be

happy at Wetheral, and I shall see your face beam with smile, in

spite of Lady Wetheral's monastic retirement. don't look distressed,

Julia; I be go to explain myself."



"my mother have receive an incurable wound, Penelope!"



"I know that. Lady Wetheral have receive an incurable wound in her

ambition, and that have close her hope and pleasure on this side the

grave. she have no child to plan for--not one now to sacrifice. all be

end which employ her mind, and feed the craving passion of her soul.

her resource be cut off, and she will never more resume her position

in society. be it not wisely order? if Lady Wetheral recover her

health, would she not be scheme for her grandchild, and pour

her besetting foible into their innocent mind? my dear Julia, enough

misery have be originate. let it end here. let we not wish it

otherwise."



Lady Ennismore could not refute her friend's argument. Mrs.

Spottiswoode continue.



"Wetheral Castle will never, perhaps, resume its festive scene, for

there have be too much of evil connect with their remembrance;

but you will enjoy profound peace of heart, and receive your friend

without alarm. if Lady Wetheral remain seclude in her apartment,

there be no reason why the rest of the family should not enjoy

themselves: forgive I if I say it will prove _true_ enjoyment."



Mrs. Spottiswoode speak truly. Wetheral Castle do become a home

of domestic peace, because its restless mistress no long wield

the sceptre of power, to transform the element of good into the

instrument of evil. Lady Wetheral sink into ill health and apathy,

irrecoverable. her mind and body seem stunned into torpor, by two

event which she have not foresee, and could not parry--the refusal of

a dukedom by Christobelle, and the flight of Lady Ennismore from her

home. these two event be ever upon her thought, and in her speech,

because "she have particularly arrange each splendid match, and be

doom to be foil by her own child in their accomplishment. she

know her energy be wear down, and her strength exhaust. she

could not walk three step from her sofa without fatigue, and the

least noise produce severe nervous attack. she be a pretty speciman

of maternal care! she advise all parent to allow their headstrong

daughter to marry whoever would encumber themselves with they; for

marry they would, and it be hopeless to endeavour to lead their taste

in a proper channel. she expect Mrs. Higgins would let _she_ little

girl grow up in insubordination, and the child would most likely marry

a bricklayer, instead of look up to a man in a well establish

grocery-business. she detest mean mind."



Lord Ennismore and his mother, the Dowager-countess, appear again

at Bedinfield. her ladyship's point be gain. she have recover

entire control over the destiny of Bedinfield, free from continual

alarm, lest her son should escape her powerful influence, and become

infatuate by the loveliness and yield disposition of his gentle

wife. but she do not long enjoy the fruit of her unnatural conduct.

Ere a year have elapse after the separation record, Lord Ennismore

sink into the family vault at Bedinfield, unwept and unhonoured, save

by the generous-hearted creature whom he have not the capacity to

appreciate.



when Lady Ennismore receive the information of her unfortunate lord's

decease, she weep to think how desolate have be the existence of

a human being, bear to become the tool and victim of his mother's

insatiable love of power; and she weep to remember he have die without

the consolation of be watch over by a wife, who would have act

honourably and faithfully in her duty.



Sir John Wetheral also suffer. he feel a conviction that his own want

of firmness have foster his lady's ambitious turn of mind; and he

dwelt upon the melancholy idea that his own hand have bestow, however

unwillingly--that his consent have be extort, however painful to

himself--to give a beloved child to the imbecile Lord Ennismore. it

be a thought he never could banish from his memory, and it pain he

most when Julia's society become his great comfort. it be, however,

vain to regret the past. Sir John's mild nature be unequal to contend

with the persevere system adopt by his lady, and he could never

comprehend or combat effectually her uncease effort to forward

her view upon the mind of her child. the Gertrude of his early

affection be now sever from his companionship, and he turn to

Julia, to receive from her hand the care and attention necessary to

his future comfort.



Lady Ennismore fully requite her parent's hope. she seek no society

beyond her own family, and the little circle of friend who have ever

value her affectionate heart. Mrs. Spottiswoode, the friend and

beloved companion--that solace to earthly tribulation--that gift

tender to few--be near she. Hatton be a home of affection, and

Brierly throw open its portal with triumph at her approach. all

have respect and honour the hapless wife, and all surround the

release widow in silent gratulation. Mrs. Pynsent publicly declare

"it be a deep trick of that woman Ennismore, whom she never could

endure; and if the poor young Julia Wetheral have not fall into

the hand of two she-Philistines, she never would have marry that

sickly little chap, whom the mother lead about by the nose. some thing

which should be nameless be already come to pass, and she hope Old

Nick would fly away with all manœuvre mother. a certain lady

be shorn of her beam, who expect to command the world; and after

brandish her arm, and catch all the prime match up, she be

cut down into a mighty small space, with an evil conscience to chat

with. if Lady Ennismore would be advise, she should counsel she to

change her name and title, by marry a comfortable Shropshire lad.

there be plenty unprovide for."



but Lady Ennismore decline all thought of marriage, and devote

herself to the comfort of her parent. Colonel Neville write, at

the expiration of her mourning, and he lay claim to her compassion,

in consideration of the patience and constancy which have accompany

his involuntary and fervent attachment. he have condemn himself to a

perpetual banishment, even from the country which she inhabit. but

now that the bar be withdraw, the hour of disclosure be arrive,

and Julia must have respect the love which consume he. she could

bear witness that he have never breathe an unhallowed sentiment, or

endeavour to take advantage of her situation, during their long and

constant association in Florence.



Julia sigh as she read the declaration of Neville, but her heart

renounce a second engagement. "no," she write in reply to her lover's

epistle--"no, my heart have suffer too much disquietude to enter upon

fresh tie. I feel a calmness and consolation in watch over my

father's comfort, and take charge of my stricken mother, which my

married life deny I. that portion of my existence be a period of

deep misery, and it have break down my hope and my spirit. be happy,

Neville, with a woman who have not be call to suffering, and forget

one who will never more trust in man, or in herself. I will not give

hope, for you do not deserve to be treat lightly, and I cannot now

meet your wish. may I soon hear you have meet with a woman deserve

your esteem, and that your day be devoted to her happiness. my own

day be consecrate to the father whose counsel I would not heed, and

who have suffer so much through my obstinate folly."



and what shall be say of Christobelle? her portion be not the cup

of bitterness, though her patience be severely test. Lady Wetheral

become indifferent to all pass event so gradually, and her mind

dwelt so little upon any thing unconnected with her own ease and

immediate gratification, that Mrs. Daniel Higgins adventure to touch

lightly upon the subject, during one of her visit.



"I be happy, my lady, to be hear of Miss Chrystal's likelihood, at

last, to marry Sir John Spottiswoode. Higgins think it a very pretty

match, and he have visit Alverton more than once, and admire the

place extremely. for ever and a day!--to think of Miss Chrystal's turn

be come!"



"I know nothing about it, Thompson, and I don't care. the

Worcestershire man shall never enter _my_ room, though he be quite good

enough for a young lady who refuse a dukedom. if Julia would attract

the old Duke of Forfar, now she be at liberty, I should still recover

my health; but I be lay on the shelf. no one care about my health.

Lady Ennismore might easily win his grace; only, I dare say, she would

run away from he, as she do from Lord Ennismore."



Christobelle marry Sir John Spottiswoode soon after Lady Wetheral's

assurance to Mrs. Higgins that she "do not care" about the affair, and

no one apprise her ladyship of the actual solemnization. she never

ask who be the "Lady Spottiswoode" whom people talk so much

about, and always address she by the title of Miss Wetheral.



do Christobelle ever repent her refusal of a dukedom, or experience

a repentant feeling that she have give her whole heart to the husband

of her choice? no. life bring too many care to allow of perfect

enjoyment upon earth, but Christobelle never regret the vow she

pay at the altar: she never regret the hour when she become the

bride of Spottiswoode, and exchange Wetheral Castle for the tranquil

grove of Alverton.





  the END.





  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, HAYMARKET.

  printer to H.R.H. PRINCE ALBERT.









  LATELY publish

  by the AUTHOR of "the MANŒUVRING MOTHER,"

  the history of a FLIRT,

  relate by HERSELF.

  the SECOND EDITION, in three vols.



 "among the good novel of its kind for many year give to the world

 by the English press."--_Athenæum_.



 "a capital novel."--_Weekly chronicle_.



 "an admirable novel."--_Dispatch_.



 "no thoughtless or giddy woman can rise from the perusal of this

 useful and agreeable work, without feel that it must be her own

 fault if the lesson it inculcate be throw away."--_Morning Post_.





  also, now ready,



  LADY ANNE GRANARD;

  or,

  keep up appearance.



  a novel.



  by L. E. L.,



  authoress of "Ethel Churchill," "the improvisatrice," &c.

  3 vol.









TRANSCRIBER'S note:



obvious printer error have be correct. otherwise, the author's

original spelling, punctuation and hyphenation have be leave intact.











end of Project Gutenberg's The Manoeuvring Mother, by Charlotte Campbell Bury







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 3 of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





