The project Gutenberg eBook of the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 1 of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 1 of 3)



author: Lady Charlotte Campbell Bury



Release date: January 25, 2018 [ebook #56433]



language: English



credit: produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image generously make available by the

        Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 1 of 3) ***









produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online distribute

Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

produce from image generously make available by the

Internet Archive)



















  the

  MANŒUVRING MOTHER.





  by the AUTHOR of

  "the history of a FLIRT."





  in three VOLUMES.



  VOL. I.







  LONDON:

  HENRY COLBURN, PUBLISHER,

  GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.



  1842.









  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, haymarket,

  printer to H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT.









the MANŒUVRING MOTHER.









CHAPTER I.





Sir John and Lady Wetheral be bless with four fine little girl,

who promise to be all the fond heart of a parent could wish; for,

as her ladyship observe with pride, "their form be perfect, and

their feature be faultless." there be no exuberance of shape to

rectify, there be no limb distort, and, above all, there be no

thick ankle, or dumpy-look hand to shock a refined taste. the

four girl be sprightly, lovely little being, who would in due

time create an immense sensation, and ultimately form connexion with

nobleman, or with "county king," which be even more desirable. Sir

Watkin Williams Wynn be consider "Prince of Wales," and there be

one or two gentleman who might claim the title of King of Shropshire,

if immense property confer that title. the Miss Wetherals be

bear distinguished looking, and their career would be triumphant.

Lady Wetheral love also an even number; _four_ daughter be not

too alarming: five or three would have be an indefinite half-vulgar

fraction. her ladyship hate any thing vulgar.



but event be not in our own hand; and the system we prepare and

digest with patient calculation be overturn in one luckless moment

by unforeseen circumstance. Lady Wetheral have scarcely decide in

her own mind, that five daughter be an indefinite vulgarity, when

another helpless innocent appear to crush her hope, and disturb she

tranquillity. this be, indeed, a blow. all fear of increase her

family have pass from Lady Wetheral's mind so completely, that it be

an overpowering disappointment. five year have steal away since the

birth of Clara, and now to recommence the trouble and misery of

nursing, with an uncertain vista before she! suppose she have twelve?

suppose she have fifteen? suppose she have five-and-twenty? where might

all this end? how very provoking and vexatious!



Lady Wetheral feel it be vain to utter lamentation: she must lie

up, and take care of herself, and avoid the child's noise, and

do exactly as she have do before under the same affliction. it

_might_ prove an heir. if so, her ladyship would not complain: a son

would secure the entail property, and keep up the family name and

honour. the name of Wetheral would be extinguish, unless a son

resume the honourable title after poor Sir John be go, and a fine

aristocratic-look boy range through the castle would be a proud

sight, certainly. he might marry a duke's heiress. yes, a magnificent

boy _would_ be welcome.



nothing could exceed Lady Wetheral's chagrin at give birth in due

time to a daughter. her anger be scarcely repress by her command of

temper, or by the lecture of her unworldly husband. Lady Wetheral

love her husband with the utmost propriety, too, and never act

in decide opposition to his express wish, but she turn in

disgust from his argument, and generally contrive to manœuvre

his good nature into an unwilling approval of her plan, by uncease

fluency, and a code of principle, which bewilder and silence he.

Sir John Wetheral only endure the fate of many husband, who be

link with "remarkably chatty clever woman:" he object, demurred,

and gradually yield to view which he disapprove, but could never

successfully combat. his first visit to his lady's chamber, after the

unwelcome little stranger's appearance upon the stage of life, be

characteristic, and display the principle which influence the heart

and conduct of each parent.



"well, Sir John, shake hand, love; but we need not congratulate each

other. I do hope a son might have repay I for all this annoyance,

but here be another wretched girl, and the little animal look

determined to live."



"glad of it, Gertrude," and Sir John Wetheral stroke its little cheek

gently and fondly.



"how can you say so, my love! I have make arrangement for my four

girl, which have comfortably and completely satisfied my mind, but this

child be an excrescence, which destroy my comfort entirely."



"include she in your arrangement, my dear."



"Nonsense, Sir John! Anna Maria will be out in five year, and I have

arrange that she shall marry Tom Pynsent."



"Tom devil!" cry Sir John Wetheral, impatiently.



Lady Wetheral possess the enviable faculty of become deaf to

observation and epithet, which do not harmonize with her opinion.

she do not, therefore, hear her husband's exclamation, but proceed

in a languid tone of voice.



"Isabel I have resolve to give in proper time to Charles Bligh, who

will be a baronet when she appear in public, for I be sure old Sir

Charles be dropsical; and, if that poor sickly Lord Ennismore live to

come of age, he will do for Julia. Clara be a handsome girl, and I

look very high for _her_, but I never dream of have another plague

upon my hand. I quite make up my mind it be to be a son, and this

unlooked-for disappointment worry I to death."



"you be always calculate, Gertrude. you be always sketch out

folly, and scheme plan for future mortification. who the deuce would

talk of Tom Pynsent, who be just send off to school, or of Charles

Bligh, whom we have never see, or of Lord Ennismore, who cann't live

a twelvemonth, and of poor Clara, who be destine for the man in the

moon! prove yourself a good wife and mother, my dear, and leave the

child's destiny to develop themselves as God please."



"you man, my love, be very indolent, and always trust to casualitie:

I never do."



"how the deuce be you to catch Tom Pynsent, Gertrude? if you lady

begin intrigue so early----."



Lady Wetheral wave her hand languidly. "don't express yourself so

coarsely, my love."



"your manner be refine, I confess," answer her husband, smile,

"but your matter be equally coarse with the speech you deprecate: you

be already appropriate your child, without consider their

affection, or the character of the boy you be design for they so

placidly. as far as I can judge, Tom Pynsent be a blackguard."



"never mind that, my love: boy and man be very different being. my

arrangement be complete on the score of my four daughter' ultimate

success, but this unfortunate child be a bar sinister. her birth will

lessen my girl' fortune."



"she shall be my own child, and my own care," return Sir John

Wetheral.



"by all mean, love, and a pretty mess you will make of it: I dare say

she will be a 'Jack,' or a very decide young lady, as all girl be

who be pet by father; but my daughter will be dispose of before

she quit the nursery, therefore, her example will not influence their

character."



"what be her name to be?" ask Sir John, as he fondle the infant in

his arm, and kiss its cheek.



"call she what you please, Sir John; she be to be your care now, not

mine. if you think a name necessary, let it be your own choice."



"then I name her Christobel, after my good old aunt, Gertrude."



"a delightful name, my love, and after an excellent model. Christobel

be a heavenly-minded, frightful old maid, and your fifth daughter may

resemble she in every respect."



"let it be so. my aunt be a woman of strong affection, and of

powerful ability, and, if this child possess half her excellence,

she will be a treasure to I in my old age."



"I dare say she will be a great comfort to you, love," say Lady

Wetheral, in a sleepy tone, "but, suppose the nurse be summon for

Miss Christobel--I be inclined to sleep."



the child be soon take from Lady Wetheral's arm, and consign to

the distant apartment which constitute the nursery. Sir John also rise

to depart, but his lady's languid voice detain he.



"Sir John!"



"yes, dear."



"I think I shall require change of air after all this."



"certainly; where would you like to move? shall we go to the sea-side?"



"no, love, the sea air be too keen; but I half promise the Tyndals to

pay they a visit after my confinement."



"the infant will inconvenience they in their present house, Gertrude."



"I do not mean to take the infant, Sir John, on that account; besides,

my night would be dreadfully disturb; no, I shall leave Christobel

with you, love, and only take Anna Maria with I for a fortnight."



"I be not include in your 'arrangement', then?"



"my love, you know I require great quiet, and at the Tyndals every

thing be so agreeably methodical and peaceful, I shall recover my

strength quickly; then, you know, dear, the pynsent live within a

short drive; I shall, perhaps, see a great deal of the pynsent."



"that will be a nuisance, certainly, as you do not like Mrs. Pynsent,

but you will not be disturb by her frequent visit, for the

disinclination be mutual."



"you be so obtuse, love. I be go to the Tyndals on purpose to

renew my acquaintance with Mrs. Pynsent, and I trust we shall be very

intimate."



"what, with the woman you denounce as vulgar, and contradictory?"



"I have argue these thing with you, Sir John, till my patience be

nearly exhausted, and you be still benight on a subject so closely

interweave with my happiness. I tell you I be go on purpose to

effect a scheme, and I take Anna Maria with I, to prepossess Mrs.

Pynsent in her favour."



"and what the deuce, Gertrude, make you wish to prepossess a woman so

disagreeable as you describe Mrs. Pynsent to be? why cann't you keep

away?"



"my love, I tell you Anna Maria be destine for Tom."



"and what have Tom to do with his mother? he be at Eton. you have well

take lodging near Eton, if you want to catch Tom."



"I can argue with you no more, Sir John. your idea be so very

limited, it be impossible to graft a plan upon they. it be well your

daughter have a mother who be anxious to establish they in life, since

their father would effect nothing. if I be on my death-bed, my last

hour would be horrify by vision of my daughter' pair off with

curate or lieutenant."



"and pray, where do you look for future bishop and wellington, but

among curate and lieutenant?" cry Sir John, warmly.



"indeed, Sir John, you make I sick with your levelling principle,"

retort Lady Wetheral, rise in her bed; "my health be far from

strong; you have give I a severe headache, and I do request you

will never again breathe the word 'curate;' it put such wretched

thought into my mind. Fancy Anna Maria shuffle after a fat country

curate, smell of onion, and bawl at a row of charity-child!

or, Julia marry to your friend Leslie, hand her basket upon a

baggage-waggon! pray, my love, send Thompson to I with some tea, and

never let this disagreeable subject be renew between we. I think I be

very poorly."



Sir John be long habituate to resign his opinion when they affect

his lady's health; and, on this occasion, he renounce they with his

usual good humour.



"well, Gertrude, get rid of your ache and pain, and you shall become

intimate with Mrs. Pynsent, and catch her son Tom, if it will give you

pleasure. I don't like to see you nervous and ill."



"and my love," continue her ladyship, who see the happy moment be

attain for enforce her wish, "do not use that very coarse

expression 'catch.' you always tell I I be resolve to 'catch' Tom

Pynsent. I do not like the word."



"but you say, Gertrude, you mean to give he to Anna Maria; surely you

must catch he first."



"we ought never to express ourselves coarsely, my love. I certainly

do mean to make Tom my son-in-law, but I have no intention of seize

his person. I do not think _you_ be roughly handle but my mother

decide upon your become my husband long before you address I."



"she do, do she?"



"to be sure, and you fall into the snare as agreeably as Pynsent will

walk into mine. my mother always say that man be puppet if we

conceal the wire, and I believe she be right."



Sir John hum an opera air, and withdraw. Lady Wetheral sink into

pleasing meditation, and be rouse by Thompson appear with a

salver, bear its delicate porcelain. Thompson be instantly under

order.



"I will not drink my tea strong, Thompson, that will do. how be Miss

Anna Maria's hand? do you use the almond-paste every evening?"



"oh yes, my lady, and she wear her thick veil double over her face

when she take the air."



"very well. I be go to Court Herbert, as soon as I can quit the

house with propriety, and I mean to take my eld daughter with I;

therefore, Thompson, I wish she to look well, and during this cold

weather I wish she to remain altogether in the nursery; the wind will

give she that blue look which I cannot endure. then I wish she not to

cry much, which always destroy the complexion; so do not let she fight

about with her sister, but amuse she in your room."



"yes, my lady."



"let she lie down two or three hour every day, Thompson, for it

make a girl grow straight, and let her dine upon chicken only. don't

vulgarise she with nasty brown meat."



"yes, my lady."



"and see, Thompson, that Miss Anna Maria keep on her glove, and don't

allow she to jump and play about. I particularly wish she to look

delicate and ladylike at Court Herbert."



"oh yes, my lady; and then Hatton be so near, perhaps she will see

Master Pynsent."



"all in good time, Thompson. I think I have something more to say--oh,

don't let she drink large draught of any thing, it swell the stomach;

and keep she in your room altogether, for she may learn odd word from

the nursery-maid, and that would distract I."



"I will remove she from the nursery immediately, my lady," reply the

obedient Thompson.



"there now, take every thing away, and keep the door shut, that I may

not hear the baby scream. I suppose the nurse be healthy, and all that,

Thompson?"



"I believe so, my lady."



"very well, I think I be go to sleep now, so do not come near I

till I ring."



Thompson depart with stealthy step, and close the scarlet baize

door which separate the nursery apartment from the wing which

contain her lady's boudoir and sleeping chamber; but no precaution

could deaden the pierce scream which issue from the unfortunate

Anna Maria during the operation of transplant her little person from

the pleasure of companionship to the desolate advantage of Thompson's

sit-room.



rage crimson every feature, and swell her little heart almost

to burst. in vain Thompson assure the angry girl how necessary

the translation would prove towards her future establishment--how

impossible it be for a young lady to succeed in after life if her

hand be purple, and her nose red, with give way to excessive

emotion. Anna Maria become more intractable, and her three sister

advocate her cause. there be an "emeute" in the nursery of Wetheral

Castle. Anna Maria scream violently, and the shrill sound be catch

up and perpetuate by her party. Thompson be at fault, but she try

to gain time by the protocol system.



"listen, my dear Miss Anna Maria, while I explain to you the system

your mamma wish you to pursue."



"I willn't listen!" scream Anna Maria.



"we willn't listen!" shout her supporter.



"then you will never marry Master Pynsent," cry Thompson, with

incautious indignation.



this threat raise the defiance of the whole group, and the tumult

became deafen. a bell ring violently.



"there, young lady!" exclaim Thompson, "now you will get into a

fine scrape!"



Lady Wetheral be scandalize at the rude sound which have penetrate

into her chamber, and Thompson's statement utterly confound she.



"I be sure, Thompson, I do not know how to make arrangement for

such conduct. I suppose they must have their own way, which be very

disagreeable, but you know I cannot produce Miss Anna Maria at Court

Herbert, with swell feature and a sulky face. let she do as she

like then, Thompson; we cann't help ourselves."



thus end the insurrection in Wetheral Castle, which even the infant

appear to enjoy, as it crow, and nearly kick itself out of she

nurse's arm, when the tumult be loud. she then predict it would

delight in stir sound, and become a fearless character.



this _emeute_ produce serious result, which Lady Wetheral have

not anticipate, but which ever succeed to power wield by weak

and unsteady hand. Miss Anna Maria become gradually dictator,

and maintain her opinion and determination with such unshaken

obstinacy, that her mother as gradually resign her will, and

submit to the imperious dictate of her eld daughter. her mind

be exclusively bent upon secure Tom Pynsent; and, in the anxious

hope of forward her plan, she suffer her power to depart into

other hand, and behold her own child form a strong party in

opposition to all her express opinion. she lament her weakness

when too late, to Thompson.



"the young lady, Thompson, put I quite on the shelf, and oppose I

in every thing. they will never marry properly. Anna Maria's hand be

not so white as they be when I could insist upon her wear glove;

and Julia's foot be get extremely broad. she will insist upon

walk in easy shoe. all my arrangement be useless; and it make I

miserable to find Sir John as lax as ever in his notion. what a thing

he will make of that ugly little christobel!"



"every one think, my lady, little Miss Chrissy will turn out a very

fine child," say poor Thompson, who detest the new dynasty.



"Nonsense, Thompson, don't tell I any thing call Christobel can be

decent-looking; and, as I do not attend to she, I be sure her hand

and foot will be unproducible, but I never trouble myself about it,

for she be Sir John's pet; and man's pet be always masculine, coarse

woman. perhaps, when Anna Maria be Mrs. Pynsent, she will introduce she

sister to somebody who may not object to a coarse kind of wife; but,

I confess, I have no hope for a young woman call Christobel, and

name, too, after a frightful spinster."



this latter conversation take place on the eve of Anna Maria's

introduction, five year subsequent to the rebellion which decide the

downfall of Lady Wetheral's power, and transfer the sceptre into the

hand of her child. the daily occurrence of the nursery be mark

by sameness; there be little to vary its routine. let we turn now to

the period when the life of the sister begin to take their colouring

from the sentiment of their parent, and to suffer the trial and

sorrow incidental to existence.









CHAPTER II.





the introduction of Miss Wetheral produce an immense sensation in

Wetheral Castle. nothing could exceed Lady Wetheral's delight in the

confusion of select become article of dress. how great be her

pride of heart, her smile of triumph, as she gaze upon Anna Maria in

her gay apparel, prepare for her first _entrée_ into public! yet, the

occasion be melancholy, and ill-suited to be the choose hour to launch

youth and beauty upon the ocean of life.



it be at an assize-ball, at Shrewsbury, then the metropolis of the

north midland county, where Miss Wetheral burst upon the astonished

sight. when the wretched felon, under sentence of death, lay

languish in his cell, await the approach hour of execution;

while the clergyman be speak hope to the soul, and lead the

despairing heart to rest for forgiveness on the mercy and suffering

of its redeemer; then do the iron which bind his trembling hand

vibrate to the roar of carriage which roll rapidly and furiously to

the scene of festivity. then do the neighbouring country pour forth

her high and lovely; and the moan of repentant sinner, on

the verge of ascend the scaffold, be forget in the brilliant

throng, and lose in the lively repartee, or well-turn compliment.



the assize-ball be then the arena for debutant; the one green spot

which decorate the dullness of a long twelvemonth; the hope, the

anxiety of hundred. that ill-judge hour for gaiety be now consign

to silence. the march of intellect have tread down _that_ unholy

practice, and give an outward semblance, at least, of well feeling.

it be assuredly well taste.



it be a proud moment when Anna Maria visit the nursery, to display

her first ball dress, and receive expression of wonder and delight

at her appearance. the sister break from their romp to examine the

ornament which glitter on her neck; and a row of maid-servant, who

be introduce into the nursery to see Miss Wetheral, curtsey in

profound admiration. she be indeed a creature to be gaze at. Isabel

receive an incurable wound upon her peace from the interview, and

never more return to her once happy game of puss in the corner.

Anna Maria be but one year her senior, yet she be dress in muslin

and satin, wear a diamond necklace, and have be to the assize-ball.

why could not she also partake in such delight? why be she to play

with her sister in the nursery, while Anna Maria be dance at

assize-ball?



Lady Wetheral try to argue Isabel into docility, but her mind could

not perceive the sense of her parent's reasoning. "my dear child, your

sister will soon marry, and then you will appear in her place. you know

nothing be so inconvenient as have two daughter out at the same

time. while gentleman be dispute which be the good looking, the

young lady lose their novelty, and cannot expect to marry well."



"but, mamma, I don't want to marry; I want to dance, and look as

handsomely-dress as Anna Maria do at the assize-ball."



"Nonsense, Isabel! you be as pertinacious as your father, and just

as blind. wait till your sister be marry, and she will introduce

you. perhaps next year may produce wonder; your sister be exceedingly

admire."



"so she _may_ be, while I be out. I shall not interfere with she, you

know, for I shall be dance all the time."



"I cannot argue with such a limited intellect as you appear to possess,

Isabel. I have make my arrangement, and cannot break through they.

you will appear when your sister be Mrs. Pynsent. Tom Pynsent be very

attentive to Anna Maria at the ball."



"then I'll beg Tom Pynsent to make haste, I declare!" exclaim Isabel.



"do not be vulgar and unladylike, Isabel, and promise I you will make

no coarse allusion to Tom Pynsent. I should be extremely shocked

at such a line of conduct. I do not absolutely say Anna Maria _will_

secure Tom, but I trust and hope such an event be in fruition; and if

so, you shall immediately be bring forward. two girl out at once be

folly."



Isabel be nothing daunt by her mother's objection; and she return

openly and constantly to the attack, which soon exhaust the few

efficient reason urge by her antagonist. an incident at once decide

the propriety of stop the mouth of an alarming witness, and put

an end to further discussion. Isabel be allow to descend into the

drawing-room, after Anna Maria's début, as Lady Wetheral observe

it would prove a judicious step towards give her manner its first

polish; and the transition from the nursery to the trial of society

would be less feel by a gradual initiation into its form.



Isabel be not to converse, or offer an opinion, upon any subject;

she be not in any wise to infringe upon her sister's prerogative, or

draw attention towards herself; but she be to observe silently the

propriety of life--to learn by close attention the observance, the

graceful bend of reception, the easy flow of local conversation, and

the thousand agreeable nothing comprise in receive company. upon

all this be Isabel to meditate; but no silly compliment offer by a

young man be to be understand or reply to by herself; no gracious

invitation be to be accept, no remark whatsoever be to induce she

to put herself forward. upon these hard term, Isabel be receive in

her mother's apartment; and she endure the sight of her "senior by

only one year," receive the crowd which frequent Wetheral Castle,

dress with elegance, admire, court, and surround with flattery

in all its proteus form.



Isabel long suffer the keen feeling of envy to war in her heart;

not envy towards Anna Maria, whom she equally admire and loved--but

envy of that state which she long ardently to partake. in one hapless

hour, Isabel forget her vow of silence, and speak, as most backward

young lady _will_ speak, when press beyond endurance, most rashly

and unadvisedly. Lady Spottiswoode and her daughter have be long

dilate on the forthcoming race, and the full ordinary and ball which

every one anticipate, when Miss Spottiswoode, turn to Isabel, ask

when they should have the pleasure of include she among the gay

young lady. Isabel, throw off her guard by the question, instantly

reply, colour with her earnest feelings--



"oh! Miss Spottiswoode, I hope I shall soon be out; but it depend

upon Anna Maria's marry Tom Pynsent." Lady Wetheral for one instant

completely lose her self-possession. Sir John laugh aloud. the

Spottiswoodes be too delicate to take notice of the remark. they rise

and examine some portfolio of print which lie upon the table, and

endeavour to change the current of thought, by again dwell upon

the ordinary and race-ball; but the shock be too severely feel to be

easily overcome. there be a painful silence, and the spottiswoode

kindly take their leave.



"there!" say Lady Wetheral, apply the vinaigrette to her nose,

"Lady Spottiswoode be go to report my arrangement to the world,

and Isabel's stupid folly have occasion it. do I not insist upon she

silence?"



"you should have teach your girl discretion, Gertrude," reply

Sir John, "by be discreet yourself. why do you commit your

arrangement, as you call they, to the keeping of a child who be

suffer under they? you should teach they to practise the art of

speak, before you thrust your child headlong from the nursery

into company. you be rightly serve: this will prevent all future

mistake."



"you may say what you please, Sir John; I cannot exhaust myself by

argue with such very limited idea. I be very ill, and extremely

shock at Isabel's conduct: pray let she attend the race-ball, or do

what she like: I be unequal to combat determined obstinacy."



"may I go to the race-ball, then? shall I go out with Anna Maria,

and see she admire, and dance myself for hour together?" exclaim

Isabel, throw herself on her knee in a transport.



"go just where you like," reply her mother, languidly; "you will be

stupid and vulgar whenever you emerge, therefore time or place be a

matter of little moment. take your own way, for my authority be quite

set aside."



up rise Isabel, attentive only to the word which pronounce she

release, and, bound round the room, careless of remark, she rush

upstairs to make known her triumph.



"Thompson, Thompson! I be go to the race-ball in July. I be to go

out with Anna Maria, and dance like mad! here go!"



and Isabel begin dance round the nursery in the wild spirit,

imitating, to the good of her ability, Anna Maria's elegant manner and

step.



thus be Lady Wetheral a second time defeat in the near wish

of her heart; but her resentment only extend to keep she bed

for two day, during which she complain to Thompson of illness and

excessively shocked feeling. on the third day, she be eagerly and

agreeably employ in select a proper wardrobe for Isabel.



there could not be a more striking contrast than that which be

display in the person and manner of the two elder sister, and

their effect upon society be equally distinct. Anna Maria conceal

an irritable temper under an exterior peculiarly elegant, and manner

strikingly gentle and fascinating: her popularity, therefore, be

great, and her step attend by admirer of both sex, who be

draw towards she by the force of extreme sweetness of manner. all

man toast the lovely Miss Wetheral, and all woman confess she

be agreeable as she be charming, yet Anna Maria pass on her way

without receive offer from one sex, or form a friendship with an

individual of the other.



Isabel's artless high spirit and warm heart be, on the other hand,

misunderstood, and few do her justice in public. she dance too much,

and laugh too loud, and gentleman seek she often as an agreeable

relief from the refined insipidity of her companion, which tell

against she in society. Lady Wetheral caution she in vain.



"I wish, Isabel, you would not jump so high, and look so pleased with

your partner; it be quite inelegant, and will make you dislike. no

other young lady look pleased, and the gentleman get grin and

talk round you, to the exclusion of your sister and many other.

pray refrain."



"it be my nature to be happy," reply Isabel, laughing, "and my

friend may out-talk I if they like. I only desire to chat and enjoy

myself in peace."



"for shame, Isabel! you be not aware how you create enemy by such

conduct. I be ashamed to see you race down the middle and up again,

with Tom Pynsent, at Lady Spottiswoode's carpet-dance. a young lady

should never engross a gentleman's attention so conspicuously."



"Tom Pynsent amuse I extremely, mamma: he be tell college

story, and off we caper without care who remark we."



"you be remarkably vulgar and underbred, my dear," resume her mother,

"and I have no hope of your establishment. I be very much surprised

at Anna Maria's beauty fail to elicit an offer; perhaps Julia may

do well when she appear, but my hope chiefly rest upon Clara. her

style of beauty be very magnificent."



Isabel's happy disposition receive these shock with inimitable good

humour. she listen to daily remark upon her want of elegance,

and believe in her total exemption from the gift which Nature have

lavish upon her eld sister; but her mind scorn the idea of

mourn over a useless grief. she care not for extraneous advantage

which could not reach the mind: she never enter a ball-room without

a profusion of dancing engagement; and if she be like and follow,

even in the presence of her handsome sister, what do she care for mere

beauty?



Lady Wetheral at last yield the point, and allow Isabel to choose

her own mode of pleasing. her taste turn with horror from she

"unfortunate Isabel," but she cease to look at, or remark upon, she

_brusquerie_. she tell Thompson, "some man take odd fancy to healthy,

fat-look, smile girl, and probably Isabel might please some old

rich widower or stupid retired bachelor, and marry at last: she would

be a foil to her sister, at any rate."



Lady Wetheral be right: an odd, "retire bachelor" do admire Isabel

precisely for her healthy, good-humour look; and, in process of

time, he advance, slowly and cautiously, to the attack; but his manner

conceal the matter long to all eye but those of her father. Lady

Wetheral be blind to the very _dénouement_.



"I cann't imagine why that tiresome old Boscawen come here every other

morning, Sir John, sit for hour and say nothing: pray don't ask

he to stay dinner again--he make I ill."



"he be a great friend of mine, Gertrude: I like Boscawen."



"I know you like unaccountable people, love; but he worry _I_ to

death, and he will sit at dinner between Anna Maria and Isabel. I don't

consider Isabel, but he keep Tom Pynsent away from Anna Maria, and

never enter into any sort of conversation."



"he think more than he say, my dear."



"I hate people who think: thinking make every thing bad: luckily, I

have quite give up think about Isabel, or her loud laugh would kill

I."



"Boscawen do not object to Isabel's joyous laugh, Gertrude; he hope

to hear it in perpetuity."



"I wish he would take she to himself, then," reply his lady, gently

yawning, and take up a novel.



"Boscawen have propose for Isabel," say Sir John, seriously.



"how can you talk such nonsense, Sir John! if the old man propose to

any body, it will certainly be to Anna Maria. I see he admire she

exceedingly--so do every body: she be very captivating."



"Boscawen have propose for Isabel, however," he return; "and though

he be too advanced in year for a young girl's speculation, yet, if

she could fancy he, I think she might be happy. I wish you to speak

to your daughter upon the subject, Gertrude. if she have the slight

disinclination to Boscawen, do not mention he a second time: I will

not allow she to be talk into matrimony."



"then, talk to her yourself, Sir John. I be quite overpowered by the

surprise. I be so certain Boscawen admire Anna Maria; but since he

have the bad taste to prefer Isabel, she ought not to demur an instant.

Boscawen be very rich, and I dare say he will act very handsomely as to

settlement. when old man marry young wife, they ought to pay for the

distinction. isabel will be very foolish if she decline he."



Anna Maria at this moment appear at the door, and Lady Wetheral's

idea excurse at the sight of her beautiful daughter, still so

admire, yet unsought.



"well, my dear, I be glad you be come at this moment; here be Mr.

Boscawen propose for Isabel, and no one ask for you: I cann't

understand it. perhaps, my love, if _you_ chat a _little_ more--but

you must 'take' in time. Old Boscawen be no great thing, only he be so

rich; there be no saying when Isabel may be a gay widow."



"do my sister accept Mr. Boscawen?" ask Anna Maria, in dulcet

tone, without reply to her mother's hint.



"she will do so, if she have common sense; but we have send for she.

your father be to talk to she."



Isabel obey the summon, which pray for her appearance in Lady

Wetheral's _boudoir_. she enter laugh.



"I be sure I know the reason of your summon, papa. Mr. Boscawen have

write to you."



"and you will not be so mad as to refuse such an excellent

establishment," cry her mother, earnestly.



"stay, Gertrude; I will not allow Isabel to be influence."



"he can make any settlement you please, Isabel," continue her mother.



"Gertrude----"



"he be old and ugly, Isabel"--Lady Wetheral rise unconsciously from the

sofa in her energy, perfectly deaf to her husband's call to order--"he

be old and ugly; but no girl in her sense would refuse such an

establishment. you cannot stake a handsome face against a fortune,

which will purchase all a woman prize most. you will be respectable

and enviable, for you will command every thing that be covetable in

this world!"



Sir John be distressed and indignant at the sentiment convey in

his lady's discourse; but he know it be vain to contend with a mind

anchor upon the world. he turn to Isabel.



"I wish to know, my love, if Mr. Boscawen's offer be disagreeable to

you. if you reject his suit, _i_ will take care he shall not offend

again."



Lady Wetheral fix her eye with intense anxiety upon Isabel, who

promptly reply the offer have be make with her knowledge and

concurrence.



"my dear Isabel, I think you would not overlook such advantage,"

cry her ladyship, embrace her daughter with unfeigned delight.



"Isabel," say her father, "you wish to marry Mr. Boscawen?"



"indeed, papa, I do."



"you wish to quit your home, my love, and live altogether with Mr.

Boscawen?"



"yes, indeed, I do, papa."



"be you aware, Isabel, that in marry Mr. Boscawen you must become

steady and obedient, and submit to his wish and view?"



"perfectly, papa."



"be you aware, my love, that when you have become a wife, you must

quit home for ever, and remain with Mr. Boscawen at brierly, to nurse

he in sickness, and console he in sorrow?"



"oh, yes, papa, I know all that perfectly; and I shall like very much

to nurse Mr. Boscawen, he be so good-temper."



"yet, listen to I, Isabel, I have much to say," and her father's

countenance and manner become impressively serious. "you be too young

to understand the solemn vow you must make at the altar. I know

Boscawen be a good man, or I should not have listen to his offer when

he propose for a girl young enough to be his daughter. you must have

give he great encouragement, Isabel."



"oh yes, papa, I _do_. I tell he I would be sure to be his wife, if

you have no objection, and I hope you do not mean to prevent it."



Lady Wetheral become indignant at her husband's serious view of

matrimony, and she have recourse to her vinaigrette, as usual, upon

exciting subject.



"I cannot imagine, Sir John, why you should endeavour to make doubt

for Isabel, when such an offer may never occur again--certainly not to

Isabel, who have so little appearance. it quite provoke I to hear you

raise difficulty about a nonsensical affair of marriage. isabel

will marry like other girl, and get on like other people."



"I do not wish my daughter to marry like other girl, Gertrude. I wish

Isabel to be happy and respected."



"and who will deny she be very happy, Sir John, when she have every

luxury her mind can invent; and who deny a woman's respectability

when she be rich and well connect? nonsense, my dear."



"we never agree in sentiment, Gertrude," say her husband, gravely.



"how can I see thing, love, in the strange light you represent they?

my mother never read _I_ such lecture as you preach to Isabel, and

I be scarcely her age when I marry. I be congratulate on my good

fortune, and you know we both drive immediately to Hamlet's. pray let

isabel enjoy herself."



"oh pray, papa, let I have Mr. Boscawen," cry Isabel, clasp she

hand as the tear burst from her dark, blue eye. "do not say I be

not to have Mr. Boscawen! and he have order I a tilbury cloak upon

the certainty of my accept he; it be to have a leopard's claw as a

fastening round my throat! oh papa, papa!"



"I have not utter a word about refuse Mr. Boscawen, my love."



"oh, thank you, papa, thank you!" and Isabel fly to embrace her

father. "my own good papa, not to make I miserable!"



"you would be unhappy, then, if I decline Mr. Boscawen, Isabel?"



"oh, papa, wretched!--the cloak too of no use, and I have so set my

heart upon the leopard's claw!"



"a small 'forget-I-not' would have be in well taste, Isabel,"

observe her mother.



"no, I particularly admire the leopard's claw, because Mr. Boscawen

like it. and then, papa, we be to drive in his tilbury, and I be

to have a fur cap with a tassel, and choose it myself--I shall be so

happy!"



there be nothing more to be say. Isabel look upon every thing

connect with Mr. Boscawen _en couleur de rise_, and her imagination

picture brierly as a home of enchantment. she believe her day be

to glide away among rural sport and in juvenile assembly--the summer

would be dedicate to haymake and gather rose--the winter would

be a continuity of music and dancing. if her father's remark chase

the smile from her lip, as he allude to scene of duty and the care

of a family, they be speedily recall by Lady Wetheral's enumeration

of the comfort which must attach to her situation.



"my dear Isabel, your father alarm you; but, trust I, there be

nothing alarming in matrimony. you will have a large settlement, and a

handsome allowance, therefore every thing will go smoothly. if you have

a family, it willn't much inconvenience you. shut out the nursery with

baize door, and you will be free from noise. I manage very well, for

sometimes I do not see or hear you child for week."



Mr. Boscawen be admit as an accepted lover, and Isabel do not

regret her acceptance of a man who listen with admiration and

interest to her remark, and who never turn from her _brusquerie_

with the disgust her mother could not conceal towards she. Mr. Boscawen

at five and forty look with delight upon Isabel, whose extreme youth

and beauty throw a halo around her uneducated mind. her rich and joyous

laugh please the taciturn nature of his mind; he be charm by her

innocence, and untire by her ceaseless prattle; therefore be Mr.

Boscawen her constant and loved companion, whom her eye seek in all

company and at all moment, and to whom her inmost thought be

communicate. she love to hang upon his arm, and take long walk with

her darling Boscawen; she delight to drive his tilbury, and exhibit

the cloak of long promise--to chat freely, and, as she express it in

confidence to Julia, to rattle away about nothing, and be just as much

admire, as though she speak sense, like Anna Maria.



Isabel's wedding-day be to herself a day of extravagant enjoyment

and agreeable confusion. she be go to a home of her own--to be

call in future "Mrs. Boscawen," and to receive the compliment

of the bridal-party. there be a large company to breakfast, and

the Spottiswoodes be of the choose number who have the pleasure of

congratulate Isabel upon her magnificent prospect. Isabel thank

Miss Spottiswoode for her friendly wish.



"now, I be married, dear Sophy, I wish you be all go to do the

same thing. I should so have like four or five wedding at once! but

you will all come and see I, and we will have such merriment; willn't

we, Mr. Boscawen?"



Mr. Boscawen bow smilingly to Isabel's appeal, and she proceeded--



"I will drive you all in the tilbury, when you come to brierly; it

hold only Mr. Boscawen and myself now, but I dare say we can squeeze

four. Mr. Boscawen be very stout, and his coat cover an acre of

ground; don't it, Mr. Boscawen?"



Lady Wetheral become visibly uneasy at Isabel's loquacity, and

endeavour to change the subject; but Mrs. Boscawen be too happy

and too unsuspecting to observe a hint, or detect a look; her heart

be full of hope, and revel in novel situation. she talk on,

invite every body to brierly, and appeal to Mr. Boscawen if he

would not be delighted to have his house as full as it could hold. the

bridal carriage drawing to the door relieve Lady Wetheral's distress.



at the parting moment, Isabel preserve her serenity, while she

sister weep over the kind-hearted companion they be now to

lose. Isabel's gentleness of temper, her buoyant spirit, and warm

affection, endear she to all her family-circle, and they doubly

value her excellence when her society be on the eve of be

withdraw for ever. Isabel smile as radiantly as usual under the

repeat embrace of her weeping sister, and cheer their grief.



"my dear girl, you see I be married, and, as mamma say, I can do what

I like, I mean to have each of you with I in turn, so pray do not

cry. Julia, you will come first, and we will have such fun, haymake!

shalln't we, Mr. Boscawen? and Clara, when _you_ come to I, we will

gallop over the country on pony; willn't we, Mr. Boscawen?"



Mr. Boscawen kiss Isabel's hand without reply, and her father lead she

to her carriage. the new equipage strike her eye.



"oh, mamma! how you will delight in my carriage! it's quite my own; be

it not, Mr. Boscawen? when you come to brierly, we will drive about

all day. you know you say it would be the good part of the show."



Mr. Boscawen have never approve Lady Wetheral's sentiment, and

rarely enter into conversation with she. Isabel's observation have

its effect; he bow very coolly to her ladyship, and order the

postillion to drive on. the carriage be soon lose in the distance.

Lady Wetheral be disconcert at Isabel's unfortunate speech, and she

remark upon it in pass from the colonnade into the breakfast-room.



"Isabel have marry much well than I anticipate; but nothing will

heal her dreadful propensity to make remark in the wrong place, and

repeat observation improperly. this unladylike want of caution will

ruin her reputation as a woman of fashion, but she be no long 'Miss

Wetheral.' Isabel be now Mrs Boscawen."









CHAPTER III.





Julia be now advanced in consequence of Mrs. Boscawen's marriage, and

she step from Thompson's room into society, as Minerva spring from

the brain of Jupiter, fully armed and equip for her vocation. Lady

Wetheral be greatly pleased with the _air de société_ which Julia

display in her intercourse with the new world, her playful badinage

with gentleman, and her intuitive knowledge of the "propriety." she

mother hail she as a star of promise.



"my dear Sir John, Julia put I very much in mind of myself, at she

age: do you observe the nicety with which she glide through her

ceremony? she be much more brilliant than Anna Maria, and never

incautious, like poor Isabel. I shall look very high for Julia."



"who be to be the doomed man, Gertrude?" ask Sir John, quietly.



"I know you laugh at I, but I don't consider you a proper judge of

daughter' education. you would let they marry any thing, if a stupid

curate or poor lieutenant could persuade you they have good heart!"



"my daughter' hope of happiness must depend upon their companion

have a heart and principle."



"a fiddlestick, Sir John! do a good heart buy a carriage and four, or

can principle purchase comfort? what would Boscawen's heart be without

his income? but you have such an odd way of talk. I don't say that a

good heart be not very well in its way, but I do insist upon it, money

be the first object."



"such sentiment, Gertrude, be very unfit from a parent's lip. I

trust your daughter may marry early in life, to be withdraw from your

influence."



Lady Wetheral burst into tear.



"this be always your cruel way, Sir John, when I be speak

confidentially to you about my child's prospect. I be sure they

hear from I the very good sentiment: I have always entreat they to

do nothing improper--I have always tell they to avoid publicity, and

never lose their place in society. if any of my daughter go wrong, I

would never see they again."



"what do you mean by 'go wrong,' Gertrude?"



"why I mean lose their reputation by a conspicuous flirtation with

a married man, or run away from the man they marry, or do any

thing which lose a woman her high position in public opinion:--any

dereliction of that kind I never--_never_ would pardon, and my girl

know it. you always do I injustice, Sir John."



Sir John could not behold his lady's tear unmove; it be his weak

point, and his lady be aware of her power. in this instance she

triumph over his weakness, and win an easy victory, for she silence

the grave rebuke which affect her self-love. a kiss of affection on

his part dissipate every woeful feeling on the face of her ladyship:

its very remembrance be past away.



"well now, my love, since you be sorry you offend I, I have a great

deal to say. I want you particularly to ask Lord Ennismore to Wetheral.

don't look grave, my dear Sir John; the poor fellow be drag on an

odd kind of existence, but still he live. just ask he to spend his

Christmas with we, and of course his mother must be include in the

invitation. I do not coerce young gentleman, therefore you cannot have

fear for their safety. ask that poor unhealthy creature, at any rate;

his lordship have the option of decline an invitation which do not

give he satisfaction."



Sir John submit to the "arrangement," and, most unexpectedly to

himself, Lord Ennismore accept the invitation. Lady Wetheral could

not conceal her rapture; Julia also be pleased, and after a long

_tête-à-tête_ with her mother, she report the conference to Anna

Maria.



"I have have a long lecture from mamma, but that be nothing new. she

have be anxiously beseech I to captivate poor measly Ennismore,

which I have long decide to do before papa issue his invitation, only

I amuse myself with assure she I could not endure such a wretched

sickly creature. poor mamma have recourse to all her essence bottle,

perfectly fatigued with set forth his lordship's title and

rent-roll. she say all her hope be anchor upon myself, as she be

sure you will never marry now."



"do she?" reply Anna Maria, softly and tranquilly.



"yes, she tell I you have pass two year without an offer, and

therefore you must be consider _passé_, as Tom Pynsent do not come

forward."



a deep blush overspread the cold pale cheek of Anna Maria, but she make

no reply.



"Mamma tell I if Lord Ennismore do not attach himself to I, I

could but try Tom Pynsent, as she very much wish one of we to be

establish at Hatton; but though I may flirt with Tom Pynsent, I would

not marry such a hunting, loud-voice man."



Anna Maria remain silent; Julia proceed.



"you will not make a reply, and how can I go on talk without an

audience? Mamma take great pain to plan our attack, but she desert

we in our hour of need. I be sure she hold up Tom Pynsent to you as the

one thing needful, and because you do not take to each other, she be

quite certain you will remain single."



Anna Maria's lip be compress, and no sound issue from their

portal. Julia look earnestly in her face, and beheld tear flow:

she throw her arm round her sister's graceful neck and embrace she.



"my dear Anna Maria, tell I why you weep, and why you take mamma's

nonsense to heart? every body love you, dear Anna, and you will marry

in time, though Isabel do go before you."



Anna Maria's heart be too full to give utterance in word, but a

violent fit of weeping relieve she, and Julia's embrace win she

confidence. she unburthene her sorrow to this affectionate sister.



"I do not regret Isabel's marriage, Julia, or my own singlehood, so

lament by my mother:--it be not that I deplore; but I be teach

to--I be assured--" another long fit of weeping succeed, and again

Julia soothe the choke violence of her sister's grief. an interval

of calm allow poor Anna Maria to proceed.



"if I have not be teach to consider Tom Pynsent as an assured

lover--if my mother have not persevere in hold he up to my view as

a model of perfection, and weave his idea into my very nature, I should

not have love so fondly the man you despise, Julia."



Julia gaze at her sister in mute astonishment, as she grow energetic

in her subject.



"if I have foolishly seek his society, I might have merit the pain

I have endure; but, Julia, my mother rave about him:--his affection

be consider the only proper aim of female ambition--he be court

by she, and he be always near I. my mother seek his fortune, but I

attach myself to his person, and I be cast aside by both. Pynsent,

I know, believe I ambitious and sordid, and my mother consider I

no long a safe speculation. I have be the victim of her heedless

calculation!"



"my dear, dear sister!" exclaim Julia, burst into tear.



"who can repay I for all my useless suffering?" continue Anna Maria,

in still more energetic tone, her eye flash fire. "who will

return I the peace of mind I have lose--the tranquillity of my early

day--the first happy hour of my gaiety? who have a right to betray my

heart, and trample upon my hope, when I be too young and ignorant of

harm to discover the snare? what have my mother do for I? I be she

eld bear, her hope, and companion, and what have she do for I but

cast I into misery, and make my life a burthen!"



"oh, my poor dear sister!" cry Julia, in deep distress; "and under

your quiet manner, you really love Tom Pynsent?"



"I love he truly and for ever," reply Anna Maria, the fire of her

dark eye sink into humidity, as the current of her thought dwelt

alone upon the man she adore. "I can see no fault in the creature

you deprecate--he may be the character you describe, but to I he be

sacred: I love he, and though he shall never know it, I will die for

he."



"never more will I flirt with Tom Pynsent, oh, never, never!" exclaim

Julia, throw her arm again round Anna Maria's waist. "if I have

know you care for he, I would not have chat as I do last night

with Tom. oh, Anna, how you must have suffer, yet how calm you

appear!"



"I care not who engross his attention," reply her sister, as the

colour rise and subside in her cheek. "I care not who love he, or

be love by he: I be jealous of no one: I love in hopelessness and

misery, and he shall never know my agony. take care, Julia, how you

trifle with Lord Ennismore; these hateful flirtation destroy each

other's repose; how selfish, how cruel!" Anna Maria shudder as she

speak.



"I will not try to attach Lord Ennismore," cry Julia, in earnest

accent: "your distress have cure I of all intention; but speak to

papa, Anna Maria, and he will keep Tom Pynsent from the house. you know

how kind he always be."



"not for world!" cry Anna Maria, start up, "not for world,

Julia! let no one know I be wretche--let no one pity I, or dare to

comfort I but yourself--promise, promise I, on your honour."



she take Julia's clasped hand in her own, and, with an impetuosity

belong to her irritable nature, she exact a solemn vow of silence.

Julia give her assurance with regret, but the vow pass her lip, and

from she the secret never transpire. she be the soul of honour in

those matter.



after this confidential disclosure on the part of her eld

sister, Julia repulse every attention offer by Tom Pynsent, and

firmly resist his effort to attract her notice. Young Pynsent

be astonish by a style of manner so suddenly adopt, and so

perseveringly keep up towards himself, and at first he resent the

cold indifference by an equal display of compose carelessness; but its

pertinacity at length pique his vanity, and in the end produce a

watchfulness which engross his whole soul.



have Julia flirt on with Tom Pynsent, his heart would have be

untouched; and his mind, perfectly aware of Lady Wetheral's scheme,

have remain free to sport amid the beauty which surround he. but

Julia's manner, so unaffected, so perfectly guileless, show such

unequivocal avoidance of his society, that vanity take the alarm, and

conduct her victim to the very snare he have so long observe and

ridicule. to be dislike by a Wetheral, when all the Shropshire world

know he have long be a favourite speculation of her ladyship--it be

not to be endure, and, _coûte que coûte_, Tom Pynsent vow to subdue

the cold heart of Julia Wetheral.



Tom Pynsent be not an Apollo, nor do he possess the fascination

of more courtly man, to make the subjugation of a lady's heart the

amusement of a leisure hour. Tom Pynsent be good-look, tall, broad

set, and loud in speech, as Julia have describe he: he be also empty,

good-nature, and immoderately fond of fox-hunting. his very large

fortune in perspective give he the _entrée_ of the neighbourhood at

all hour, and if Tom Pynsent fail in the soft elegance of speech, or

appear to some disadvantage in the ball-room among his more polished

companion, yet upon his attention be the eye of woman teach to

rest; and many a glance of admiration be bestow upon the uncouth,

ill-dress Tom Pynsent, which other more gifted swain fail to

obtain.



it be the fate of Anna Maria to love this man; and while the cold,

stiff manner of the beautiful Miss Wetheral, chill the approach

of distant admirer, her heart be sincerely and really give to

Tom Pynsent. it be in vain to argue upon love, which arise from a

thousand cause unconnected with personal appearance. love take a

thousand form, and defy the power of reason. when Shakespeare give

the "Weaver" charm in the eye of Titania, he illustrate at once its

blindness and its intensity. Tom Pynsent might have seek and win the

heart and taste of Miss Wycherly, who regularly attend the hunt and

break in her own carriage horse, but who could suppose he have power

to captivate the gentle and graceful Miss Wetheral?



Lady Spottiswoode be celebrate for the agreeability and number of

her carpet dance. every fortnight produce a gay society at her large

mansion in Shrewsbury; and at her party the county family mix

occasionally with the more humble inhabitant of the town. it be this

very mixture which give Lady Spottiswoode's party their decide

superiority over those of the neighbourhood; for at her house she

possess the advantage of number, and she congregate more youth,

beauty, and novelty than her country neighbour could ever boast at

their _élite_, but small, and less pleasant meeting.



Shrewsbury, at the time of Miss Wetheral's introduction, contain many

family whose claim to gentility might compete with their own, but

whose income exclude they from distant and expensive society. they

be always assemble at Lady Spottiswoode's, and, from the variety

and novelty which sparkle in her drawing-room, her party be

consider the most delightful reunion in the country. no one ever

stay away from Lady Spottiswoode's, who have the power of locomotion;

and it be at Lady Spottiswoode's assembly that Tom Pynsent carry

on his plan for lower the pride of Julia Wetheral.



Anna Maria beheld in the keen pain, but with unaltered expression

of countenance, his unceasing persecution of her sister: whichever way

Julia move, Tom Pynsent be beside she, or before she; his eye be,

eternally watch her action, and, when Julia be not his partner, he

decline join the dancer. if Julia observe his fix determination

to be attentive, she heed it not, for she be dance and flirt

with Lord Ennismore, and her heart disdain the man who have desert

her sister, after a long course of ungenerous flirtation, which mean

nothing, and which have injure the peace of its object.



Tom Pynsent's character be, however, open, and above-board: he have

firmly believe Anna Maria a party in her mother's scheme, and his

attention elicit no marked return, it persuade he her heart

be safe, though her ambition might grasp at become mistress of

Hatton; Julia would have become the equally indifferent object of

an unmeaning flirtation, have not her sister's unexpected confidence

sear her feeling towards he. but Tom Pynsent, the long-contest

Tom Pynsent, the idol of Lady Wetheral's hope, be now seriously in

love with the lively, fascinating Julia, and Love could not teach his

nature to dissemble a feeling which once take possession of his heart.

he be find out, and quiz most unmercifully by his companion, but

Tom Pynsent have always a "rowland" for their "oliver." Young Charles

Spottiswoode attack he at his mother's party.



"why, Pynsent, people say you have no eye for any girl but Julia

Wetheral, and you do look dreadfully cut up when she dance with

Ennismore, don't you?"



"I dare say I do," reply Pynsent, in his usual loud tone of voice,

"and, if I look cut up, you may depend upon it I be so."



"then you be fairly in for it, Pynsent," laugh his companion.



"yes, I be, but I suppose I have no chance with that d--d pinch-in

waiste lord."



Tom Pynsent's sentiment be give _pro bono publico_, and a group of

gentleman quickly gather round he, some laugh at his situation,

other sympathize with he. Tom Pynsent never lower his voice.



"I dare say you be all quiz I, but I don't care for that. I know

I be in love with a devilish fine girl, so I'm not a bit ashamed, and,

if that fellow with his mince step get she, I cann't help myself,

but I'll be hang if I hunt till I have ask she!"



"we think you like the eld sister, Pynsent?" say Mr. Wycherly.



"do you? I don't, though. I like Julia Wetheral, and I don't care who

know it. laugh away, boy, and hunt by yourself, till I come among

you again."



so say, Tom Pynsent coolly withdraw from the group, and station

himself opposite to Julia, who be still dance with Lord Ennismore.



Anna Maria's ear have drink in the whole conversation, which take place

near she and her mother, though both be conceal from observation.

Lady Wetheral listen, with joy of the deep and most powerful

nature, to the confession of Tom Pynsent's affection for Julia, and the

restraint of society scarcely conceal the exhibition of its effect.

Anna Maria preserve her calm demeanour, and bore with intrepidity the

acknowledgment of his love for another. a common observer would have

pity the cold indifferent character of Miss Wetheral's countenance;

none know the pang which be silently devour her existence.

she bear the outpouring of her mother's self-congratulation with

unflinche steadiness.



"my dear Anna Maria, I have now marry two daughter admirably, for

Julia will assuredly marry Tom Pynsent very shortly. do you not hear

he say he should ask she before he hunt? most likely this very

night. what will your father say now? I wish he have be here! but I

be sure it be time to return home. where be my dear Julia! oh, Lord

Ennismore be dance with she, I see; Lord Ennismore will do for

Clara, whom I shall bring out immediately. Julia will be Mrs. Pynsent,

of Hatton, and Clara shall be Lady Ennismore. I have establish my

daughter exactly as I could wish. Poor Isabel do very well for old

Boscawen, because she be rather vulgar. well, my love, just tell Julia

we must order the carriage."



Anna Maria obey her mother's request, and rise to approach Julia,

who be at that moment seat between Tom Pynsent and Lord Ennismore.

Julia's quick eye see she advance, and she leave the gentleman, to

bind forward to meet her sister.



"Julia, the carriage be order; be you cool enough to prepare for

your return home?"



the word be calmly and distinctly utter, but Julia be strike

by the hollow tone and dull eye of Anna Maria. she take her hand

affectionately.



"my dear sister, you be ill?"



"no," reply Anna Maria, calmly.



"yes, you look ill. I know your countenance well, and it look very

disturbed; tell I what be the matter?"



"nothing." Anna Maria tremble as she stand. Julia become alarmed.



"take no notice," continue Anna Maria, "but let we return home. be

you ready?"



"yes, now this moment; let we go."



Lord Ennismore and Tom Pynsent advance, and each offer an arm to

Julia, who quietly give her hand to his lordship. Tom Pynsent follow,

but offer no assistance to her eld sister, who cling to Julia's

disengage arm. they join Lady Wetheral.



"my dear Julia, you be not heat, I hope? I be sorry to call you away

from the dance; but I believe it be late, and Anna Maria be fatigue.

Sir John sit up for we."



a little change take place among the party, and a little bustle ensue,

preparatory to their departure. Julia withdraw her arm from Lord

Ennismore for an instant, to adjust her shawl, and Lady Wetheral take

immediate advantage of the movement. she glide to Lord Ennismore, and

take possession of his deserted arm.



"allow I, my dear lord. you must take care of we, and give we safely

back to Sir John, you know, accord to promise. Anna Maria, I

bespeak Lord Ennismore's other arm for you; thank you, my lord, we

be very comfortably arrange. Julia, my love, Fate give you to Mr.

Pynsent _pour le moment_. now shall we bow to Lady Spottiswoode?"



the little _ruse_ succeed. Tom Pynsent walk to the carriage with

Julia, and he open the subject so near and so interesting to his

heart, boldly and without preamble.



"Miss Julia, I wish to know if you like Lord Ennismore?"



Julia be take by surprise, but she know the characteristic

bluntness of her companion's manner and speech, and Julia be rarely

disconcert: she possess astonishing coolness of manner for a girl

so young and so recently introduce: her reply be prompt, and quietly

deliver.



"I know no right you possess to ask I such a question, Mr. Pynsent."



"I have a right, Miss Julia. if I like a girl, I be at liberty to ask

if she be pre-engaged."



Julia laugh, and her laugh lead Tom Pynsent to form a wrong conjecture

upon the state of her feeling towards himself. he press her hand

with considerable force, which Julia resent by withdraw her arm.



"pray don't be angry, my dear Miss Julia, at a good fox-hunting

squeeze: I be not use to press lady' hand, but the firm I shake a

friend's hand, the strong be my pleasure at receive he, and, if my

grasp offend you, set it down to my affection."



Julia make no reply, but she retreat to her party; Lady Wetheral be

impatient at her return, but Julia's indignation heed not the hope

and fear which struggle in her mother's bosom; she be offend at

Tom Pynsent's misconstruction of her laugh, and she station herself

by the side of her sister. Tom Pynsent stand bewilder. the colour

rise in Lady Wetheral's cheek with alarm.



"my dear Julia, you have quit Mr. Pynsent in a very extraordinary

manner; I be really hurt; Mr. Pynsent! my dear Mr. Pynsent!"



Tom Pynsent advance, but his mind be in a labyrinth of confuse

astonishment:--"Bless my soul, Lady Wetheral, I suppose I have do

something wrong; but the deuce take I if I know what bring all this

about!"



"some little misunderstanding, my dear Mr. Pynsent; little

misunderstanding, we be tell, often lead to agreeable and sincere

friendship; dine with we to-morrow, and make up this little fraca."



Tom Pynsent bow, with a look indicative of pleased stupidity.



"I shall be very happy; I be in the wrong box, somehow; but I cann't,

for the soul of I, think why Miss Julia run away from I."



there be a silence of some moment; Tom Pynsent could not catch

Julia's eye to learn whether its glance be of good or evil, therefore,

he seek consolation in address Anna Maria.



"Miss Wetheral, _you_ be not offend; perhaps _you_ will condescend

to accept my arm?"



Poor Anna Maria mechanically obey the request, and Julia again

take possession of her partner. the exchange be make in silence, and

apparently to the great satisfaction of Lord Ennismore. Tom Pynsent

walk forward with Anna Maria, and make his remark upon Julia's

desertion.



"upon my word, Miss Wetheral, I do nothing to give your sister

offence, except squeeze her hand, which no lady take offence at,

particularly when a man be make love. I love she well than any

woman I know, and I would not do any thing improper for the world;

but a squeeze of the hand, now, Miss Wetheral, be _that_ a thing to

quarrel about?"



a cold unearthly smile be Anna Maria's answer to this appeal.



"I shall have it all out to-morrow, however. I suppose Miss Julia mean

to have I, as she laugh when I speak seriously. she do not like

that fellow Ennismore, do she, Miss Wetheral?"



"I cannot tell," answer Anna Maria, in a voice so low it be scarcely

audible.



"I wish I know! Miss Julia laugh when I put the question to herself,

which, I suppose, be encouragement, but I shall see to-morrow. I shall

speak in time, for fear she should take a fancy to that lanky dog

behind we. but who would suppose any woman so shy at a squeeze? if I

have kiss she, it might have be another thing! bless my soul, what

odd thing woman be!"



there be no time for further remark on either side; the carriage be

ready, and no pause allow a continuation of complaint. Tom Pynsent

assist Julia to ascend the step of the barouche, but she would not

address he, or grant he one look to enable he to discover the real

state of her feeling. Lady Wetheral bend forward as the door be

close.



"we shall expect you very early to-morrow, my dear Mr. Pynsent, and

pray do not treat we as common acquaintance: Sir John be wish for

you yesterday."



"I shall come very early--perhaps to luncheon," reply Tom Pynsent,

rest his broad hand on the carriage-door, and fix his eye upon

Julia, "I have something particular to say to Sir John."



"oh! delightful!" cry Lady Wetheral, bow and smile; "this will

be something enliven to tell Sir John. something, of course, about

hunt or shooting, the idol of man's heart."



"it's not about hunt or shoot this time, Lady Wetheral."



"ah! you mean to be mysterious, to raise our curiosity--what can it be?

we must be calm, however, and try to wait patiently till to-morrow, or

rather till this afternoon, for I fancy it be half-past twelve."



Tom Pynsent bow, and the party proceed homeward, enclose four

heart, labour under conflicting and powerful feeling. Lady

Wetheral's happy, uncontrollable emotion be in strange contrast

with Anna Maria's deeply-pain feeling, which lie conceal under

impenetrable silence. Julia also be silent and sad; her situation

with respect to Tom Pynsent and Lord Ennismore give her young heart

its first painful impression. Lord Ennismore reply to Lady

Wetheral's eager, agitated remark with an absence of mind which

prove his lordship equally occupy with his feeling; and all this

be originate in the well-fill, gay ball-room, which have long be

consider the cradle of happiness and the grave of care. so prone be

nature to seek suffering under the mask of pleasure, that all heart

court its renewal.



Lady Spottiswoode's party be the scene of cruel disappointment,

and the cause of repeat disquietude, yet do the young and fair of

that day crowd to her assembly, and severe illness alone oblige a

reluctant invalid to remain perdue, when Lady Spottiswoode issue she

card from the Abbey foregate.



    ----Oh! that deceit should dwell

    in such a gorgeous palace.



Anna Maria have bear her short but destroy colloquy with Tom Pynsent

without give way to the pain which wring her heart; and, during the

drive to Wetheral, she have restrain the swelling of her soul, and

make a strong effort to subdue the tear which rush into her eye;

but when she have gain the sanctuary of her own apartment, all

restraint be at an end, and Julia bend over the unfortunate girl as

she lie extend hopelessly and helplessly upon her bed.



"my dear sister, be this horrible grief indeed give to Tom Pynsent?"



"God know it be! Julia, but do not ridicule a sorrow you cannot

comprehend. when I hear he this night declare his love for you, and

when he whisper it to my own self, then I feel as all woman feel who

find their affection be unheeded and unvalue. I feel, Julia, as keenly

as if Tom Pynsent have be admire and love by hundred."



"but, my dear Anna, you will not love a man who place so little

value--and be so very--" Julia hesitate.



"it matter little," reply Anna Maria, with impetuosity, "who care

for Tom Pynsent, or who express astonishment at my attachment. every

woman wonder at her neighbour's choice, and it be sufficient that I be

most unhappy. you, Julia, need not tell I I be little value by he;

I know and feel it, but the information do not come well from your

lip, who have gain the heart I can never cease to covet."



"Tom Pynsent can never be any thing to I," say Julia.



"and thus it be," continue Anna Maria, speak in mournful accent.

"we be doom to helpless misery from our birth, and we prey upon each

other's peace. why do he constantly attend upon I, when his heart be

free? and why do my mother teach my first thought to rest upon a man

whose affection she could not ensure I? I tell you, it be wrong!--I

tell you, Julia, it be altogether ungenerous and cruel. I have be

sacrifice to a selfish policy; and on the very threshold of life my

happiness have be wreck, to make existence a burthen for ever!" she

clasp her hand tightly together, and, rise suddenly from her bed,

pace her room with rapid step, talk apparently to herself.



"what be to be gain by my misery? have it soothe my mother's

ambition? she spurn I as the object who have disappoint her hope.

have it gain the long-seek aim of my own anxious love? he tell

I himself he love my sister. be I to bear all this with smile

indifference? Julia, Julia!" she scream, "I cannot smile, I will not

smile, and no one shall see I smile more."



Julia endeavour to soothe Anna Maria into calmness, but all effort

be unavaile; her impetuous nature be rouse, and it must take its

own course: resistance could only increase its fury.



"leave I to myself, Julia--leave I. I shall be calm enough to-morrow,

but now my very heart burst at the thought of all that have pass.

do not try to calm I! I will not be calm. if I grow calm, it will be

from madness, and I shall be madden by opposition. I tell you, Julia,

to leave I, and don't let Thompson come into my room. there, go, in

mercy."



Julia become alarmed, but she turn to withdraw.



"shake hand, Anna Maria, and wish I good night."



"I have no heart for any thing," reply Anna Maria, irritated. "I will

not shake hand, or wish good to any one, for it be all nonsense; only

leave I now."



Julia retire in silence, for it be vain to persevere in calm

her sister's irritated feeling. Anna Maria's nature be compose

of fiery particle; and her very compose, general manner conceal

a heart full of keen and powerful emotion. it be the intensity of

these emotion which require the great watchfulness in subdue

external appearance of inward suffering: and to the public eye Anna

Maria appear gentle and calm to insensibility. perhaps only Julia be

aware of the real state of her heart; for who could discover a powerful

attachment under such cold and calm exterior?



have Lady Wetheral sacrifice her anxiety for establishment to the

domestic happiness of her family, all this misery have be spare;

neither perhaps have Isabella be give to a man five-and-thirty year

her senior. but at Wetheral Castle all parental feeling be engross

in calculate possibility and probability of high alliance,

on Lady Wetheral's part; and Sir John have too long sacrifice his

well judgment to his lady's whim, to recover again the tone of his

authority. since then the tie of affection be so loosely bind

together, and youthful heart be teach to bend their nobler nature

to the selfish dictate of ambition, what hope be there of bright

and joyous hour, free to sport in innocence? what hope be there of

that lovely confidence and peace which gild the first year of the

young, when parental care--a mother's care--guard the heart from

sorrow, and lead it to love all that be good, and to pray against the

evil passion? what hope be there for nature tutor into worldly

sacrifice, ambitious only of the world's respect? alas! none.









CHAPTER IV.





Tom Pynsent be serious when he engage to make an early appearance. he

arrive early at Wetheral than even Lady Wetheral could expect he,

and her smile be proportionably bland and expressive. Tom Pynsent

would have detect and laugh at the affectionate reception which

await he, have his heart be free to seek amusement in the hope

and fear of Lady Wetheral; but the scene be change. the parent,

anxious for a daughter's establishment, be, in Tom Pynsent's eye, his

prop and stay against the forthcoming proposal; and Lady Wetheral, the

"well-know manœuvrer," be at this time only Julia's mother and his

kind well-wisher. in short, Tom Pynsent be catch; and, like other

keen-sighted man of fortune, he be perfectly upon his guard, when no

danger threaten his heart; but every firm resolution melt, when his

eye be pleased, and his fancy gratify.



he be now on the eve of propose to Julia Wetheral, in spite of his

determination never to bow the knee to a Wetheral, or to be "hooked"

by her ladyship's gracious compliment. poor Tom Pynsent! he fall

honourably at the very head of his thousand determination never to

visit Wetheral Castle but as an amusement, and never to flirt with a

daughter of that house but as a means of raise false hope in the

lady mother's anxious bosom.



    "Men's faith be wafer-cakes."



Lady Wetheral affect to be entirely ignorant of the cause of Tom

Pynsent's early visit.



"Mr. Pynsent so very early in the field! it must indeed be a hunting

appointment. Sir John will be delighted;" and she hold out her hand,

smile a million agreeable welcome. "where be my daughter? they

do not expect you so soon, I dare say. Lord Ennismore have escort

they walk, probably."



Tom Pynsent be disappoint at Julia's absence, but he only look

bewildered.



"I wish to see Sir John as soon as possible, Lady Wetheral; I come

early on purpose to see he; perhaps I may find he in his study; shall

I proceed there?"



"by all mean, my dear Mr. Pynsent, unless you allow I to summon Sir

John to we. be I _de trop_?"



"oh! no, not _that_," answer Tom Pynsent, become somewhat

disorder; "you will hear it in time, so you may as well be present,

only--"



"let I lead the way then, my dear Mr. Pynsent;" and she proceed

towards the door of the study. Sir John be seat in his arm-chair,

look over a package of new book; and, for a minute or two, he do

not recognize Mr. Pynsent. Lady Wetheral be shock.



"Sir John, you do not appear to remember our friend Mr. Pynsent, who

be anxious to see you. what be the study, my love, which so engross

your faculty?"



Sir John rise, and receive Tom Pynsent with his usual quiet politeness.



"I do not immediately recollect you, sir; I hope your family be well,

Mr. Pynsent; be seat, if you please."



Tom Pynsent glance at the chair which be advanced towards he, but he

remained stand with a red face and an embarrassed manner.



"I hope all be well at Hatton," repeat Sir John, surprise by the

silence of his companion.



Tom Pynsent could only comfortably entertain one idea at a time, and

his present idea be exclusively the proposal he intend to make for

Julia. the repetition, however, rouse he from his embarrassment.



"Sir John, I'm come here for a very particular purpose." the plunge be

make, and Tom Pynsent's voice and manner recover their serenity. "I

have something to say, Sir John, which I hope will not give offence. I

like Miss Julia very much; indeed I love and admire she extremely, and

I wish to know if I have your leave to address she?"



Lady Wetheral throw look and smile at the speaker, which encourage

and delight the lover; but Sir John be take by surprise.



"Sir, you be--I be, I confess, a very little surprised. you say my

daughter _Julia_, sir."



"I wish for your consent, Sir John, to address Miss Julia. I have

speak to she, and she do not altogether refuse I, as she laugh

very much; but I think it right to speak to you upon the subject, that

all thing may be above-board."



"you be act honourably and properly, Mr. Pynsent," return Sir

John, hold out his hand, which be seize by the warm-hearted Tom.

he continue, "my daughter, Mr. Pynsent, must decide for herself, but,

if she find no reason to decline your proposal, I be quite ready to

welcome you as my son-in-law."



Lady Wetheral go great length in speech than her husband, for she

joy be uncontrollable.



"my dear Tom--for now I address you as my future son--my happiness

will be perfect, should I ever visit you and my dear Julia at Hatton.

it give I unfeigned pleasure to think Julia have fix her affection

upon an object so truly worthy, and so acceptable to her own family.

this be indeed to I a very happy moment."



"I will do every thing you wish in the settlement way, Sir John,"

say the honest-hearted suitor, his face almost purple with gratify

feeling. "my father say he will relinquish Hatton to I directly;

but I don't mean the governor to quit his own favourite place. let he

keep it for life, you know, for we young one can move about. he will

allow I to make a very handsome settlement upon my wife--any thing you

suggest, Sir John."



Sir John be pleased by the open-hearted manner and matter, and his

heart warm to Tom Pynsent.



"Sir, I wish you well with my daughter, and, if you succeed, we shall

easily arrange the necessary form. you have my good wish, for I like

your sentiment, and your father, sir, may be proud of your heart. a

good son be a sure promise of an indulgent husband, and I quite approve

of your decline to allow your father to quit Hatton, Mr. Pynsent."



"why, Sir John, there be but a right and wrong way of do thing--if

a man do right, he go on very well; and if he do wrong, why, he

will be damn for it!"



the voice of Julia and Lord Ennismore, in playful tone, echo

through the hall, at this moment reach Tom Pynsent's ear. he become

alarmed and nervous.



"I wish it be over, Sir John. I could wish to see Miss Julia now,

and hear my fate at once. a man get very awkward and nervous in this

situation, I declare!" and Tom Pynsent's red face become ashy pale.



Lady Wetheral undertake to make his burthen an easy one. she even

venture to answer for Julia's affection--this be go too far.

Julia have never confide her feeling to her mother upon any subject,

and Lady Wetheral's anxiety to secure Tom Pynsent lead she into the

commission of much injustice. she have sacrifice Anna Maria's peace by

thoughtless manœuvring, and now she be create false hope in the

heart of Tom Pynsent. his situation at this moment be pitiable, and

Sir John at once decide upon the necessity of an immediate conference

with Julia. poor Julia obey the summon convey through Thompson,

and appear in the study brilliant in smile, and glow with her

recent exercise. she be not surprised at see Tom Pynsent, though

she do not expect he so early. Julia be never off her guard. no

girl in existence possess her perfect command of feeling, and her

self-possess manner which never desert she under any circumstance.

she be quite prepared for a scene with Tom Pynsent and her mother.



"my dear Julia," say her father, take her hand, and seat she

between Tom Pynsent and himself, "Mr. Pynsent have be here some little

time, and he have be speak on a subject which you alone can

dispose of."



"oh, papa, I will dispose of it in one word," reply Julia, in she

gayest manner. "what be it about?"



Tom Pynsent take up the matter as appertain to himself, exclusively.



"Miss Julia, I have speak to Sir John upon the subject of last night."



"well, Mr. Pynsent."



"and, Sir John give his consent, Miss Julia, if----."



"but I do not give mine, Mr. Pynsent."



Lady Wetheral sit root upon her chair; the fountain of her speech be

dry up. Tom Pynsent colour.



"you laugh at my remark, Miss Julia, at the time, and that be not

discourage, I think."



"there be no sentiment in a laugh, Mr. Pynsent, but I be sorry you

misunderstood my manner. excuse I, but I never can like you in any

light but that of a pleasant acquaintance, and I hope you will not

renew the subject. I laugh at your odd way of broach your subject

last night, but I be sure I could not encourage you, for I leave you, if

you remember."



"you be very abrupt with I, Miss Julia, but I fancy you be only

angry because I squeeze your hand."



Tom Pynsent turn scarlet as he speak.



"well, Mr. Pynsent, don't let we say another word on the subject, and

pray don't worry I with complaint, for I be speak my unchangeable

sentiment when I say, any expostulation on your part will only make I

dislike you; and I really like you very much as only Tom Pynsent, our

pleasant neighbour."



"why, there's only a right and wrong way of do thing," reply Tom

Pynsent, rise; "and I have no idea of teaze a woman as if I be

dig out a fox, to make her dread the sound of my voice. I wish you

well, Miss Julia, and as you will never hear I complain of a woman who

tell I plump she do not like I, you need not be afraid of meet

I sometimes. I like every body to be above-board, and say what they

mean. I be very sorry to appear rude, Sir John, but you will excuse my

taking leave. I come upon a business which be settle, you know, so I

have well take myself off."



Tom Pynsent bow, and turn towards Lady Wetheral, whose lip be

white and compress.



"I must not take a lady's word for her daughter in future, but you do

all you could to give I hope, for which I be oblige to you, Lady

Wetheral. good morning to you."



he pass Julia in silence, but she hold out her hand.



"say we be friend, Mr. Pynsent."



this little circumstance apparently overpower poor Tom Pynsent, for

he make no reply. he hold the offer hand to his lip for some time,

and, relinquish it gently, he quit the room like a man who have

suffer disappointment, but who be prepared to bear his trial without

flinching. even Julia feel admiration at her lover's manly exit.



Lady Wetheral be some minute before she speak, though her lip have

move without the power of conveying sound. she be stupifie at the

conversation which have take place before she, and Tom Pynsent be go

without she have the ability of tongue or hand to detain he! Julia

have unequivocally refuse Tom Pynsent, Hatton, and a settlement! these

thing be too powerful to bear. at length she gain her voice, but

it come hollow and slowly from her parch lip.



"Julia!"



"well, mamma, what have you to say to I? do not you think I make a

quick affair of my proposal?"



"do you know what you have do?" say her mother, in the same dreadful

tone.



"to be sure, mamma, I do. I have refuse great, broad-faced, but honest

Tom Pynsent; but now I have something to tell _you_."



Lady Wetheral wave her hand.



"do not speak to I, Julia; and never let my eye behold you. I cannot

help be your mother, but you be no long my daughter in feeling,

and I command you to remain in your own apartment for ever. you have

give I the bitter sorrow a mother can experience."



Sir John quit the room.



"you have bring I in sorrow to the grave, for I shall never outlive

this disgrace!"



"oh yes, you will, mamma: you must live to dance at my wedding."



"I det the sound!" she exclaimed--"your wedding! you have refuse

the first match in the two county, and you will be disgrace and

dishonour among the wise, while I be pity and despise by all my

friend! send Thompson to I."



her ladyship become hysterical, and Julia become serious.



"I tell you, mamma, you will live to dance at my wedding, if you could

only keep off those hysteric. would you have I accept two man at

once? how can I take poor Tom Pynsent when I be engaged to another!"



"engage to another, without ask my advice! send instantly for

Thompson: I be very ill." her ladyship ring the bell violently. "you

have kill I, and disgrace my reputation, Julia,--you have trifle

with my kindness and affection--you have kill your mother!"



the servant appear, and Julia summon the redoubte Thompson, who

hurry to the scene of action. she behold her lady in her usual state

of agitation, when any thing disagreeable occur. Julia be seat

calmly by her side.



Thompson apply her usual remedy, and entreat to hear what have

distress her lady's nerve. every family affair be confide to the

lady's-maid.



"your mistress, Thompson, be discompose at the idea of my engagement

to Lord Ennismore," reply Julia. "you know mamma have fit now, upon

every fresh occurrence."



Julia's word fall upon her mother's heart like the



    "sweet south upon a bank of violet,

    steal and give odour."



she raise her head, and hold out her hand to Julia.



"my dear child, you have give I excessive pain most uselessly.

Thompson, I be well; you always stifle I with those salt; take

they away. your obstinacy in refuse Mr. Pynsent and Hatton almost

break my heart. how could I be aware that you have secure Lord

Ennismore, Julia? I never see the least attention on his part, and I

have arrange he be to propose hereafter to Clara. well, I be much

relieve. I really fancy you engage to some horrid creature, like

Leslie."



"if you have listen to I, mamma, when I tell you I have something to

say, all this would have be spare."



"my dear, how can people listen when they be in terror? I see you

parade before I as the wife of some common creature, and all my

friend laugh at I--what horrid visions!--but now you will be a

peeress, with the glory of having refuse the first commoner in the

county! my dear Julia, you have do extremely well; I be sorry Anna

Maria have effect nothing; but I never see Lord Ennismore offer you

any attention--how do it all come about?"



"you be the only blind person, then, mamma, for Lord Ennismore have

be publicly attentive ever since he come to Wetheral. you must have

notice his manner last night."



"no, my dear, that be Tom Pynsent."



"Nonsense, mamma, it be Lord Ennismore. every body see his attention;

so would you, if you have not be run your head against Tom

Pynsent. Lord Ennismore have write this morning to his mother to join

he. he hope she will be with we in a very few day. I tell he not to

say a word to papa yet, because I know he object to Lord Ennismore's

health, but we shall soon nurse he into good care."



"to be sure, my love!" respond her mother, "Lord Ennismore will find

himself a very different person when he be settle into married life,

with a wife to watch over he. Tom Pynsent be an excellent creature,

but, as you say, he _be_ broad set, and red-faced. too much health be

bad than too little, in my opinion; Sir John will see thing in a

different light, when he know of the actual proposal."



"he must be make acquainted with my engagement, soon or later,"

observed Julia, musing; "I wish the whole business be over."



"let _I_ open the business to your father, my love, and I shall be

surprised if he be not extremely pleased at your good fortune. we

will say nothing about it to-day, but to-morrow I will answer for his

acquiescence. Lady Ennismore will find every thing arrange when she

arrive, and I flatter myself you will be in Staffordshire this day six

month, I shall be very proud of my daughter Ennismore!"



Julia assent to her mother's proposition, and nothing be make public

till the follow morning, when her ladyship find herself alone

with her husband, in his study. Sir John open the conversation, by

lecture his lady upon her sentiment.



"I be call upon, Gertrude, to object to many thing which take

place at Wetheral, but I be particularly hurt at your observation

to Julia yesterday. have my daughter be condemn by the law of her

country for crime offensive to humanity, you could not have express

yourself in strong term than the reproach you level at Julia

for decline a man who be disagreeable to she."



"now, love, that be past and go. I be very angry with she, and

should continue to be so, have I not find her refusal of Pynsent

proceed from an excellent cause, which I be go to explain. you

know it be very wrong to accept one man, when you be engage to

another. that be a rule with all proper people."



"Julia have accept some gentleman, then, Gertrude."



"ah, how differently you and I feel under such a knowledge! a mother

feel so keenly! I be oblige to send for Thompson, when I hear Julia

plead an engagement. I be sure it be Leslie, or some such creature,

and I be in hysteric, while you have not even change countenance in

your suspense. my love, Julia be engage to Ennismore, if you do not

object, which I be sure you will not think of do. I congratulate

you, my dear, on acquire a peer for your son-in-law."



"and Julia refuse Pynsent for Ennismore?"



"to be sure she do, most wisely."



"then," he exclaim, "she have do that which she will repent to she

die day; and you, Gertrude, must be responsible for her misery."



"good heaven, how you have throw down all my plan, Sir John, and how

you embitter my happy moment! I cannot imagine why you like to terrify

I in this way!"



Lady Wetheral tremble, which be ever a prelude to hysteric, but her

husband's temper be now try "to the top of its bent," and he heed

not the increase symptom.



"Lord Ennismore have be dupe into make Julia an offer."



"I mean he for Clara, love, not Julia," cry his lady, hope to

ward off his reproach.



"and you have give one of your daughter, Gertrude, to a creature

diseased in body and mind."



"what do that signify, my love? Julia will not think of his look a

month after her marriage, and she will be a peeress, with an immense

estate."



"you be marry she to an idiot of quality."



"Fiddlededee, Sir John, he enter a room as well as other people. who

make a fuss about intellect, if a man of large fortune propose to

their daughter? I should die with shame if you advance such musty

notion before company. besides, you ask Lord Ennismore to Wetheral

yourself."



"I do so," reply Sir John, "I do so; but I believe my daughter

must be safe in their affection. I could not suppose Lord Ennismore

would attract a woman's love; and I will not believe Julia care for

he. you have tutor she, Gertrude, to barter her soul for a coronet,

and your system have corrupt her heart and feeling."



he pace the room in unusual agitation of manner. Lady Wetheral

perceive the tide of her powerful influence over her husband's mind

be fast ebbing, and a _coup de main_ be the last resource of her

inventive genius. she become indignant.



"it be well, Sir John, my child have possess a mother devote

to their interest, since you have ever be indifferent to their

well-doing. have I sit supinely in my room, as you have do in

your study, my daughter have pass the prime of their day in

insignificance; or, if one have change the scene, it might have

be her happy lot, perhaps, to move into dirty barrack with young

Leslie, whom you persist in receive at Wetheral, in spite of my

remonstrance."



"Leslie would not choose a wife from your group, my love. his idea of

matrimonial comfort do not jump with your own."



"don't make I ill, Sir John, with any allusion to that young man; or

imagine for a moment we could 'jump' in any sentiment together. have

I sit supinely look on, as you have do, Isabel would never have

marry a wealthy commoner, or Julia become a peeress, with the glory

of refuse Tom Pynsent."



"Julia have do wrong in decline he for Ennismore; she have give up

an honest fellow, for a poor, ill-nurse, unhealthy creature, with a

mind as weak as his body."



"I never can talk with you, Sir John, upon this kind of subject,

your notion be so extremely contract, and you be so blind to

advantage."



"what advantage, Gertrude, in Ennismore?"



"oh, my love, unspeakable advantage. he be a man of rank and large

fortune, two very considerable advantage, and, if his health be not

very good, it may improve; and, as to his mind, he may not be extremely

learn--few man be, who be not destine for profession. he may not

be particularly good-temper, but----," Lady Wetheral become somewhat

confused in her palliative, by her husband suddenly stop short

in his perambulation, and, fix his eye upon she, "every body have

something to balance their virtue."



"what virtue do Ennismore possess, Gertrude?"



"I'm sure I don't know; I wish you would not annoy I with such out

of the way question. Lord Ennismore show good taste in address

Julia, and I dare say she will improve many of his foible. Lady

Ennismore will be here next week, and I hope every thing will be

arrange in a few week, for you could not be so reckless as to

withhold your consent--could you now, my love!"



"I will see Julia alone," reply Sir John.



"by all mean, but do not invent objection for she, and do not

distress she with your long lecture, my dear love, for my sake. I see

poor Julia be very much attach."



"nonsense! attach to such a man in a fortnight's acquaintance--for

shame!"



"Julia be _decidedly_ attach to Ennismore, Sir John, quite as much

attach as a woman ought to be. I think it highly indelicate in a

young girl to run after a man, and disgust he with fondness; those

thing be not do. she be attach very properly, and I beg you will

not persuade she to the contrary."



"I shall see, Gertrude."



"you never see in your life, my love; I never could persuade you to see

any thing in a proper light."



"I see through Boscawen, Gertrude, when you be blind."



"Nonsense! who care to see through old Boscawen! I never think about

Isabel, therefore, her admirer could not interest I. I be sure she

would only attract odd people, and you see I be correct."









CHAPTER V.





Sir John Wetheral's conference with Julia be of long duration, for

he find she prepare with a hundred argument, which bear down every

objection: it be Samson stone the Philistine, and every blow tell

upon her antagonist. it be in vain he urge Julia to pause ere she

commit herself, and become the wife of a sickly husband.



"my child, consider your own health, and the health of the unborn:

beware of undertake the situation of nurse at your age, and

subject yourself to the irritable chiding of a man weigh down

with disease, and prostrate in mind by its effect."



"my dear papa, that be one material reason for my acceptance; I be very

much interested in poor Lord Ennismore's suffering, and you would not

wish I to desert an unfortunate man because Providence have afflict

he."



"you cannot be aware of its result, Julia."



"oh! papa, I be perfectly aware of all consequence, and fully prepare

to meet they. Lord Ennismore be ill--I will nurse he. he be irritable,

I know, but I will bear with he."



"I will not press his health, Julia, as the most objectionable point;

there be still more powerful one. I consider Lord Ennismore's

intellect enfeeble by disease, and his temper affect too strongly

for your happiness."



"I do not consider his intellect below par, papa: Tom Pynsent be ten

time louder, and less agreeable than Lord Ennismore: there must be

some disagreeable in every body."



"Lord Ennismore's mind be not a gentlemanly mind, Julia; I have

observe his action and sentiment. he be exclusively selfish: a

selfish man can never be an agreeable companion for a young wife."



"Time will improve he in that respect, papa. I do not see how Lord

Ennismore's selfish feeling can interfere with I; his fortune will

command any wish he may form; I shall not oppose they. as to his

temper, I shall neither see nor hear its display; he must be selfish

and violent with his servant."



"and be these the notion you seriously entertain with respect to

matrimony, Julia?"



"my notion, papa, be really serious, and I know I shall find they

serviceable. I have quite make up my mind to marry Lord Ennismore, and

say now, papa, you do not object. Mamma say you will not and cannot

object to a match so splendid; now, papa, say yes, and don't fidget

about ill-health and temper."



Julia take her father's hand, and kiss it with a gaiety altogether

astonishing. Sir John smile at the action, and involuntarily draw she

towards he. Julia take advantage of the movement.



"that's my dear, good papa, I know you mean to give I pleasure:

silence be more expressive than word, and I be Lady Ennismore in

prospect, be I not?"



"I offer you counsel, my dear girl," reply her father, gently and

gravely, "I can do no more; the world may suppose you high and happy,

but, mark I, Julia, you will be the veri wretch on earth if you

marry Ennismore, and, at that moment, my advice will be useless, and

my presence impossible--a husband command you, and supersede your

father. listen to I, Julia: ennismore be govern by his imperious and

overbearing mother, whose wish be mask by apparent mildness and

great fascination of manner."



"a mother's influence must give way to that of a wife," exclaim

Julia, earnestly.



"Lady Ennismore's influence will give way to no one, and you must

succumb to its power if you hope for peace. her stronghold be the very

selfishness she have foster in her son: all his intention, every

word and action of his, have reference to his mother, who have so long

ministered to his besetting sin."



"I flatter myself I shall be able to compete with my husband's mother,"

say Julia, in a tone slightly tinge with contempt. "I should consider

myself strangely alter, if my husband turn from I, to consult his

mother. no, papa, I have no fear of that insult--Ennismore have too much

affection for I."



"ennismore be not capable of affection, Julia."



"well, papa, you be say the most unkind thing possible of Lord

Ennismore, and, indeed, excuse I if I say you be quite wrong in

accuse he of want of affection." a burst of tear follow poor

Julia's hurried speech.



Sir John again repeat his strong objection to the match, and

endeavour to point out the fallacy of attempt to win Lord

Ennismore's confidence--the confidence of a man whose mind nearly

approach to imbecility, but who be link to his mother by the

strong force of long habit; and her control over his action, fix by

constant and uncease attention to his selfish want.



in vain he place before his daughter's mind the misery she must

endure when the veil should be tear from her eye, and she wake to

the certainty of be unite for life to a man she despise--a man

inferior to herself in head and heart, yet possess neither respect

nor affection for the woman he have marry. in vain he paint she

longing for the home she have quit, when all its pleasure, its

tranquillity, would be of no avail; when she could never more claim

or enjoy they--all be in vain! Julia could not, would not, admit a

doubt of her power over Ennismore's heart, and she disclaim all

observation relative to the weakness of his capacity.



"it be easy enough," she say, "to fix incapacity upon a young

man whom Providence have afflict with illness, but the proof be

insufficient. she would rather say Providence have raise she up to

watch over Lord Ennismore, and smooth the rough path he be destine

to tread: certainly every disagreeable remark that could be devise

be bring up in array before she, yet she could not feel alarmed:

she be prepared to meet the trial which her mamma tell she belong

to matrimony, especially where poverty preside: poverty would not be

the case in this instance, and she must be allow to say she could not

resign Lord Ennismore upon what have be allege against he. if she

papa positively forbid the match, she would submit, but nothing short

of his decide prohibition would induce she to renounce a man she like

and approve.



"I would rather follow you to the grave, Julia, than see you the wife

of Ennismore!" exclaim her father.



"the grave, then, papa, will be my portion, if you be determined to be

unkind to poor Lord Ennismore, whom you invite yourself to Wetheral."



the father be move: true, his own hand have pen the invitation,

and it avail nothing that such a step have be take against his

own well judgment. he have bring the evil to his own door, and

the consequence be fall upon he even now. Julia perceive she

advantage, and again, in gentle entreaty, besought his consent to her

marriage. self-accusation soften her father's heart, as he view

Julia plead for a destiny his own error have prepare, and she wring

from his lip a slow and reluctant assent.



"you have force I, Julia, to say word which will seal both our

misery," he say, as Julia clung fondly round he, "and you will one

day upbraid I for my weakness."



"never, dear papa, never! you cannot know Lord Ennismore as I know he;

and, in day to come, you will smile at the list of grievance you

bring against that poor, suffer, innocent creature."



"I have do that which I shall repent of for ever, Julia; but I yet

tell you my judgment have yield to affection. I warn you to pause

ere you marry a man your father disapprove--before you commit your

peace of mind into the hand of a selfish-hearted husband--before you

quit for ever the home which shelter you! you have draw from I an

unwilling consent, because I cannot give pain--because I have myself

draw this blank, for I allow the intimacy; but, Julia, I have say,

and I say again, I do not like the man."



"you have say every thing, papa, to dissuade I, and upon I be the

misery you suggest, and which I cannot believe will arise from my

marriage with Lord Ennismore. think no more of I, papa, and do not

reproach yourself for having make I happy. a few month will prove the

mistake of your statement, and you will rejoice in having give I to

ennismore: indeed, papa, you will!" and Julia stroke his hand with a

smile so bright, and eye sparkle with such deep happiness, that her

father could only feel it impossible to check her dream of hope. Lady

Wetheral at that moment open the door.



"what an eternity of time you have be closet! I fancy something

be wrong, and a mother's feeling be uncontrollable: ah, Julia, I see

all be right by your bright eye--I see '_trousseau_' write legibly

on your forehead, and a splendid one it will prove, I be sure. of

course, Lady Ennismore must have family jewel, which she will present

to you. I will resign mine with pleasure, that my daughter Ennismore

may appear in great brilliance."



"you have other daughter, Gertrude," say Sir John, gravely.



"but none, love, that be likely to marry peer. Anna Maria, I be sure,

will not marry now: she have let every opportunity pass by. Clara be

beautiful, but peer be not plentiful in our neighbourhood. perhaps

a season at Cheltenham--. but where be Lord Ennismore, Julia? let I

congratulate and receive my son: I always admire and think well of

dear Ennismore: indeed, I may consider it quite my own match, for you

know, Julia, I always say he must be my son-in-law!"



Lord Ennismore be seek by Julia, and present in form, to receive

each parent's benediction: it be distinctly utter by Sir John

Wetheral, and form a strong contrast to his lady's melodious and

"holyday" term. as Lord Ennismore advance, his attenuate form,

pallid countenance, and lack-lustre grey eye, strike Sir John's mind

with disgust and regret, which he could with difficulty repress.



"my lord, I be call upon, by my daughter Julia, to accept you as a

near relation. I have state my sentiment to she freely; and as she

allow no objection to take effect upon her own judgment, I have only

to wish you happy in proportion to the kindness and indulgence you

bestow upon your wife."



Lady Wetheral salute his lordship as a man of many virtue. "my

dearest lord, I cannot but felicitate myself and family upon our new

and very dear accession to its number. if your health be preserve to

we, we shall have no wish ungratified; and I trust my Julia will long

enjoy the happiness which must arise from this grateful and flattering

connexion."



Lord Ennismore bow to each, but not one ray of expression light

up his heavy countenance, or ruffle the leaden stillness of his

_ensemble_. Julia's smile face lend increase dullness to her lover's

look as he speak.



"I be very proud to meet your approbation, Sir John, and your, Lady

Wetheral; I expect my mother in a few day, who will arrange thing for

I. she wish I very much to marry, and I be sure Julia will be very

happy in her acquaintance."



"I be sure I shall love she, Ennismore, if it be only for your sake,"

say Julia.



"she manage every thing for I," reply his lordship, "and I have

nothing to do but amuse myself; I think she must be here on Wednesday,

and then she will arrange all thing for our marriage. I hope to

receive you very soon at Bedinfield, Sir John, and you, Lady Wetheral;

I shall have great pleasure in show the lion there, and my mother

will explain every thing to you."



"oh! I look forward to that visit with such anxious pleasure, my dear

lord!" reply Lady Wetheral. "I have hear so much of Bedinfield,

so much of its magnificence, and so much more of the excellent taste

display in its internal comfort! I shall, indeed, pay you and

dear Julia a visit with pleasure, and I be sure with profit, for the

elegance of Bedinfield will suggest many improvement for Wetheral."



Lord Ennismore bow repeatedly during Lady Wetheral's eulogium, and

once more, when the eulogium closed:--



"my mother have do much towards beautify the family estate; and I

be sure your approbation will give her gratification, Lady Wetheral; as

also your, Sir John."



Sir John bend forward, in token of polite notice, but he remain

silent; his lady have already pour forth a stream of compliment,

sufficient for all the exigency of the case. Lord Ennismore turn to

Julia, and address she in his good and most prosy manner.



"I have happiness in think my mother will approve my choice; she

have long propose my marrying, and I be sure she will tell I I have

do right. I will now despatch a letter to say I be accept. I

should not like the circumstance to transpire through any other mean,

and she will be then enable to form her own plan for our future

establishment. I be sure she will think I have do right."



thus do Julia become engaged to Lord Ennismore, and thus do she give

herself away to a man perfectly disgusting, have he be unsupported

by station and wealth. Sir John do not allude to the affair after he

have undergo the painful task of accept he in the light of a son;

but Lady Wetheral do not affect to conceal the triumph of her heart;

it revel in her expression, and light up her countenance with

unusual brilliance. Julia must be a peeress--the young and lovely Lady

Ennismore!--had she now a wish ungratified?--all be absorb in Julia.



Lady Ennismore's arrival break through Lady Wetheral's day-dream, and

demand her attention; it be necessary for a time to generalize she

feeling and thought; to withdraw they from rest exclusively on

Julia, and to be again the polite and attractive hostess. the youthful

peeress expectant have not attain her honour, and another personage

be yet to be consult and win. Lady Wetheral apply herself to her

task with energy and tact.



Lady Ennismore have be many year a widow, and her person retain a

considerable portion of beauty and youthful appearance. her manner be

irresistible to those whom she consider it her interest to attach;

to all it be fascinating; but to the very few who be destine to be

near she, and who become the involuntary agent of her will, to they

Lady Ennismore's seductive attraction become a spell, which none could

withstand, and from whose magnetic influence no talisman could free

their spirit. Lord Ennismore's thought and sentiment have their rise

in his mother's suggestion, though he believe his action to be the

offspring of his own free will; but her ascendency, silent and wily in

its nature, be deeply and immoveably fix in his mind--a wife might

never hope to share it.



Lady Wetheral could not equal her guest in diplomatic talent, but she

follow Lady Ennismore's lead with excellent tact, and manage she

husband's distaste to her ladyship, with great skill. the lady become

intimate upon their first meeting, and be rarely separate during Lady

Ennismore's stay at Wetheral. Julia be soon bind heart and soul to

her future mother-in-law; her young imagination speedily allow every

virtue to manner so flattering, and she believe herself captivate by

excellence, and the irresistible force of kindness as sincere as it be

delightful. every member at Wetheral, save its proprietor, adore the

amiable and conciliate Lady Ennismore.



Lady Ennismore hold an interesting conversation with her son, soon

after her arrival at the castle. they be alone, in her ladyship's

private sitting-room.



"my dear ennismore, do you take your medicine regularly?"



"yes, I take three pill every night."



"and your powder, my love?"



"three time a day, just as I do at Bedinfield."



"Julia be a sweet girl, Ennismore; I hope she will not forget your

health, or overlook the necessity of attend to your medicine."



"I be sure she will be very attentive," reply his lordship, lay

down the book of pattern, which he be copy for Clara.



"I be sure she mean it, Ennismore; but a fine young creature like

Julia may forget occasionally, and it be so necessary your system

should be attend to."



"Julia say she shall seldom leave Bedinfield; therefore, all thing

will go on as regularly as usual."



"my dear Ennismore, Julia must go into public as your wife; she must

be often in society, and she must receive company; her station in life

require some sacrifice, but, should you often be compel to remain

alone, I should be very anxious about your health. I hate the venal

attention of servant; they might poison you."



"but you will be with we?" observe the young lord, in an anxious tone.



"my dear ennismore, I would make any sacrifice to establish your

comfort, but I dare say such a step be unnecessary. Julia be a dear,

delightful creature, just the very daughter-in-law I would have

select. I be sure her tender care will be devoted to your health.

if, in her gay or occupy hour, she should display an occasional

oversight, remember her youth and beauty, and the difficulty of her

situation, Ennismore."



"but who will attend to my medicine, and myself?" ask his lordship;

"I never can be leave alone, you know; who will play cribbage with I in

the evening, as you have always do?"



"leave that to I, my son; time and circumstance will do much for we.

you have choose the flower of the Wetherals for your wife. Julia love

I, and be guide by I in every thing which relate to yourself; Lady

W. be a ladylike goose, and her eld daughter resemble the automaton

in stillness and insipidity. Clara be very handsome, but I see already

the germ of violence in her temper. you have do very wisely in

choose Julia; between ourselves, she be easily guide by the person

she love, and she love I for your sake, Ennismore."



"I be very glad I have give you satisfaction; altogether, I be greatly

pleased I be go to be marry, since you like Julia, and wish

I to settle. I be sure she be an excellent person, and will take

great care of I, but I cann't think I shall get on well without _you_,

mother!"



"my dear son, do you really wish to be plague with a mother, when a

young and handsome woman become your companion? cannot you allow for

a _little_ present discomfort, till Julia become accustomed to your

method? your poor fond mother will be a millstone round your neck,

dear Augustus."



"I can never be happy without you, mother, to give I all my thing in

proper time. I have be so accustomed to have every thing do for I,

and Julia cannot remember every thing at once, as you do. you will stay

with we at Bedinfield?"



"your affection to I be extremely flattering, Ennismore, and your

mother will never be far from you; but consider the opinion of the

world, and, believe I, we must conform in some measure to its

expectation. I will retire to my jointure-house with proper humility;

how long I continue there, will depend upon yourself."



"but Julia do not know my way; who will give I my pill?"



"your young wife, Ennismore."



"Mother, I cann't marry, unless you will stay by I, and take care

of I, as you have always do. Julia do not know I take so much

medicine; she know nothing about illness; I always expect you would

live with I when I marry."



"you will be very happy at Bedinfield, Augustus, with Julia."



"I know I shall be very ill, mother."



"hush!" whisper her ladyship, as the door open, and Julia appear,

fresh and fair as Venus, when she first present her bright form

before the admiring god; the joyous expression of her face form

a painful contrast with the leaden torpidity of her lover's dreary

countenance.



"I be come to announce another gay meeting at Lady Spottiswoode's this

day week; all our party must, positively, attend, Lady Spottiswoode

say, for her room be to boast particular attraction. the celebrated

Adonis, Mr. Vyvyan, and the still more celebrated Captain Jekyl, be

borrow for the occasion. here be note for each, and all."



"and who be Mr. Vyvyan, Julia?" ask Lady Ennismore. "every body

know, or have hear of Captain Jekyl, but I be ignorant of the

existence of Mr. Vyvyan; come he from Cornwall?"



"I do not know, but he be stay with the pynsent, and every body be

wild about he. you will obey the summon, dear Lady Ennismore?"



her ladyship demur.



"oh, then, I shall have no pleasure in the thing at all," exclaim

Julia, "and I be sure Ennismore will not care about it if you be

absent; therefore, we will remain together at home."



"dear flattering girl," say her ladyship, smile, and press

Julia's hand; "be I so seriously include in your scheme of happiness?

I will not hear of your absence from so much gaiety: now be the natural

and proper period for enjoyment, Julia, and, since you be silly

enough to prefer an old lady's society, I must and will with pleasure

sacrifice my own wish. I will attend you to Lady Spottiswoode's, and

witness your triumph."



"my great triumph will arise in having win your consent to

accompany we, dear Lady Ennismore," reply Julia; and her beaming

eye prove the sincerity of her feeling. Julia, artless and

affectionate, be incapable of disguise; and the parentally kind and

watchful attention of her ladyship win the whole soul of the object to

whom it be address. Julia rarely quit the society of her future

mother; and certainly her attachment amount to adoration in its

effect; but, little accustomed to expression of regard and fondness

from her own parent, and sensibly alive to kindness, no wonder the

charm be feel, and its influence yield to, by one so keenly feel.

the attachment of Lord Ennismore, however coldly manifest, and the

fascinating sweetness of Lady Ennismore's manner, open vision of

happy futurity to Julia's mind; and she drink copiously of the cup

of delightful hope present to her lip. all be to she a scene of

enchantment.



Christobelle be now admit to range freely through the apartment

once so impervious to her sister, till their fourteenth anniversary

allow they the _entrée_, in form, to the delight of society. upon

Julia's engagement to Lord Ennismore, Clara be induct into her

right and privilege; and Christobelle, under cover of her father's

protection, be allow to glide silently among the personage

fill the present busy scene. Lady Wetheral be too much occupy

in "arrangement" concern the forthcoming marriage to heed she

appearance; and if a kind remark from Lady Ennismore betray she

presence, Lady Wetheral observe "it be only Bell, Sir John's pet,

and concern, altogether--not her;" and she be allow to roam about

unnoticed.



"Bell" remember, in after year, how Julia be evermore seat near

Lady Ennismore, fix her eye in admiration upon her ladyship's fine

countenance, and listen to her conversation with eager attention.

she remember Lord Ennismore employ almost constantly by Clara in

copying music, or draw pattern for fancy-work, and Miss Wetheral

occupy in drawing, with pale cheek and humid eye. she remember

distinctly her mother's gratified look and manner, as she pass from

Lady Ennismore to her dull son, with the proud feeling that Julia

would soon link her name with that of a baron of the united kingdom.

Young as Christobelle then be, she could observe the difference

between Julia's happy, beam eye, and the melancholy expression of

her eld sister's countenance, pale as her own white dress, till an

allusion to Hatton, or the name of Pynsent, suffuse her cheek with a

pass blush. she see and observe much, which become a subject of

meditation in after life.



Lady Ennismore demand an audience of Sir John Wetheral, previous to

Lady Spottiswoode's ball, and the interview take place in his study,

with every appropriate ceremony and mystery. Lady Ennismore then, in

behalf of her son, offer to arrange the settlement, and enter upon

the little momentous prelude which usually precede matrimonial vow.

Sir John express his surprise that his lordship should require an

interpreter and agent in a matter concern his own affair. Lady

Ennismore be never want to herself.



"my dear Sir John, young people be shy of enter into affair which

involve much consideration. perhaps I have lay the foundation of

indolence in my son's mind by act accord to his wish, instead

of compel he to become his own _homme d'affaires_; but my son's

health must prove his excuse, and I shall be truly happy to resign the

rein into Julia's hand in a very few week."



"your ladyship must have enervate his capacity for business, since my

lord be unequal to make a settlement upon his wife," observe Sir John,

drily.



Lady Ennismore appeared absorb in calculation, as she run up quickly

a sum pencil upon a slip of paper, which she hold in her hand. the

employment prevent she from comprehend the purport of the speech,

or it allow her ladyship a plea for momentary absence of mind. she

turn suddenly from her calculation.



"my dear sir, Ennismore's income allow he to settle three thousand a

year upon his lady."



Sir John bow.



"her jointure will be three thousand pound," continue Lady Ennismore,

"and five hundred pound yearly pin-money: do that allowance appear

too little, my dear Sir John?"



"it may not be too large an allowance for Lady Ennismore," he reply;

"but it be a large sum for Julia Wetheral. I trust my daughter will

manage her affair with prudence and credit to herself."



"I do not doubt her excellence in any point," say her ladyship, in

win tone. "Julia will be the pride of the family who be fortunate

enough to receive she."



a father's tender feeling be touch; they be easily rouse on the

subject of his wife and child. he bow to Lady Ennismore with more

conciliation of manner than he have yet display towards her ladyship.



"I believe my daughter's heart to be excellent, and I be sure she will

act uprightly in every situation."



"Ennismore and myself justly value our treasure, Sir John, and I shall

retire from Bedinfield with the happy certainty of leave my son in

the possession of every earthly comfort. young people should live to

themselves, and I hold it good policy, on every account, to retire. do

you not think with I, Sir John?"



"I agree with your ladyship. I should not wish to be domesticate with

young people upon their marriage. they be enter upon life as we

have do before they; and the experience of old people be offensive to

the unsuspicious. they must win, through suffering, the knowledge we

have acquire: _we_ do so, Lady Ennismore."



"I flatter myself, Sir John, we think alike on many subject. I shall

retire to tranquillity and repose in my cottage of gentility, and the

young people will make the wall of Bedinfield ring with festivity. I

trust we may claim your daughter in a very short time. the settlement

will not be long in my agent's hand, and Ennismore be so anxious to

present his lady in Staffordshire! may I make interest to salute my

real daughter in a month? I be now equally anxious to make my own

arrangement; and my first wish must be to secure my son's comfort,

before I allow myself to consider my own gratification."



Sir John admit that suspense be useless when both party

understand the nature of their engagement; and the marriage be fix

to take place as soon as the settlement should be ready for signature.

there be great ceremony in present jewel; and Lady Wetheral be

the head and front of every thing. there be immense preparation in

the wardrobe department, far exceed, in extent and expense, the

ample and handsome dress prepare for Mrs. Boscawen. her ladyship

explain the necessity of a very distinct line of demarkation in the

wardrobe of the sister.



"Julia marry a peer, consequently she will require a certain style of

magnificence in her appearance. Isabel marry a man of considerable

wealth, but still the young wife of an elderly commoner be not of

material importance in society. Isabel must nurse Boscawen, who be

scarcely ever free from ague since he visit Holland, and these

splendid silk would be useless, fade at brierly; it would have

be bad than folly to have give a peeress's _trousseau_ to poor

Isabel, but they will both attend your marriage, my dear Julia. it

will be a proud day to we all, when you become the wife of Ennismore,

a young nobleman possess peculiar steadiness of character; and,

though slightly delicate, his mind be elastic, and his love strongly

develop towards you. independently of his rank and title, I should

prefer Ennismore to the young man of the present day. the necklace he

present to you so gallantly be diamond of the first water."



"Lady Ennismore present they to Julia, mamma," observe Clara, with

simplicity.



"fiddle faddle! they be present in excellent taste. Isabel have no

jewel, poor girl."









CHAPTER VI.





when the Wetheral party enter the crowded dancing-room at Lady

Spottiswoode's, they cause considerable sensation. it be now publicly

know that Lord Ennismore be the accepted lover of Miss Julia

Wetheral, and the young couple be gaze at with untired wonder.

each countenance be well known to the company: Miss Julia Wetheral

and young Lord Ennismore have frequent every fashionable place of

rendezvous for the last three month, yet their engagement evidently

procure each personage extraordinary power of novelty.



eye which have scarcely allow a glance to the uninviting figure

of Lord Ennismore, gaze now earnestly upon his person, because he

come as the acknowledge lover of the handsome Julia Wetheral, and

every gentleman glance with heighten interest and admiration at

Julia, because she be no long of their number to win and to receive

their homage. Julia Wetheral now belong to Lord Ennismore, and her

brilliant light must soon disappear from their hemisphere: she be

go to throw herself away, they affirm, upon a fellow unworthy of

such a prize. could she really love such a poor, sickly creature? far

well have take Tom Pynsent.



Julia be the star of the evening, from the contend opinion which

circulate upon the subject of her engagement. she be, however,

innocent of the sensation she occasion. lean on the arm of she

affiance, and accompany by Lady Ennismore, Julia pass through the

groupe who watch her progress, and give no thought to the whisper

observation that float around she. she be truly happy, truly

bless in her own bright mental anticipation, and in the company

of those she love. she hear no sound but the heavy enunciation of

Ennismore, and the sprightly musical tone of her ladyship. she see no

one distinctly, not even Tom Pynsent, who stand bolt upright before her

party, with a remarkably red face. he address Miss Wetheral.



"I be get a disagreeable thing over, Miss Wetheral. I hear Miss

Julia be engage to that young sprig after all, and I know I must meet

she some time or other, so I be prepared to do it at once."



Julia at that moment catch his eye, and Tom Pynsent bow with

tolerable command of manner.



"there, that be over. I wish your sister have give herself to a well

sort of fellow. that Lord Ennismore, Miss Wetheral, should not carry

such a jewel away from we. she do right to refuse I, if I do not

please her fancy, but she ought to have choose a more likely upstanding

fellow than the Staffordshire earl."



Anna Maria smile complacently at the sound of Tom Pynsent's voice, but

the subject be distress. she could not trust herself to continue

it. Tom Pynsent nod and smile to a group at some distance.



"there's Wycherly and Tyndal wish I joy. they watch I bow to

your sister. I'll just tell they they be d--d rascal for their

pain."



Tom Pynsent walk away to put his threat in execution, but the

congratulation of the gentleman overpower he.



"I say, Pynsent, you bow like Sir Charles Grandison."



"Pynsent, that be mortal agony, ben't it?"



"Tom's a cold," cry young Spottiswoode.



"you be all welcome to laugh, gentleman," say Tom Pynsent, in his

invariably good-natured manner. "some of you be merry because you have

not be refuse by a woman you like, and half of you rejoice to find

the mortification extend to another besides yourself."



Mr. Wycherly turn towards Mr. Pynsent. "my dear fellow, you cause

your own vexation by hunting after a woman who do not care for you.

Most man run after shadow, and cast away substance. I marry Mrs.

Wycherly because she take a fancy to I, and let I see at once what

she wish and expect. faith, it save I a great deal of trouble!"



"but no girl care for I, unless she long for my money," exclaim

Pynsent, feelingly.



"Zounds, man, don't be crestfallen. I know a fine woman at this moment,

and in this room, who would take you penniless!"



Tom Pynsent look aghast.



"every body but yourself have observe the thing," say young

Spottiswoode. "haven't they, tyndal?"



"where be your eye, Pynsent?" ask Mr. Vyvyan. "I detect the lady

the moment you address she."



"'love in her eye for ever play,'" sing Mr. Wycherly. "'it make she

rosy lip his care.'"



"'and walk the maze of her hair,'" add Mr. Vyvyan.



Tom Pynsent gaze on each speaker in silent amazement: no pencil could

pourtray the working of his countenance.



"who would sorrow for the cold-hearted, when a handsome girl worship

the ground one tread upon?" cry Mr. John Tyndal. "not I for one."



"I wish she would give _I_ one of those dovelike glance she bestow

upon the dull-head Pynsent," sigh Mr. Henry Tyndal.



"by Jove, gentleman, I don't consider myself dull!" at last Tom Pynsent

burst forth. "I know many lady who would like to live at Hatton,

though they care little enough about its master; but I deny your

present statement. who be the lady you allude to?"



"go and ask Miss Wetheral to dance, Pynsent, and she will assist you in

solve our riddle," say Mr. Wycherly, laugh.



"good heaven! if a woman look in my eye, as I see a lady consulting

your just now, Pynsent, I should feel myself call upon to fall

desperately in love," observe his friend Vyvyan.



"God bless my soul! do you mean that _miss_ Wetheral like I?"



Tom Pynsent utter the question with an agitated and hurried tone

of voice, which cause a general laugh among his auditor, but Mr.

Wycherly speak seriously and look in earnest.



"you be in love with her sister, Pynsent, and have no time to observe

other woman. every one else could read in the expression of Miss

Wetheral's manner and countenance she decide like for you."



"God bless my soul!" again ejaculate Tom Pynsent, "I never see she

look I in the face in my life!"



"my dear fellow, you be as green as a girl in her sixteenth year.

do you fancy a woman stare at you by way of shew her true love?

her downcast look and melancholy appearance betray she. she only

brighten up when you address she, and to all other man she be cold

as an iceberg. such be Miss Wetheral's symptom, and such be all

delicate-minded woman's manner, when they be not hunt down a

fortune. I know the sex, Pynsent."



"such a woman be worth a thousand scornful dame," remark old Mr.

Tyndal.



"Pynsent looks petrify!" exclaim young Spottiswoode.



"Pynsent at fault, by the Lord Harry!" laugh his friend Vyvyan.



"cold scent, Pynsent, after your late run," cry Spottiswoode,

entertain beyond measure at poor Tom's _égaré_ look.



the group of gentleman rally unmercifully their bewildered companion

upon his dull reception of a piece of intelligence which would have

raise any other man from the dead. Tom Pynsent's temper stand all

jibe with unwearied patience, and when his mind have somewhat recover

the standard of its usual tone, he rebut their attack in his own

loud tone of voice.



"I don't mind any of your joke; if a woman like I seriously, I

shall be sure to return it, and be very much oblige to she. I like

Miss Wetheral very much, but I do not suppose she care for I; how

could I?"



"why, you flirt with she abominably, once," remark young

Spottiswoode.



"yes, perhaps I do so, but I have no idea she mind my nonsense."



"young girl be easily catch, Pynsent, at first come out. you

certainly trifle with poor Miss Wetheral," say Mr. Tyndal.



"do I? then I'll be hang if I don't marry she!"



a roar of laughter follow this announcement, but Tom Pynsent be

nothing daunt; he coolly withdraw from his companion, and seek

Anna Maria, who receive he with placid manner, and suppress

pleasure.



Tom Pynsent be now enlighten on one material point; and his vanity

be touch, by the knowledge that the beautiful Miss Wetheral, so

remarkable for her loveliness and extraordinary coldness of manner,

do indeed love he in silence, above all his companion, and

independently of Hatton! she have love he in spite of his proposal to

her sister! she have bear the knowledge of her sister's rivalship in

patient gentleness! she be at that moment receive he with kind and

conciliate manner, though she know he have ask another to be his

wife! Tom Pynsent's heart do justice to her suffering and affection;

and he mentally vow he would secure a prize so long unvalued,

because so totally misunderstood. from that moment he attach himself

exclusively to Miss Wetheral.



how do the hour glide by that eventful evening, in the imagination of

the two happy sister! how triumphant do Lady Wetheral appear as she

glance at both daughter!



there be Lord Ennismore publicly display his engagement with Julia,

and Tom Pynsent be station at the side of Anna Maria, in deep, and,

apparently, agreeable discourse. her triumph be comment upon, by the

Mesdames Tyndal and Pynsent.



"oh, be hang to she!" cry the latter lady, "she have get one

daughter hook on Ennismore, and now she's drive at Tom: only watch

her manœuvre. I know what she be at, Mrs. Tyndal, when she make

her visit to Court Herbert some year ago. Miss Wetheral be a child,

but I smoke the meaning of it. she be vapoure then, after Tom."



"Lady Wetheral have be very fortunate with her daughter," reply

Mrs. Tyndal. "Mr. Boscawen be an eligible match, and Lord Ennismore of

course, in the eye of the world, be of still high consideration."



"I think, if I have ten portionless daughter, I would not give one of

they to that poor decay fellow, and as I always tell my son, Tom; 'if

you bring I home a Wetheral, I'll be hang if I receive she, and my

word be as good as your own.'"



Mrs. Tyndal be accustomed to her companion's manly style of

expression; so indeed be every family in the county. Mrs. Pynsent

be tolerate in her youth on account of her large fortune; she be

tolerate in middle-life as the mistress of Hatton; she be seek in

her old age, as the mother of her son Tom. thus Mrs. Pynsent pass

through society without a single accomplishment, or even the attribute

of a female, support by the powerful shield of wealth, and fear for

the determination of her sentiment and the coarseness of her remark,

by all her acquaintance.



separate from her masculine propensity, Mrs. Pynsent be a

warm-hearted, well-mean person, and many young people could bear

witness, that if Mrs. Pynsent often offend their ear, or deal

a merciless blow at their vanity, she have also befriend they in

their need, and in sorrow or sickness, there be none kinder, or more

patient. why Mrs. Pynsent speak so bitterly against a "Wetheral" never

could be divine; probably some early prejudice influence she in

deprecate the name.



Mrs. Tyndal express surprise at Mrs. Pynsent's observation to her son.



"really, Mrs. Pynsent, I cannot agree with you in such very determined

dislike to the Miss Wetherals. I think my son might make a far bad

choice than either lady present."



"by Jove!" reply Mrs. Pynsent, shrug her shoulder, "I hope Tom

will never choose an empty doll from Wetheral: my brother Wycherly

hint to I the other day Tom have be disappoint of one of they,

but I give he my thought upon the matter: 'bill,' I say, 'if any

man could prove to I my son Tom have make an offer to a Wetheral, I'd

kick he down stair for his pain, and out of the Hatton ground.' my

brother Bill never renew that subject!"



Mrs. Tyndal glance towards Anna Maria, who be still engage in

conversation with Tom Pynsent, and a smile pass over her face. Mrs.

Pynsent catch the smile and look.



"oh, you need not think about Tom in that quarter!" she observe. "Tom

know I hate the name."



at that moment Miss Wetheral and her companion join the dancer.



"your son distinguish Miss Wetheral to-night," say her friend, with

rather more _espièglerie_ than their friendship warrant.



"not a bit of it; I don't believe a word of it." at that instant

her eye catch Tom dance with all his might, and she behold his

_vis-à-vis_ exchange smile with he: her colour rise.



"by Jove! he's dance with she a second time, and there's that

superannuated father of his, look on! wouldn't any one think Mr.

Pynsent be stare at a puppet-show? I'll take the old gentleman home."



Mrs. Pynsent rise for the purpose of join her husband, who be

enjoy the apparent gaiety of his son. Lady Wetheral join she at

that most inopportune moment, and begin a subject most offensive to her

feeling.



"I be delighted to see your son in such excellent spirit to-night, my

dear Mrs. Pynsent: it be an infectious disorder which I already feel

steal upon I. such joyous spirit generally take effect upon those

around."



"what ail Tom that he should not be gay?" growl Mrs. Pynsent.

"mother court he and daughter flirt with he; what else can he

require in a ball-room?"



Lady Wetheral felt pique.



"the last time I have the pleasure of see your son, he be not so

gaily inclined. I be glad his dejection have pass away."



"when do you see Tom out of spirit?" abruptly inquire Mrs. Pynsent.



"at Wetheral," reply her ladyship, in a gentle tone, while her heart

long for farther questioning.



"Umph! man require spirit sometimes, when they be run the

gauntlet."



"Mr. Pynsent win my admiration and regard by his honourable manner of

act," continue Lady Wetheral, who have now get into deep water; "he

be always a particular favourite of mine, and I deeply regret my

daughter do not accept a man so much...."



"your daughter! who be you talk about?--what have my son to do with

any of your daughter?" Mrs. Pynsent be evidently begin to chafe,

but she have offend by her allusion to mother and daughter, and she

be destine to receive punishment from Lady Wetheral's hand.



"I be afraid I have allude to circumstance which have not be make

know to you, my dear Mrs. Pynsent, and I beseech you not to remember

what have pass my lip: I be of course perfectly certain you be no

strange to certain event at Wetheral, or I would have withhold this

unfortunate communication; I think you know...."



"I know nothing, Lady Wetheral; and what be more, I have no desire to

know any thing: have the kindness to let I pass."



Mrs. Pynsent pass on, as her ladyship fall back with polite ease of

manner at her wish; but the iron have enter into her soul. the diamond

aigrette upon her green satin turban pale under the flashing of her

eye as she proceed up the room towards Lady Spottiswoode. Lady

Wetheral confess afterwards, her triumph at that moment repay she

for many bitter taunt on the part of her victim.



whatever might be the opinion of Mrs. Pynsent respect an alliance

with "a Wetheral," her son be plunge into the scrape with formidable

determination. he have truly admire Julia; he have be severely

disappoint by her refusal; but then she never care for he, and

he have apply to her father in doubt and fearful suspicion that she

preferred Ennismore. there be a lovely and admire creature positively

in love with he--a girl, too, consider by the man inaccessible to

all approach--even Vyvyan detect her attachment, and the tyndal

envy he; this be irresistible; and Tom Pynsent forget every thing,

in the flattering, rapturous idea that he be love by such a woman.

his attention that night be extremely marked, and Miss Wetheral,

glow with happy elation of spirit, listen with deep interest to

the half-sentimental, half-awkward conversation of her partner. at the

conclusion of the dance, which attract the attention of Mrs. Tyndal,

Tom Pynsent become more seriously sentimental and red-faced.



"Miss Wetheral, I think a man may love twice, mayn't he?"



"he may so," reply Anna Maria, "but no one ever love with depth of

affection a second time; how can they?"



Tom Pynsent look at his glove, and then upon the ground. "indeed I

don't know."



"the first affection," she continue, with feeling, "unite all the

good feeling in their intensity; but when they be crush, those

feeling bloom no more, though they may not be extinguish."



"sometimes one's first love be a silly affair," remark Tom, look

inquisitively, yet alarm, at his companion.



"they may be silly, and they may be objectionable, Mr. Pynsent;

but they destroy happiness at the time, and a first sorrow be the

bitter."



"I think I could love a second time just as well as I do at first,

if I know a nice girl like I, and believe what I tell her--" Tom

Pynsent stop. a deep sigh from Anna Maria disorder he, but it

animate his courage at the same time.



"I know many people very happy with their second love," say Tom

Pynsent, look shy.



"man may love twice, but woman never, if they really feel an attachment

for an object," answer Miss Wetheral.



"I like your sister Julia extremely, Miss Wetheral; but she do not

care about I, and a man cannot always be miserable about a woman

who run out of his way. I would rather love a woman who like I in

return, and would not check I with stern look. I be sure I should

love my wife very much; and if she object to hunting, I would never

go out more than four day in the week, and I be sure she might have

her own way in every thing."



Anna Maria colour with emotion, and turn from the eager gaze of her

companion; her timidity give increase animation to the speaker, and he

proceed boldly.



"I'm sure any woman need not mind _I_: I be rough, but then a wife

mustn't mind those little thing, and if I swear, it willn't be at _her_.

a man swear to make himself understand, and sometimes one swear a

little for something to do; but my wife need not mind those trifle,

need she, Miss Wetheral?"



"that would depend upon circumstance."



"but should _you_?" ask Tom.



"I never hear you swear, Mr. Pynsent--much--"



Tom Pynsent draw himself up with strong approbation and pleased vanity.

"shall we dance again, Miss Wetheral?"



"we have dance together twice this evening, Mr. Pynsent."



"well, and what then?"



"People will remark," hesitate Anna Maria; "no gentleman dance three

time with--that be--I really cann't tell."



"but if we like to dance together, what be that to any one?" Tom rise

and take her hand. "if you will not dance with I, I shall be sure you

don't wish it."



Anna Maria rise, though reluctantly.



"it be not my wish to decline dancing, Mr. Pynsent: I only dislike

make myself publicly remark for break establish rule."



"never mind rule, Miss Wetheral; we will dance together, in spite of

every thing. who mind what people say, if we like to dance together!"



Julia and Lord Ennismore pass at the moment Anna Maria be debate

with her partner: Julia smile. "my dear Anna Maria, the young lady

be complain of you as a monopoliser; they say you have be

keep Mr. Pynsent from his usual half dozen partner, and there be a

combination to vote you out of all ball invitation."



"I cannot allow Miss Wetheral to listen to such abominable nonsense,"

say Tom Pynsent, privately delighted at the idea of be observe;

"she have promise to be guide by I this evening, so we be go to

dance together for the third time."



"come and stand by we then in the country dance." Julia press

the hand of her sister with affectionate meaning, which Anna Maria

return, as they proceed together to the set which be then form.

for an instant they be able to exchange whisper.



"oh, Julia, my heart be tranquil, I be again happy!"



"glad of it, go on, and mind nobody's look or remark." in another

instant their partner claim they.



"I say, father, just observe cousin Tom," say Miss Wycherly, touch

her father's arm; "do look at Tom smile upon Miss Wetheral, and

look so red-faced and happy. that will be a match, after all; I

shall congratulate he."



"let he alone, Pen, let he alone, and congratulate he when he ask

for it. girl will always be poke their nose into match, and

make mischief. say nothing to Tom, and say nothing to your aunt."



"but my aunt will be distract, father, at the match."



"Pooh, pooh, let your aunt and Tom manage their own affair; they can

both take their own part."



"Gads!" cry Miss Wycherly; "Tom be just go to dance with Miss

Wetheral the third time, father; the third time, as I be alive, father!

well, that will do for my aunt if she see it."



Mr. Vyvyan come up at that moment to request the pleasure of dancing

with Miss Wycherly. Miss Wycherly keep her glass to her eye, and

continue observe the party as she reply, "no, I cann't dance with

any body now, I'm look at Tom." Mr. Vyvyan bow with an offend

air and withdraw.



"Pen, you be very rude," observe Mr. Wycherly.



"be I?"



"yes, you be; devilish rude."



"what do he come worry I for, when I be watch Tom. Gads!

father, Tom be say something to the purpose now. Miss Wetheral have

give he such a look: poor Tom, it's all over with he! where in the

world be aunty Pynsent?--somebody find I aunty--I want of all thing

to see her fire up!"



Sir Charles Spottiswoode beg the honour of Miss Wycherly's hand for

the follow country dance.



"I cann't dance with any of you; I be busy look for my aunt," reply

the lady, seat herself.



"let I assist you in your search, Miss Wycherly;" and Mr. Spottiswoode

seat himself quietly beside she. Miss Wycherly be amuse by the

action.



"Charles Spottiswoode, you may call this constancy, but I can only

consider it tiresome: do go and dance with some lady who have not the

objection I have, to be worried. I hate tiresome man!"



"I shall not desire to dance with you, but I will not quit this place

while you remain here," be the reply.



"man always fancy perseverance will balance their demerit," say Miss

Wycherly.



"perseverance will do much," reply Mr. Spottiswoode, "if a lady

value attention. love be only prove by persevere constancy and

untired assiduity."



"a very fine sentiment, Mr. Spottiswoode; but I can meet you in the

field of disputation: I have always hear that 'love' be fearful,

patient, and easily discourage."



"_that_ love must emanate from the heart of a poor devil, Miss

Wycherly; not such a heart as you would prize."



"what do you presume to know of my taste, Mr. Spottiswoode?"



"I know that you would despise a creep, frightened lover, as you

dislike your horse for start upon every application of the whip. you

would prefer a decide admirer who bear with your flippancy, and fear

not your power. you have such a lover in I, fair Penelope!"



"you be very tiresome and disagreeable, Mr. Spottiswoode."



"you like I well than you will acknowledge, Miss Wycherly."



"if that be all you can amuse I with, we might as well join the

dancing," say Miss Wycherly. "but stay, I cannot; I have just decline

Mr. Vyvyan."



"what be Mr. Vyvyan to you or I? the set be nearly complete, and

we shall be too late." Mr. Spottiswoode offer his arm to his fair

companion.



"no, I shall not dance to-night," say the capricious lady, rise and

reseat herself. "my mind be change."



"so be mine; I be go to flirt a little with Lady Anna Herbert.

chat be far more agreeable than dance, in a heated room. Lady

Anna have smile good-naturedly twice. I be glad you have the good taste

to decline."



"I say I should not dance, but I do not say I would not talk, Mr.

Spottiswoode; how very anxious you be to take up one's meaning."

Mr. Spottiswoode only bow to retire. Miss Wycherly soften the

pettishness of her accent.



"do stay, Mr. Spottiswoode, I have something particular to ask you; you

flurry one with your rapidity."



Mr. Spottiswoode sit down. "I be all attention, Miss Wycherly."



"how can you look so cross at I, and speak in such dry tone, Charles

Spottiswoode! I hate cross people."



"then answer I one simple question in truth and sincerity, or I be

go for ever, Penelope Wycherly."



"Gads! how you plague one! well, what be it?"



"I will know whether you mean to accept I after all this flippancy. if

you do not intend it, say so; but I demand a reply."



"then you wish to flirt with Lady Anna, Mr. Charles, and you think



    "'it be good to be off with the old love,

    before you be on with the new.'"



"you have not answer I," return Mr. Spottiswoode, seriously;

"answer I, as you hope yourself to be fairly treat."



"I vow I don't know what I mean; it be very difficult to make one's

choice among such a variety of Lords of the creation. I have not be

introduce to Mr. Jones yet. I cann't say I admire Tom's friend."



"I be answer, Miss Wycherly; I wish you good night." Mr.

Spottiswoode turn from the coquette, and walk up the dancing-room,

without attend to Miss Wycherly's recall. the lady become alarmed.

be Mr. Spottiswoode's movement really intentional, or be he show

she how indifferently he could take leave, to compel she into

acceptance? there he be positively talk to Lady Anna Herbert,

and look perfectly compose. Lady Anna be a notorious flirt, but

she should not entrap Charles Spottiswoode! Miss Wycherly be not

accustomed to be treat with _nonchalance_; and that Mr. Spottiswoode,

her lover of long standing, should summon courage enough to stand upon

the defensive against her coquetry, pique she to the soul. she seek

Julia, who be dance with Lord Ennismore.



"Miss wycherly unattended!" cry Mr. Henry Tyndal, as he meet she on

her way to the dancer, "take my arm."



"be quiet," say the lady, pass on with her glass raise to her eye,

"do be quiet."



"Miss Wycherly, you be after mischief; you be dart arrow at some

poor wretch through that missile," continue young Tyndal, follow

she.



"I be dart nothing, unless you be my arrow, in which case I should

delight to throw you to an incredible distance."



"you be witty, Miss Wycherly," return young Tyndal, "and whenever

you be witty, you be angry."



Miss Wycherly make no reply; she see and approach Julia.



"Julia Wetheral, I beseech you to do I a service."



"I will gladly assist you, if it be in my power," reply Julia; "what

be require of I?"



"oh, leave the dance, and listen to I. Lord Ennismore will follow we,

when he perceive you have quit the set; here let we be seat, and

I will tell you my anxiety."



Julia smilingly listen to Miss Wycherly's statement of her little

coquetry, and the offended departure of Mr. Spottiswoode.



"and now," she say, "I know you will help I, and just make my peace

with Charles. I willn't give he the triumph of know he have frighten

I, but in your playful way you can discover what Spottiswoode mean.

he have positively threaten to flirt with Lady Anna; and, whether I

like he or not, he must not appear unconcerned with another woman. my

dear, that would kill I. I cann't part with Charles Spottiswoode in

that way, you know, and I just want you to sound he. now go, there's a

dear creature; leave Lord Ennismore with I."



Julia undertake the mission, and Lord Ennismore consign himself, not

to the care of Miss Wycherly, but to the side of his lady mother.



"my dear son, I have witness Julia's flight, and your consternation,"

say her ladyship; "you be fortunate in possess a foolishly-fond

mother to retire to in these emergency."



"I be always very glad to come to you, mother," reply the poor

effeminate young man, seat himself between her ladyship and Lady

Wetheral.



Julia be some minute in playful conversation with Mr. Spottiswoode,

and Miss Wycherly watch her movement with eager attention; at last

Julia approach.



"well, my dear, what do he say? tell I at once, be he go to dance

with Lady Anna?"



"Mr. Spottiswoode be very much hurt, Penelope, and, if you be not

cautious, you will lose he."



"oh, my dear girl, don't say so. lose he? no, I'll be hang, as my

aunt say, if he get away from I, to be one of Lady Anna's swain! I

must come down, I see, though it grate I dreadfully."



"make haste, as you value Mr. Spottiswoode," reply Julia, "or he

will be dance with Lady Anna. he be look at we at this moment;

now, Penelope, smile, smile, and beckon he to you for ever--don't

trifle--now, now, Penelope!"



"my dear, the smile would kill I. I cann't smile at Spottiswoode, to

show he his power, and make he impudent. no, I cannot smile yet,

Julia."



"there, Penelope, he have ask Lady Anna to dance, and they be

stand up! you have lose he by your foolish coquetting, upon my

honour!"



Miss Wycherly turn pale, but her feeling struggle with pride. "oh,

well then, let he dance away, I care not. it be of little consequence

whether Mr. Spottiswoode prefer Lady Anna or myself. I shall not

condescend to beg pardon for any thing I choose to say to a silly

creature, who cannot command his temper."



"for shame, Penelope! you _do_ care, and you _do_ mind Mr. Spottiswoode

dance with Lady Anna; when the dance be end, tell he you have do

wrong."



"he might have see by my look, Julia, I be not in earnest, or, at

least, that I do not mean he to think so."



"then tell he so, Penelope."



"not I, indeed. I never will submit to own myself wrong to a man before

marriage, or after either, if I can help it. Spottiswoode may rue the

hour he offend I, for never will I condescend to ask he to return

to a woman whom he choose to leave for such a person as Lady Anna. any

other girl I could have bear patiently. this I will not forgive, for

he know it would vex I! hang I, _à la_ Pynsent, if I do not repay he

in kind."



"I can be of no further use, Penelope?"



"none, Julia, but I thank you for what you have do, though it have

prove ineffectual. do not let I detain you from your party."



Julia endeavour to appease her companion, but her lover's careless

indifference give deep offence to Miss Wycherly, and she persist in

maintain an equal appearance of light-hearted manner, to deceive

and distress Mr. Spottiswoode. she be not long without material

to assist her design; Mr. Henry Tyndal again apply to she, Miss

Wycherly accept he as a partner, and she pass her lover in the

country dance with inimitably affected composure and gaiety. how

do that really attach couple endeavour to vie with each other in

assume a coldness foreign to their heart; and how wretchedly do

they pass the remainder of the evening in a state of miserable watch

and suffer! Miss Wycherly, in her most laugh dialogue with Henry

Tyndal, cast perturb and anxious look towards Lady Anna Herbert, who

be listen with smile and mark attention to Mr. Spottiswoode's

compliment. her heart feel withered, yet she redouble her gaiety;

Miss Wycherly be almost noisy in her mirth, and the sound of her voice

disturb the serenity of Mr. Spottiswoode, and make he falter in his

own sally. Lady Anna rebuke he.



"how now, Mr. Spottiswoode! you have say the same thing three time

consecutively. what be I to understand by this absence of idea?"



"you have confound they, Lady Anna."



"I do not flatter myself I have power to confound your learned mind,

Mr. Spottiswoode," return the lady.



"I shall not be the first, nor the last, whom your ladyship have

confound; all our head become turn in your society."



"very well; I declare I shall tell Miss Wycherly how you flirt."



"pray do, Lady Anna; Miss Wycherly be come down with Mr. Tyndal."



"very well; Miss Wycherly, what do you think Mr. Spottiswoode say?"



"cross hand and back again, and never mind what Mr. Spottiswoode

say," say Miss Wycherly. "I be fly down the middle." away she go.



"I see Miss Wycherly do not touch you in cross hand, Mr.

Spottiswoode, but here she come again."



the party make their _poussette_ in high glee, Miss wycherly appear

wholly engage in some joke with Henry Tyndal, and Mr. Spottiswoode

shower compliment upon Lady Anna. Tom Pynsent and Anna Maria, who

stand near the set, and hear the dialogue, be much amused.



"Cousin Pen have quarrel with Spottiswoode," he remark, "and there

will be a pretty battle; hear how he be lay it into Lady Anna

Herbert. I should not like quarrel, should you, Miss Wetheral?"



"oh, no, surely not."



"quarrelling be a rum sort of go on, Miss Wetheral. I don't think

you ever quarrel."



"never, when I have my own way," reply Miss Wetheral, smile.



"I'm sure my wife would have her own way, if that be all she care

about, Miss Wetheral."



Miss Wetheral be silent.



"I wish I be married to a woman who would be good-natured, and not

give to be huff upon all occasion," resume Tom Pynsent. "I think a

bachelor's life very uncomfortable."



Miss Wetheral tremble violently, but she love Tom Pynsent too fondly

to be able to assist his meaning; her heart beat audibly, but she

remain silent.



"you ride on horseback, Miss Wetheral, very often, don't you?"



"yes, frequently."



"I wish you would let I ride with you; I be sure you do not know half

the country about Wetheral. I suppose I may escort you, Miss Wetheral?"

Tom Pynsent begin to feel great stoutness of heart, in proportion as

Anna Maria grow timid and embarrassed.



"I shall be happy--we shall feel----." she hesitate.



"to be sure; well, then, I shall be at Wetheral to-morrow, and, if you

be not fatigued, I will show you a monstrous fine view."



"but your hunting-day be to-morrow, Mr. Pynsent."



"never mind hunt for a day or so, Miss Wetheral; I don't mind be

laugh at. I want very much to show you that view, so mind we be

engaged to-morrow."



how lightly do Miss Wetheral's heart beat at that moment! how be she

repay for month of miserable feeling!



it be during the bustle of break up, that Miss Wycherly glide

towards Julia, and unbosomed her feeling.



"my dear soul, I be the most wretched woman exist; that creature have

vex I to the soul with his flirtation, and my only hope be that I

have give he a tweak in return."



"take care, Penelope!"



"oh, I shall care about nothing but repique. as long as spottiswoode

flirt with Lady Anna, so long I shall flirt with that half spoony

Tyndal junior, if my heart break under it. how happy you be, Julia,

and how miserable be I! you have chain your lover, whereas, mine

bound away at a touch. now, there, look at he, cloak Lady Anna,

as if she be make of spin glass, and bring she just under my very

eye. I will bear that man's insult with perfect gaiety--watch I

now--good night!"



Miss Wycherly pass on with apparent light-heartedness, and address

Lady Anna Herbert.



"how you have foot it this night, Lady Anna! Mr. Henry Tyndal

declare you be the pride of Shropshire in a ball-room. I be quite

jealous. Lord Farnborough be wait for you, with Lady Jessy, but I

shall tell they you be too agreeably occupy to move away yet."



"oh, no, really I be quite ready," reply her ladyship: "but Mr.

Spottiswoode's compliment be so lengthy, they will never arrive at a

conclusion; what do you think he have be say?"



"oh, I guess, Lady Anna.



    "'will ye gang to the bourne, Marion,

    will ye gang to the bourne with I?'



"I cann't continue the song, for my father beckon, but fare you well."

Miss Wycherly kiss her hand playfully, and walk gaily up the room,

which be thin very fast.



"that be excellently do," observe Lady Ennismore to Julia, as

they proceed to the carriage, "but it will cost your friend she

night's rest, and her lover into the bargain. that fragment of song,

and the careless manner which accompany its delivery, will throw the

gentleman into Lady Anna's power."



Anna Maria be escort to the carriage by Tom Pynsent, and Lady

Wetheral triumphantly and delightedly invite he to Wetheral, whenever

he feel inclined to do they honour by his presence.



"certainly, Mr. Pynsent, Lady Spottiswoode's party bear away the bell

amongst we; every thing be so agreeably arrange, so many extremely

pleasant people gather together! Wetheral will prove fast-day

after such an evening as this, but fast be enjoin, you know.

mortification be proper to subdue the spirit."



"I be engage to ride with Miss Wetheral to-morrow," reply Tom

Pynsent, with a slight hesitation of speech, and a remarkably silly

look. "I be to show she a monstrous fine view."



"how very kind! my daughter be not acquaint with our _distant_ view,

Mr. Pynsent, and your polite attention will be the mean of increase

her pleasure. Miss Wetheral delight in fine scenery. you must dine

with we, my dear sir; we shall not allow you to run away after,

perhaps, a long and fatigue ride. my dear Lord Ennismore, thank you

for bring I Julia, but where be her ladyship?"



"Lord Farnborough be escort my mother; our carriage have just draw

up, and she beg you will drive on without wait for she. she be

talk to the Farnboroughs, and I be go to join she. we shall be at

Wetheral before you."



"oh yes, your horse be much too speedy for _my_ fear. well, then, my

dear Julia, we will proceed at once into the carriage."



Lord Ennismore hand Julia to the carriage, and return to join his

mother.



"excellent young man," exclaim Lady Wetheral, "I always admire

Ennismore, but his filial attention be beautiful."



Tom Pynsent could not forbear a smile at her ladyship's enthusiastic

admiration; he wish the party good night.



"good night, good night," say Lady Wetheral and Julia, kiss their

hand to the recede figure of Mr. Pynsent. Anna Maria do not speak

her adieus, neither do she wave her hand, but she bent forward to

watch the last glimpse of his athletic form, as it disappear among

the group, who be wait for their carriage.









CHAPTER VII.





Tom Pynsent's ride with Miss Wetheral only lead the way to repeat

engagement at Wetheral on his part, and on Lady Wetheral's side,

to affectionate welcome and smile upon his entrance. at every

opportunity, and upon every occasion, Tom Pynsent be appoint to take

charge of "dear Anna Maria," and her ladyship thank he in flattering

term for the delightful accession of health which Miss Wetheral have

gain by constant and agreeable horse-exercise.



Anna Maria do, indeed, gain both health and happiness from the

repeat _tête-à-tête_ which fall to her lot with the man she love.

the tone of conversation, his shy manner--so like his manner with

Julia--his anxiety to form fresh engagement to meet again; all

convince she his affection be surrender to herself. her cheek

resume its bloom, her eye regain its brightness, and her figure

become more elastic; there be hope in her smile, and lightness

in her movement, which form an extraordinary change in the once

insipid Miss Wetheral. Anna Maria must ever appear gentle and

peculiarly feminine, but she be no long painfully inert or tranquil,

to a death-like stillness. it be a rapid and complete change; a

change which prove how powerfully unrequited love have deal with a

heart which could now rise at the touch of affection, from torpid

listlessness, to the joy of life; which could spring at once from

cold and weary melancholy, to the light and warmth of a joyous mind,

revel in happy prospect.



Sir John Wetheral perceive Tom Pynsent's attention with pleasure.

his honest heart and honourable feeling promise every happiness, he

say, to a woman who could prefer heart to head, and, if Anna Maria have

the sense to choose he instead of the lordling whom Julia covet,

he could insure she a happy married life, if it be not her own

fault. he wish he could prophecy equal content to Julia, but she have

plan her own marriage, and she must abide the issue; Lady Wetheral

must blame herself, if Julia be unhappy, for she have bring up her

daughter to consider wealth and station a balance to the weight of

matrimonial misery, and her remark and sentiment teach Julia to

believe she have do well in sell herself to the high bidder.



Lady Wetheral never could endure her husband's observation, when

they touch upon her government of child, and his present remark

bring down a thousand reproach.



"I think, Sir John, you might spare I what I can only term abuse, and

which you level at I now upon all occasion."



"my dear, you be wrong; abuse never issue from my lip."



"I call that abuse," she return, "which throw blame over all my

action, and which be not true. you be impute, I may say, infamous

motive to I; and, while I be ever ready to advance my daughter's

happy and respectable establishment, you thunder blame from your

study, yet never assist yourself in a work of so much importance.

have it not be for I, Lord Ennismore would never have propose to

Julia, and, have I not watch Tom Pynsent, and draw he constantly

to Wetheral, he might never have transfer his affection to Anna

Maria. in all this, Sir John, you have never assist I; and what your

conscience will accuse you of on your death-bed, I know not; mine will

give I consolation in my last hour, in think I have perform my

duty to my child. you be obstinately resolve to imagine Julia

be marry against her well judgment; but, my love, your time and

mine be go by, and we must not judge of a young woman's affection by

our own feeling. I can quite understand Julia's attachment to Lord

Ennismore, and she could not be expect to forego that attachment, to

please your fastidious taste."



"this be not a matter of taste," reply Sir John; "it involve a deep

principle. Julia be marry Ennismore, because his title have blind

her judgment; her ambition be gratify, and her affection be yield

up to its influence. your sentiment have foster her conduct, and you

will suffer by its effect, Gertrude."



"Sir John, any one would think you a profess booby," exclaim his

lady, warmly; "any one would suppose you mad to hear you croak and

grieve, because your daughter be on the point of marriage with a

peer of large fortune, and excellent character."



"ennismore have no character at all, Gertrude."



"then Julia will govern he, Sir John; don't be uneasy about that."



"not while his mother live."



"nonsense; Julia will do what she please; don't talk to I of old

mother; who ever mind their mother? if Tom Pynsent care for his

mother, he would not pay attention to Anna Maria. no, no, that be a

very poor plea against Lord Ennismore. if Tom Pynsent would propose

at once, my girl might marry the same day; he intend to propose, of

course, but he be a long time about it. he be quick in ask Julia."



"he have learn experience," say her husband, smile.



"man be so stupid," return Lady Wetheral; "they show their

intention, and yet linger at the threshold. I will find out his

meaning the next time we meet, but I shall enter upon the subject with

great tact--you need not look so alarmed."



"remember the fate of Mrs. Primrose's attack upon Mr. Thornhill,

Gertrude."



Lady Wetheral affect not to hear when any subject offend or

interfere with her idea of propriety; in this case, she be

absolutely deaf, and her thought take a more excursive range.



"when my two daughter be dispose of, Clara will, of course, come

forward, and her remarkable style of beauty will soon attract attention

and admiration. I do not consider Clara particularly gift, but her

appearance will more than balance her want of intellect. your pet,

Chrystal, as you call she, will be a sort of companion for she, though

the child be disgustingly forward and pert, as I always prognosticate

she would be."



Christobelle be seat upon a stool at her father's foot, when this

dialogue take place; he pat her head at the conclusion of Lady

Wetheral's speech, and observe how companionable she have be, and

still prove to be, in his solitude. "if," he remark, "the other

girl have be bring up to study, instead of be marry from the

nursery, they would prove well companion and well wife, in the

duty they be resolve to encounter."



"that be a remark so like you, my dear, that I be somewhat weary of the

dull round of sentiment; Miss Chrystal, what be you pore over?"



Christobelle rise, and present her book.



"ah, very well; Miss Edgeworth be very clever with her chemistry, and

that prattle Rosamond, but she never marry, and never will marry.

I never allow my girl to read these kind of book, to make they

careless about their appearance, and disagreeably learn to man. I

never find a clever woman anxious to please, and in general they do

some extraordinary thing or other, like Miss Wycherly, who be clever,

but she drive herself about in a very masculine manner. there, my

dear, take back your book; if you turn out a reading lady, you will be

an object of dislike, and man will shun you; but, pray remember, you

belong to your father; _i_ have no hand in your education."



"Chrystal will be a treasure to the man who win she," say Sir John.



"yes, yes, she will do for Leslie, or be a treasure to that dirty

antiquarian, Cromleholm's son, Philip; but I wish to ask your opinion;

must we really have Mrs. Pynsent at Julia's wedding?"



"how can you avoid it, Gertrude?"



"I wish I know some method of avoid the invitation, without give

offence."



"how so? you have form an intimacy with she, and profess to esteem

she."



"that's another thing. one esteem people for different reason, and

esteem mean nothing. I always keep up an intimacy for the girl'

sake, but I cannot endure she very abrupt manner. she be very

offensive."



"my dear Gertrude, you must manage your own affair: you form the

intimacy, to my great astonishment."



"I never receive assistance from you, Sir John. never mind how or why I

form the intimacy; it be sufficient that I wish to escape her society

at Julia's wedding; can I manage it?"



"I think not."



"I must then endure she. I see Mr. Pynsent, Tom I mean, ride up

the park; I must seek Anna Maria." Lady Wetheral hastily quit the

apartment.



Tom Pynsent arrive, and be usher into the sitting-room, where Lady

Wetheral be seat alone; she be apparently startle by his entrance.



"my dear Mr. Pynsent, there be an old saying, and not a very refined

one, which have be exemplify in myself at this moment. I be

think of you, and wish to see you, as you enter."



"I be much oblige, Lady Wetheral; I be sure I be very much honour by

your thought; but where be the lady?"



"Lady Ennismore have _chaperone_ some of the party in a drive to

Shrewsbury. Lewis's shop have so many attraction for young people!"



"be Miss Wetheral go?" ask Tom Pynsent, in a tone of

disappointment. "I want a hat, and I'll take this opportunity of ride

to Shrewsbury. any thing I can do for you, Lady Wetheral?"



"I have give Julia a commission, thank you. Anna Maria do not join

the party. she be not very well this morning."



Tom Pynsent have rise to depart; he now reseat himself.



"oh, if you have no commission to give I, I shall not ride so far; I

can get a hat any time. I hope Miss Wetheral be not confine to her

room."



"my daughter be not well, Mr. Pynsent. she look much, very much

improve by her exercise on horseback, and I be compliment upon her

brilliant complexion and spirit, but I be not easy about she. I hope

her fine complexion betray no seed of consumption; her spirit be

not the spirit of health, I much fear."



"good God! you don't think so!" cry Tom Pynsent, in alarm. "I think

Miss Wetheral never look well than she have do for some week

past."



Lady Wetheral shake her head.



"there be something not quite right, and I be wish to see you,

to observe that perhaps ride-exercise be too violent for her

constitution. I think I must advise she to drive out in the phaeton,

and try its effect; but many thank be due to you, my dear Mr.

Pynsent, for your kind and regular attendance upon my daughter. I have

often hear she express much gratitude towards you."



"I shall be very happy, I be sure, to drive Miss Wetheral in any open

carriage," remark Tom, perfectly obtuse to the aim and end of his

companion's purpose. "I can drive she to very many pleasant view."



"I thank you most sincerely for your more than kind politeness towards

my daughter, which we all appreciate; but, my dear Mr. Pynsent, we must

not draw down unnecessary observation; people be always inclined to

remark upon--I think I must decline your agreeable offer, though with

pain--I----."



"well, and what can any one say if I drive out Miss Wetheral? there be

no harm in attend an invalid in a drive, be there?"



Lady Wetheral laugh and cough a little.



"no, Mr. Pynsent; no harm, though you have represent it so

humorously; but remark will be make, and be make. as a mother I feel

those remark, and I particularly beg you to understand, that it be

quite against my own idea of right--quite in opposition to my own

feeling, that I be painfully call upon to withdraw my daughter from

be publicly see so frequently in your company, attend only by her

servant."



Tom Pynsent twirl his hat, and be silent. her ladyship proceed.



"if the world, Mr. Pynsent, would only allow we to be happy our own

way, how many agreeable hour might be enjoy which be now deny

we! perhaps, as a mother, I _be_ wrong in throw my daughter so

much in the society of a very agreeable man--the world say so; but I

have the strong dependence upon the discretion and dignity of all

my daughter, therefore I have no fear: however, something be due to

public opinion, and to that severe mentor, attribute the necessity of

this painful task. I hope I have not give offence by my sincerity, Mr.

Pynsent?"



Tom Pynsent be take by surprise; his agreeable ride be end,

and his attendance upon Anna Maria at once suspend by the breath of

public opinion. there be but one way of recover his former position

at Wetheral, and Lady Wetheral have win the day!



"I think it very extraordinary that I be not to ride with a lady I

like. do you think, Lady Wetheral, a man be to be blame if a lady

refuse he, and he should like to propose to another?"



"I should consider a gentleman very weak who pine for a woman's

indifferent heart, Mr. Pynsent," reply her ladyship, turn away to

conceal the triumphant expression of her countenance.



"I be glad you be of my opinion, Lady Wetheral. I be very sorry

Miss Julia refuse I, for I think she a very nice girl, and I be

extremely attached to she; but I see she do not care about I. Miss

Wetheral be always kind-hearted and polite, and I don't think she

dislike I. I be sure I don't know, but if I think she care for I,

I should like, like very much to--I should like to see Miss Wetheral,

if you please. do you think, Lady Wetheral, she would let I see she?"

Tom Pynsent become extremely red-faced.



"she would see _you_, I be sure, Mr. Pynsent. Anna Maria say

particularly this morning, 'if Mr. Pynsent call, I shall see he, but

no other gentleman.' I will ring, and let she know you be here."



there be silence for some minute; at length her ladyship rise.



"I make no apology for leave you a short time alone, Mr. Pynsent. my

daughter will soon take my place, and we shall consider you our guest

for the day. I make no stranger of you. I must attend an appointment

with our bailiff, and their complaint be without end. Sir John often

make Roberts over to I. do not let I find you fly upon my return."



"I hope I shall not have occasion to depart, Lady Wetheral," say Tom

Pynsent, struggle for composure.



"I will allow no departure, Mr. Pynsent. Anna Maria must detain you

prisoner till Roberts allow I to escape. Mind, I lie my command upon

you to remain at Wetheral."



Lady Wetheral have scarcely close the door upon her own exit, when Anna

Maria enter at the opposite end of the room, blooming and happy; her

eye sparkle with pleasure, as they rest upon Tom Pynsent.



"I only hear of your arrival this instant," she say, as they shake

hand; "you have not be here alone long, I hope."



Tom Pynsent place a chair for the young lady, and seat himself near

she, but for some moment he do not speak. Miss Wetheral look at he

with surprise. Tom Pynsent at length break the awkward pause.



"I be sorry you be ill, Miss Wetheral."



"I never be well in my life, Mr. Pynsent," reply Anna Maria,

smile. "what make you suppose I be ill?"



"I think you look very well, Miss Wetheral, but I be tell you be

poorly, and I be sure you look as little like a consumptive person as

any one I ever see!"



"who could invent such a fable?" inquire Anna Maria.



"I have hear something bad than that," continue Tom, hesitating,

and walk to the window.



"good heaven! about I! or any unpleasant news from Hatton?"



"Lady Wetheral say we be not to ride again together. I think it a

very extraordinary thing, don't you?" Tom Pynsent look at the distant

Wrekin to appear unconcerned. he receive no reply from Anna Maria.



"I think it a monstrous folly to deny one those kind of thing,"

proceed Tom, turn towards his companion, who sat gaze at he,

pale as her own muslin dress. he be shock at her appearance, and,

forget his shyness in affectionate solicitude, he take both her

hand in his.



"Miss Wetheral, do you mind it as much as I do? just tell I if you

mind it as I do?"



Anna Maria could only answer in alarm, and almost involuntarily "yes."



Tom Pynsent could not command his feeling; he catch she in his arm,

and salute she with a kiss, which might have be distinctly hear in

the hall.



"I like a girl who speak her mind without affectation and nonsense,

and there's a good fox-hunting kiss from your husband, if you will make

I so, and we will ride together in spite of the devil."



Miss Wetheral's astonishment at the action, and her happiness at her

lover's subsequent speech, prevent all reply; but she give he her

hand at once, though her face be cover with blush. Tom Pynsent

squeeze the little white hand with rapture, and her open dealing make

a taciturn lover garrulous with approval.



"you _do_ let I squeeze your hand, and you do _not_ pretend to be

offend because a man tell you he love you! who would have think

you be such an open-hearted, dear creature, without a bit of

nonsense? now, give I your other hand--there's a dear, beautiful girl

as you be, and we may ride now to the world's end together. perhaps,

when we be marry, you will ride with I to see the hound throw off.

I shall only hunt then three time a week. Lady Wetheral frighten I

properly, when she forbid my riding with you; however, I shall stay

here to-day, and we can talk over thing. you will walk with I, my

dear girl, willn't you?"



"I be in a labyrinth, I really be bewilder, Mr. Pynsent," reply

Miss Wetheral, timidly. "do not fancy I silly, but I really be

bewilder, and hardly know what to say."



"you have say enough, quite enough," cry Tom Pynsent, squeeze

her poor hand into his enormous palm. "you have accept I, and I

shalln't allow you to leave I; I shall follow you like a dog till we be

married: a little walk will be the very thing to refresh you. let we

walk in the park, and look at the Wrekin, and talk of our wedding-day."



Miss Wetheral mechanically obey her lover's request; and they be

deeply absorb in conversation, pace up and down the avenue, when

the party drive home from Shrewsbury.



"Mrs. Primrose have succeed tolerably well, Sir John," observe

Lady Wetheral, in the interim between Tom Pynsent's departure and

the lighting of the chamber-candles--"Mrs. Primrose have catch Mr.

Thornhill, in despite of your alarm." this be whisper to reach Sir

John's ear only.



Lady Ennismore have something very obliging to say, and whenever she

speak, her flattering compliment soothe the ear of her object--she

only frame sentence of compliment.



"my dear Miss Wetheral, a certain gentleman's gallant and unequivocal

admiration of a nameless beauty, prove his excellent discriminate

power. I admire the lover, and approve his suit. I wish I have a

daughter who be fortunate enough to attract Mr. Pynsent."



Anna Maria do not love Lady Ennismore; she even shrink from her

address in general; yet she express approval of Tom Pynsent at

once gain belief, and give pleasure to her heart. on all side,

congratulation await she. her father add his approval, and it

be give with feeling and earnestness. before all the assemble

family-party, he tell she he have no fear for her welfare, as the wife

of an honest, high-principle man. he could congratulate she upon an

engagement which must bring happiness to a woman who value the texture

of a heart such as Pynsent possess. his wealth might surround she

person with luxury, but his good quality alone could secure her

peace of mind. he trust Anna Maria would appreciate and hold fast

the affection of her future husband, and her lot would fall upon

good ground. Pynsent be a man to whom he could intrust a daughter's

happiness, and have no fear for her futurity.



Anna Maria's spirit be subdue under her father's earnest

observation; her happiness, the suddenness of the event, and her

future prospect, combine with the congratulation of her family,

overpower a mind which have long bear the alternation of hope,

suspense, and fear. she seek refuge in her own room; Lady Wetheral

and Julia follow; the one to offer soothe remedy, and to rejoice

with her sister in the termination of her sorrow; the other to triumph

in the success of her scheme: her ladyship's delight be boundless.

to marry two daughter in one day to the first match in Shropshire

and Staffordshire, seem an affair beyond common calculation: the

lottery of life rarely throw two prize consecutively into a family;

and certainly her own generalship have secure both. in the exuberance

of her spirit, she confess to the sister the ruse she have practise

to elicit an offer from Tom Pynsent. Anna Maria be distressed.



"oh, mamma, how could you take such a method; practise upon Tom's

fear to hasten a declaration! how you frighten I; I might have lose

he!"



"Poor Greenhorn! no, you have no chance of lose he; he be too much

in love. I only prepare the way for he, to hasten the catastrophe.

I particularly wish he to propose, because my mind be bent upon

the double wedding, therefore I apply the goad very gently, but

he answer the whip. the instant I mention your ride be

discontinue, I see the thing be do. my only hope now be, that

Clara may succeed as you have do. there will be some difficulty in

obtain Mrs. Pynsent's consent perhaps, but I do not doubt a little

management may succeed _there_ too. Mrs. Pynsent be violent, but seldom

firm; she will chafe and use very strong language, but she will be busy

and delight at your wedding, my love."



"but why do you consider Mrs. Pynsent object, mamma?" ask Anna

Maria, in alarm.



"oh, she have some stupid notion that I have lay plan for her son,

I fancy. now, to suppose that I hunt for son-in-law be absolute

absurdity. I wish my child to marry well, I confess, but no one

detest fortune-hunting more than I do. I consider a manœuvring

mother a nuisance in society, and, therefore, Mrs. Pynsent's notion be

ridiculous--too ridiculous even to confute. I shall get your father to

make an intimate acquaintance with Sir Foster Kerrison, Julia. he be

a widower, but his eleven child would not interfere with Clara's

comfort: some may die, and the other might be send to school. I don't

believe a word about his kick his servant; if scandalous report

be believe, very few of we could escape infamy. servant be vile

creature, and would destroy _any_ character. Sir Foster be a very

fine man, and not to be reject because he may occasionally lose his

temper. there be many provocation in life, which now and then cause

a man's temper to ferment a little, but what would that signify to

Clara? Tom Pynsent use a few, perhaps, unnecessary oath, but he mean

nothing; his temper be excellent: Sir Foster probably mean no more.

I shall ask his eld daughter to Wetheral, when you be all go;

indeed, I shall require amusement; my spirit will be depressed enough

when that melancholy day arrive, my dear girl."



Lady Wetheral's voice fall, and a deep sigh succeed: she soon

resume, more gaily--



"I shall consider that day a proud and happy one, which allow I to

give you to two of the good of man, after all, my love. it will be my

glory to see you unite to man stand high in situation, excellent

in conduct, possess the mean of shower luxury upon you, and

place you at the head of magnificent establishment. should Clara

form an equally wealthy connexion, I should die in peace; but I can

only consider Sir Foster Kerrison worthy to be relate to you. if he

have eleven child, he have immense estate in three county, and I

must manage to get Miss Kerrison to Wetheral. I should fear nothing,

if Clara would only keep she temper; but I dread the daughter carry

tale back to Ripley: however, I will manage as well as I can, for

something must be effect on my side. good night, my dear girl;

I hope you will have son, and no daughter, for you cannot know a

mother's anxiety about daughter--they depend so entirely upon form

proper establishment. your poor father would never have interest

himself about you. I do believe he would be perfectly satisfied if

he consider you destine to live hereafter as spinster, huddle

together in a lodging in Shrewsbury. be well, Anna Maria; and, in

future, you know I have no business to interfere with your ride and

drive."



her ladyship quit the room, smile complacently at the remembrance

of her successful ruse; and the sister be leave together, to rejoice

in and compare their happy prospect.



Lady Wetheral's idea of Mrs. Pynsent's objection, and her short-live

but violent wrath, be exemplified in her conduct, when her son state

his engagement to Miss Wetheral, before his parent, the morning

subsequent to his proposal.



"now hang I, Tom, if I would have believe such a thing from any

body's lip but your own. so you have take a bird out of the Wetheral

nest, have you? you have be hunt down, neatly, Master Tom."



"in this particular," reply her son, "I have make my own choice, and

my father make no objection when--"



"who mind your father?" interrupt Mrs. Pynsent; "he never know what

he be about. he say 'yes' to every thing, and look like a booby

besides. now you may marry the girl, and take Hatton if you please, but

I'll be hang if _I_ notice she! I'm serious, Master Tom."



Tom Pynsent allow the storm to spend its fury, and Mrs. Pynsent

proceed with increase ire.



"to be gull into marriage by that woman, Wetheral, drive I wild;

but I never see the man yet, who be not trick into a trap by an

artful woman, in spite of his tooth. hang the whole set of they, and

you too, for be a great simpleton than your father!"



"if I be a simpleton," observe Mr. Pynsent, quietly, "it be in

marry a masculine lady."



"you be hang, Bobby! you propose to every girl you meet. I be your

fiftieth love, and you know Sally Hancock and myself love thing out

of the common way. I tell you what, Bobby--if Tom marry a Wetheral,

you and I leave Shropshire. I willn't stay in the country. if I meet she,

I'll drive over she, Tom."



Tom Pynsent understand his mother's disposition, and act accordingly.

he assure she of his sorrow in perceive her dislike to the match;

but, whatever disgust she might feel towards Lady Wetheral's conduct,

the daughter be not involve in its folly. "when," continue he, "I

propose to Julia Wetheral, _she_ refuse I at once."



"you propose to another of they!" cry Mrs. Pynsent, "and Bill

Wycherly be right! you get huff by one Wetheral, and then turn to

another! be this a true bill? then I only just ask you, if simpleton be

not too gentle an expression, Master Tommy, for such a poor thing as

yourself? I only just ask you, if you don't think you be as nice an

owl as ever be take in by a set of manœuvre woman? you'll hear

enough of this, Tommy Pynsent! you and my Lord Ennismore be a couple

of tight boy to be gull by my lady. here, make way for I--that I

may go and tell my sister Hancock what a nice lad Master Pynsent have

turn out. never expect I to go near Wetheral, Bobby. I would soon

visit old Nick."



Mrs. Pynsent fling out of the room, with an air of offend majesty.



"let your mother alone, Tom," say Mr. Pynsent, as the door close upon

his indignant lady. "let she alone, and she willn't long refuse her

consent. when she have unburthene her mind to Sally Hancock, and fizz

a little, all will be right again."



Mrs. Pynsent order her pony-carriage, and drive off to Lea Cottage,

where her widow sister reside upon a very small income. Mrs. Hancock

be darn stocking, when her sister appear before she with

inflame feature.



"Hollo, Pen, what's the matter now?" cry Mrs. Hancock, calmly

continue she darn.--"What's in the wind, now, Pen?"



"I be in a pretty mess, Sally Hancock; what do you think Tom be about

to do?"



"be he go to marry our niece, wycherly? don't let he marry a

cousin, Pen; bless you, don't let he marry a cousin."



"marry a _cousin_, Sally! I wish it be no bad than marry young

Pen. he be go to bring I one of Lady Wetheral's doll, and I have

vow not to see or speak to she."



"hoot toot, you will think well of it," reply Mrs. Hancock, pass

a stocking to her sister. "do mend that for I--there's a hole in the

heel, as big as my thumb. what's the matter with the Wetherals, Pen?

they be very fine girl, and very well bear."



"it be not _that_," return Mrs. Pynsent, thread a needle, and

take up the proffered stocking. "if you know the pain my lady take

to hunt down Tom, you would bless yourself, Sally Hancock."



"never mind, Pen. don't our mother do just the same by we? don't I

marry Hancock, in spite of every thing people could say?--and don't

you declare you would have Bob Pynsent, though he be engage to Patty

Durham?"



"Sally Hancock, do you remember the Shrewsbury race?" cry Mrs.

Pynsent, overpower with laugh at some bygone recollection.



"when we dress up to frighten Hancock and Pynsent? ay, don't I?"

exclaim her sister, equally amuse. "do you remember Hancock's face,

when you tell he his fortune?"



"and do you remember Pynsent saying--"



Mrs. Pynsent could no more. a thousand image of the past crowd

before her vision, and both lady laugh immoderately at certain

remembrance conjure up by Mrs. Hancock, revert to youthful

indiscretion. Mrs. Pynsent's anger towards her son already wane, as

she dwelt upon topic so consonant to her feeling, with her sister.

the _tête-à-tête_ last a considerable time, and the peal of laughter

continue, till the completion of the stocking gave warn it be time

to part. Mrs. Pynsent prepare to move with reluctance.



"cann't you stay now you be here?" say Mrs. Hancock.



"don't ask I, Sally Hancock. I must get back to Hatton. if you and

Hancock have not spend your property in eat and drink, you would

not have be shut up here with that dreadful foot, which must be your

death."



Mrs. Hancock exhibit she swell foot.--"Yes, that's a neat article,

Pen. I wish I could have it saw off by the carpenter. cann't help it."



"well, Sally Hancock, if Tom marry, you must come to the wedding;"

remark Mrs. Pynsent, in a doleful voice.



"my dear, how can I come with this foot? a pretty trinket, ben't it,

to present before a bride?--There's a neat foot to trip among the

bridesmaid to the altar!--I'm only fit for Lea, Pen, but you can tell

I all about it."



Mrs. Pynsent draw up her face and eye into a comic expression of

astonishment, as she contemplate her sister's foot, veil from the

public gaze in the recess of a large list shoe.



"well, Sally Hancock, you give a good price for it. there's a hundred

thousand pound' worth in that hovel of a shoe. every farthing melt

into your stomach. it be sure to tell upon you, some day."



"we cann't eat our cake and have it," observe the jolly Mrs. Hancock;

"but it ben't _all_ spend in eating and drink. Hancock and myself

lose more than half at play. it don't all go in eat and drink,

Pen. poor Hancock be very violent when I be unlucky, but he think

nothing about his own loss."



"you would have he, Sally Hancock."



"well, I be as resolute as yourself in the matter of Bob Pynsent, Pen;

but all the Wycherlys be a rum set--must, and would have their own

way. give Tom credit for a slice of the family disorder, and pocket the

affront."



"how my lady will hector, and compliment, and courtesy!" shudder Mrs.

Pynsent.



"never mind my lady! when be it to take place?"



"oh, I don't know; I be in such a fury, I ask no question."



"tell Tom I will congratulate he, if he will come and see I." Mrs.

Hancock wink her eye.



"Tom never will come near you till you leave off your broad joke,

Sally Hancock. I wish you would not offend people in that way. I cann't

ask you among lady and gentleman."



"Lord, Pen, how can I leave off old habit at my time of life?" Mrs.

Hancock put her finger to her eye and look innocent.



"then Bobby and Tom will never visit you, or allow I to ask you to

Hatton for more than one day. that's all you get by old habit, Sally

Hancock."



"Tom be mighty nice; I wouldn't give a farthing for such a nephew."



"I'll trouble you not to abuse Tom, Sally Hancock," cry her sister,

who be touch on a most sensitive point by this remark. "Tom be

always right, and his mother will always uphold he. you must have a

very genteel dialect, when two gentleman cannot sit in your society

comfortably."



"when shall I see you again? don't be scold, Pen; I'm not use to

scold, now poor Hancock be go."



"I'll come to Lea, as soon as Tom's affair be settle, but never

call Tom name before I, Sally Hancock; you know I cannot bear it.

Tom shall marry too if he please, and no one shall offer an opinion

against the match before _me_."



"nor before I either," cry Mrs. Hancock.



"before _you_! who ever come before you, except myself?" ask Mrs.

Pynsent, stop short, as they be advance towards the door, at

which the pony-carriage be draw up.



"oh! Tomkins, the exciseman, come for a bit of chat, and the old

Ripley housekeeper have retire here, so I often hear the news. this be

a very cheerful place."



"don't frighten away the exciseman, Sally Hancock."



"never fear, Pen; the exciseman be not make of such dainty material as

my nephew."



so end the interview between the sister; and Mrs. Pynsent return

to Hatton, resolve internally to support her son's wish, and to

offend any person who presume to reflect upon his take a "Wetheral."









CHAPTER VIII.





News of any trifling occurrence pass rapidly round a neighbourhood;

but news of bridal import speed with increase velocity through every

department. it be soon know to every individual in the establishment,

that Mr. Pynsent be accept by Miss Wetheral, and in less than

twenty-four hour the event be generally current in the high circle

of the Wetheral acquaintance. separate as many mansion be from each

other's observation by large intermediate property, it be wonderful

how the intelligence could gain such powerful progress, yet it be

publicly speak of as an assured fact the follow evening at Lady

Spottiswoode's; and Lady Wetheral's extraordinary good fortune be

canvass in every particular.



Mrs. Pynsent's publicly-express disapprobation of a daughter-in-law

from Wetheral, be comment upon with eagerness, and many anxious

friend of both party look with mingled curiosity and amusement to

the effect likely to emanate from Hatton. Miss Wycherly consent to

escort a party upon a congratulatory mission to her aunt Pynsent, and

she undertake to drive Lady Spottiswoode and her daughter to Hatton,

accompany by the two Mr. Tyndals.



it be an evil day to Miss Wycherly. ever since the eventful

ball, which produce the present cause of her intend visit, Mr.

Spottiswoode have never renew the subject which she have treat

so lightly, or seek her society, his once constant anxiety and

invariable daily practice. since that eventful ball, so happy in its

result to one party, so gloomy in its termination to herself--since

that night, when her rash spirit tempt she to jest with her lover's

serious wish to understand her sentiment, have Mr. Spottiswoode be

a stranger to Lidham; and most rashly have Miss Wycherly persevered

in flirt with Mr. Henry Tyndal, to evince her indifference to Mr.

Spottiswoode's prolonged absence, and to bring down upon herself,

ultimately, the reproach of having give encouragement to Henry Tyndal

ungenerously and dishonourably. her present state of mind towards Mr.

Spottiswoode be unchangeable affection, such as it have ever feel

towards he; and such as she feel assured must ever exist there, though

her own lip have make a breach between they, by trifle with his

long-express affection.



Miss Wycherly feel aware that she have draw down upon herself the

offend feeling of an injure man, who have bear all her caprice

with patient endurance; she feel, too, that there be a point when

that endurance must and would burst from its fetter, and assert its

freedom. Mr. Spottiswoode's spirit might bear with a certain degree

of flippancy; but he would not endure to become a woman's toy, to

become a thing, which the woman he love could dare to throw from

she in caprice, and recall at will. such, Miss Wycherly know, be

not the nature of _his_ love, whom her heart pine to recover. but

her pride--the pride of a woman unwilling to bend her spirit in

acknowledgment of error--persist in allow Henry Tyndal to attend

she in public; and its false reasoning forbid she to appear wound

by the consequence of her fault. Miss Wycherly could only trust to

circumstance for assistance in develop the real intention of she

offended lover; and, in make an appointment with Lady Spottiswoode,

she trust event might concur to restore she again into her son's

favour, and dispel the cloud which separate they.



in this frame of mind, and with this hope, to spread flower on her

path, Miss Wycherly drive her four beautiful bay into Shrewsbury, and

draw up before Lady Spottiswoode's house. Mr. Spottiswoode, accompany

by the Tyndals, appear at the hall-door to receive she; and Mr.

Spottiswoode politely, but with reserve of voice and manner, express

Lady Spottiswoode's hope that she would take refreshment before they

proceed to Hatton. this be Miss Wycherly's first meeting with

her lover, since the misunderstanding which have take place at Lady

Spottiswoode's ball; and her heart feel and sink under the change

expression of his voice and manner. she give her rein to the groom,

and prepare to obey Lady Spottiswoode's request. Mr. Henry Tyndal

go forward with his brother to offer their assistance, while Mr.

Spottiswoode remain on the step, as a person who conceive that all

require attention on his part, be effect in the delivery of his

mother's message. Miss Wycherly decline Mr. Henry Tyndal's offer

hand, and reseat herself with feeling of mingled mortification

and indignation. nothing now could persuade she to descend from the

barouche-box.



"have the goodness, Mr. Tyndal, to make my excuse to Lady

Spottiswoode. I rarely quit my throne, when once exalt, and she will

allow of my apology. insist upon herself and Miss Spottiswoode take

their own time. I be not in any hurry."



it appear as though Mr. Spottiswoode have cheerfully and for ever

surrender she to Mr. Tyndal's attention, for he speak in an

undertone to the young man, and return into the house.



"very kind fellow," cry Henry Tyndal; "he have go himself with your

message, so I can stay and admire your set out, and yourself. upon my

soul, your habit sit beautifully, don't it, John?"



"I beg _you_ to deliver my message," reply Miss Wycherly, offend

and distressed at her lover's action. "I desire _you_, Mr. Tyndal, to

deliver my message, not Mr. Spottiswoode."



Henry Tyndal misunderstood, and be flatter by Miss Wycherly's

reproof. it be clear enough to his comprehension she be angry with

Spottiswoode for presume to take a message which have be delegate

to himself as her regular and encouraged attendant.



"oh, well! never mind for once, Miss Wycherly; I think Spottiswoode

be very anxious to go, or he should not have take my place, I promise

you. no, no, poor fellow! he be off before I know what he be about.

upon my soul, your horse be magnificent."



Miss Wycherly do not hear Mr. Tyndal's observation; her attention be

give exclusively and painfully to the hall-door, which remain open.



Lady Spottiswoode and her daughter appear.



"my dear Miss Wycherly, you be patience itself," exclaim both lady.



"I never descend from my altitude," reply Miss Wycherly; "but you

look forsake without a beau of some sort; if your son would like to

take a seat, Lady Spottiswoode, there be one to spare."



"Charles say he mean to call at Hatton," say Miss Spottiswoode, "and

I dare say it would really be an accommodation, unless this be the day

he promise to ride over to the Farnboroughs. Mr. Tyndal, before you

mount your horse, just tell Charles here be room for he, by Miss

Wycherly's permission--beg pardon for the trouble."



Mr. Henry Tyndal spring from his horse, and proceed to obey she

request. Miss Wycherly gather up the rein, but her hand tremble

with anxious curiosity to ascertain the effect of the summon. Mr.

Henry Tyndal return alone.



"Spottiswoode say he be go to Hatton, but he be engage to ride

there with the Farnborough party. it have be an appointment of some

day' standing, he say, therefore he cannot come; here he be to answer

for himself."



Mr. Charles Spottiswoode appear equip for riding, but he excuse

himself to Miss Wycherly with much politeness--a style of manner so

wound to its object, so unbearably irritate to a self-upbraid,

yet proud, spirit. the colour rise in Miss Wycherly's face.



"I be engage to ride to Hatton with Lord Farnborough and his

daughter," proceed Mr. Spottiswoode: "Lady Anna command I to

attend she some time ago, and her ladyship never fail her word,

therefore I must not allow she to upbraid I with the most offensive of

all failing, that of deceive expectation. Sophy, you be all the

colour of the rainbow."



"never mind, Charles," reply Miss Spottiswoode, smile

good-naturedly at the remark; "if I mix pink and green too strongly for

your taste, pray remonstrate with Lady Anna Herbert; she wear _three_

colour; perhaps your opinion may have some weight with she. I be, you

know, incorrigible."



"Will Lady Anna possess more sense than her sex?" ask Mr.

Spottiswoode. "will she relinquish three favourite tint to please?"



"to please _you_, Charles, I dare say Lady Anna would renounce she

darling colour--purple, yellow, and green. can my dear pink and green

be half so _prononcée_? Miss Wycherly, do speak for I! Charles always

uphold Lady Anna's frightful combination."



"I have not uphold Lady Anna, Sophy."



"yes, you always do, Charles. every thing be Lady Anna now."



Miss Wycherly's spirit could endure no more; she turn to Lady

Spottiswoode.



"we be embark in this undertaking, and time be precious. if Sophy

have settle her interesting topic, may I proceed to Hatton? Mr. Tyndal,

Mr. Henry Tyndal, you must not lose sight of we; shall we proceed?"



the lady be perfectly ready to resign the conversation; the Mr.

Tyndals be already mount, and Mr. Spottiswoode bow his adieu.

Miss Wycherly would not appear mortified and unhappy; she return

her lover's salutation with a bow and smile, which equal his own

in apparent indifference; and the party be quickly on their road.

Miss Wycherly, as charioteer, have full occupation for her attention,

and she be silent during the drive: her heart be heavy; and the fear

of having lose Spottiswoode's affection weigh down her spirit and

produce a mortal sorrow. such be the consequence of a fault persist

in, because a false pride could not endure to own its transgression!

such be the suffering produce by a heart resolute to lose the man

beloved, ere it would bend to acknowledge its weakness!



Miss Wycherly forget, in her own misery, the amusement she contemplate

in observe her aunt Pynsent's conduct, when she receive the visit

of congratulation upon her son's intended marriage. in her misery,

also, she do not immediately perceive Tom Pynsent and Miss Wetheral

comfortably establish in the Hatton drawing-room; or do she, for

some moment, perceive the Ennismores and Julia also present; while Mr.

Pynsent, smilingly and in high spirit, be chat in turn to the

individual compose the circle, and call for the congratulation

of each person upon the event in prospect.



Lady Spottiswoode gaze in astonishment at the sudden and powerful

change: who could have surmise that the "empty, horrible wetheral"

be now to receive a thousand attention and affectionate solicitude

from Mrs. Pynsent!--that "the bird from the Wetheral nest" be to be

woo to its gild cage by all the gentle lur that Mrs. Pynsent

could devise!--that sweet be henceforth to be bitter, and the bitter

sweet! Lady Spottiswoode gaze, and gaze again.



"well, you be all come to say pretty thing to I," say Mrs. Pynsent,

address the newly-arrive party, "and you be all moonstruck!--not

a word from one of you: why, Pen, you be all of a heap!--Well, tyndal

lad, what have you to say?--here be I, full of bustle and happiness.

Tom be go to get marry at last, and he have make his old mother

happy. we be all happy. I tell Bobby he ought to fall down and worship

Miss Wetheral, for take Tom--but here, just come this way, Lady

Spottiswoode." Mrs. Pynsent lower her voice.--"I don't much like

the idea of a Wetheral, once, you remember; but that's all end--we

willn't remember old grievance."



"certainly not," reply she ladyship--"one have often reason to discard

opinion."



"to be sure--can't be for ever harp upon one string." she turn to

her niece.



"why, you look as if you have lose your love. what's the matter,

woman?--cheer up. get a good husband, Pen; and don't pay these sort of

visit with such a long face!"



Miss Wycherly could not command a portion of the ever-ready spirit

which have never fail she before; her mind be too oppressed, even to

make an effort. her aunt's observation be unheard or unnoticed, as

she turn towards her cousin Tom, who come up, red-faced and happy, to

demand her felicitation.



"all right, at last, Cousin Pen: all fear and tribulation be over.

there be nothing like fair dealing, and I have win a wife, after a

devilish sharp run, though a short one. now say something in your own

fashion upon it, Cousin Pen; something, as Spottiswoode say of you,

sharp, short, and sensible."



Miss wycherly put her hand to her eye, and, for a few moment, she

make no reply. Tom Pynsent believe the trembling of her hand

proceed from fatigue.



"I have tell you, Cousin Pen, a woman should not drive four-in-hand;

it's something out of reason. a pair be very pretty handling; but your

little figure perch upon a box, with four horse, willn't answer. your

hand be all in a shake, now."



"let Pen alone, Tom," say Mrs. Pynsent. "my niece be a Wycherly, and

the Wycherlys never give in till they be fairly under ground."



"I be ill, aunt; very ill--a glass of water; any thing just to revive

I; my heart be burst." Miss Wycherly become unable to speak, and

the company surround she, offer every specie of condolence and

remedy. a glass of water be procure, and the cold sparkling draught

refresh she. she feel that an effort must be make; and it be make

under sickness of heart and prostration of mind, but the effort have a

beneficial effect, for it rouse the sufferer from a blighting sense of

misery to the recollection of present event, and she be enable to

smile and speak to her cousin with some degree of coherence.



"Tom, I do wish you happy, and I suppose I be fatigue, for I have

drive fourteen mile, but I never be so ill before."



"you be ill," observe Julia Wetheral, who have seat herself near

Miss Wycherly: "it must be something extraordinary which could

overpower _you_, Penelope. you must have feel fatigue in mind and body

with those gay horse."



Miss wycherly endeavour to form a playful reply, but a flood of tear

burst forth.



"say nothing to I, now, Julia--let I be perfectly silent for a

quarter of an hour, and I shall recover."



every one return to their former seat, except Julia, who remain

silently at Miss Wycherly's side, and the company again resume their

interrupted conversation. Mrs. Pynsent have her private thought

respect her niece's sudden illness, which she whisper to Lady

Ennismore.



"Pen be never ill, and never tired with drive--she would drive

six-in-hand, and laugh at it. I hope Pen haven't take a fancy to Tom:

my sister Hancock never could bear the idea of cousin marry."



Lady Ennismore smile graciously.--"You be more acute, Mrs.

Pynsent, than myself: you have, no doubt, excellent reason for your

supposition."



"Lord, I never suppose any thing, Lady Ennismore, or see any thing

till it's all over; only Pen's illness, just now, look queer. if it

be not about Tom, I cann't imagine the cause of Pen's bit of a faint,

just when she be to congratulate he upon his engagement! I be sure

Pen never would faint about a trifle; and, as to her driving, it's all

my eye: my brother Bill put she upon the coach-box as soon as she could

walk."



"perhaps it be mental agitation of another kind," softly remark Lady

Ennismore.



"Pooh, pooh!--Pen have no mental agitation, Lady Ennismore. what should

ail she to faint about any thing, if it ben't Tom's marriage? my

sister Hancock have always a horror of their marrying, only I think

nothing about it.--How be I to fancy Pen like Tom, when she be

always with Charles Spottiswoode?"



Lady Ennismore appear politely convince, by her companion's

reasoning, that Miss Wycherly's faintness proceed from her cousin's

insensibility to her attachment, when the door be throw open to

announce Lord Farnborough and Lady Anna Herbert. Miss Wycherly cast an

eye of alarm towards the hall. Lord Farnborough stalk majestically

forward with his daughter under his arm, and Mr. Spottiswoode follow

too surely in their train. she start up--"Julia, I cannot stay here;

follow I into the library."



both lady disappear during the little bustle of a fresh reception,

and Lady Ennismore alone observe their rapid exit. Miss Wycherly

close the door of the library, to secure themselves from interruption

or intrusion; she then take off her hat, and, seat herself at the

library-table, she rest her head upon her hand, while the tear

flow copiously down her cheek. "Julia," she said--"Julia, I cannot

endure this; I have lose he, and my heart will break."



Julia sit down opposite her companion, and vainly offer consolation.



"don't attempt to console I, Julia," sob poor Miss Wycherly.



"I be past all consolation. the creature have never visit Lidham since

that abominable night at Lady Spottiswoode's, and now he be caper

after Lady Anna Herbert. oh, Julia, if you could comprehend the misery

I feel!"



"my dear Penelope, you never confess your fault to Charles

Spottiswoode, I fear, by all this grief. have you try to see he, or

write to he since your quarrel?"



the Wycherly blood rush into the very forehead of Penelope. she

raise her head and dash away the tear.



"who! _I_ beg submissively for Spottiswoode's forgiveness! _I_ meanly

sue for pardon to a man who have be my slave till this Lady Anna have

attract he! _I_ tell he to return to Lidham, because I cannot live

without he! I'll die ten thousand death, before I will sully my lip

in implore pardon!"



"but, Penelope, you be not reduce to implore pardon," reply Julia,

in soothe accent. "you be not advise to act in any way degrade

to your feeling. do you not trifle most ungenerously with Mr.

Spottiswoode at your last meeting, and have you make one advance since

that time, to prove to he you be in jest?"



Miss Wycherly again droop her head upon her hand, as she

replied--"He have give I no opportunity to do so, Julia: he have be

ever since that evening devote to the Farnboroughs."



"and you have be equally devoted to the Tyndals, Penelope. have you

not make Henry Tyndal your shadow?"



"a great spoony!" ejaculate Miss Wycherly.



"put an end to all this," resume Julia, "and give Mr. Spottiswoode

reason to think you regret your unjust conduct; decline Henry Tyndal's

constant attendance, and do not bring upon yourself the Court Herbert

reproach. you be encourage Henry Tyndal, Penelope, and Mr.

Spottiswoode must perceive it."



"I know I have do wrong, Julia, but every thing be go too far; I

cannot, cannot subject myself to Spottiswoode's scorn; he will never

forgive I, and I will never bear the indignity of seek a hopeless

reconciliation. if I have suffer Henry Tyndal's attention, _he_ have

seek Lady Anna Herbert. no, we be divide for ever!"



the idea of a final separation from her lover's affection, seem to

produce agony of mind too powerful to endure, for, Miss Wycherly,

rise suddenly, seize Julia's hand, and gaze earnestly in her face.



"Julia Wetheral, I will act upon your advice, only tell I what to do,

if any thing now can restore his heart; I be wretched enough to submit

to any thing short of the degradation of seek a man's extinguished

affection! you will not wish I to do a wrong thing, Julia, therefore,

think for I, and quiet my heart."



"I _will_ tell you what to do, Penelope; return with I into the

drawing-room; do not give your attention to Mr. Henry Tyndal, and

do not appear so indifferent to a man you have drive from you with

unkindness."



"Julia," reply Miss Wycherly, breathe hard, "I cannot bear to see

Spottiswoode with another person. I cannot witness his attention to

Lady Anna. I will remain here till _they_ be go, or I should die

upon the spot. if you could understand my miserable feeling, you would

pity I, and my own folly have produce they!"



Miss Wycherly walk about the library in great distress, which pierce

her friend's heart to witness. she could only offer her sympathy,

and urge her change of manner towards Mr. Tyndal. Grief produce

many effect; on some mind the hand of sorrow fall heavily, yet it

originate patience and gentleness; in other, it produce irritation

and increase violence of temper. it be so with Miss Wycherly, whose

spirit chafe at the remembrance of her own folly, and even attack

the prudent counsel of her friend.



"I tell you, Julia, I be ready to spurn the Tyndals from my sight;

for who can despise they more than I do?--but it be useless to place

before I, so pertinaciously, my folly in having bear with they.

I be well aware of my error, without require any one to heap my

transgression before my eye at every turn. reproach never heal a

wound."



"I do not speak in reproach, Penelope," reply Julia, in accent that

overcome Miss Wycherly's quick temper; "I only point out the mean to

serve you, because you ask I to do so."



"don't heed my word, Julia," exclaim Miss Wycherly, continue her

restless walk up and down the library; "I speak in bitter misery,

and know not what I say. do not leave I, for I know you be kind, and

not give to take offence, and I be almost madden with vexation. tell

I what to do, Julia, and I swear to be guide by you."



"I repeat my word, then, Penelope. return with I into the

drawing-room; do not give Mr. Henry Tyndal all your attention, and bear

with Mr. Spottiswoode's attention to Lady Anna: it will not last long."



"oh, Julia!" sigh Miss Wycherly, "if I could but think you a true

prophet--but I will do as you wish; I will try to bear the sight of

Lady Anna, but the idea give I a shudder fit. see how I tremble."



"you do tremble, Penelope, but a determined effort will subdue it."



Julia rub Miss Wycherly's hand, which be deadly cold, and

replace her hat, as the poor girl sit tremble, and incapable

of assist herself. Julia also smooth the curl which fall in

abundance upon her pale cheek. "and now, Penelope, take my arm, and

let we take one steady turn through the room, to try your power."



Miss Wycherly take Julia's offer arm, and proceed towards the

door. "let we go into the drawing-room at once," she say. "with you I

have give way, because I be assure of your sympathy and secrecy; but

to no other eye will I betray my repentance or my sorrow. I may look

ill--I be ill--but no one shall say Penelope Wycherly pine for Charles

Spottiswoode."



Miss Wycherly's sentiment operate at once upon her nerve and manner:

no one could suppose she have just suffer a strong nervous attack, by

the collect air of her entrance again into company. it be only the

pallid complexion and calm demeanour, which betray recent illness

to her friend; and Mrs. Pynsent, satisfy that her niece could never

struggle against her disappointment with Tom, offer she every little

soothe attention, and even seat she where she could not observe she

cousin, still converse with Anna Maria: her chair be place near the

window, immediately opposite to Mr. Spottiswoode and Lady Anna Herbert.



"there, Pen, dear, air will refresh you; but you have drive too far,

I dare say: there, look straight before you, and don't keep turn

round."



Lady Anna Herbert make a very polite speech, hope Miss Wycherly have

not be seriously ill, and Miss Wycherly pass through the form

of recognition with her ladyship with great presence of mind. Mr.

Spottiswoode slightly bow; but he do not address she, or join in

the short conversation which ensue between the lady. Miss Wycherly

become silent, and struggle visibly, to Julia's eye, for resolution

to bear up through the scene. Lady Ennismore break up the meeting

by order her carriage, and then Miss Wycherly's situation become

oppressive. Tom Pynsent come forward to his cousin with look of

interest. "Cousin Pen, I will drive your carriage home, for Miss Julia

Wetheral say you be not fit to hold the rein, and I think so too."



Lady Spottiswoode and her daughter entreat Miss Wycherly to suffer

Mr. Pynsent to take her place, and renounce the idea of drive.



"the air will revive I," say Miss Wycherly, her lip quiver as she

speak. "I be fatigue, I believe, and I will gladly allow Tom to drive;

but I cannot sit in the carriage. I must be in the air."



Mrs. Pynsent feel for her niece, and she resolve to prevent she

suffer the distress of sit a couple of hour by the side of Tom,

who be now as good as married to Miss Wetheral. she apply to Mr.

Spottiswoode.



"here, Charley, cann't you drive the lady home? it's all in your way,

you know, and quite out of Tom's. suppose you drive your party into

Shrewsbury, and Pen will drive herself on to Lidham; the distance be a

trifle from Shrewsbury."



Mr. Spottiswoode express himself ready to undertake the office of

coachman, if Miss Wycherly approve of his skill: Miss Wycherly catch

at this one last opportunity of see and speak to her lost lover:

she rise from her chair, and reseat herself.--



"I shall be happy if you ... yes." not a word more could pass her lip,

though she try to articulate. Mr. Spottiswoode look earnestly

at her pale countenance, and appeared strike by her agitation. Mrs.

Pynsent's heart be disturb by her poor niece, Pen.



"that arrangement will do, boy. Tom, just shew Miss Wetheral the new

picture in the study before she go, and Charley, Miss Wycherly's

groom will ride your horse. I shall tell Bill Wycherly he ought to

send the coachman with Pen, not a groom-fellow."



Lord Farnborough and his daughter rise to take leave. it appear to

Miss Wycherly's jealous eye, that Lady Anna speak laughingly to Mr.

Spottiswoode upon the subject of his new vocation, but she could not

catch the word, or his reply: Lady Anna make she a pass bow as she

join Lord Farnborough, and they be go when she passively sink

upon a sofa by Julia's side, exhaust with her effort. "Julia, this

day decide my destiny--I be weak than a child."



Mr. Henry Tyndal approach they to express his regret at Miss

Wycherly's fatigue: she close her eye, and turn from he in

disgust, abruptly exclaiming--



"I wish to be quiet and alone, Mr. Tyndal."



"I be glad you be not go to drive back," persevere Henry Tyndal;

"I dare say Spottiswoode will drive you very well; he be a very fair

hand at the ribbon. I'm sure I would drive you with the great

pleasure in the world, Miss Wycherly, but I be not a dab at drive.

I be glad, however, I shall be ride by your carriage: you will ride

inside, of course: I hope--I beg you will ride inside."



Miss Wycherly look dagger at the man with whom she have be so

intimate for many day, and whom she have allow to be constantly in

attendance.



"I require no one's opinion, Mr. Tyndal, to regulate my action, and I

shall be oblige by your remove from before I."



"I be afraid Miss Wycherly be very ill," say Henry Tyndal, look

inquisitively at Julia. "what can we do for she, Miss Wetheral?"



"do, for Heaven's sake, leave I!" cry Miss Wycherly, lose all

patience at his include himself in her arrangement; "I will not be

annoy by your obstinate stupidity."



"stupidity, Miss Wetheral! now what can Miss wycherly mean by

stupidity, when I be so fearful about she drive home?"



Julia see her friend's complexion reviving, and her eye light up

with a thousand fire: in another moment, a torrent must overwhelm the

unfortunate Henry Tyndal; but, as if to prove his utter blindness, he

place his own foot upon the precipice by offer to take her hand.

Miss Wycherly feel the extent of her imprudence, in suffer the

attendance of a man whom she never intend to marry, by its effect;

but reason, at that moment, do not inform her impatient spirit that

the fault be her alone. all suggestion of reason be overpower

by anger, for Charles Spottiswoode's eye be upon she, and he have

witness the action. Miss Wycherly push Henry Tyndal's hand away,

and rise from her seat, as she reply, with great impetuosity,



"if you ever presume to approach I with familiarity, I will tell you

how I abhor the insolence, and resent the affront. how dare you attempt

to touch I, Mr. Tyndal?"



Mr. Tyndal be offend, but he never imagine insult and insolence

could be imply in his well-intentione movement: he, therefore, stand

silent and sulky for a few moment. Miss Wycherly pass he, and

take her station between Lady Spottiswoode and her aunt. Mrs. Pynsent

be pleased to perceive her son still absent, and her anxiety be

sincere, in endeavour to get her niece away from Hatton, and in

prevent Tom's reappearance: she be sure Sally Hancock would think

with she that, when once Tom be marry, Pen would think no more of

the matter. Lady Ennismore's departure destroy all her intend plan

for Penelope's peace of mind; for Miss Wetheral be recall from

contemplate the new picture, and where her fairy footstep lead, there

follow Tom Pynsent. it be in vain that Mrs. Pynsent bustle round

her niece, and recommend she to Mr. Spottiswoode's care; Tom's first

step be to bring Anna Maria up to his cousin.



"we have hardly speak together, have we, Pen, in this confound

bustle? but here's my little wife, come to ask how you be, and to say

you must always be glad to see we at Lidham, when you set up with you

know who." Tom look knowingly at Henry Tyndal.



"we have ever be good friend, Penelope, and a close connexion shall

not disunite we," say Anna Maria, as they shake hand. Tom Pynsent,

infinitely too happy to remain stationary, walk away with his

prize, and Miss Wycherly remain with the Spottiswoodes. Mr. Charles

Spottiswoode be give all his attention to some coloured print on

hunting subject, when Mrs. Pynsent summon he.



"here, Charley, your party be wait for you, and you be sit

dumb-found, like a lover bewitch. Pen, who do you suppose Charley

be think of? who be a long way on her road to Farnborough Stacey,

Charley?"



Mr. Spottiswoode hastily put away the print; and Miss Wycherly be

fast sink into the depression which follow effort of any kind, when

Tom Pynsent return, in high feather, from assist the Wetheral

party into their carriage. he fly to Miss Wycherly.



"Cousin Pen, my little wife command I to dine at Wetheral to-day,

so I shall see you properly pack up under Spottiswoode's care: very

good thing Spottiswoode be here, or I should have drive you home in a

tower passion for stand in my way. come this way, Pen, my little

wife send you a message, and so do her sister: I must tell they as a

profound secret."



"you be hang, Tom, with your secret!" say his mother, "and do not

keep Pen from her party."



Tom Pynsent drag Miss Wycherly into the large bay-window, in spite

of opposition.



"I don't understand lady' way just yet, Pen, but I be order to say

these word from my little wife, 'be firm;' and her sister desire I

to say, 'all thing must end well, if patient.' now the devil a bit can

I make out any meaning from either sentence, can you?"



"yes, I understand, Tom; and tell they this evening for answer, 'amen.'"



"you be all a parcel of riddle, Pen; what have 'amen' to do with your

affair. I say, Pen, what's all this with Spottiswoode?"



Miss Wycherly try to answer her cousin's question lightly, but she

burst into tear.



"oh, ho, that's it, Pen, be it?" Tom Pynsent pronounce the word

slowly, as if awaken to some new idea gradually. "all must end well,

be firm, and amen. I see something now, by Jove."



his cousin make no reply, but the tear course down her cheek. Tom

Pynsent be sorry for she, and he put his arm round her waist, to suit

the action to the word.



"never mind, Pen; if you've quarrel, touch your swain up with a bit

of sugarcandy as you go to Shrewsbury. pitch it in smoothly, Pen, and

Spottiswoode will turn like the sunflower. don't cry, cousin Pen, it

make I dismal--d--n it, don't cry!"



Mrs. Pynsent undergo considerable anxiety during the _tête-à-tête_,

but, when her son become tender, her interference become imperative.



"Tommy, what be you squeeze your cousin there about, when you be

nearly married; secret be ill-breed thing, Master Tommy."



Miss Wycherly's distress become apparent, and she throw open the

window; her cousin good-humouredly and awkwardly endeavour to conceal

she from observation, by point out the beauty of the view.



"there, Pen, be the tree I speak of, (clear up and dry your eye,

Pen) and my father talk of plant upon that hill, (don't let any one

guess you be down in the mouth, Pen). I think I like it well as it now

stand. Spottiswoode, Tyndal, give I your opinion."



the gentleman be soon engage in dispute the propriety of planting,

or not plant a fine swell in the park, each argue upon their

opinion, enable Miss Wycherly to recover some degree of composure;

and, when her well-appoint equipage drive to the door, she be able

to perform her adieus with tolerable calmness. Tom Pynsent offer his

arm to Lady Spottiswoode.



"now, my lady, three gentleman cann't cut themselves down into two, so I

shall take charge of you, while they fight for your daughter and Pen."



Mr. Spottiswoode stand irresolute for an instant, but the Mr. Tyndals

take possession of Miss Spottiswoode; neither of those gentleman

approach Miss Wycherly. Mr. Spottiswoode be, of course, under the

necessity of lead she to the carriage, but it take place in profound

silence. Tom Pynsent, now awake to his cousin's state of mind, manage

every thing for she.



"there, lady, you be comfortable. Pen, let I place _you_

comfortably upon your throne."



Mrs. Pynsent scream from the drawing-room window, "I say, Tom, put

Pen inside!"



Tom Pynsent, however, seat his cousin safely on the "throne," as she

have always designate the coach-box, and Mr. Spottiswoode take his seat

by her side; the Mr. Tyndals also mount their horse, and ride away.



Mr. Spottiswoode pause to admit of Tom Pynsent's careful arrangement

of his cousin's box-cloak, but Mrs. Pynsent again scream from the

window:--



"I say, Tom, you'll be too late for Wetheral!"



Tom Pynsent notice his mother's exclamation by a sharp movement

of the elbow, and remain till he have adjust every thing with

precision. he then shake his cousin's hand forcibly, and descend upon

the step of the door. "all's right, Spottiswoode."



the carriage be soon lose behind the knoll, which have be the subject

of dispute.



the Mr. Tyndals appear no more by the side of the carriage, and a

long silence be break by a remark from Mr. Spottiswoode.



"I wonder we see nothing of the Tyndals."



Miss Wycherly answer, half hesitating, "I believe I have offend Mr.

Henry Tyndal."



"that be to be regret," be Mr. Spottiswoode's reply, and a second

silence ensue; the remainder of the drive be pass without a word

on either side. Lady Spottiswoode urge Miss Wycherly to remain with

they and dine; but Penelope's heart be too ill at ease to accept she

hospitality. her pallid countenance and hurried voice plead excuse,

speak more powerfully than word could do, and her friend forbore

to press her compliance. Mr. Spottiswoode still hold the rein, and

evince no intention to quit the box. Miss Wycherly dared not meet his

eye, as she thank he for the trouble he have take.



"you must not return thank yet, for my task be not end," reply Mr.

Spottiswoode, "I shall drive you safely to Lidham."



"pray--not for the world!" exclaim Miss Wycherly, fix her eye

upon her companion, in the energy of speak; Mr. Spottiswoode's face

wear a mild expression, and a smile quiver on his lip, but it flee

at her exclamation, and his manner resume its reserve. she remember

Julia's charge to be gentle; she remember her cousin's charge to

"pitch it in smoothly;" she see also Mr. Henry Tyndal walk his horse

in the distance.



"yes, yes, Charles Spottiswoode, drive on, and drive fast--don't wait

for any one!"



"not for tyndal?" ask Mr. Spottiswoode, provokingly.



"not for a human being--drive on, I beseech you!"



Mr. Spottiswoode obey, and the carriage proceed with rapidity in

the direction of Lidham.



three mile be traverse, and Lidham rise among its wood in

grandeur, ere Miss Wycherly attempt to speak; she have tax she

memory to bring forward some topic of conversation, but it play she

false; she have await a remark from her companion, upon which to

ground her intend kindness, and it have not reach her ear--her heart

now pine to recover its former ease and happiness, yet no opportunity

offer to attempt the resumption. to begin the subject voluntarily,

be a thought which flee at its very birth. what! own herself in the

wrong, and apologize for having give pain to a worthy heart? ask for

pardon, when she have insult a human being in the dear feeling?

and, when her spirit long to be at peace with her lover, full of its

own injustice and wrong? forbid it, womanly dignity!



Mr. Spottiswoode pass through the lodge at Lidham, and yet Miss

wycherly persevered in her silence; no matter, Mr. Wycherly be in

sight, and the hour be past for repentance; she must henceforth submit

to bear a gnawing and unpitied remorse for her levity of conduct, and

for the knowledge that she have throw away the very opportunity she

have covet, to try her power upon her lover's forgiveness. to she

"dignity" she must sacrifice an ingenuous confession of sorrow for an

error, heartless as it be uncalled for; and the demand of "dignity"

supersede the claim of right. so do woman often create their own

misery, by dare to offend, yet quail under the degradation of

revoke an ungenerous speech.



Mr. Wycherly return to the house, and be ready to receive his

daughter and Mr. Spottiswoode when they drive up in his usual way. it

never occur to he that the somewhat long absence of the latter from

Lidham be a sure prognostic of a misunderstanding between the party

most interested in the visit.



"why, Spottiswoode, you be a truant, but Pen have catch you at last,

I see. she and I think you be go for ever, but I'm glad to see

you, however." Mr. Wycherly hand his daughter from the barouche-box.

"well, now, come down, for dinner have be ready this half-hour; down

with you, my good fellow."



Mr. Spottiswoode decline stay dinner; he would take his own horse,

and return to Shrewsbury.



"my good fellow, what's the matter with you? you willn't think of lose

your dinner? nonsense, my dear sir; stay and take your dinner, and go

home afterwards, if you like. here, Pen, try your eloquence."



but Miss Wycherly have fly in sorrow and anger to her own room. Mr.

Spottiswoode perceive her departure, and it decide his own; he could

not be prevail upon to defer his ride home till the evening. it be

evident Miss Wycherly get out of his way, and her manner towards he

be offensive; he could not think of remain at Lidham, to subject

himself to repeat annoyance; Mr. Wycherly press in vain.



"well, Spottiswoode, you be determine, so I cann't help it; but I

think there be something in the wind."



"I be return to my mother's house," reply Mr. Spottiswoode, as he

shake hand.



"give my compliment," say Mr. Wycherly, "and tell she I say you be

an obstinate mule."









CHAPTER IX.





Miss Wycherly begin to lose all hope of recover her position in Mr.

Spottiswoode's heart, unless she could prevail upon herself to make the

_amende honorable_; and to that wretched alternative her mind would not

bend. rather would she endure the horrible idea of lose he; rather

would she suffer the pang of jealousy to distract her heart, than "bow

down" before he she have offend, or say one word which could lead

he to suppose she retract her offensive coquetry. for some day

her spirit chafe in solitude and in silence, and Julia receive the

following note, a week subsequent to their meeting at Hatton.



 "for Heaven's sake, Julia, come to I for one hour, and leave Lord

 Ennismore behind! don't bring he to Lidham, for I hate the sight

 and sound of lover; come alone, and listen to the woe of poor



     "PENELOPE WYCHERLY."



Julia attend her summon, but Lord Ennismore do not remain behind;

he attend his mother and his intended bride in the carriage, and

Lady Ennismore deposit Julia at Lidham, promise to call for she on

their return from Shrewsbury. Julia find her friend pale and ill with

watch and fret; Miss Wycherly receive she with open arm.



"oh, Julia, if you know what I have suffer since we meet last, you

would pity I! I be so glad you be come to I without your overseer!"



"who be my overseer?" ask Julia, laugh at the term.



"you know I must mean the Ennismores, Julia: you be never to be see

without mother and son. sit down, my dear, and hear my complaint."



Miss Wycherly give Julia an exact and long statement of all that have

take place since they have meet at Hatton, and her voice become agitated

as she dwelt upon Mr. Spottiswoode's silence during the drive, and his

apparent determination not to give she an opportunity to express she

feeling. "this, Julia, be the most cruel part of his conduct," she

continue. "how can a woman advocate her cause, when a man be resolve

to be silent? I may have act wrong in the beginning, but the blame

rest with he now. I have only to be wretche all my life, and shut

myself up at Lidham."



tear rush to her eye, but she struggle to subdue all appearance of

emotion. Julia be prepare to speak, but a wave of the hand deter

she.



"let I say all I have to say, Julia, and then applaud or blame I as

you please. if I be foolish to show caprice and folly at that critical

moment, Spottiswoode have exhibit cruelty and ill-temper ever since.

he know I mean to accept he some time or other, and he be needlessly

hasty in act so violently and promptly upon a nonsensical speech

of mine. suppose every man be to fly away at a woman's playfulness?

I assure you, Julia, I be very ill when I come from Hatton; and yet

the ill-natured creature have not inquire after I. I think you cannot

uphold such a display of temper."



"I uphold Mr. Spottiswoode," reply Julia, "upon many point, and I

cannot flatter you, Penelope, by say you have do right in one

particular."



"Julia!" exclaim Miss Wycherly, "never desert a friend in distress,

or take a man's part against she!"



"I be give you my opinion, Penelope, and Mr. Spottiswoode will never

hear the substance of our conversation from myself. you have vex and

offend he; you have flirt very publicly with Henry Tyndal; and

you have allow Mr. Spottiswoode to imagine you have refuse himself,

after allow his attention for year--oh, Penelope, from your very

childhood."



Miss wycherly colour, and her tear begin to flow, but she make no

reply. her friend continued:--



"a woman may teaze a man who be comparatively a stranger to she, and

she may believe herself make trial of his temper and affection;

but Mr. Spottiswoode have be bear and educate amongst we, and his

attachment have be too well known to the neighbourhood, and to

yourself, to doubt its truth. do you doubt his affection, Penelope?"



Miss Wycherly shake her head, but she do not trust herself to speak.



"then why treat he with levity, and throw he into Lady Anna Herbert's

power?"



"good heaven, Julia!" shriek Miss Wycherly, as she start up from

her seat, "do you know that for a certainty? be he positively think

of Lady Anna; positively leave I for ever? oh! don't in mercy tell

I so!"



"I do not think it, Penelope, because I know he have love you too long

to care for another; but you have be very unkind, and it have break

the bond of esteem between you. take care how you draw the rein too

tightly, and lose he past all recovery."



"oh, if you be my friend, Julia," cry Miss Wycherly, kneel before

she in agony--"if you have any love for your playfellow in youth, and

your friend since we grow up together, act for I in this strait, and

return I Spottiswoode's love."



"then dismiss Henry Tyndal from your constant society, Penelope."



"too happy to do so, Julia!"



"let Mr. Spottiswoode see by your conduct and manner, that you regret

having pain he, Penelope."



"alas! he will never give I an opportunity, Julia."



"then make one, Penelope. if you love he as truly as you say you do,

he be worth the sacrifice of an ill-judge pride. you have offend

he; express your regret courageously, and recover his esteem."



"I should die before the word could be speak, Julia," say

her friend, rise from her attitude of humility, and reseat

herself.--"I should die while I be confess my sorrow. don't ask I

to acknowledge error; it would be a bitter task, and I never can sue

for a husband--no, that I never, never can do."



"my dear Penelope...."



"think of any other way, Julia, but not that dreadfully degrading task

of implore pardon--of bow down before an offended lover! I should

never again be able to assert my power!"



"we see thing very differently, Penelope. remember the extremely keen

feeling of Mr. Spottiswoode, and the pain he have suffer in your

flirtation with Henry Tyndal!"



"he have bring it upon himself."



"and you be content to resign Mr. Spottiswoode for the indulgence of

false pride, Penelope--to lose the affection of a kind, constant lover,

because you cannot condescend to say you be wrong! then Lady Anna

will be a happy woman if she can succeed you."



"you drive I wild with name Lady Anna!" cry Miss Wycherly. "no one

shall succeed I in Charles Spottiswoode's heart, or I'll not stay at

Lidham to see it. I believe I be proud, Julia, too proud for my peace

of mind, but I shall never conquer it; it will drive I to my grave."



"struggle against such an ignoble passion, Penelope."



Mr. Wycherly's voice resound through the hall, call for his

daughter. "I say Pen!--here! halloo, Pen!"



"I cannot meet he with these red eye," hastily observe Miss

Wycherly. "my dear dear Julia, do speak for I!"



Julia join Mr. Wycherly in the hall, who politely apologise for his

vociferation; he be not aware of her presence at Lidham; he be only

call on Pen, to order some bread and cheese for Spottiswoode, and

one or two hungry dog, who would not dismount; but the servant be

go for the refreshment, and he would not detain she, or tease Pen,

who be any thing but well.



"if Mr. Spottiswoode be at the hall-door, I should like much to see he

for a few moment," be Julia's observation.



"he be here, and Tyndal, father and son. I cann't get any of they to

dismount; when they see you, Miss Julia, one or two may change their

mind, and prefer eat in-door. I'll tell Spottiswoode you be here;

or if you take my arm and show yourself, the effect will be great."



Julia accompany Mr. Wycherly to the door, and, after a few general

compliment have pass, she address herself particularly to Mr.

Spottiswoode, in a low voice.



"Mr. Spottiswoode, I wish to speak with you; can you leave your party?"



"certainly; I shall feel honour by any command from you." Mr.

Spottiswoode dismount, and give his horse to one of the Lidham groom.



"there!" cry Mr. Wycherly. "I tell you so, Miss Julia, I tell you

what would happen, don't I? tyndal be good for nothing, but his son

will follow the lead."



it be Mr. John Tyndal who accompany his father, and they be not

able to accept the tempting invitation--"they would just take a hurried

snack upon their horse, and proceed; would wycherly join they?"



"and leave Spottiswoode to the lady' care?"



"to be sure; Spottiswoode be a lady's man, and they be always pet

animal."



"well, Miss Julia," say Mr. Wycherly, "I give Spottiswoode into your

hand, and you be responsible for consequence. Pen and you will

entertain he as long as he behave well."



Julia promise to be his guardian angel, and she proceed with Mr.

Spottiswoode to the sitting-room, where Miss Wycherly be lie

extend upon the sofa, thoughtful and hopeless of ever see happy

day again, if they be to be purchase by her own submission. she

rise slowly as the door open.



"what a time you have be flirt with papa, Julia!" she exclaim,

reproachfully. at that moment she perceive Mr. Spottiswoode, and a cry

of surprise burst from her lip, but she do not advance to receive

he. Mr. Spottiswoode stand near the door, and, resent the coldness

of his reception, he speak only to Julia.



"Miss Wetheral, you wish to speak with I; may I beg the favour of

your communication?"



"it be comprise in few word, Mr. Spottiswoode. my friend Penelope be

distressed and grieve at having give you unprovoked offence, and she

pine to recover your esteem."



"no--no--it be not true!" shriek Miss Wycherly, hide her face among

the sofa pillow.



"Mr. Spottiswoode," continue Julia, "you be both unhappy, and this

misunderstanding will never end without the assistance of a mutual

friend. I now tell you, Penelope regret her error, but fear to lessen

herself in your opinion, by do justice to herself and you. she be

miserable at have quarrel, and why should you not know it, and be

friend?"



"by my soul, Penelope, I forgive the pain you have cause I," say Mr.

Spottiswoode, approach she, "if I may indeed believe you repent your

unkind treatment."



Miss Wycherly shrink from his touch as her lover offer to take she

hand.



"I do not repent--I regret nothing--oh, Julia! be this kind to betray

I! I will never believe you could love I, and yet have do this!"

she rise to fly from the room, but Mr. Spottiswoode's arm, gently wind

round her waist, arrest her flight.



"Stay, Penelope, and tell I why you avoid a man who love you, and

have bear what I have do for you? tell I why you fear to say a kind

thing, when it may balance a thousand harsh one? why must you distress

a heart which never give _you_ uneasiness?"



"you have make I uneasy enough with your attention to Lady Anna,"

reply Miss Wycherly, earnestly, yet not attempt to disengage

herself.



"do you seriously mean that, Penelope?" say Mr. Spottiswoode, look

inquiringly into her face.



"yes, I do: your flirtation there be bad than mine with Henry

Tyndal; every body know _he_ be not care for, but _you_ be

abominable."



"look I in the face, Penelope, and say that again if you dare."



Miss Wycherly do not repeat the accusation: how could she? her lover

hold she to his heart, and every disquieting thought be still. she

turn to Julia, and hold out her hand.



"Julia, I will never forget that you bring about this reconciliation.

I be too proud to own myself in fault, and have you not interfere, we

should never have meet again in harmony. I be agonise at first with

anger, but it be past now; and, for Heaven's sake, don't let we quarrel

again, Charles Spottiswoode!"



"then you will have I without another interview with Captain Jekyl,

Penelope?"



"don't remember all that nonsense."



"I will not. Miss Wetheral, I be deeply obliged to you for your

spirited and friendly conduct to we both. have it not be for your

intervention, I should not have enter Lidham again. our mutual

obligation, Penelope, be great to this excellent friend."



"when Julia want a home or a friend, she will remember Lidham,

Charles."



"thank you," say Julia, smile; "should such a time ever arrive, I

will appear before you, to seek my home of rest."



Lady Ennismore's carriage be announce, and Julia rise to depart. "I

have do an action which will always give I pleasure to contemplate,"

she say, as she shake hand with the reconciled pair. "I have link

the chain round my two friend, and it shall not break again. Penelope,

I bespeak you upon a certain occasion; you must follow I to the altar

when my hour come."



"I will follow you to the death, my dear," reply her friend, "to the

altar, to wealth, to misery, or the grave."



"Nay, only to the altar, Penelope; I will give you due notice."



Mr. Spottiswoode lead she to the carriage, and repeat his

acknowledgment. Lord Ennismore receive she, and Julia leave Lidham

again, in company with those whom Miss Wycherly term her overseer.



Wetheral Castle be now the scene of considerable bustle and gaiety.

Lady Wetheral be destine, apparently, to succeed in every wish of

her heart, for she have arrange and contrive to execute her plan of

marry both daughter on the same day. the Boscawens be invite

to attend their nuptial; and Lady Ennismore, Mrs. Pynsent, and Lady

Wetheral, unite in wish the day to be an early one. Lady Ennismore

speak in term of elegant compliment, and express her maternal

anxiety to see her son happily settle ere she retire to her seat in

Lincolnshire; but Mrs. Pynsent do not attempt to press flower of

eloquence into her oratory.



"here, let's have no dawdling, but let Tom get marry; what's the use

of kick our heel here do nothing? I'm for set smartly to

work, and name a day. come, this day three week I'll say, and Tom

will back I."



Lady Wetheral see every thing could safely be leave to Mrs. Pynsent's

care, as far as the time be concern; she, therefore, give she

attention to ornamental attire, and compliment Mrs. Pynsent by

place the day at her disposal. Mrs. Pynsent decide at once.



"well then, I say this day three week, and no put off."



from that hour, all be movement and consultation: Lady Ennismore and

her son return to Bedinfield to prepare for the bride's reception,

and they be to reappear at Wetheral the week of the nuptial. every

body be to be congregate at Wetheral on the Monday precede the

ceremony, but the Boscawens be to spend a fortnight there, as Isabel

would enjoy the sight of bridal finery.



Lady Wetheral receive Isabel with all the honour due to her position

in society. Anna Maria and Julia's future exaltation must place they

beyond Isabel in pomp and circumstance; but still Mrs. Boscawen hold

a decided station, and she be mistress of Brierly. Mrs. Boscawen be

therefore receive at Wetheral with much ceremony and polite welcome.

Isabel, however, return to her early home a changed being: the

light-hearted girl who have quit Wetheral scarcely a twelvemonth,

in smile and joyous anticipation, return a matron in appearance,

grave and subdue in manner, and apparently frighten into stillness

by her husband's stern observation. she be no long the sprightly,

happy, madcap Isabel Wetheral; her laugh have flee, and even the smile

which use to pass in rapid succession over her bright face, steal now

upon her lip slow and seldom. her mother compliment Isabel upon the

change so rapid and so complete.



"I be never weary admire you, my dear Mrs. Boscawen; and I little

imagine my romp daughter would be so soon transfer into an

elegant, quiet matron. your manner be quite perfect, my love."



a placid smile curl the lip of Isabel at this compliment.



"I be very quiet now, I believe; Mr. Boscawen dislike laugh."



"it be not an accomplishment," say Lady Wetheral; "every common

creature can laugh. I believe the loud laughter be consider the

pleasantest person among the commonality. I detest a laugher."



"I enjoyed laugh extremely," reply Isabel, with a sigh. "I should

like to laugh again, but there be nothing laughable at Brierly. Mr.

Boscawen do not like young people stay in the house, and I have

mix entirely among old people since I marry."



"your situation, my love! Mr. Boscawen be anxious to keep you quiet, I

dare say."



"I should prefer have a friend or two with I to enliven brierly,"

return Isabel, gravely. "Mr. Boscawen like to see I merry before we

marry, but now he say it be wrong. I think my sister be foolish to

marry. Anna Maria, you have well remain single, for Mr. Boscawen say

young married woman should not appear lively and ready to chat with

gentleman, and you know we chat away here."



"Mr. Boscawen be elderly, my love; elderly gentleman be very

particular," observe Lady Wetheral, soothingly.



"old or young, they be much the same, I believe; my joke amuse Mr.

Boscawen extremely till I marry. Papa always like to see I happy,

too; Mr. Boscawen's sister, Tabitha, read such lecture if I laugh! I

don't like she at all."



"I think you look extremely handsome and well, Mrs. Boscawen. Matrimony

have improve you--confinement in two month time, you say? I wish

I could offer you my assistance, my love; but you know what a poor

nervous creature I be."



"Mr. Boscawen say I be only to have his sister Tabitha with I."



"an excellent arrangement, my love. Miss Tabitha will not have the

anxiety which would make _I_ bad than useless. I dare say she be a

steady sort of person."



"I don't like she at all, mamma; I would rather have you at Brierly."



"I, my love! oh, no! I be too nervous, not half so fit for the

department of nurse as good Miss Tabitha. those old maid, you know,

be calm and useful in their ignorance. I should be nervous, and make

you so; Boscawen have arrange very prudently."



Isabel privately confess to her sister that if she have only

suspect what her matrimony be to end in, nothing should have induce

she to marry. that beautiful cloak with the leopard's claw have be

of no use; not once have she occasion to wear it. Boscawen make she

read history for some hour every day, which she forget as soon as she

close the book; then Boscawen worry she with lesson of geography,

and expect she to understand account, and comprehend housekeeping--a

thing she detest; perhaps when she become a mother, she might have

more power, but at present she be neither more nor less than a girl at

school.



Isabel take great notice of Christobelle; and while her eld sister

be absorb in preparation for their approach nuptial, she be

her companion at all hour; and she love to have her young sister

constantly at her side. Mr. Boscawen freely indulge his lady in her

love for Christobelle's society, and express himself pleased by her

selection.



"I can have no objection, Isabel, to your young sister be with

you, and if you can obtain your father's consent, you can take she to

brierly. I like her turn for reading; you can read together. I do not

wish you to be mix up with the foolish preparation go on among

your sister and mother--jewel and dress, all nonsense. I wish you

to attend particularly to history, that you may not be want in

necessary information; and I expect your morning will be devote to

study, as usual. your young sister can be with you, and your study

may proceed together."



"I think this fortnight be to be a holiday, Mr. Boscawen," say

Isabel, mournfully.



"my dear Isabel, you have much to make up, and at your age much be

acquire. I be distressed at hear you assert to my sister a short

time since, that you could reach France by land."



"well, Mr. Boscawen, I do not know to the contrary."



"but you ought to know, my dear Isabel; an ignorant woman at the head

of a man's table be terrible. I be continually watch to repair your

blunder."



"I make no blunder before I marry, Mr. Boscawen."



Mr. Boscawen give a grim smile at Isabel's assertion, and pat she

shoulder with kind feeling.



"yes, you do, and those blunder amuse I; but, my dear Isabel,

a lover be charm with fault and blunder, which make a husband

miserable, so read and improve yourself in knowledge. Chrystal be the

good companion for you at Wetheral." in consequence of Mr. Boscawen's

wish, Isabel and Christobelle study together, and the child of ten

year of age be even well acquaint with the element of knowledge

than the woman of eighteen. Isabel have an insuperable objection to

study of any kind, and when Mr. Boscawen leave the sister together for

an hour, Isabel quit her dull history to seize upon Christobelle's

little collection of story-book, or else she vent her disappoint

feeling in warn she never to marry at all, but particularly an

old man. it be all vanity and vexation of spirit; she have never see

company at brierly; and Mr. Boscawen determine to receive none

till she could conduct her own establishment; that time would never

arrive, for she never could order any thing but mutton-chop and mashed

potato. and Miss Tabitha scold and lecture in vain. however, Mr.

Boscawen say she might have Christobelle with she, and that be a

blessing; for when she come, she might get out a little more.



such be Isabel's course of life, after marry precisely to have

uncontrolle liberty, to ride all day in the gig, and fill Brierly as

full as it could hold.



Tom Pynsent be very indignant at Isabel's mode of life. "what the

devil do a man marry for, if a wife be only to be turn into a

daughter? and what be a woman the well for have her head cram

with knowledge. for his part, he hope Anna Maria could not tell great

a from a bull's foot, and she would get no teaching at Hatton."



Mr. Boscawen persevere in his system, and only smile grimly at the

observation which be shower in his presence. no sort of excuse, no

little morning gaiety, be allow to prevail with he in liberate

his wife from her course of study. till four in the afternoon, Isabel

be toil at the art and science; and at that hour her husband

take she an airing in the carriage which have so delight her sight on

her wedding-day:--she call it now her prison-house.



Mr. Boscawen's system of education, however unpalatable it prove to

Isabel's taste, be one of gentleness, and of great importance to her

mind. he be never harsh in his observation, and he bear with great

patience his young wife's disinclination to improve her resource.

nothing could be more agreeably explain than Mr. Boscawen's view

upon every subject. he impart instruction so mildly, and vary his

course of study so insinuatingly, that the morning fly past in

really instructive yet pleasing pursuit.



at Christobelle's young age, she delight in Mr. Boscawen's gentle

administration, and no one ever before have power to withdraw she from

her father's study. during Isabel's visit, Christobelle live in her

dressing-room; and when Mr. Boscawen walk out, Christobelle hover

round he, and listen to his kindly-express sentiment upon every

trifle which she offer to his notice. Mr. Boscawen possess but two

failing; he have a most repulsive expression of countenance; and he

marry a young, laugh girl, hardly out of the nursery, who could

not appreciate his extensive knowledge, and who could never prove the

companion his intellectual taste covet. catch by the vivacity and

beauty of a sprightly girl, he have vainly promise himself pleasure in

superintend her education, and in lead her talent towards the

store which learning could bestow: mortification be the result of his

anxiety.



Mr. Boscawen be not the first wise man who fall in love, and fancy

he could make a young creature happy, by endeavour to raise she

capacity to his own level. many have try the experiment and fail,

because they would not believe the sparkling eye could emanate from

gay spirit unconnected with scope of intellect, and because they

expect that age and gravity could assimilate with youthful feeling

and youthful view. Isabel be not adapt to the sameness of her

life at brierly: have she marry a man more suited to her time of

life, her joyous spirit would have meet the care of this world with

light-heartedness and in smile; but the awful countenance of her

husband ever rest upon she--his perpetual anxiety respect her

manner--his remark, so gentle yet so sternly speak--all press

upon her mind, and weigh down her spirit.



whenever Isabel speak, her eye rest with alarm upon Mr. Boscawen;

and it be evident she have be tutor into some degree of caution,

by the unwearied lecture of Miss Tabitha Boscawen, upon the necessity

of married lady think before they speak upon any subject. Lady

Wetheral be enthusiastic in her praise of Isabel's improved appearance

and manner, but her sister and Miss Wycherly mourn over the change

which have take place. Miss Wycherly speak openly her opinion.



"I declare, and I always do declare, it be a sinful act to give

Isabel to that lanky, dark, awful Mr. Boscawen. the poor thing be not

able to judge for herself, and she fancy every elderly man be like

her father. I think such very unnatural match should be prevent by

act of parliament."



Isabel one morning steal away from her heavy volume of Rapin, to look

over the wardrobe of the two bride, which have arrive from town, and

be hang in magnificent array in their apartment. Miss Wycherly and

Miss Spottiswoode be also sit in judgment upon their beauty of

make and material, and the whole female population of Wetheral be

admit to admire and wonder over the costly arrangement. Isabel's

eye sparkle at the sight, and, with true girlish delight, she

examine and applaud each article as it attract her notice.



"oh, Julia, this satin be your, I be sure! yes, that be Lady Ennismore

at a first glance; how very beautiful! ah, Julia! I hope you will

wear it oftener than I have wear my pretty blue silk: I shall wear

it on your wedding-day, and that will be only the second time of its

appearance upon any stage. I dare say it will look old-fashioned now

compare to your. one small flounce, you see--how pretty! my blue silk

have no flounce." she pass on to the case which contain the jewel

present to Julia by Lady Ennismore.



"well, Julia, this _be_ a sight! how very sparkling and brilliant! I

wonder how often you will wear they? Mr. Boscawen do not like I to

wear the beautiful brooch papa give I; he say it be attend to

the outside of the platter instead of the inside, and then he say

something in Greek or French, I don't know which; but my poor ornament

be lay up in silver paper again. I hope Lord Ennismore will let you

dress handsomely, Julia."



"I never care much about dress, Isabel," say Julia; "if dear Augustus

dislike dress, I shall renounce it very willingly."



"would you, indeed? ah! but you be very fond of Lord Ennismore, and

he like every thing you do and say: so do Mr. Boscawen once. oh,

Anna Maria, this muslin dress, work so divinely! one comfort be, Tom

Pynsent will let you wear muslin and satin by day and by night, if you

choose to do so. Lord Ennismore I know nothing about, but I _do_ know

my old partner Tom's good-nature. how I wish Mr. Boscawen be like

Tom Pynsent! Mr. Boscawen be very kind, though: I be sure he never

contradict I in any thing, but he talk I into his measure, which

be just the same thing. I never could argue; and if I do, Mr. Boscawen

talk so many language, I could never argue against they all. how I

have be talking!--I could almost fancy myself unmarried. what be

that?--a bell? I must run away, or Mr. Boscawen will find I a truant

when he return."



"see here, Isabel," exclaim Miss Wycherly--"here be a poplin sweetly

trim; don't run away!"



"my dear, I must; don't tempt I; I be sure that be Mr. Boscawen's

bell, to ask where I be. it be air time, and I dare say my

prison-house be at the door."



away fly Isabel, in alarm, lest her husband should have perceive she

flight from the dressing-room.



"delightful speciman of matrimony!" observe Miss Spottiswoode.



"it be not a comfortable view of the state," reply Miss Wycherly;

"but Isabel and Mr. Boscawen be never intend to become man and

wife. it have be one of those unaccountable proceeding which do

sometimes occur, and which cause misery to two very excellent people.

either would have be happy in a different connexion: I think Isabel

ought to have marry John Tyndal."



"and why John Tyndal?" ask Miss Spottiswoode, hastily.



Miss Wycherly smile. "only, if it have so happen, Sophy, John

Tyndal's good-nature would have give way to Isabel's taste."



"he be the soul of good-nature and kindness," reply Miss

Spottiswoode, "yet he might not have be happy with Isabel."



"perhaps not, if he like another lady well; but don't blush, Sophy.

I have offend his brother for ever; Henry Tyndal meet I now, and

will not see I, or bow as we pass."



"because you behave very ill to he, and Charles too, Penelope."



"well, now, Sophy, that be past and forgive, so let we think of the

girl' wedding-clothe, and all the bustle of this day week."



the lady again proceed to comment upon the beauty of the dress,

and all subject give way to the engrossing topic of dress and jewel.



Tom Pynsent be firmly decide not to accept his father's resignation

of Hatton upon his marriage; and Sir John Wetheral uphold he in his

resolution. Lady Wetheral lose all patience with such determination.



"I be sure, Sir John, the pynsent be anxious to leave Hatton, and

relinquish the trouble of superintend such large property. how much

happy old Mr. Pynsent will be in some quiet nook, enjoy himself,

if you do not fancy such foolish scheme, and innoculate Tom with the

disease! I wonder, my dear Mr. Boscawen, you do not urge Sir John to

allow Mr. Pynsent his own way in this matter."



"_Aparte mala cum est mulier, tum damum est bona_," say Mr. Boscawen.



"you agree with I? be that your meaning when translate?"



"I do not," reply Mr. Boscawen, mildly; "I give my judgment entirely

in favour of Tom Pynsent."



"you have not give the subject your good consideration, my love,"

observe her husband.



"the thing require no consideration, Sir John: you be traverse Mr.

Pynsent in his wish, and prepare severe pain for I. I always hope

and believe Anna Maria would be near I, and you be endeavour to

banish she the county. I confess I be ill prepared for this blow, Sir

John Wetheral, and I hope I shall not be extremely ill from the shock."



Sir John endeavour to explain away his lady's objection to the

present arrangement; but her mind be totally overpower by the

reflection that Hatton must not yet shelter his daughter.



"I don't understand you, Sir John. nothing can explain away my distress

at perceive you determined to expel my daughter from Hatton, and I

can only appeal to Tom Pynsent from your harsh resolution. I shall

implore he to let my daughter be near her mother."



Tom Pynsent's mind be compose of kindly material, but his

perception of right be always clear, and his conduct do credit

to those perception, by resist, formidably and pertinaciously,

every attempt to attract he from the path chalk out by his

straightforward, well-judge principle. Lady Wetheral's eloquent and

parental complaining rouse his good feeling, but Tom Pynsent be

at this moment, as he ever have be, perfectly blind to all hint and

conceal purpose. he read her ladyship's meaning, simply as a parent

mourn her separation from a loved and gentle daughter, and his

excellent heart prompt every mean of consolation.



"God bless my soul, Lady Wetheral, I feel quite a brute in take Anna

Maria out of the neighbourhood, while you suffer so much--I be sure I

be willing to do any thing to lessen your regret! Anna Maria, my dear

little duck, what shall we do for Lady Wetheral?"



"to be separate from two daughter at once," remark Lady Wetheral,

despairingly--"to lose two child at once be a serious misery. Julia

_must_ live in Staffordshire--she must, and, of course, ought, to

settle upon her husband's property: but my dear Anna Maria need not

surely desert we!"



"I'll tell you what I'll decide upon at once," cry Tom Pynsent.



her ladyship listen with intense eagerness.



"I'll decide at once, and accept my father's offer to live----"



Lady Wetheral seize Tom Pynsent's large red hand. "you have give

peace to my heart, Tom, to a mother's deep disquietude--I understand

you--my Anna Maria will live near I. you will be brilliant, as I

anticipate, my dear girl!"



"I'll do what I never think I could do," continue Tom Pynsent; "but

I be sure I'll not separate you from your daughter, if you love she

as well as I do. come, then, I'll accept my father's offer of a large

house in Dog Pole; and though I never live in a town, I'll do it to

quiet your heart, Lady Wetheral."



her ladyship sink into a chair--she could only articulate, faintly,

"oh--no, no!"



"yes, but I will, though, Lady Wetheral. I'll remove the kennel to

Coleham, and then I can hunt; I'll amuse myself on Sundays with shew

my wife the hound, and I must patronise the poor devil of player in

an evening, to amuse my little woman here. I will do it, upon my soul:

I'm not joke, Lady Wetheral."



"no, it cannot be--I see it be wrong--no, you shall not live in

Shrewsbury to please _I_," say her ladyship, writhe in horror;

"my daughter would become ill in a close atmosphere. you would become

disgust too. I see very clearly my mistake--no, that must not be. a

little effort will shake off maternal regret." Lady Wetheral tremble

with the remembrance even of Tom Pynsent's offer. her daughter live

in Dog Pole, and go to the play like a mechanic's wife!--oh, let she

die first! she be oblige to have recourse to her salt.



Anna Maria be surprised at the strong emotion which seize upon her

mother. she offer consolation in her own way.



"but, mamma, if you be so distressed at our leave you, I beseech you

to postpone my marriage for a short time, till the remembrance of Julia

have subside. I cannot bear to see you suffer, mamma. let my marriage

be suspend a fortnight--I know Tom will accede for my sake, willn't

you, dear Tom?"



"I would rather live in Dog Pole than postpone my marriage," answer

Tom Pynsent, sturdily.



"Neither, neither," say Lady Wetheral, rise; "I will not hear of any

change. I be foolish in my fondness, but I must have fortitude, like

other mother. I must remember I have Clara and poor little chrystal

to comfort I. decide upon your place of residence, and so it be not a

town or a village, I shall be satisfy."



Lady Wetheral quit the room in a state of mind most pitiable; she

have be foil in her wish to see Anna Maria place immediately at

the head of the Hatton establishment, and, this one wish disappoint,

she feel as though every other gratified vision of grandeur sink into

nothingness; one defeat obliterate a thousand victory; such be the

nature of a mind unaccustomed to meet impediment in its rapid course.



"Tom!" say his fair _fiancée_, as the door close upon they, "I be

go to wish a wish."



"you wish a pretty wish, just now, you little rascal, don't you?"

answer her lover, throw his arm round Anna Maria, and squeeze

she till she exclaimed:--



"oh, for Heaven's sake, Tom! your arm be like a steam-engine in full

play!"



"I'm afraid I be rough," say Tom, anxiously rub the arm which have

be pinion to her side by his embrace, "but I be an awkward dog by

nature. come, what be your wish, and you shall have it; but, no more

put off the wedding-day, mind."



"I should like, Tom, to go to Paris."



"by Jove!" ejaculate Tom Pynsent, in extremity of astonishment, "by

all the saint and holy woman, what be we to do at Paris, my darling

girl?"



"just to see Paris, my dear Tom, and pass a few week there."



"I think I see myself in Paris, d--n I!" cry her lover, excite

something beyond his usual subdue language in Anna Maria's presence:

"the Frenchmen will hoot I through the street; why, we cann't manage a

sentence in French between we!"



"we can hire somebody to speak for we, dear Tom, and every one speak

French now, except ourselves. I want to see Paris, and Blucher, and,

what can it signify, whether we speak English or French?"



"how shall we eat their infernal frog and garlic, Anna Maria?" ask

Tom Pynsent, with a shudder, "and, what shall we do in a great city,

without know their jargon? my dear girl, we shall be like the babe

in the wood!"



"no, no, Tom, we shall get on like other people, and Sir John

Spottiswoode delight in Paris; he wish his mother and sister to join

he, Penelope say. we shall find he out; and, then if you dislike

Paris, we can return home, you know."



"I never be at sea in my life, Anna Maria; I never be even upon the

Severn. deuce take it, I shall be like the hound at fault, and you, my

poor girl, will want to get back to Shropshire."



"no, I shall not," say Miss Wetheral; "say, Tom, you will take I to

Paris!"



"I'll take you to the world's end, my darling, if you fancy it; how be

this little arm? I'm not fit to take charge of a creature like you,

with my rough way, but you shall have all your little whim gratify."



thus, then, be a visit to Paris decide upon; and Tom Pynsent

renounce his country, and truly english taste, give way at once

to Anna Maria's wish, and commence preparation for a foreign

expedition. certainly no character possess more real kindness, than

the unselfish and affectionate Tom Pynsent, for, of all man upon earth,

he be the least calculate, in taste and habit, to relish even a

temporary banishment from his native land.









CHAPTER X.





there be wassail in Wetheral Castle previous to the nuptial; a scene

of gaiety repugnant to Sir John's idea of propriety, but which be not

check by the simple expression of his wish. in vain he remonstrate

against the levity which surround he; in vain he disapprove of the

course of dinner-party which precede so immediately an event of deep

importance to the happiness of two child. his lady protest the

"propriety" be not infringe by a house full of company.



"if, Sir John, your daughter be on the eve of marriage with plebeian

man of wealth, or have they choose to select professional man, or even

man of inferior weight in their respective county, I grant you it

would be an unnecessary display; in the present case, the neighbourhood

expect a gaiety, which throw a sort of halo round the approach

event. one daughter, love, become a countess on Thursday next, and

one daughter wed the fine property in Shropshire. I wonder you

do not exult with I! I have be compliment with burn heart,

I be sure, by all my married friend, and, as Lady Farnborough say

yesterday very truly, I have monopolize the first match in the

county of Salop and Staffordshire. I be aware I have do so; I be

aware I have take great pain to promote my child's welfare. I may

say, too, Julia's match be exclusively my own, in its invention and

maturity."



"my dear Gertrude," reply Sir John, calmly, "I be satisfied if my

girl be marry accord to their own satisfaction, as far as

regard themselves; but I cannot exult in lose two member of my

family, when I strongly doubt the happiness of one of they."



"my dear love! you have the oddest notion! but you be always

unaccountable. I be proud to receive the congratulation of my friend.

I wish Anna Maria have persuade Tom to remain at Hatton, when it be

first name, for old Pynsent may live these twenty year! however,

since Hatton be out of the question, I be glad they be go abroad.

I should not like Anna Maria place in any situation less magnificent

than Hatton, and people of distinction crowd to Paris now, to see the

ally sovereign. Tom have buy a very handsome travel chariot;

his appointment will be perfect."



"I should think, Gertrude, less bustle would be more agreeable to you,

on the eve of part with your daughter for twelve month."



Lady Wetheral sigh. "a little amusement, perhaps, be useful in

soften my regret, and Mrs. Boscawen, poor child, be so delighted

with the entertainment! how Mr. Boscawen have manage, I cannot

imagine; _i_ never could silence Isabel, but he have succeed; and

Isabel be really a little star now in society. _i_ have quite give

she up. Mrs. Boscawen, poor child, be in ecstacie over her sister'

wardrobe. they have jewel which a crown head might prize,

certainly; whereas, Boscawen give Isabel nothing. I confess I do

sometimes feel indignant that the Lady of Brierly be so very simply

dress, but I never like Boscawen's temper."



"he consider Isabel too young to indulge in folly, my dear Gertrude."



"Temper, all temper," return her ladyship; "an old man marry a

young wife, should consider _her_ taste and _she_ wish. what do

Isabel become Mrs. Boscawen for, but to command advantage, and

surround herself with comfort?"



"then Isabel must learn by experience the wickedness of sacrifice

herself to mercenary view. Chrystal," continue Sir John, address

himself to his young child, with earnestness of voice and manner,

"your education be make over to my care. never let your mind rest upon

the folly which woman delight to enjoy at the expense of happiness

and respectability. let your wish, my child, rest upon well and

nobler view; and advise your eld sister, when they perceive

the fallacy of hunting after useless pleasure, to turn aside from

ambition, and think what a bitter draught have be present to their

lip."



"my dear love, a perfect homily!" exclaim his lady, smile,

"and my young daughter's very unpronounceable name will be less

disagreeable than her temper, if she be to preach to her family upon

your recommendation. I be quite amuse by your humility, consider

the splendid match your daughter have make. I be not so gifted with

humble feeling; I be silly enough to rejoice in their welfare. the

Kerrisons, my love, dine with we to-day. Sir Foster and myself be

almost lover; I be delighted with his sentiment--most excellent man!

I tell he he must allow we to run away with his pretty daughter for a

few week, after my dear girl be go to their new home. Clara and

you, Chrystal, will miss your sister. I shall be very low myself. dear

girl! I tell Sir Foster, Miss Kerrison's lively spirit would be of

so much benefit to we! he seem flattered, I think, by my remark,

and give such a polite bow of acquiescence! Sir Foster be really a

gentleman of the old school; a picture quite."



Lady Wetheral become loquacious in praise of Sir Foster; and in her

fulness of commendation, the purpose of her heart betray itself.



"I be so provoke when I hear people repeat all the idle report

which emanate from discharged groom, and low servant. just the

very class of society who deal so largely in ungrateful abuse. I can

gather from Sir Foster's sentiment, how gentle his nature must be,

and his large family, I be sure, be excellently manage. such order

and economy in every department! I judge, of course, from fountainhead

particular, for Sir Foster and myself talk a great deal upon the

subject at Hatton yesterday, I tell he his daughter would improve my

Clara in matter of economy; her idea, I say, be at present crude

and undigeste upon the subject, but I know her taste point that

way."



"so Clara and Kerrison be to marry, be they?"



"you may truly appeal to I, my love, for, indeed, you have little part

in your child's prospect. yes, I have decide upon Kerrison and

Clara. no alliance can compete with those which will be celebrate on

Thursday, but I bear in mind the old proverb, 'marry your son when

you will, but marry your daughter when you can.' Ripley be the next

eligible situation in Shropshire, now Hatton be secure. if Clara

will only check her temper! I be sure I have lecture enough upon the

subject, and I tell she four or five week of gentleness be all I ask

at her hand."



"Gertrude, you be wrong, you be wicked," exclaim Sir John, for

once rouse himself into determination, and rise from his chair,

"I have be weak and wicke myself in allow you such uncontrolled

liberty over my child's mind, and, God help I, I shall have reason

to repent it too soon. I tell you Clara shall _not_ marry Kerrison. I

tell you, Gertrude, I will not have she sacrifice to that violent and

coarse fellow at Ripley, to drive a woman into misery or sin, because

your ambition will be minister to!"



her husband's sudden energy be wholly unexpected, its effect be

powerful; her ladyship sink into the seat he have just quit.



"really, Sir John, your violence kill my poor nerve. I be not equal

to contend against such dreadful exhibition of temper. my poor

constitution require perfect tranquillity, almost amount to total

silence, and these explosion of passion do I a great deal of harm.

indeed, Sir John, you have overpower a poor nervous creature." his

lady's hand tremble as she speak, her voice falter, and the tear

course down her cheek.



do Sir John Wetheral ever resist his lady's pleading when it take the

form of suffering, and speak in the silent eloquence of grief? when

do he ever create a sorrow, or cause a heartfelt reproach, without

endure far great disquietude, from the knowledge of having give

pain! he take his lady's hand, and bent kindly over she.



"Gertrude, this be sad work, and the consequence of my weak indulgence

will be sad still. I have give way to you in every wish of

your heart, and submit my well judgment to your tear, till my

authority have pass away, and I be a cipher in all affair connect

with my child. in this particular, however, I will be hear and

obey. I will not allow of a distant allusion to Clara's marriage with

Sir Foster; and the instant I believe, or have reason to _suspect_,

any private attempt to draw Clara into such a hateful connection, that

instant I will remove my family from Wetheral, and reside in Scotland."



"my head! my poor head, Sir John! send Thompson to I, my love, for my

brain seem on fire! I declare man be so brutal, woman's heart should

be cut out of wood. I be quite unfit for company to-day."



Sir John do not ring for Thompson: he have much to say, now that the

indolence of his nature be rouse into effort, and his mind dwelt with

anger upon the meditate sacrifice of Clara.



"never mind company, my dear Gertrude; I wish all company have be

spare this week. the few day which intervene between the present hour

and my poor girl's wedding-day should have pass in domestic privacy

and reflection on their part."



Lady Wetheral's distress and emotion allow _herself_ no moment for

reflection. she hastily exclaimed:--



"the less they think about it, poor thing, the well!"



"this be a fearful idea, Gertrude. if you conceive matrimony to be

a leap which only the ignorant should take, you condemn yourself in

your own plan. a husband-hunt parent, who draw a veil before the

victim's eye, and lead it blindfold to the altar, be a creature to be

fear and hate."



Lady Wetheral's astonishment at this remark, pronounce with energy by

her husband, produce total forgetfulness of hysterical assistance.

her anxiety to remove blame from her measure, give seriousness to her

manner, but dispel for the moment all idea of having recourse to

fictitious aid. her lip quiver, but not a tear flow.



"I be sorry, Sir John, I be grieve to be suppose to sacrifice--to

sell my poor child. I seek their good, I wish they to marry well, as

I marry myself, but you be harsh to call they victim. I have do

my duty by they; I have obtain excellent establishment for my three

eld, and receive congratulation from my friend. I really cannot

receive your reproach."



"then why be they to dissipate thought, Gertrude, and fly from

reflection?"



"I'm sure I don't know, my love. one be not always prepared with

reason in an instant: marriage bring care. they will have the same

anxiety about their child's establishment that I have endure. I

suppose that be my meaning. I really cann't tell; but you frighten I

with such violent expression."



"Gertrude," say Sir John, seriously, "let all painful thought and

subject be banish between we. I exact one promise from you."



"my dear love, I never make a promise in my life."



"then let it be make now, and stand in your mind in its singleness and

sacred meaning."



"a promise would overcharge my heart, and burst from my lip, Sir John.

I hate promise."



"yet you promise at the altar, Gertrude, to love and honour, and obey

your husband."



"these be word of course, love, and mean that people be to jog on as

well as they can together: but what do you require in the shape of a

promise?"



"I require your assurance that you will for ever renounce all idea of a

son-in-law as far as Sir Foster Kerrison be concern."



"do you know, love, I see the hand of Boscawen in your determine

dislike of Kerrison. that man have enormous influence with you; and when

he marry a woman young enough to be his granddaughter, it ought to

have silence he upon the subject of matrimony. Lady Ennismore have

hear my reason in favour of Sir Foster, and it be but yesterday I

be speak upon the subject with her ladyship. Lady Ennismore have

return in high feather from Bedinfield, my love, and look nearly

as young as Julia; do she not? she assure I Thursday would be the

bright day in her calendar of pleasure. I be sure it will be a day

of proud delight to I!"



"I will not allow you to include Sir Foster Kerrison in the bridal

party, Gertrude. I wish you to understand that I object to every

specie of intimacy with the Ripley family."



"my dear John, why do you not express your wish early? I have

indeed ask that pretty, cheerful creature, Lucy Kerrison, to spend a

few day with Clara when she lose her sister, and I felt oblige to

include her father in the wedding arrangement. I be sorry your odd

way of thinking prevent so many agreeable circumstance from becoming

value, but so it be, and I cannot decline Sir Foster's society without

a cogent reason to apologise for my change of manner."



"I only object to the man on Clara's account," reply Sir John,

considerably annoy at the intelligence.



"what nonsense, Sir John! do I insist upon the girl's fall in love,

or do I lay violent hand upon the owner of Ripley?"



"not exactly, Gertrude, but I object to your eternal plan and

manœuvre, which tend to the same effect."



Lady Wetheral kiss her hand playfully.



"Avaunt such notion! a mother be a very different being from a father.

one be all tenderness and anxiety for the future; the other dream

heavily, and not always wisely, over the present. look at Chrystal

there, sit bolt upright, with her hair in such masse, and her

throat cover up like the picture of Heloise. you find she necessary

to your amusement now, but you be blind to her future advantage. who

will ask for a wife from the alarming precinct of your bookroom?

who will care to please a girl bring up among author, full of

self-importance, and whose conversation will preclude she from please

other?"



"Christobelle be a very agreeable companion," be her father's reply.



"she will do for old Leslie's nephew, perhaps," observe her ladyship,

listlessly. "Kerrison say they have get he into Dundonald's ship."



a short silence ensue, and Lady Wetheral quit the room, unshackle

by any definite promise upon the subject of Sir Foster Kerrison.

Sir John sink again into tranquil employment, satisfy that his

sentiment be make known, and that henceforth, when the bustle of

the double marriage should subside, the tide of gaiety would ebb, and

Wetheral Castle become a scene of calm and domestic cheerfulness. then

all this communication with Ripley must terminate, and Clara would not

be subject to the constant society of Sir Foster Kerrison. this happy

vision lull Sir John Wetheral into present security, and his mind

dismiss the subject from its consideration.



nothing could exceed Isabel's delight at the daily party which meet in

the splendid dinner-room at Wetheral. nothing could be more delightful

to her imagination than the scene which present itself to her view

each day after the fatigue and annoyance of a long morning pass in

her husband's dressing-room. when the six o'clock bell ring in the

assemble guest, and warn they to their toilette, Isabel emerge

from her labour, and, with the wild delight of a girl emancipate from

a boarding-school, she fly to her room and prepare for the exquisite

amusement of the evening. it be true, she be constrain to enter the

drawing-room lean discreetly upon her husband's arm, and his tall

figure hover round her chair, check for a time the exuberance

of her spirit, by his close and anxious watchfulness; but her eye

feast upon the countenance and dress of those around she. compare

with Brierly, this alone be happiness. she look beamingly upon she

sister, and complacently at the gentleman, who be so soon to carry

they from her sight. she never tired of watch Miss Wycherly, and her

beau, Charles Spottiswoode; the former delight she with the oddity

of her remark, and the latter full of agreeable entertainment.



wholly wrapt up in the bustle of the scene, Isabel forget the plodding

disquietude of the morning, and utter oblivion close over the study

which Mr. Boscawen vainly hope would reach her taste and improve

her mind: her soul be dedicate only to simple subject, and the

warm-hearted Isabel acknowledge no desire beyond the delight of see

happy face and hear kind remark. life to she be a blank, if it

bring other sound than affectionate greeting, or produce other

object than smile, well-dress individual.



during dinner, Isabel's eye feast silently upon her friend; but

when the lady rise to quit the dinner-room, and her spirit became

disenthrall by the door close upon Mr. Boscawen, then do she

speech burst its enclosure, and revel in unrestrained freedom. the day

precede the nuptial morning Isabel be in very high spirit, almost

as unsubdue as in the day of her singlehood: even Mr. Boscawen could

scarcely repel the vivacity of her remark, though he stand tall and

grim before she, his dark eye fix upon her face, and his strongly

marked eyebrow lower at the rapid remark which pass her lip.

_Gaieté de cœur_ play in her eye that evening, in spite of her

silent, stern-looking attendant; and, when the lady withdraw, Isabel

catch Miss Wycherly's arm in their progress to the drawing-room.



"oh, my dear Miss Wycherly, now I've get away from Mr. Boscawen,

I have so much to say, and I must say it all before he leave the

dining-room, you know! well, how beautiful Lady Ennismore look, and

what a lovely ornament in her hair! I wish Mr. Boscawen would let I

wear ornament! I have be tease he to allow I to wear a feather

to-morrow-morning, but he reply in some unaccountable language, which

I suppose mean 'no.' I want to ask the girl if they be frightened

about to-morrow: I be not a bit alarmed. if I have know, though, how

little I be to be mistress of Brierly, I would not have marry."



Isabel fly to her sister, on reach the drawing-room, without

wait any reply from Miss Wycherly.



"now, I want to know if either of you feel frightened. I only laugh,

if you remember. Lady Ennismore, willn't Julia be very happy?"



"I trust so," reply her ladyship, smile, and obligingly press

Julia's hand between she's. "my daughter will repose on flower, if a

wish of mine have power to confer such a destiny."



Julia turn her head towards Lady Ennismore; joy and affection

sparkle in her eye, but she do not speak.



"ah, you be so charming, dear Lady Ennismore," exclaim Isabel--"how

I wish Mr. Boscawen would make _I_ repose on rose, and leave that

horrid 'Universal History,' which puzzle I to death. I don't think

you be in spirit, my dear Anna Maria; but you need not be afraid of

Tom Pynsent, I'm sure--he be the very good partner I ever have. I'm

sure Tom will spoil you. he allow I always to call the same country

dance, though I know he would have prefer any other. _you_ need not

fear, my dear Anna Maria. I shall ask Mrs. Pynsent, to-morrow, if any

body need fear dear Tom. oh, Miss Wycherly, that be the very sweetest

comb I ever see--and my blue silk look so dowdy by the side of your

darling dress, Miss Spottiswoode!"



Lady Wetheral approach Isabel, and compliment she upon she improve

look during her stay at Wetheral.



"oh, do you think so, mamma? I know I wish I be not in the family way,

for I _must_ be confine at brierly, Mr. Boscawen say; and the place

be so large and dull.--Anna Maria, I wish I be go to Paris with

you--any where, to get out of Miss Tabitha's way. oh, Julia, I hope

you willn't be in the family way soon, for it be terrible to be such a

size, and your figure be so lovely."



"ring for coffee, Chrystal," say Lady Wetheral, in gentle tone, but

suffer acutely under the laugh which be raise by Isabel's speech.



"oh, don't ring for coffee, yet," cry Isabel. "I have so much to say,

and Mr. Boscawen will leave the dining-room if he hear a bell.--No,

don't order coffee, yet. Clara, I must not utter Sir Foster's name,

because Mr. Boscawen tell I not; but I think I know whose wedding

will be next. I see he in the avenue to-day! ah ha!--I really think

you be too handsome for Sir Foster--now I be go to make a match for

dear Chrystal."



so run on the happy, gay-hearted Isabel, perfectly blind to Lady

Wetheral's agony of mind, and her effort to turn the conversation into

other hand. Miss Spottiswoode and Miss Wycherly encourage Isabel's

ingenuous and indiscreet power of chat.



"Chrystal," repeat her ladyship, "I be pine for coffee."



"no, no, I vow you shall not approach the bell," cry Isabel,

arrest Christobelle's hand as she prepare to obey the hint. "my

dear mamma, don't be thirsty yet, I have so much to say. do you know

I have only recover my old spirit within these four day, and they

will expire again the moment I set off for Brierly. if you ring for

coffee, Mr. Boscawen will rise up before I like Samuel at the Witch of

Endor's call, which I read this morning to he."



"do you really read a chapter every morning, besides study art

and science?" ask Miss Wycherly, seat herself on a stool beside

Isabel. "now, girl, form a circle, and listen to Mrs. Boscawen's

prospectus of married education."



"Prospectus!" reply Isabel, laughing--"Heaven know what that be;

but, now you be all listen, I will tell you every thing. what merry

face! I wish Mr. Boscawen would let I fill Brierly with such face,

and allow we to scamper over the park and feed the deer. I get old

John, one day, to--"



"who be old John?" say Miss Spottiswoode, who form the centre of the

circle.



"the butler, my dear, the old butler.--I wish Mr. Boscawen would let I

do exactly as I like. ah, Julia, Lord Ennismore be not so old as Mr.

Boscawen, so he will be so good-natured!--As to dear Tom Pynsent, I

know he will let Anna Maria dance from morning till night. Mr. Boscawen

say married woman cannot be too grave, but he never tell I so till I

be marry. Mr. Boscawen love Chrystal; that's one thing, therefore,

she will return with we to that horrible Brierly. Mamma, we be go

to run away with Chrystal."



"be you, Mrs. Boscawen?" her ladyship speak languidly, as though she

be resign to the endurance of all evil, till her son-in-law should

appear.



"oh yes. Mr. Boscawen tell I he should take away my sister Chrys. she

be twelve year old, now; quite a companion, he say, for I, if I ever

have half her application--that, I'm sure, I never shall have. Old John

tell me--"



the door open and disclose the gaunt figure of Mr. Boscawen,

approach in the dignity of extreme height, and large, bushy

eyebrow. he walk slowly and silently towards his young wife, and

station himself at the back of her chair. Isabel become mute.



"you be early, Mr. Boscawen," observe Lady Spottiswoode. "we be in

the first burst of remark sacred to our sex."



"make I a participator," he reply, smile.



"never," reply Miss Wycherly. "we have too much freemasonry to admit

you behind the scene."



"my wife hear no conversation, Miss Wycherly, which her husband may

not share, I presume?"



"La, Mr. Boscawen," eagerly exclaim Isabel, turn to her husband,

"you don't like nonsense, and we talk nothing else."



"I be sorry to hear you confess such folly and wickedness, my love,"

reply Mr. Boscawen. "I have hope well thing."



"well, Mr. Boscawen, I don't mean exactly nonsense. I don't mean what

_you_ mean by nonsense. I only mean, we--we--"



"what do you really mean, Isabel?" Mr. Boscawen take her hand kindly,

and mean evidently to be playful, but it be the donkey attempt to

imitate the lapdog. isabel colour, and withdraw her hand in alarm.

her husband's shaggy brow conceal the kindly expression of his eye,

as it rest upon her face.



"I be sure I don't know, Mr. Boscawen, what I mean. I don't think I

ever mean any thing."



Mr. Boscawen make no reply, but resume his position behind Isabel's

chair. an awkward pause be agreeably relieve by the entrance

of coffee, and shortly afterwards the gentleman enter from the

dining-room. Tom Pynsent fly to Anna Maria, as usual. Lord Ennismore

seat himself by the side of his mother.



"Lord," cry Mrs. Pynsent to Lady Spottiswoode, "I cann't find out a

single good quality in that fellow, Ennismore, to attract a girl like

Julia Wetheral. if the poor monkey haven't pop himself down by his

mother, instead of his bride. look at my Tom, now! see how he rattle

and coo to his dove! why, my poor Bobby be not such a honey lover as

this Ennismore; and Bobby, you know, would not set the Thames on fire."



Sir John sit between Anna Maria and Julia, in silence; he listen with

pleased attention to Tom Pynsent, who be dilate upon the comfort he

have prepare for his young wife's travel mania.



"God know what sort of a figure I shall cut," he remark, in his

usual stentorian tone of voice. "I cann't fancy much hunting or good

shooting among such thin, whey-face chap as the French; and, as to

dog, _they_ can know nothing by be speak to in such a language.

I cann't speak a word of French, and Anna Maria be as wise as myself.

I haven't a notion how we shall get on, but, if my little girl be

pleased, I be content. a man should please his wife, you know, or he

must be a brute. I wish the Ennismores would join we. Ennismore, my

lad, here, come this way--it be not too late now to change your mind

and join we in Paris."



Lord Ennismore rise and join the party, who have group round Sir

John and his daughter. Lady Ennismore follow her son, and place

her arm carelessly within his. Tom Pynsent repeat his observation,

and Julia give her bridegroom a beseech look, which be observe by

Miss Wycherly. Lady Ennismore answer Tom Pynsent's appeal, with her

sweetest smile.



"I almost wish we be go _en masse_, my dear friend, to enjoy your

delightful visit to Paris. I almost wish the Bedinfield property be

situate on the bank of the Loire, to be able to snatch moment at the

french capital. my dear Julia will be so occupy in her new domain,

she will not have leisure to sigh for other scene; and I must bask a

while in her happiness, before I can allow myself to imagine I be a

dowager, and free to roam about."



"perhaps _we_ will go with you!" exclaim Isabel, in a moment of

excitation, forgetful of Brierly, of her situation, and of her

husband's taste. "Mr. Boscawen, I should so like to go abroad!--Mr.

Boscawen, do let we join Tom and Anna Maria!--I should so love to go to

a place where I could not speak a word of the language--to see people

stare and eat nasty frog!"



"my dear isabel!" say her husband, press his hand upon her

shoulder, in token of his wish she should remain silent.



"well, Tom Pynsent say so, Mr. Boscawen! don't you, Tom?--didn't you

say they eat frog, and snail, and thing alive?"



Mr. Boscawen never hazard a reply to provoke fresh rejoinder--he

only allude to Isabel's state of health, which he fear might suffer

from late hour, and in a tone of voice, soft, yet decide--a tone

which Isabel never dare to resist--he offer his arm, and counsel

she to retire for the night.



"another hour for Mrs. Boscawen--let I pray for one hour only," say

Mr. Charles Spottiswoode--"this will be our last general meeting!"



"my wife's health be of great consequence to her friend," reply Mr.

Boscawen, mildly, as Isabel rise in dismay. "I must attend to my wife."



"oh, indeed I be very well in health, Mr. Boscawen, though I be rather

heavy to look at. Mrs. Tollemache be much large than I be, when she

dance a reel, ben't she, Miss Wycherly?"



Mr. Boscawen be deaf and dumb, upon principle, whenever Isabel begin

to converse. he lead his wife to her mother, in silence, to pay she

retire compliment, and Christobelle accompany they in their

transit. when Isabel be deposit in her room, Mr. Boscawen begin the

evening lecture.



"Isabel, you shock I to death with your ignorance and indelicacy."



"I'm sure I be not indelicate, Mr. Boscawen. you be always find

fault, now I be married to you," sob Isabel.



"my love, you should not allude to your situation before gentleman, or

name Mrs. Tollemache in that extraordinary way."



"well, I do not know there be any harm, Mr. Boscawen! I declare I

wish I be not in any situation at all, for you carry I away from

every pleasant amusement, and it make this place as dull as brierly."



"I be sorry you weep, my love, and find Brierly so dull. I hope you

would be happy here, at least, yet you hurt I by complain and

tear. my dear Isabel, don't be so childish."



"well, I _be_ a child, Mr. Boscawen. I'm only eighteen, next Sunday."



"I cannot bear to see you weep, Isabel;" and Mr. Boscawen hang tenderly

over his wayward wife. "you will do yourself an injury."



Isabel have sufficient acuteness or instinct to perceive the source of

her temporary power, and she employ the moment to advantage. her sob

increase in vehemence.



"I only wish to--to wear--one little white feather--at my sister's

wedding to-morrow--and you refuse I, Mr. Boscawen."



"do I, Isabel? cease this sobbing, and you shall have the feather; do,

my love. you shall wear a plume, only be tranquil; as many feather as

you please, Isabel, only cease weep." Mr. Boscawen draw his sobbing

wife upon his knee, and fondle she, like an infant in the arm of its

nurse.



"I only wish for two feather, Mr. Boscawen; one to play easily, and a

long thing to droop."



"you shall have they, Isabel; now lie down your little head on my

shoulder."



Isabel sink upon her husband's shoulder like a wayward child

fatigue with its own effort; her sob gradually subside, and

a low murmuring noise succeed, which again soften into sigh.

Christobelle quit the Boscawens to return into the drawing-room.

Isabel have gain her point, and the feather be win.



how Christobelle's young heart glory in the scene which present

itself to her view the eventful morning of her sister's marriage!

a large and well-dress company fill the great drawing-room to

overflow; and Christobelle's eye traverse the apartment, rest

upon each group, as they offer themselves to her attention. she

see Anna Maria pale as when her heart pine under love unrequited,

hang upon her father's arm, while her lover stand near she, even

more red-faced and happy than in his day of acceptance. Julia sat

compose between her bridesmaid, Miss Wycherly and Miss Spottiswoode.

Lady Ennismore be stand immediately behind she, lean on her

son's arm. isabel, bright and sparkling, be closely attend by Mr.

Boscawen; the plume so long coveted, wave gracefully in her blue

silk hat. Mrs. Pynsent be there, full of happy importance, evidently

take command of all proceeding, and untire with gaze upon Tom,

her only son, now on the point of leave England, full dress for his

journey--large, loud, and good-look. the Tyndals be group with

the Kerrisons and Clara. Sir Foster stand silent and absent, wink

his left eye with a nervous motion, which produce an extraordinary

effect.



Lady Wetheral glide among her guest with an ease and grace of manner

truly bewitch. no one could have suppose her heart be swell

with triumph at the event which be shortly to deprive she of the

society of two child, or that her present attention be deeply

fix upon Clara and Sir Foster Kerrison. every turn of the baronet's

countenance be eagerly note by her acute eye; and though, to common

observer, Sir Foster be look stupidly before he, wink his eye,

and tap his leg with a cane, her keen perception draw conclusion

from impossible thing, and it add increase graciousness to she

insinuate manner.



far less satisfied be Sir John Wetheral's mind, as he glance from

Tom Pynsent to the effeminate figure of Lord Ennismore, and think

of Julia's futurity with a man whose mind appear to be as imbecile

as his person be unmanly. Christobelle could trace his thought in

the expression of his eye, now gaze with pleasure upon Anna Maria,

and anon rest mournfully on his beautiful Julia. Christobelle be

too young to sorrow with he, or understand the deep feeling of his

mind; but the remembrance of his expressive emotion often come over

she in after-life, when experience have enlighten she in suffering,

and when the bitter pang of parental disappointment be more clearly

understand.



there be a pause of some moment, after the general hum of a first

meeting have subside, as though all party await a summon to the

chapel, which in Wetheral Castle still remain untouched by the hand

of time, since the day of the seventh Henry. it be a large, and

generally well-fill pile of building, many of the nearer neighbour

prefer to attend Wetheral Castle for its accommodation in point of

distance, and perhaps with reference to the gay luncheon which await

their return into the great hall. the deep silence be break by Mrs.

Pynsent.



"here, hallo! what be we wait for? John Tyndal have be in his

canonical this half hour. now, Sir John Wetheral, will you lead Anna

Maria? Tom, you be hang; not so fast, stupy; take Miss Spottiswoode.

there you go! Hoy, Charley Spottiswoode, leave Pen, and trot by the

side of Mistress Boscawen."



"my wife be under my own charge, thank you," say Mr. Boscawen, bow

smilingly to Mrs. Pynsent.



"Lord, what an ass! here, Sir Foster, you have tap a hole in your

trowser with that cane; do move on with Clara Wetheral; she be Anna

Maria's bridesmaid. don't keep hum a tune, my good fellow--get on."



Sir Foster pass on as he be direct, but he take no notice of

Mrs. Pynsent's address. he go forward, hum an air, and wink

his eye. Clara lean upon his arm, in white muslin and satin. never

have she look so very handsome. perhaps Sir Foster operate as an

excitement to her power of captivation. if a woman could charm Sir

Foster Kerrison, she might animate an image of clay; but Clara like to

be spur on by difficulty.



Tom Pynsent's hunting propensity lie fresh and green at his heart,

in spite of circumstance, and a bouquet of geranium, which bloom in

the button-hole of his coat; for, perceive Christobelle follow the

train without a partner, he turn good-humouredly to Henry Tyndal, and

call out,--



"whip in the tail-hound, Harry, and take she to kennel." Christobelle

be accordingly escort into the chapel by Henry Tyndal.



the ceremony end, which give Anna Maria for ever to Tom Pynsent, and

Julia be salute Lady Ennismore. Lady Wetheral have reach the summit

of her wish. which ever way her eye direct its glance, there be

glory and triumph. her two eld daughter be become head-stone in

the county, and Clara be station by the side of Sir Foster Kerrison.

could all these thing be?



a magnificent breakfast await the nuptial _cortège_, but Sir John

Wetheral would not appear at the crowded table; he retire to his

study after the ceremony have conclude, desire to take leave of

his child in the privacy of his own place of refuge. Christobelle

remain with he during the _déjeûné_, and Mr. Boscawen be depute to

take his place in the scene of festivity.



Anna Maria appear in a quarter of an hour, to receive her father's

blessing ere she quit his roof for some month, and his paternal

care for ever. her father kiss her glow cheek, and bade she

depart in peace. "you have marry a good man, and a religious man,

my dear child; therefore you will be free from the sting of reproach.

the trial of life must fall to your share, but there be one who will

kindly share your trouble, and watch over you." he turn to Tom

Pynsent. "I give you my child with great satisfaction and pride. I

give she to you innocent and good; bring her home untainted by the

vice of a foreign land." Anna Maria bend her knee, and receive she

father's blessing with streaming eye. she be hurry from his arm

into the travel-carriage which be to convey they to the coast. the

gentleman be all assemble, examine its form and workmanship: but

she be silently assist into her new equipage by her brother-in-law

and Mr. Wycherly. they respect her emotion, and forbore to increase

it by address one word of compliment. Tom Pynsent follow, but his

progress be arrest by the solicitude of his mother, who have rush

to the door to look once more upon the athletic form of her beloved

son. recollection of long-past day of parental solicitude overwhelm

Mrs. Pynsent's heart, and produce a flood of tear as she whimper

forth, "I say, Tom."



Tom advance, and shake hand for the third time, besides offer

every filial consolation over again.



"Steady now, mother--steady: go it at a hand-canter, and don't be

dishearten. take care of my father, and see to the dog and colt.

let John Ball exercise Longshanks, and look well to the mare. we shall

be back to Pen's wedding."



"come, none of your jibe, you rascal," cry Mrs. Pynsent, smile

through her tear; "how could I guess who Pen care for, with she

wiffere manner? well, I will look after your concern, Tom, but how

shall I get on with only Bobby? when will you be home, Tom, and when

shall I see you again in Shropshire, and what will become of I till

you come back? you be leave your parent when they most want you,

Tom." Mrs. Pynsent's grief become audible; and Mr. Wycherly, waive

his nephew into the carriage, endeavour to lead his sister from the

spot.



"it's no use, Bill; you'll never get I away till I have see the last

of my Tom. Anna Maria, take care of Tom, and bring he safe back."



the carriage roll away, and Mrs. Pynsent gaze till a turn in the

avenue conceal it from her sight; she turn to Mr. Wycherly.



"take I away now, Bill, and don't speak a word. put I into my coach,

and send Bobby, for I'm do up."



Mr. Wycherly do all and every thing his sister could wish. she be

conduct to her "coach," as she always designate the phaeton, weeping

violently, and "Bobby" take his place by her side without offer a

remark, or hazard a word of consolation. the Hatton carriage drive

off, but poor Mrs. Pynsent's sob be hear distinctly for some time

above the tramp of the horse' foot, as they pace down the green turf

of the avenue.



the Bedinfield carriage now draw to the door, and Julia be to

depart to another home, as her sister have do before she; but though

her destiny appear more brilliant, though all earthly advantage

conspire to render she fate even more envied and enviable than that of

Mrs. Tom Pynsent, there be a mournful silence among her friend, and

the voice of congratulation sound low and melancholy.



smile and happy prophecy have gladden Anna Maria's departure; but

no one venture to say that Julia have win a matrimonial prize. no

one could confess their heart be not heavy when they see that young

bloom girl lead away by Lord and Lady Ennismore--a peeress and a

bride. Miss Wycherly spring towards her friend as she bid they adieu,

and burst into tear. "Julia," she say, in a serious and touching

tone, "you appear beyond earthly assistance--far beyond human care;

yet we know not what be to be. Julia, in weal or woe, in evil report or

good report, Lidham and its inmate be yours for ever."



"amen," respond Charles Spottiswoode.



Julia pause, strike by the solemn tone of her friend's affectionate

speech: her lip quiver, and the colour flee from her cheek.



"Penelope, I know you love I, and I hope our meeting will ever be

in undisturbed and happy friendship, but your manner be forebode of

evil."



"I have a pain at my heart, Julia," reply Miss Wycherly, press

her hand upon her bosom; "but it will pass away. I have a severe pain

_here_, but I trust it will never visit your warm heart. Julia, may you

be the happy of the happy! but, in all change, remember Penelope

Wycherly, whom you serve in her need." Miss Wycherly throw her arm

round Julia, and the two friend embrace in silence. Lady Ennismore

interfere.



"this be a sad speciman of congratulation, my dear Miss Wycherly, and

my daughter will be make ill by these agreeable, but hurtful phrase.

Ennismore, lead your bride to her father; and we will take possession

of our jewel, lest melancholy face dispirit her mind. Lady Wetheral, I

believe we be now prepare to carry away our darling."



Lady Wetheral's eye sparkle with more than triumphant delight, as

Julia be lead into her father's study; she follow mechanically in

the wake of the two Lady Ennismores, and her step sound proudly as

she remember that her daughter now be number among the great one

of the land. Sir John only consider that his child be the wife of a

man he could not love, and the daughter-in-law of a woman he do not

esteem. the full tide of affection rush to his heart, but become

unutterable from his lip. he could only press Julia to his bosom; he

could not tell she, his mind be happy in the prospect which be before

she, but he bid God bless she in spirit, and his embrace speak volume.



Miss Wycherly do not intrude upon the sacred scene; but she be

station in the hall to gaze upon her friend, and watch her movement.

Charles Spottiswoode stand near she, but his accent of kind and fond

interest be unheede by Penelope. as Julia emerge from the library,

and proceed towards the hall-door with her new relation, her mother

and the Boscawens, Miss Wycherly fix her eye upon her friend's pale

countenance, and exclaim, "Julia, you be go; remember my last

word, my own dear friend--in all change, remember I and mine!"



Julia be speechless, but she extend her hand, which Penelope cover

with kiss, and resign with reluctance to Lord Ennismore. "there, my

lord," she exclaim with energy, "take my friend, since it must be so,

but you will not love she as I do, or understand her warm heart as I

prize it! I shall be ever with you, Julia, in spirit, and my friendship

shall be a buckler in time of need. Farewell, my own dear friend!"



Miss Wycherly leave the hall, and watch Julia's departure through

a window more retire from observation. there be only Charles

Spottiswoode to listen, and to he her lamentation be address. she

tell her lover all her fear and all her thought respect Julia's

marriage; the melancholy idea take possession of her mind, that Lord

Ennismore be unsuited to her friend's character, and, though there

be nothing tangible in his lordship's behaviour to elicit a strong

objection, there be a decide difference in his character, a manner

totally oppose to the character and kindly bear of her cousin Tom,

which must affect every body's mind and opinion. she have an ominous

foreboding that Julia would be unhappy, and never would she marry

Charles Spottiswoode, unless he would swear, under all report, under

all circumstance, to receive Julia Wetheral at Lidham; yes, though she

become a worthless thing, poor, miserable, and contemptible. "swear it

to I, Charles," she cry, "swear it now, ere the carriage-door close

on my friend, and carry she from my sight!"



"I do, Penelope," reply Spottiswoode, kindly. "Lady Ennismore will

find I her warm friend in every trial; but, why be you so fearful and

foreboding _now_? why do your fear gain such influence and mastery at

this moment of time, when her heart be calm, and _his_ affection be

undisputed?"



"God help I, Charles! but, as Julia come from the library just

now, she look like a lamb lead to the slaughter. do you read the

expression of Lady Ennismore, the mother's eye?"



"I do not observe she. I be watch _your_ eye, Penelope."



Miss Wycherly heed not the word which at another time would have

soothe and please; she become restless as Julia linger on the step

with her mother, and her desire be to see Julia once more before

she quit Wetheral, to embrace she yet again, and repeat offer of

kindness, which must be totally useless to Lady Ennismore, though

they relieve her heart to utter they. Charles Spottiswoode urge she

to remain, and avoid give renew pain to her friend, who have felt

evidently strike by the ominous farewell; but Miss Wycherly would hear

no objection to her anxiety. she advance hurriedly to the door, but

Charles stand before she, playfully hold her hand, and entreat

she to resume her seat. the little strife of lover do not last many

moment; the sound of carriage-wheel cause Miss Wycherly to rush past

her companion, and enter the hall. Julia be go.









CHAPTER XI.





the gaiety of Wetheral be not much interrupt by the marriage of

its most influential member. Lady Wetheral lament the loss of her

daughter, and often in public allude to her solitary hour of grief;

but she be indefatigable in her effort to amuse Miss Kerrison and

Clara; and, though her lip breathe sorrowful word, her eye and

attention exclusively belong to Sir Foster Kerrison. her ladyship

labour to maintain "that no passion could be more selfish than

sorrow," and she take credit to herself, "that, in despite of low

and sad feeling which prompt she to remain at Wetheral in silent

meditation, _she_ have never give way to her wish. indeed, she feel

the claim of other upon her time and attention; and, though her heart

do hope Clara might remain single for some year, to be her companion,

yet it be her duty to chaperone she to the amusement which her youth

expect, and, perhaps, require. all young people love vivacity, and,

though some parent forget the day of their own youth, and check the

happy view of their child, _she_ would not shrink from a mother's

duty." with these impression of "duty," Lady Wetheral be fully

employ in escort Clara and her young companion to every public

amusement; and Wetheral still continue the scene of festivity, and

the arena of matchmaking, as it have ever be, since the day Mrs. Tom

Pynsent make she _début_ in public.



however easily the taste of young man might bend to Lady Wetheral's

flattering lip, combine with her daughter's attraction, there be

some cleverness require in guide Sir Foster Kerrison to the desire

point. his silent manner, and provoke absence of mind, perpetually

defeat the mother's purpose, but her spirit rise superior to all

annoyance. "it might and would take time to throw fetter upon a man

who forget every word or engagement of the previous half-hour, but

perseverance must level every impediment. Clara be very young, and

patience must be severely tax, if people be resolve to carry a

favourite wish into operation." Clara have not such a provision of

that precious gift as her mother possess, and it require constant

watchfulness on her part to subdue the appearance of irritability

before the object of her wish. her mother, too, watch over the

unquiet spirit, and divert its attention in the time of need. one

day, Clara become impetuous upon the subject. Sir Foster never call

at Wetheral without a special invitation; and how be she to manage

a great, stupid creature, who neither see nor feel attention? Lady

Wetheral smile.



"my dear girl, patience! Sir Foster must be manage, and if you will

only leave the affair in my hand, all will be well. do not, I beseech

you, look so very cross; the sight of temper drive away all man who

be not actually in love, and perpetual good-humour be a perpetual

attraction."



"how can I keep any temper with such a heavy mass of human nature?"

exclaim Clara, scornfully.



"don't call name, my love; I be go to tell you. do not give

yourself any trouble, only look pleased and pleasantly at Sir Foster;

I will effect the rest. some man be rather dull, but absence of mind

require skill only in the party concern. I do not think Sir

Foster dull; absent only--very absent; but perhaps that may operate in

our favour."



"in what way?" ask Clara, inquisitively.



"never mind, my love, look pleasantly at Sir Foster, and leave the

minutiæ to I. we must lead he gently and gradually to make Wetheral

a daily resting-place; and while Lucy be here, it can be do. pray,

Clara, endeavour to check your temper before Lucy. I should not wish

she to report unfavourably of your manner at Ripley; so _much_ depend

upon your try to appear good-humour--do, my love."



with evident painful effort, Clara do manage to conceal her irritable

nature from the particular observation of her friend Miss Kerrison, who

be the main spring of that machinery which be to involve her father.

to Lucy Kerrison Lady Wetheral direct the most flattering attention,

and offer the most agreeable series of party of pleasure; to

her young and unsuspicious ear be consign every compliment which

could lull observation, awaken her love, and interest she in all Lady

Wetheral's action. in short, a separation from Clara and the delight

of Wetheral be become unbearable to the heart and imagination of

poor Miss Kerrison, and her eye fill with tear of real sorrow,

soon make apparent to her ladyship's quick apprehension, the regret

with which her young guest contemplate a return to Ripley. this

be, to use her favourite expression, "all in their favour;" and she

mention the circumstance to Sir John in her own way.



"this poor, dear Lucy Kerrison, my love, be sadly overcome at the

thought of leave we. Clara and herself be exceedingly attach; the

tear rush to her eye whenever the subject be allude to."



"Miss Kerrison be a ladylike, nice girl," reply Sir John.



"yes, my love, she be quite the companion Clara should have. I approve

her good and judicious selection. I wish they may often meet."



Sir John do not reply, and a short pause succeed.



"I could almost wish Lucy be go to remain with we for Clara's sake.

if I think Sir Foster would not object, I would request he not to

recall she."



"Isabel be still with we, Gertrude; Clara have her two sister."



"yes--to be sure--oh, yes, Mrs. Boscawen be here, but she be never

visible till the half-hour bell ring. I see very little of poor Isabel

myself, and Clara still less. Bell be shut up, too, in the schoolroom,

learn to be over-wise and disagreeable; besides, my love, Bell can

be no companion to Clara. I wonder Sir Foster do not call to see

his daughter! do you know, my love, he have be but once within this

fortnight to see we."



"his company be not particularly acceptable, Gertrude."



"well, Sir John, I only name the circumstance--I be afraid we be not

very attractive; however, my love, I will try to extend Miss Kerrison's

leave of absence for Clara's sake."



"do as you please, my only objection be to her father be oblige

to marry Clara. I have nothing to produce against his pretty, elegant

daughter: don't let Kerrison marry a daughter of mine, and I shall not

interfere in your plan."



"oh! my love, I never compel man to marry. I hope my dear Clara will

be my companion for some year. I feel very keenly my dear Lady

Ennismore's loss, and so I do poor Mrs. Pynsent."



"why be Anna Maria 'poor,' Gertrude?--she have marry a good man, and a

man she like."



"she be in a manner banish Hatton," reply Lady Wetheral, sighing;

"I cannot think she happy while she rove about plain Mrs. Pynsent,

no style--at least, not the Hatton style--no proper establishment, no

home, like Lady Ennismore, who drive off to Bedinfield, like the wife

of a nobleman--livery, carriage--all magnificent! how I long to see

Julia in her glory."



Sir John could offer no counsel which might check the eager delight his

lady feel towards the good thing of the earth; he therefore resume

his book, and her ladyship write, privately, a most polite billet to

Sir Foster, upon the strength of her husband's concurrence in her wish

to detain his daughter at Wetheral.



  "my dear sir,



 "it will break all our heart to part with your lovely Lucy, and

 Clara suffer so much in the idea of part with her friend, that

 we have a proposal to make. I will not tell you at this moment its

 nature, because I wish to see you. lady, my dear sir, prefer

 speak to principal. may I hope to see you at Wetheral to-morrow

 morning?



     "your truly,



     "G. WETHERAL."



Clara fear Sir Foster would withstand the invitation, so blandly

express, by forget its existence; but her mother conceive the

ambiguity of its expression would raise a germ of curiosity in his

mind, which even the inveterate disorder of his brain might not subdue.

the wording of the note be talk over before Isabel, and explain to

she. Mrs. Boscawen could only entreat Clara not to marry so old a man.



"my dear Clara, Sir Foster will put you into a schoolroom, as Mr.

Boscawen have do by I, for old man be alike, I dare say. I assure

you, it will be a shocking affair, and I cann't give my consent unless

you insist upon it. I cann't imagine any body marry an old man, and

go to their study as if they be schoolgirl. pray take warning

by I, Clara, and don't marry Sir Foster."



"my dear Isabel, I be resolve to make the man propose to I. Mamma

say I shall lose caste if I be single, for Anna Maria do not

marry till she be nineteen, and almost past hope. if I don't take

immediately, I shall become _passé_; for mamma say my style of beauty

ought to take effect at once."



"you be very handsome, certainly, dear Clara--very handsome. Mr.

Boscawen say you be a very beautiful girl."



"well," reply Clara, smile complacently, "I must be up and be

do. Sir Foster be very rich."



"oh! Clara, and so be Mr. Boscawen: but I never have any money. once

Mr. Boscawen give I a guinea, and then take it back again because I

would not keep an account of all I spend. I buy a shilling's worth

of alicampane, and make myself so ill! however, I do not say I have

buy it; so, as I could not account for the shilling, I be oblige

to relinquish the rest. don't marry an old man, Clara!"



"Sir Foster let every body spend his money, Isabel."



"ah, but remember what Mr. Boscawen promise, Clara! I be promise

every thing, and get nothing. you don't know how disagreeable it be to

be shut up in a morning, read and translating."



"I shalln't read or translate to please Sir Foster," say Clara, with

scornful energy. "I marry upon other principle."



"well, Clara, only try not to marry an old man, for I assure you it be

a very unpleasant thing."



"I wonder if Sir Foster _will_ call to-morrow, Isabel?"



"oh, to be sure he will: I be sure I should, if any one ask I."



"don't name this to Boscawen, Isabel: I don't wish he to know my

intention."



"certainly not--that be, if I can keep it from he; but he manage

to find out all my secret. however, I will try to keep this all to

myself."



so do Mrs. Boscawen resolutely intend; but her secret transpire at

the touch of her husband's mental wand. Mr. Boscawen begin to talk of

return to Brierly, the very evening of the conversation which have

take place between his lady and Clara, and, after retire for the

night, he mention his intention of leave Wetheral the follow

week. isabel clasp her hand in alarm.



"oh, Mr. Boscawen, not so soon! must we return so very soon?"



"why not, Isabel? be you afraid of the dullness of Brierly?"



"yes--no," cry Isabel, "but I want to watch Clara, Mr. Boscawen: I

want to observe something."



"what be it all about?" ask Mr. Boscawen. "be your sister engage in

some speculation, or have your mother decide upon any one whom your

sister be decreed to captivate? I think I have stumble upon the

truth, Isabel, by your countenance."



"how you find thing out, Mr. Boscawen!" cry Isabel, blushing and

hesitating; "you never allow I to keep a secret."



"then there _be_ one, Isabel. have the kindness to admit I into the

mystery: a wife should have no secret."



"well, only promise not to tell," say Isabel, awe by her husband's

grave manner and remark, "and I will not keep the secret to myself,

though I promise to do so."



"who require the promise, Isabel?"



Isabel become alarmed, and disclose the plot upon Sir Foster. Mr.

Boscawen listen in silence, and then coolly make his annotation upon

the subject.



"when a mother plot for a son-in-law, and her daughter act upon it,

besides implicate a young married sister, under promise of secrecy,

it be time to take step towards withdraw from such society. I have

every intention of leave Wetheral next week, but now I shall set off

to-morrow, at twelve o'clock; therefore, Isabel, give your maid order

accordingly."



Mrs. Boscawen's distress be too violent to be control. "oh,

Mr. Boscawen, how can you take I away to horrible Brierly so

suddenly!--how can you frighten I, and threaten to leave Wetheral

before our month be quite over! I shall never be confine at all, I'm

sure, and Clara will be so angry!" Isabel sit down, overcome with

terror.



Mr. Boscawen patiently and kindly explain his line of conduct to

his terrified wife. he assure she no notice would be take of her

disclosure, and that no one should suspect the cause of his departure.

he express his disgust at Clara's conduct, but he be silent upon the

abhorrence he conceive to the untired manœuvring of the mother. he

trust Isabel would become attach to Brierly in the course of time;

it be a safe home than the infected air of Wetheral; and, after her

confinement, if she fancy change of air, he would take she to the sea.



Mr. Boscawen's observation, in some measure, pacify the extreme

grief of Isabel; but her night's rest be go, and she be extremely

feverish in the morning, complain of painful oppression and

headache. Mr. Boscawen be fearful his young wife might suffer from

the complicated effect of fear and dislike to return home; but he

be resolve in his purpose: nothing now could alter his determination

to carry his lady from Wetheral. he announce his intention openly

at breakfast, and Lady Wetheral's polite expression of sorrow fall

from her lip upon a cold and barren soil: no flower rise under her

gracious shower of compliment.



"my dear Mr. Boscawen, you surprise and grieve I by your resolution:

the absence of Isabel and yourself will throw a deep gloom around we."



"I be oblige to you," quietly reply Mr. Boscawen, as he butter his

piece of dry toast.



"lose three daughter at one fell swoop, be a severe trial,"

continue her ladyship. "I shall miss my dear Isabel every hour."



Mr. Boscawen deign no reply; but Isabel, pale and without appetite,

sat dissolve in tear, and dare not trust her voice: she fear to

displease her husband by any manifestation of grief, but her heart be

sink under the fearful anticipation of Miss Tabitha, and the gloomy

routine of Brierly.



"I suppose Sir John be in his study," observe Mr. Boscawen, rise at

the conclusion of breakfast.



"oh, yes, Sir John breakfast at seven o'clock, when people be, or

ought to be, fast asleep. I cann't comprehend such ungenial hour and

taste. surely, if breakfast be end before eleven o'clock, there be

sufficient leisure for the affair of life."



Mr Boscawen's disgust rise to his eye, and overflow in the

expression of his countenance; but a strong effort subdue the sentence

which tremble upon his lip. he rise, and quit the breakfast-room.

when the door close upon his awful figure, Isabel's misery burst

forth: she throw her arm around Clara, who be seat near she, and

sob violently.



"oh, mamma, I wish I have never, never marry!"



"my dear Mrs. Boscawen," reply her mother, in very soothing accent,

"you be not aware of what you say. I be sure you would have be

miserable single, and I should have be torment to death with an

unmarried daughter always at my elbow. you be very comfortably and

happily married, my love."



"oh, how can you say so, mamma! I wish I be Chrystal, to sit with

papa, and never be oblige to do what I do not like! I wish I be you,

Clara, happy and unmarried! I wish I be a bird, or the cat, or any

thing but what I be!" Poor Isabel weep freely: she proceeded--"I be

go to be shut up with Miss Tabitha and Mr. Boscawen, in that large,

gloomy brierly; I must not laugh, or speak to old John, or see any

pleasant company. oh, no one can tell the dullness and frightfulness

of Brierly!"



"my dear Isabel, reflect upon matrimony, and tell I who you ever see

perfectly free from care in that state? I consider it a very proper and

natural institution, so very properly arrange, and so particularly

enforce, that I confess I have no opinion of a woman who do not

marry, if all the comfort of life be secure to she. if a woman be

protect by a handsome settlement, and those kind of thing, she

_ought_ to marry."



"do you think so?" say Isabel, languidly.



"I do: I think you marry extremely well, and you ought to consider

yourself peculiarly fortunate. if Mr. Boscawen be rigid in exact

painful sacrifice from you, remember he be very liberal in make a

settlement; there must be trial, my dear child. I be a proof that

the happy matrimony have care. your poor father never assist I

in my anxiety about you all: I be certain Lord Ennismore would never

have marry Julia, if my unwearied effort have not domesticate he at

Wetheral."



"Tom Pynsent will never contradict Anna Maria," say Isabel, as the

tear spring again to her eyes--"Tom will never wish my sister to

read!"



Mr. Boscawen be hear in the hall, give order.



"oh, we be go, mamma; I hear Mr. Boscawen order the carriage. I

know the tone of his voice in give that order so well! how my heart

beat!" Isabel clung to her mother's arm.



Mr. Boscawen enter, and give his arm to his pale, tremble wife. "my

dear Isabel, I have arrange every thing; you have only your father to

visit before you enter the carriage."



his lady appear ready to faint. "don't let I see papa! don't let I

see papa!" she exclaim.



"you be agitated, my love," observe her husband, put his arm

round her waist, and speak kindly. "do not be flurry, my dear

Isabel, you shall see and speak to no one. Clara will be kind enough

to tell Sir John how you feel. you tremble very much; try to gain

firmness, my love."



Poor Isabel be place in her carriage, half faint, without the

power to speak or move. Mr. Boscawen be hurt and alarm for the

effect of this agitation upon his lady's health; but his mind be

decide to persevere in remove Isabel. he depute Clara to explain

to her father how much emotion her sister evince at the thought

of take leave; and bow to Lady Wetheral and Miss Kerrison, Mr.

Boscawen take his place by the side of Isabel, whose head recline

against the side of the carriage, nor do she raise it to look she

adieus. she appear too exhausted and sick at heart to make an effort

of any kind. how differently she quit Wetheral upon her nuptial

morning!



Sir Foster Kerrison do actually call at Wetheral some hour after

the Boscawens' departure. Clara be soothe and flatter, her mother

charm, by the visit. Sir Foster sit silent till he be speak to.



"my dear sir, this be courteous, indeed," Lady Wetheral begin; "I feel

much honour by your polite attention to my wish."



Sir Foster wink his eye and tap his boot, but he do not seem to

comprehend the purport of her ladyship's speech. "Umph, eh?"



"Papa, you receive Lady Wetheral's note, of course?" say Miss

Kerrison.



"eh, what?"



"Lady Wetheral's note, papa--the note you receive yesterday from

Wetheral!"



Sir Foster sit wink, but could not remember any note.



"oh, papa, you receive a note, and I be sure it be in your pocket.

pray, let I look into the recess of your enormous pocket?"



Miss Kerrison playfully empty her father's pocket, and Lady

Wetheral's note appear with its seal unbroken, accompany by sundry

letter, strap, nail, and a shoeing horn. Clara's eye flash

indignation, but her mother's smile sweetly.



"my dear Sir Foster, I must not complain of your very absent mind,

since I only suffer with the rest of the world. upon my word, this be

very amusing! see, my dear Lucy, how entertain this assemblage of

article promise to be!"



Sir Foster stare, while the lady laugh over the miscellaneous

content of his pocket. Clara alone sit dignified and offend. Lady

Wetheral explain the purport of her note, and beg the company of

Miss Kerrison for a long and indefinite period. Sir Foster hum an

air and tap his boot during her complimentary and lengthy speech.



"papa always imply consent when he hum and tap, Lady Wetheral, so

that be delightfully arrange: but why, papa, do you call here this

morning?"



"where's Boscawen?"



"they have leave some hour, to return to brierly, papa. do you want to

see Mr. Boscawen?"



a smile curl Sir Foster's handsome lip.



"I be sorry Mr. Boscawen be go then, papa. I suppose you have some

horse in view?"



another smile and tap of the boot.



"I think so. but, papa, you will never read your letter and note if

I do not return to Ripley; will you?"



Sir Foster wink his eye in silence.



"my dear Lucy," say Lady Wetheral, playfully, "Sir Foster must bring

his letter here every morning for your perusal and advice."



"oh yes, papa, that be an excellent plan; be it not? you must ride over

every morning to be search, and then you will not require my presence

at Ripley."



Sir Foster sit two hour without speak, or appear to attend to

the conversation which take place between his fair companion. he sit

in the most complete absence of mind, tap his boot, which Clara

resent by silent look of contempt. Miss Kerrison be so intimately

acquainted with her father's way that her chat flow on undisturbed,

till the ormolu clock strike six; Miss Kerrison then approach she

father.



"well, papa, it's time for you to return home; it be six o'clock."



"eh, umph, what?"



"you must order your horse, papa, and go to Ripley to dinner."



"oh, Sir Foster surely will not quit we; we shall hope for his company

at dinner to-day." Lady Wetheral speak in earnest and bewitch tone.



"no, thank you, dear Lady Wetheral, not to-day. this be papa's way;

he always go on in this way at some person's house, and I dare say,

having once call here, papa will be regularly at Wetheral every day."



her ladyship's quick perception see the advantage of gain Sir

Foster Kerrison as a daily visitor; she catch at once the propriety

of allow he to take his own way in the manner and time of his

visit: she therefore cease to pour forth invitation, but, take

at once a comprehensive view of his character and habit, Sir Foster

be allow to depart in the same mechanical form which characterise

his entrance. Clara's indignation almost threaten destruction to her

plan. she inveigh against the excessive stolidity of a man who could

sit in a fine woman's society, and yet be ignorant of her presence!

such a man as Sir Foster might visit at Wetheral innocently enough, for

he have not the use of his sense.



"my dear Clara," argue her mother, "you be wrong in all your

conclusion. Sir Foster have peculiar way, it be true, but I consider

they altogether in our favour. I wish he to become a daily visitor,

under the idea of see Lucy, who assist I most materially without

be aware of it. I wish he to sit as stupidly as he please, and to

come whenever he please; only, my dear Clara, don't look so indignant."



"I cannot understand your tactic," say Clara, sharply. "I cann't

comprehend how stupidity and indifference can be consider in my

favour."



"I dare say not, my love; but when you become a mother, these thing

will explain themselves. give I a little credit for foresight, I

beseech you, in the establishment I procure your sister. be patient,

and appear calm, Clara, till I have decide your."



Clara become impatient and offend, which cause her mother infinite

vexation and alarm. she dread lest Clara's irritable spirit should

transpire even to Lucy Kerrison: she dread lest her own web should

become unravelled by the very hand she wish to bestow upon Sir

Foster. it be necessary to deal very gently and delicately with a

disposition like Clara's. she do not possess the gentleness of manner

which be so eminent in Anna Maria, or the sprightly sweetness of Lady

Ennismore. her beauty be superior to both sister, which prepossess

many in her favour; but her wayward and powerful temper be know only

in her own home. it be her mother's aim to shield it if possible from

observation. Thompson, who have ever play a conspicuous part in the

family, be at this time instal into a kind of confidential friend;

and to her Lady Wetheral bitterly complain of the fatigue and terror

attendant upon her own watchfulness.



"I declare, Thompson, Miss Clara give I infinitely more trouble than

my three eld daughter combine. I be always fearful of some display

of temper occur in an unfortunate hour to betray she to gentleman."



"yes, my lady, that would be sad indeed. I'm sure I be always boast

of Miss Clara's sweet temper, as far as I be concern."



"I wish she to be silent and calm in appearance, yet I be ever upon the

watch to soften Miss Clara's remark, and explain away offensive look.

I don't think, Thompson, Miss Clara will marry soon."



"oh, my lady, I have hear many remark about Sir Foster Kerrison's

attention at my young lady' wedding!"



"what remark, Thompson? what do foolish people say now?" ask she

lady, affect nonchalance.



"People say Sir Foster be not a very talkative gentleman, my lady, but

then he stand always close to Miss Clara; I hear too he call this

morning; so people put two and two together, as they very well may."



"if people calculate so erroneously, they must expect to be wrong in

the sum total," reply her ladyship, smile and internally pleased at

remark having be utter; "but we shall see, Thompson."



Miss Kerrison's prediction concern her father's way of sit

hour in silence at people's house be verify. having call

at Wetheral to see Mr. Boscawen upon some affair connect with

horse, and having also remain his usual two hour with the lady,

unnoticed and unbored with attention which require he to talk, Sir

Foster Kerrison, on the follow morning, again deposit himself at

Wetheral, and be allow, with the tact of a veteran matron, to sit

in a lounging chair, tap his boot, and wink his eye without

molestation. Miss Kerrison take an inventory of the store deposit

in his pocket during the first moment of her father's entrance, an

employment he never notice beyond an absent smile; after which ordeal

he be consign to a half-dozing kind of existence, till Miss Kerrison

warn he to depart, by assure he the clock have strike six. day

after day Sir Foster be find regularly instal in the lady'

boudoir at Wetheral, and as regularly do he depart at his daughter's

summon.



have Lady Wetheral rashly urge Sir Foster to dine at the Castle,

it would have break through the habit which impel he to move

backwards and forwards at state time, and by certain sound; it might

too have draw he towards new people and other house. Lucy Kerrison

be perfectly right in her suggestion that, having call by accident,

his visit might continue through habit.



there be another advantage attendant upon Sir Foster's morning lounge.

Sir John, who rarely appear out of the precinct of his study, be

ignorant of the event which gild the pleasure of the boudoir. the

study be far remove from sight and sound, and the chapel must be

traverse to reach its perfect seclusion. the window receive light

from a court, walled round, and close to curious view by a deep and

impervious shrubbery of laurel and evergreen oak. in this sequester

part of the castle, its master love to pass his morning; and how

could he suppose his wish, nay, almost command, be of non-effect?

Sir Foster be not see at his table--his name be rarely mention

at Wetheral--no visit-ticket meet his eye--no allusion be make to

recent visit on the part of his family--every thing appear regular

and in its usual order. Sir John be, therefore, calm, and almost

oblivious to the existence of Sir Foster Kerrison. this be most

favourable to his lady's scheme.



for three week, consecutively, this order of thing continue; and

only once, during that period, do Sir John meet Sir Foster within the

domain of Wetheral; which be, of course, attribute to an anxiety to

see his daughter. under that impression, Sir John hasten to do he

honour; and, on the morning in question, he usher Sir Foster into

the boudoir himself, with the politeness and consideration due to a

gentleman, and a fond father visit a beloved child.



Astonishment be depict in his countenance, when he behold his

guest, _san céremonie_, take possession of the lounging chair, and,

after place his hat upon a work-table, begin, as be his willnot, to

hum an air and tap his boot, without offer a word of compliment, or

even address the daughter he have ride four mile to see. there

be something extraordinary, he fancy, in the quiet smile bestow

upon Sir Foster by Lady Wetheral, and he be much displeased at Miss

Kerrison's sudden movement to examine her father's pocket, without

bestow a word of filial obeisance to a parent she have not see for

some week; yet do the truth escape his unsuspicious mind. it never

enter into his heart to believe his express resolution be

unheeded. his good taste be shock at the style of Sir Foster's

entrance into a lady's sitting-room, and he do not remain to endure

its continuance. he retire again to his study; secure, at least, that

such a man could never propitiate Clara, however strongly his lady's

wish might point that way.



so far all thing combine again to favour Lady Wetheral's plan and

hope. it seem as though Fortune go hand in hand with her thought,

and that Fate set his seal upon her wish. Sir Foster's constant visit

produce much remark, and prepare the way for her last stroke--a

stroke which be to end all further suspense, and decide for ever the

happy fortune of Clara. every event lead the way gently and surely. Sir

Foster have walk into the net with his own free will: he come each day

to Wetheral, uninvited; and her ladyship could affirm, most seriously

and truly, that no effort have be employ on her side to coerce Sir

Foster's intention. he have not even be ask to dinner. he have never

be alone with Clara. if he come to visit his daughter, a parent

possess a right to demand admittance any where; but no attraction

have be hold out to allure he--no second-hand influence detain

he. Sir Foster come without invitation, and remain without any

inducement beyond his own pleasure. Sir Foster, therefore, prepare

his own destiny; for Lady Wetheral, anxious to preserve her daughter's

peace of mind, think it now high time to understand upon what term

they be in future to meet.



to be so very regularly at Wetheral--to sit with herself and daughter

daily, uninvited, and without inquire for Sir John--wear an

appearance which the world could express only in its conventional

language, as "pay his address to Miss Wetheral." young lady have

feeling, which must be care for; they have sensibility, which should

not be wound with impunity. there be a part which every parent

should act with firmness towards a young girl, whose affection be

trifle with; and she would undertake the painful task of lead Sir

Foster to explain his sentiment, herself. Clara be to engage Miss

Kerrison, the follow morning, in a walk round the garden, at the

hour of Sir Foster's visit; and Lady Wetheral would soon penetrate

his intention. if all go well, the window of the boudoir be to be

throw open; in which case, Clara be to appear as by accident. if

Sir Foster be very resolute and ungallant, all would remain closed;

but she would not allow a doubt, in her own mind, to arise upon the

subject.



at breakfast, on the eventful morning, Lady Wetheral issue her order

to the butler--



"when Sir Foster Kerrison come, show he into the drawing-room."



Sir Foster be show into the drawing-room, accordingly.





  END of VOL. I.





  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, haymarket,

  printer to H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT.









TRANSCRIBER'S note:



obvious printer error have be correct. otherwise, the author's

original spelling, punctuation and hyphenation have be leave intact.











end of Project Gutenberg's The Manoeuvring Mother, by Charlotte Campbell Bury







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 1 of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





