The project Gutenberg eBook of the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 2 of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Manoeuvring Mother (vol. 2 of 3)



author: Lady Charlotte Campbell Bury



Release date: January 25, 2018 [ebook #56434]



language: English



credit: produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image generously make available by the

        Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 2 of 3) ***









produce by Chris Whitehead and the Online distribute

Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

produce from image generously make available by the

Internet Archive)



















  the

  MANŒUVRING MOTHER.





  by the AUTHOR of

  "the history of a FLIRT."





  in three VOLUMES.



  VOL. II.







  LONDON:

  HENRY COLBURN, PUBLISHER,

  GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.



  1842.









  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, haymarket,

  printer to H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT.









the MANŒUVRING MOTHER.









CHAPTER XII.





Sir Foster Kerrison's entrance into the great drawing-room at Wetheral

be an epoch in its annal. it be the precursor of stir matter.

Lady Wetheral receive he with great amenity of manner; and any other

gentleman might have perceive a look of anxious care in her eye.

Sir Foster, however, see nothing; he do not even observe that her

ladyship be alone. Habit direct he to a seat in the direction of

the lounging-chair, which stand in the boudoir, and when his hat be

place upon a table, there be nothing to interfere with his _dolce far

niente_. Sir Foster sit down, tap his boot and wink his eye, in

happy ignorance of come event.



Lady Wetheral allow some little time to elapse in silence, ere she

commence proceeding; but, when Sir Foster have take root, and look

steadily deposit for three hour at least, the case be gently

open. Lady Wetheral draw near, and seat herself opposite her

neighbour.



"Sir Foster Kerrison, I beg your attention for a few moment."



Sir Foster make no reply, but a rather quicken tap of the boot

assure she she be hear. Miss Kerrison have innocently enough supply

the key to her father's meaning, and movement.



"perhaps, my dear Sir Foster, you be somewhat surprised at the absence

of Lucy and Clara."



Sir Foster look round the room, and smile.



"Clara be not allow to return again to your society, my dear Sir

Foster, for very essential and painful reason." Lady Wetheral pause,

but she might have continue _ad libitum_ for hour: Sir Foster neither

perceive the absence of his daughter and Clara, nor understand the

drift of her remark. Lady Wetheral's quickness detect at once the

obtuseness of her companion; she perceive the uselessness of hint

and sigh, and broken sentence, in the present instance. Tom Pynsent

yield at once to their influence, but Sir Foster require a _coup de

main_ to rouse his feeling and attention. another line of conduct be

therefore choose.



"Sir Foster Kerrison, you have behave very ill to my daughter!"



"God bless I!" cry Sir Foster, almost start. "eh! what?"



"if your intention be not honourable, Sir Foster Kerrison, I, as a

mother, demand a change of conduct on your part."



"Lucy ill, or any thing?" demand Sir Foster, in surprise.



"_Miss Kerrison_ be well," reply Lady Wetheral, with emphasis.



"oh, umph!"



Sir Foster sink again comfortably into the arm-chair.



provoke man! be there no way of chain such a creature? her

ladyship's patience be inexhaustible. perhaps a still more decide

manner might effect the purpose. Lady Wetheral take a high tone.



"Sir Foster Kerrison, the neighbourhood have report you be

address my daughter. I wish to know if you be aware of this

report: Miss Wetheral shall not be trifle with, Sir Foster!"



the tap increase in velocity, and Sir Foster's eye wink with

prodigious rapidity. her ladyship become gradually more resolute and

parental.



"if my child be to be make wretched, Sir Foster Kerrison, a mother's

offend heart will urge its claim to be hear, and her lip will

express its horror at such baseness. she will tell you how detestably

wicked it be to come, day after day, and sit hour, with an innocent,

trust girl, who fondly believe there be truth and honour in your

soul. no parent can mistake the aim of your visit, Sir Foster, but I

will know if it be mean in honour. I will hear no base apology, no

wicked evasion--be my daughter to be Lady Kerrison, or be she to pine

away in solitary, unrequited attachment? be Miss Wetheral to become

point at as a refused and melancholy picture of disappointed love;

or be my lovely Clara to be your happy, affectionate wife, Sir Foster

Kerrison?" the lady's voice sound agitated and heart-break at the

conclusion of her speech.



Sir Foster look bewildered. he hear the epithet "base" and

"wicked," without comprehend their purport, or have a connect

idea of the sentence which fall from Lady Wetheral's lip with such

voluble earnestness. he only hear distinctly the conclude word, "be

my lovely Clara to be your happy, affectionate wife, Sir Foster?" and

he reply with quiet nonchalance,



"if you please--oh yes--eh, what?"



Lady Wetheral smile very complacently as she rise from her seat.



"you have make I very happy, by propose for my Clara, dear Sir

Foster, and we will now return into the boudoir."



Lady Wetheral talk all the way from the drawing-room into her

boudoir, while Sir Foster follow, hum and stare, perfectly

aware something have happen, yet not quite awake to its nature.



"I be delighted our little society be not to be break up, my dear Sir

Foster: _now_, you know, every thing will continue in its own charming

routine--you will be in your arm-chair now every day, as a thing of

course. sit down, dear Sir Foster; I will open this window; the spring

flower be early and delicious this season. I perceive Lucy and Clara

walk in the garden. ah, I see you have take possession of your old

seat, dear Sir Foster."



Miss Kerrison and Clara be quickly at the door of the boudoir. Clara

have see the signal; the window be at last throw open.



"Lucy, Lucy, your father be come; let we return to the house," she

cry, hastily retrace her step. Lucy follow instinctively.



"Lucy Kerrison," say Lady Wetheral, take her hand the moment she

appear, "I have very extraordinary news for you! how be you inclined

to receive a mother-in-law, my dear love!"



"be _you_ go to marry papa?" ask Lucy Kerrison, in extremity of

surprise.



"no, my love; Sir John be in excellent health in his study," reply

her ladyship, smile.



"oh yes, how foolish! I forget; but I fancy you in earnest, and I

could only think of yourself, Lady Wetheral. papa, be you go to be

marry? oh, don't marry! pray, don't marry, papa, and I will return

to Ripley with you: but it's only a joke, be it papa?" and poor Lucy

Kerrison become very pale.



"my dear love, you really tremble; but I assure you there be no need

of any alarm. you will not fear Clara as a new relation: you will lead

a very easy life with Clara, my dear Lucy! your papa have propose for

Clara, my dear young friend. be you sorry?"



Lucy Kerrison seat herself in perfect silence and astonishment. Lady

Wetheral resume.



"Clara, my love, Sir Foster have decide upon take away my companion:

he have ask for you to ornament and enliven Ripley, my love. how can I

refuse Sir Foster Kerrison; and yet how can I part with my only child,

my only companion, since the marriage of Mrs. Tom Pynsent and Lady

Ennismore!"



Miss Kerrison fix her gaze upon Clara and her father alternately, but

she do not speak: her idea be too confused to admit of speech, and

she watch in stupid amazement the scene that be pass before she.

Lady Wetheral approach Sir Foster, lead Clara.



"rise, man of happy fortune, and receive the boon I tender to you

accord to your wish. make my child happy, and I must reluctantly

consider myself fortunate in give she to a good, indulgent man, such

as Sir Foster Kerrison."



Sir Foster be note for taciturnity, and inveterate absence of mind,

in society; but he be not an absolute fool, and he be a great

admirer of beauty. he have a strong suspicion in his mind that a

young lady be on the point of be force upon he; but he hate

altercation, and the lady be young and particularly handsome; besides,

Lady Wetheral be insist upon it, he have make proposal, and it

be useless to contend. Sir Foster therefore rise and bow very

gallantly--consider it be Sir Foster; and that bow recognise

and authorise the whole affair. Lady Wetheral's care be end upon

Clara's matrimonial prospect.



Miss Kerrison at length find word to express her deep surprise, and

indeed pleasure, consider her father really mean to marry; but she

confess the thing be a mystery to she; she have see no attention on

her father's part to Clara--never! as to his sit three hour every

day at Wetheral, that be nothing--he do so at many place. she never

see any liking on Clara's part either--altogether, it be the oddest

piece of courtship she have ever see or read of.



Sir Foster having bow and reseat himself, hear all his daughter's

remark in silence. he smile and tap his boot fast, which always

denote concurrence, or be a symptom of pleasure as far as it go;

therefore, Miss Kerrison continue.



"I be sure, papa, you only visit here as you do at Hatton and Lidham,

and in Shrewsbury; you never make love to Miss Wycherly or Miss

Spottiswoode; do you? and you never speak to, or look at Clara that

I could see? I cannot make it all out! I be sure, Clara, you would have

mention it to I if you have like papa, or if you think papa like

you. I never shall understand it. be you go to marry soon, papa?"



"all in good time, my dear Lucy," reply Lady Wetheral, please with

the admirable issue of her scheme; "there be many little thing to be

do before Clara can be give up to you. you, my dear Lucy, must be my

daughter when Clara go to Ripley; you must stay with I then, at poor

lonely Wetheral."



"my dear Lady Wetheral, I will often come to see you, but I be sure

Clara will require my assistance some time at Ripley. you don't know

how particular papa be in eat! Clara will be some time find out

what papa like, and till then!--oh, Clara, till then!" Miss Kerrison

lift up her hand and eye. Sir Foster only smile at his daughter's

insinuation; he never offer to excuse or remove the imply hint from

the mind of his fair one, or her mother. Miss Kerrison proceed with

lively energy,--



"oh, Clara, I be very glad you mean to marry papa, though I never shall

understand how it be bring about. I shall be release from manage

the establishment, which I do not like. I hope you will get money from

papa for every thing; I can assure you I have dreadful work to squeeze

out a few pound, and the fishmonger be my abhorrence: papa and the

fishmonger have pretty scene together!"



Sir Foster Kerrison chuckle, and wink his eye with nervous rapidity.



"yes, papa, you may laugh, but the fishmonger do not. do you know,

Clara, papa kick the man and his basket of sol and salmon out of

the kitchen, and down the drive at Ripley."



another chuckle betray the delight Sir Foster feel at the

recollection of his prowess. Lady Wetheral however think it politic

to close the subject.



"Tradespeople be very tiresome, my dear Lucy, and it require a

particular degree of patience to deal with itinerant fish-people. I

don't wonder at your poor father lose temper. one moment, my love, if

you please."



she rise and quit the boudoir, follow by Miss Kerrison, who

accompany she to the breakfast-room. her ladyship then express and

explain her wish.



"my dear Lucy, it be time to have mercy upon your father and his

bride elect, therefore I beg you to withdraw. they must have a

_tête-à-tête_, poor thing, to explain their feeling and inquire into

each other's habit and taste. and now, my love, since event have

unfold themselves so rapidly this morning, I must counsel and advise

with you. I think it prudent that you should return to Ripley this

morning, Lucy; therefore the carriage shall be at your service in two

hour." tear rush into Lucy Kerrison's eye.



"you know, my dear love, a separation _now_ be merely a few hour'

absence; something more to smile at than weep over--perhaps a day or

two, not more. you be aware of your good father's infirmity, Lucy; and

I trust to your good sense and kindness to remind he occasionally of

his engagement; you understand I, my love."



"yes, but papa forget so sadly. after all, he may go off, and sit

three hour at Lidham again; and how can I detain he, Lady Wetheral?"



"circumstance be very different, my love! yet I do not say Sir Foster

may not require a little prompt _sometimes_; his absence of mind be

certainly a disease: perhaps, if you withhold his cane, or conceal

his coat--Pelham, you know, might be let into the secret, to watch his

master; or, if you send a message by he, to freshen his recollection;

but you will do every thing well, I be sure, my love;--no one more _au

fait_ and clever than Lucy Kerrison."



thus flatter and counsel, Miss Kerrison undertake to watch her

father's whereabout, and Pelham be to be instruct to turn his

master's thought every morning to his regular ride towards Wetheral.

with these "advice" upon her mind, poor Lucy be consign to the

carriage, bear with her many delightful compliment and invitation

to consider Wetheral her second home--many pleasing anticipation of

the future--and much triumph that another be go to undertake the

management of Ripley, her father's violence, and the frightful contest

between himself and the fishmonger.



Clara assure her mother, when Sir Foster have depart, "that though

the _tête-à-tête_ have not be a chatty affair, yet such taciturnity

prove a very quiet, mild character, which would suit her own warmth

of temper. she be very content to be Lady Kerrison, and have Lucy for

a companion. Sir Foster love quiet, therefore he would not interfere

with her taste, or quarrel with her action. she and Lucy would enjoy

themselves, and perhaps be a great deal from home." Lady Wetheral quite

acquiesced in Clara's prognostic; there be only one little affair to

get over, and _that_ would soften by time and reason, she trust.



"I mean your father's objection, my love; I dare say he will be

horrify at first, because he fancy Sir Foster a little warm in his

temper."



"I don't believe he be warm-temper," reply Clara, haughtily. "if I

don't complain, no one need make any objection."



"exactly so, my love; who can possibly judge of another's taste?

what I consider impetuous, another person may think simply vivacious,

and so on. I think, my love, we will not say any thing to your father

just now; suppose we allow the subject to remain in abeyance for a few

day? Sir John have such very narrow view of worldly advantage; such

peculiarly contract notion upon the luxury of life."



Clara differ from Lady Wetheral. she consider it well sense to

state the circumstance at once to her father, since he must become a

principal in the affair soon or later. she would herself inform he

of Sir Foster's proposal, and if his objection be not to be reason

with, she must act for herself.



such be Clara's determination, and such the intrepidity of her temper

at sixteen year of age. ungovernable in feeling, and haughty in

disposition, she hold powerful sway over her mother's mind; but it be

yet to be prove whether her father also would yield to her domineering

and intractable spirit. Lady Wetheral shrink from the combat which must

ensue between parental authority and filial disobedience; it would be

a combat far surpass the skirmish which precede Lady Ennismore's

engagement, for her husband have see the error of his frequent

compliance with her wish, and his command have be peremptory in the

matter of Sir Foster Kerrison.



Clara's high spirit would not stoop to commit her mother, by

acknowledge her active management in procure the proposal, but it

might transpire that she have a deep share in its contrivance; and she

dread the calm bitterness of her husband's reproach. Clara's temper

be equal to a thousand storm, and a thousand untoward event: "Clara

therefore must fight her own battle; she be fully equip for the

war of word which must ensue, and her lofty spirit scorn the alarm

which subjugate mean and more timid mind." Clara only smile in

contempt at her mother's reasoning.



Sir John inquire at dinner what have become of his young and agreeable

friend Miss Kerrison, who have so suddenly disappear. his lady's reply

be perfectly satisfactory, and preclude all further remark: "Miss

Kerrison have be summon home by Sir Foster." the dinner pass in

harmony, and on Sir John's part, with more than his usual vivacity. he

seem to feel relieved by the absence of all association connect

with Ripley. how little do he anticipate the blow which await the

withdrawal of the servant, to fall heavily upon his heart!



Clara open her subject with the indifference of a person who

have quite make up their mind to all consequence, and dare every

opposition; she raise her wine-glass to sip its content with

consummate nonchalance, and coolly commence her disclosure.



"Papa, I think it right to inform you of any material step which I may

take, therefore I beg to tell you I have accept Sir Foster Kerrison."



Sir John appear for a moment stun. Clara resumed--



"Sir Foster Kerrison please I; and, though my taste may clash with

other, I alone be judge of what will make I happy; therefore, I have

resolve to marry Sir Foster, papa."



Sir John's eye be fix upon his lady's face in silence. she read

their expression, and shrunk under its deep meaning. a flood of tear

fortunately relieve the painful sense of self-upbraiding, and prove

a fruitful theme by which to evade the subject so gall to her

husband's mind.



"really, Sir John, I be so enfeeble by constant flurry of mind, and my

poor dear girl' marriage, that a word or a look throw I into fit

of nervousness. I cannot imagine why you should stare at I in that

odd way, when I never could endure a fix gaze; particularly when my

spirit be low, and my nerve so shaken."



"Clara," say her father, calmly, "what event have lead to your

acceptance of Sir Foster? when do you accept he, and where have you

meet he since your sister' nuptial? tell I candidly how all this have

happen."



"oh! yes, certainly, papa. Sir Foster have be visit I here some

time."



"I never see he, or hear of the visit, Clara," reply Sir John,

mildly.



"you be always in your study, papa. People seldom ask for you

now," be Clara's observation, as she help herself to preserve

strawberry with perfect coolness of manner.



"Gertrude," say Sir John, "you have conceal all this from I, and

disobey my strong injunction to allow no intimacy with Sir Foster

Kerrison. since my wife persist in oppose I, I cannot be surprised

at a child defy I."



"I never ask Sir Foster to Wetheral," falter the lady; "his

visit be not the consequence of any invitation from I; you have

never see he here, my love: I never venture to ask he to dinner:

I never hold out an inducement to attract he here. it have be Sir

Foster's own act and deed to propose to my daughter; and his calling

occasionally be very natural, while Lucy staid with we. you bring

he in yourself one day; but really all this violent altercation

destroy my nerve, and undermine my health." Lady Wetheral sink back

in her chair, close her eye, and apply her vinaigrette.



Sir John be silent for some moment, as if his thought and feeling

be too powerful to produce utterance. Clara do not, or would not,

perceive his emotion; she continue eat her biscuit and strawberry

with calm unconcern, not at all disconcert by the deep silence which

follow her mother's speech. Sir John at length rise, and, with great

solemnity of tone and manner, address his young daughter, who be

seat a silent spectator of the whole scene.



"Chrystal, it be time for I to take some step towards remove

you from such example. I shall accompany you to brierly to-morrow,

and place you, for the present, under Boscawen's care. he will take

charge of you till I can claim you in peace. when I have deposit

you in safety, I shall remove from Wetheral for ever. your mother and

sister will accompany I into Scotland, as I shall reside in future at

Fairlee."



nothing could exceed Lady Wetheral's terror at these word, speak so

calmly and so decidedly. she rush towards her husband, and seize his

arm with nervous trepidation.



"don't go into Scotland, John! oh, don't go there, to horrid Fairlee!

I shall die there--no, no; say you will not take I from Wetheral,

and I will promise any thing, John!" her ladyship's alarm become very

powerful, and she sink to the ground. Christobelle would have fly

to the bell to summon Thompson, but her father forbid the action; he

beg that such scene might never be disclose to the eye of the

household. he raise she, and lay she on a sofa, but it be some time

ere her sense return. she wander evidently for some hour in her

conversation, and be at length place in bed, under the influence of a

powerful narcotic. Christobelle watch by she as she sleep.



Sir John Wetheral feel all this most painfully; but he be now awake

to the weakness of his conduct in place such implicit confidence in

his lady's system of education; he feel too late how indolently he have

succumb to her tear and reproach against his own well judgment,

even to the sacrifice of Julia; and now he be resolve to save Clara,

at the risk of sacrifice for ever all future hope of domestic

felicity. her ladyship's fearful apprehension of Fairlee threaten an

illness: but Sir John be firmly resolve to quit Shropshire; to leave

at once the scene of deception which irritate his mind; to save, if

possible, the fate which await Clara, should her evil genius give she

into the power of Sir Foster Kerrison.



Christobelle be still watch in her mother's room, when she open

her eye, and faintly call for Thompson. Christobelle do not reply,

but walk softly to the side of her bed, to inquire how she feel after

her long sleep. her eye be heavy, for she close they as she speak.



"be that you, Thompson? I have have such horrible dream: your master be

go into Scotland, and poor Miss Clara will be take away from Sir

Foster, after all my trouble."



"it be I, mamma," whisper Christobelle.



"well, well," reply her mother, petulantly, "never mind who it

be, you be equally include in this dreadful Fairlee business. I

shall never live to reach Scotland: the dullness of the place--no

neighbourhood--all old married man--not a match there fit for

Clara--altogether it will kill I."



a silence of some moment ensue, and she speak again in low

complain tone.



"your poor father's violence have make I seriously ill, Bell, and he

must lay my death at his own door. Sir Foster have be extremely ill

use, and all the neighbourhood will think so, after his proposal be

accept, and his attachment make so public! my poor child Clara! it be

very cruel by she, and the affair have break my heart."



there be again a pause, so continue, that Christobelle believe she

mother sleep; at last she hear her name pronounce.



"Bell."



"yes, mamma, I be close to you."



"perhaps, Bell, as you have influence with your father, you can find

out his intention with respect to Sir Foster. I cann't think he would

break off such a match, but I be too unwell to enter upon the subject

with he now. go down, Bell, and manage your father, as I use to do,

only bring I some intelligence."



"shall I ask the question for you, mamma?"



"don't be stupid, Bell; ask question? nonsense! you will never get

the truth from man by a direct question, foolish child. you know what

I mean; now go and glean his intention with cleverness; it will be

practice for you; there, no reply, Bell; no sentimentality; I det

it!"



Christobelle leave the room, not quite comprehend her mother's

word. she could not understand the "gleaning," neither do she know

the meaning of the word "sentimentality," but she go to her father's

study, and find he in his arm-chair, the candle stand before he

unsnuffe. it be nearly twelve o'clock when she enter. her father

hold out his hand, and draw she to he.



"you be still up, my child, and it be very late."



she tell he her mother have sleep long, and be very anxious to know

whether he really intend to quit Wetheral.



"your mamma send you to inquire, my love?"



she hesitate. "no, papa, not to inquire; mamma forbid my asking

question."



"what _be_ you to do, then, Chrystal, since your mother wish to

know my sentiment?"



Christobelle hesitate again. she be not prepare for this close

investigation.



"Chrystal, whenever you speak, let it be strictly in truth, and with

open-heartedness; God and your father, my child, hate insincerity, and

untrue lip; speak without fear, and without evasion. what be this all

about?"



Christobelle become alarmed at her father's grave observation, and lose

all presence of mind; she repeat at once her mother's injunction.



"Papa, I be tell to glean your intention, without sentimentality,

that be all; only I don't know what 'glean' mean."



"go to bed, now, my dear child, and I will visit your mother," say she

father, in a melancholy tone of voice, which surprise she. "you and

I have a journey before we, Chrystal; the day after to-morrow we shall

set out for brierly; you will be useful to Isabel, and improve by

Boscawen's society and taste. good night, and go to your bed, my love."



she go to her room, and sleep soundly, innocent of wrong, and

ignorant of the scene which take place in her mother's room, in

consequence of her unfortunate disclosure. Christobelle be summon to

Lady Wetheral's bed-side after breakfast; Clara be seat reading near

the window, and a small table cover with essence-bottle tell she at

a glance there have be strife. Christobelle be accost with much

irony.



"peacemaker be desirable people, Bell, and, doubtless, your heart be

enjoy the harmony you have create; pray advance, and behold your

delightful work. be I quite as miserable as you wish, Christobelle? or

have you any little poison arrow to apply, by way of complete my

distress? pray do I the honour to inform I what my next annoyance

shall be!"



Christobelle stand in astonishment; her mother be very seldom bitter

in her remark.



"I suppose you be not aware you have procure the dismissal of Sir

Foster Kerrison, and may, probably, be the cause of your sister take

strong step to assert herself. I suppose you be not aware you have

make she and myself wretche, by your stupid matter of fact!"



Lady Wetheral lay down her salt bottle, and take up the vinaigrette;

Christobelle could only weep, and plead ignorance of all intention of

offend.



"well, there's no help, now," continue her mother, change her tone,

and resume the language of complaint. "you have do mischief, and

you must endeavour to repair it. your father intend to see Sir Foster

to-day, and I be too ill to interfere; he will be violent, I dare say,

for he have quite change his nature, and his violence to I lately

have be extraordinary; I know he will forget himself, and offend Sir

Foster. now, Bell, you must manage to place a slip of paper in Sir

Foster's hand as he leave the room, and do not make such mistake as

you generally contrive to do with your horrible matter of fact way."



"there be no occasion for any slip of paper," observe Clara, without

raise her eye from the book she hold before she.



"my dear Clara, yes!" say her mother, in an earnest tone.



"I choose to manage my own affair," be Clara's quiet reply.



"but, my love, my dear Clara, remember Sir Foster's wretched memory! he

require some management!"



"I shall attend to all that be necessary," reply Clara.



"well, my love, I ask no question; indeed, I have no wish to

interfere; I have do all _I_ could do, in bring Sir Foster to

propose, and you must guard your own property now. I ask no question;

we will ask no question, Bell; we will not be curious. I have neither

eye nor ear, Clara; I have only sunny thought, bright vision of

Lady Kerrison preside at Ripley, in spite of appearance; but, Bell,

you must be blind: with all your might, remember; no more mistake,

if you please, and you may be of some use; you be too old to affect

ignorance now, and I cannot excuse it."



Christobelle be in a tremor; for the sentence which flow in such

profusion from her mother's lip, convey no meaning to her mind;

she be anxious to do right, but no distinct line of conduct have be

point out; she tell her mother steadily, yet in considerable alarm,

that she do not know what be mean.



"I dare say not, Bell; your idea be as limited as your poor

father's, and I can imagine your influence over his mind must be very

extensive--the confluence of dullness and stupidity. however, Bell, you

can, probably, comprehend what I mean, when I command you to keep all

you see and hear to yourself."



"yes, mamma, I can do that."



"very well. if you find Sir Foster Kerrison at any time about the

premise, don't see he; and, whatever may take place around you, be

ignorant of all thing. can you do this?"



"I will not say any thing to papa, unless he ask a question," reply

Christobelle, quite assured in mind that she be give satisfaction at

last; her mother do not join she in opinion.



"Nonsense, folly! you have not common sense to guide you through life,

child. thank Heaven, the burden of procure _you_ an establishment

will not be upon my shoulder! your father must manage that affair as

he please; he take the whole management of you upon himself. your

wretched matter-of-fact way would traverse all my plan for your

benefit."



Christobelle be wrong again! she never could understand her mother's

innuendo, and she tell she so, though she tremble as the word

fall hesitate from her lip. she tell she, also, that she could not

comprehend the epithet "matter-of-fact," which she continually use

with reference to her conduct. alas! the explanation be to the artless

girl equally unintelligible.



"you have no capacity, Bell, or you would understand the meaning of

that expression. your sister be not matter-of-fact, unless, perhaps,

Mrs. Tom Pynsent might be consider so; but time would have improve

she; _you_ be past hope. nothing be so matter-of-fact, as believe

every thing you hear, and answer question point-blank. nothing can

be so cruelly matter-of-fact, as tell people exactly what you think,

and make remark upon people's movement. I believe matter-of-fact

be bear with you, and I can perceive no intuition, no tact in your

manner, by which to imagine a germ might be foster by practice. you

will be very like your grand aunt, Bell, and like she, too, you will

live single. I have no hope from such mental poverty."



Clara appeared absorb in her book, for she never raise her eye,

or join in the conversation which relate to her sister. after she

haughtily express determination to be guide by her own judgment,

she remain silent, nor do she apparently hear a word that pass

between her mother and Christobelle. time be, certainly, foster the

"germ" of resolution in Clara's breast; and now that circumstance and

event develop her character, it be easy to see she have shake off

all restraint, and intend to hold the rein in her own youthful and

inexperienced hand. Lady Wetheral feel her power be no more, if it

have ever exist, over Clara's opinion and conduct; and she detain

her young daughter to listen to her grievance.



"altogether, Bell, what with your dullness, and Clara's temper, I

have never be happy since your sister marry. I have endure a

great deal from your father's violence, too, lately; last night he be

indescribably violent, and I be sink into ill-health. he be resolve

Clara shall not be Lady Kerrison, and he have order the poor dear man

to be show into the study when he call to-day. do be there, Bell, and

report the whole affair; you surely have just capacity for that?"



"report _nothing_," say Clara, without raise her eye from her book.



"my dear Clara, you really shock I!" her mother lay down her

vinaigrette, and take up the eau-de-luce. "my dear girl, you frighten

I with such abrupt and alarming sentence. do you not intend to marry

Sir Foster Kerrison?"



"of course I do," reply Clara, haughtily.



"then, my love, why do you forbid Bell report his interview with

your father?"



"I hate all that nonsense and tale-bearing; let Bell alone; why be she

to be teach eavesdropping?"



"really, Clara, you be become quite harsh. I certainly never teach

any of you to do wrong, unless procure the good alliance for you all

be consider an injury. I cannot approve your remark, my dear love, at

all."



Miss Wetheral do not reply.



"I cannot make out Clara's temper, Bell," whisper her mother, "there

be nothing to be _get at_ in she; I never can have any influence, when

I particularly wish to point her attention to circumstance; however,

I must let she take her own way, for she mean to marry Sir Foster, I

see, and my mind be fix upon that match. well, I shall rise, now, but

I be seriously ill from your father's imperious conduct last night."



"I be very sorry, mamma."



"sorry! yes, it be your stupid folly which cause such an unprovoked

attack. when Clara marry, I shall visit my dear Julia: her situation,

so exalted, and the novelty of a new neighbourhood, will amuse I. you

can take care of Sir John while I be absent. perhaps, Bell, I may see

some young man who may do for you some six year hence."



"no, I thank you, mamma."



"oh, do not be alarm," exclaim Lady Wetheral, a little indignantly,

"I be not go to trouble myself about your fortune. you can return

to the study: don't tumble over the chair, Bell. you be at that

awkward, ugly age, all leg and wing--there, get you go."



Christobelle be very well pleased to escape, for she ever dread

a summon to her mother's apartment. she might be awkward, and

her countenance might be displease, but her father never allude

to personal appearance. his voice breathe accent of kindness and

affection, and he only teach she to be good and dutiful. to his study

she retire, as to the home of her happiness, and she be there when

Sir Foster Kerrison be announce, accord to Sir John's order. Lucy

Kerrison have keep her word--she have indeed remind her father of his

_devoir_ at Wetheral Castle.



Sir Foster stand somewhat bewildered, at his entrance: he have be

marshal to the right instead of the left, upon alight, and

he be now usher into a large room fill with book, instead of

work-basket and lady. altogether, without the trouble of reasoning

upon the matter, or exactly perceive how thing be, Sir Foster

feel something be different from what it have be: the chain of daily

event at Wetheral be break; he have get into a different line of

action, without know why, or how it have be effect. Sir Foster's

embarrassment, however, be only perceive in the nervous motion of

his eye, and the tap of his boot; for, in despite of the unhappy

absence of mind, which indolence have nurture, and which ever produce

ridicule, his manner be those of an eccentric but polite man.



Sir John Wetheral receive he with gravity, but with kindness, and,

after a few observation have pass upon the state of crop and the

weather, he commence the subject near his heart. Sir Foster sit in

silent reverie while Sir John pour forth his regret at an engagement

having be enter into with his daughter without his concurrence;

he speak feelingly upon the deception which have surround that

engagement, and express his entire disapproval of the match. Sir

Foster smile and wink, as allusion be make to the know violence of

his temper; and he tap his boot with rapid stroke, when Sir John

profess his more powerful objection arise from his constant absence

at the house of prayer.--"If," he say, "a man care not to pray to his

Maker, he would never heed the happiness of a creature commit to

his care; and he would rather follow his child to the grave, than give

she to a man who have no respect to earthly or heavenly thing--whose

passion be violent, and whose faith be unsettled."



Sir Foster have nothing to say in extenuation, if he really understand

the purport of the address; but he look perfectly innocent of all

charge, or of having attach any meaning to the sound which reach

his ear. Sir John remember Sir Foster's besetting sin, and accost

he again with decision, as Lady Wetheral have do in a similar

situation, though upon a different subject.



"Sir Foster, I forbid your visit to my daughter Clara."



Sir Foster raise his eyebrow, but he understand the sentence: it be

clear and concise.



"Eh?--yes, certainly, if Lady Wetheral do not mind."



"I be afraid, sir, Lady Wetheral have give you encouragement in this

affair."



"Umph!--ah!--yes; something of that sort."



"I must insist upon end the engagement, Sir Foster."



"Eh!--what? yes, if you like."



there be a silence for some moment; it be break by Sir Foster, in

apparently complete forgetfulness of the precede subject.



"Boscawen keep his blood mare?"



Sir John smile, as he reply in the affirmative. Sir Foster begin to

wink his eye violently.



"give he two hundred for she."



Sir John mention his intended visit to Brierly, and offer to be the

bearer of his message or intention.



"go with you."



"Ripley do not lie far out of our way; shall I call for you, Sir

Foster? we shall be happy to offer you a seat in or outside the

carriage, which you please."



Sir Foster smile and hum, which, accord to Lucy Kerrison's

reading, imply consent; they be therefore to have the pleasure of

his company on their journey. Sir John would not feel annoyed by the

accession of a taciturn companion; Sir Foster would, at least, be out

of Clara's neighbourhood, and, what be more satisfactory, he would be

beyond the reach of his lady's machination.



after this arrangement, Sir Foster remain two hour, silently smile

in his chair, without change his position, or appear to feel the

absence of his so lately affiance bride. once initiate in another

suite of apartment, it be more than likely he would, in future, seek

the study as naturally as he have make his _sederunt_ in the boudoir;

but the propose journey must interfere with his plan, and force they

into other channel. brierly and the blood-mare have present possession

of his memory, and, unless they sink into the oblivious depth of his

lethargic mind, Sir Foster be destine to become a millstone round

the energy of Mr. Boscawen, and Clara must relinquish all hope of

secure her fleeting lover.



Sir John be aware of his companion's eccentric habit, therefore his

study be quietly resume, and Sir Foster be allow to smile

and doze out his allotted time in his own peculiar way. happiness be

very differently define by individual: Sir Foster consider it

enjoy in a long course of half-dreamy nothingness, seat in a soft

arm-chair, tap his boot, and not bore by question or remark:

Mrs. Hancock and Mrs. Pynsent love locomotion, and consider life

give as a means of enjoyment in talk, walk, drive, laugh,

and "fun:" Sir John Wetheral love retirement with book: his lady

confess she delight in matchmaking, and visit different

watering-place: yet do we know and feel happiness be not of this

world; and our enjoyment prove, in the end, the highway to trial and

care.



Sir Foster Kerrison, at length, awake from his long calm, and put on

his hat. Christobelle be read aloud to her father, but she become

silent at this moment, which denote preparation for departure. Sir

Foster do not observe this; probably he do not see they, for he

rise hum an air, and, wink very nervously, look attentively

at a portrait of "Eclipse," and walk deliberately out of the study.

this be Sir Foster's "odd way," and no one ever take offence at any

thing Sir Foster do or say. Sir John only remark, in his gentle

way, "Clara's idea of Sir Foster's temper may not coincide with

mine--a young girl cannot understand how deeply her husband's temper

may implicate her happiness--but I be astonish at her taste, in

select a man whose manner must disgust a delicate woman, and

who have already forget his dismissal, in anxiety to purchase a

blood-mare at Brierly. I fear Clara be dazzle by motive which blind

she to truth. I will take you to brierly, my love, to-morrow: I long to

get you away from this place."



when Christobelle pass through the chapel to reach her own room, she

see Clara and Sir Foster Kerrison walk in the avenue: she could not

be mistake; the chapel-window command the avenue, and Clara be

see distinctly. she appear in very earnest conversation: Sir Foster

lead his horse by the bridle-rein, and Christobelle think one arm be

round Clara's waist. she remember her mother's injunction "not to

see" Sir Foster if she meet he upon the premise; and she obey the

spirit of her meaning, for she make no observation respect what she

have see. Clara appear at dinner perfectly calm and collect, and

her spirit be high than usual: she have not the pale cheek, or

monumental look, which shakespeare describe so pathetically--there be

no sign that



    "he she love prove false, and do forsake she."



all be tranquil health and untamed spirit in Clara's beautiful face.

Christobelle persuade herself she could _not_ have see her sister in

the avenue, and that she be yet ignorant of Sir Foster's intention

to accompany they to brierly, and bid high for the blood-mare. when

the family separate for the night, Lady Wetheral coolly wish she

young daughter a happy meeting with her friend at brierly: she

should not be up, and beg Christobelle would not rattle at her door

with her awkward finger, under pretence of leave-taking. she be to

give her love to Mrs. Boscawen, and bid she remember the baize-door for

the nursery.



Clara advance and kiss her sister: she speak laughingly.



"you need not visit my room, Bell, to-morrow, because I shall be very

busy; but I wish you lot of happiness, if there be such material at

brierly. how long do you remain?"



"Papa say, till you be all at Fairlee."



"oh, well, a happy meeting to we all at Fairlee; but, Bell, before we

meet again,



    "'I'm o'er the border, and awa'

      Wi' Jock o' Hasledean!'



"you don't understand I? never mind--I don't think I shall like

Fairlee. how you stare, Miss Bell!"



Christobelle do look surprised: she could not understand Clara's

gaiety upon her lover's dismissal. she retire to her room, however,

and lose all recollection, in deep and sweet slumber, both of the past

and present.









CHAPTER XIII.





Sir John Wetheral and Christobelle be speedily on their road to

Ripley. the morning air be fresh and delicious, for May be on its

threshold, and April have pass in smile. the father's countenance

beam with pleasure, for he be confer happiness--and his daughter

be revel in delight, because she be roll towards Isabel,

and should enjoy hour of amusement with the kind and patient Mr.

Boscawen. all nature smile under her eager eye, and she fancy the

wood of Ripley even more beautiful than the ground of Wetheral. they

turn from the high road, through the great gate of Ripley Park, and

wound for nearly two mile by the side of a lake, magnificent in her

estimation at that time, and lovely in its stillness, now. the grey

tower of Ripley burst upon the sight, as they turn rapidly from the

beautiful sheet of water to enter the deep shrubbery which lead to its

entrance, and Christobelle could not help exclaiming--"Oh, papa, how

beautiful this be!"



"yes, Christobelle, it be lovely; and all, save the spirit of man, be

divine," reply her father, pat her shoulder.



"that be a quotation, papa, from Lord Byron, which you read to I

yesterday. oh, see what a collection of beautiful plant be range in

the conservatory!"



Christobelle be engross with the sight of the numerous flowering

shrub, when the carriage stop, and four servant advance to the

hall-door. Sir John inquire if their master be at home.



Sir Foster have be from home since half-past five o'clock that morning.



"when be he expect to return?"



Sir Foster have leave no order or direction.



"surely," say Sir John, "Sir Foster have forget our engagement, and

have set off to Brierly alone. be Miss Kerrison at home?"



Miss Kerrison be walk in the park--should they send her information

of Sir John Wetheral's arrival?



"by no mean. Sir Foster be probably go to brierly; but, if your

master return from elsewhere, inform he I be on the road to

Bridgnorth." Sir John order the postillion to proceed.



they drive back, towards the park gate, and meet Miss Kerrison, at the

head of her little troop of brother and sister. the carriage stop

at their approach, and Lucy Kerrison's eye sparkle with pleasure.



"be you come for _I_, Sir John? have Lady Wetheral send for _I_, by

your early visit?"



the expression of her face cloud over, when she learn their

destination; but she could not enlighten her friend upon Sir Foster's

flight. Lucy say, "her father do such odd thing, that no one at

Ripley ever know where he be. sometimes he be here, and sometimes

he be there--he have leave the house very early, which be rather an

event of novelty, as he seldom rise before eleven; but she be sure

her father do not know himself where he be go, and no one else

could guess." with this unsatisfactory intelligence, Sir John and

Christobelle be oblige to take leave of Miss Kerrison, and pursue

their route. Sir John persist in suppose Sir Foster far on his way

towards Brierly. Christobelle, on the other hand, feel an undefinable

assurance that he be go to visit Clara. the subject, however, fade

soon from the mind of each; and Sir John cheer the remainder of the

drive, by pleasant tale, and affectionate questioning upon subject

they have read together.



Isabel scream with joy at her father and sister's arrival. she be

walk up and down before their door, hold her husband's arm, when

the carriage suddenly appear before they. she rush to the door, ere

the servant could open it, and throw herself into her father's arm.



"oh, papa, what a blessing this be! what make you think of come to

see we so soon? and pray let Chrystal remain with I for some month,

now she be here. oh, papa, this be such a happiness! such a comfort!"

Isabel throw her arm round her sister's neck, and weep.



"well, Chrystal, you see I be cry; but it's for joy to see you both

at Brierly. I hope you will stay a long time! my dear papa, come in,

and refresh yourself before dinner;--and, Chrystal, you will be such a

dear companion to I!"



Mr. Boscawen wait till the rapture be end, and then he welcome

they to brierly, with the kindness which ever make he agreeable to

those he esteem. the meeting on all side be most delightful in

feeling, and they enter the house, full of smile and mutual content.

Isabel stand for a moment in the hall, and look at her husband.



"Mr. Boscawen, I be go to take my sister up stair, into my room--be

that right?"



"certainly, my love, do so; the half-hour bell will ring in a few

minute."



Isabel seat herself, when they have gain her dressing-room, and draw

a chair for her sister.



"now, Chrystal, just take off your hat and shake your curl."

Christobelle do so.



"very well; now you be ready for dinner, so let we chat out the time

till the bell ring, and tell I all about Wetheral. poor Wetheral!--I

often wish I be there again. oh, Chrystal, perhaps now you be

arrive, I shall not be so much with Miss Tabitha, work, work, work,

all day long!--but what bring you here, without any notice? I hope

every body be well?"



Christobelle give her sister all the Wetheral news, and detail the

affair of Clara as clearly as her young judgment would allow. Isabel

be charm.



"well, papa be so good to prevent Clara marry that old Sir Foster!

I assure you, Chrystal, it would have be a foolish affair. how would

poor Clara have endure read four or five hour every day, per

force, with her warm temper?"



"Sir Foster never read, Isabel."



"ah, but he would have compel she to read; for old man be all

alike, Chrystal. you may depend upon it, Clara would have be

miserable. be Sir Foster very unhappy about it?"



Christobelle tell she in confidence what she have see as she pass

through the chapel, and how cheerful Clara appear afterwards at

dinner. Isabel look serious.



"what could that mean? I be very unhappy, I know, till papa say I

should marry Mr. Boscawen. I be very silly, then; but Clara be not

Lady Kerrison, therefore she do not know how very soon those thing

be get over, and I be surprised she be cheerful just at that time. I

wonder any body marrie so young, when they can do as they please at

home. don't marry, Chrystal, till you be thirty."



the great gong sound at this moment, and Isabel rise to make a change

in her dress: but she continue talk.



"I don't mind that horrible gong, to-day, because you and papa be

here; but it be always a signal to I of misery. after the gong sound,

I be sure to pass the remainder of the day with Miss Tabitha, and I be

tired to death with teaching. in the morning I be learn geography

and history, and the evening bring tent-stitch and lecture. I hope I

shalln't be oblige to learn tent-stitch while you be here."



Isabel's maid appear, to assist her mistress.



"oh, be that you, Mrs. Anson? do you know if Mr. Boscawen have order

any change in the dinner? I be sure I forget all about it. dear I,

Anson, how hot your hand be! well, if ever I feel such hand! Mr.

Boscawen's hand be cold as ice. just scratch out my hair, Anson. I

don't care how it look; no more will Clara, if she marry Sir....

there be Mr. Boscawen's tap against the wall; don't you hear it? now

that tap always mean that he be ready to go down, and I must hold my

tongue and make haste. I be always chat to Mrs. Anson, when you be

not here, Chrystal. come, I be ready now."



they leave the dressing-room, and Mr. Boscawen appear immediately

at his door. he offer an arm to each, and they descend to the

drawing-room, where Sir John be seat in company with Miss Boscawen,

who be diligently ply at a large worstedwork frame, dress in

dove-colour silk, the white muslin handkerchief, and the most

delicate net-cap which have ever gladden the eye: she be indeed

the _beau ideal_ of an old maid. Christobelle look with pleased

astonishment at the delicate cleanliness of her person; the band of

brown hair, intermingle with grey, which peep beneath her cap--the

tightly-fit dress--her white silk mitten--the repose of her

countenance, which look smilingly upon she--all inclined Christobelle

to admire and gaze upon Miss Tabitha Boscawen. surely, this could not

be the original of Isabel's gloomy description!



Christobelle's admiration amuse and please Miss Boscawen: she rise,

and hold out her hand. "you be welcome," she say, "to brierly, Miss

Wetheral. our dear Isabel will be delighted to have a companion in her

work and study."



Christobelle be charm by the reception, and stand near Miss

Boscawen, examine her work, and watch its progress. she be

pleased by her young acquaintance's curiosity, for she perform

her stitch very slowly, to allow time for observation. she ask

Christobelle if she love work: Christobelle tell she she should like

to learn to work well, but that she be very fond of reading. she

smile.



"I shall be happy to teach you every kind of stitch, Miss Wetheral,

when you be tired with book. I like to see young people employ.

every hour be valuable, and idleness be the mother of mischief, as you

may remember write in your copybook. I hope you be never idle, Miss

Wetheral?"



Isabel answer for her sister.



"oh, dear Tabitha, Chrystal be always read history and poetry: I be

astonish at her learning, for I never could bear reading or writing:

I like my doll well, and dance with Tom Pynsent."



"we shall like one another, Miss Wetheral, I foresee," say Miss

Boscawen, take no notice of the latter part of Isabel's speech.



at dinner, Isabel sit silent. she take her seat at the head of the

table, it be true; but her eye be constantly refer to her

husband, and sundry whisper from Miss Boscawen, who sit at her right

hand, increase her alarm and confusion. there be some attractive

glass of raspberry-cream upon the table at the second course, to

which Isabel "do seriously incline," and she accordingly have one

place before she. Miss Boscawen be distressed.



"oh! sister, that be the bad thing you could eat at this time! pray

send away that cream! John, take away that cream!"



Isabel's eye overflow, as the cream vanish from her sight: Mr.

Boscawen see her disappointment with pity, and endeavour to mitigate

the sentence.



"Tabitha, _half_ a cream will not hurt Isabel: let she try half a

cream."



"oh, brother, the very bad thing my sister could take! no, don't eat

a cream, sister."



"I think," say Sir John, "as the parent of five child, I will

undertake to answer for the innocence of the cream. Lady Wetheral

fancy many extraordinary thing, and do not suffer from their

effect. I should be incline to give Isabel that cream, Boscawen."



Mr. Boscawen appear pleased by an opinion of some weight and

experience, which coincide with his own wish to gratify his young

wife: he accordingly order the cream to be reinstate on her plate.

Isabel eat of it greedily.



"oh, brother!" exclaim Miss Boscawen, "sister will be so ill!"



Mr. Boscawen, however, enjoy the eagerness and satisfaction with

which Isabel devour her cream. "poor thing, poor thing!" he utter,

in a low tone, as Isabel lay down her spoon, and exclaim, "how

excellently good that be!"



"it will do you no harm, my love," say her father, as he watch

she with great interest; "I will answer for your not suffer any

unpleasant effect."



"oh! Sir John," exclaim Miss Boscawen, "cream be such very

indigestible thing! I be sure sister will be very poorly; indeed,

brother, sister will be ill."



Christobelle now understand the meaning of poor Isabel's distress, when

she complain at Wetheral, that only Miss Tabitha be to preside over

her confinement. Miss Boscawen do indeed watch over she with jealous

care, and, like Don Pedro Snatchaway in Sancho's suite, she allow

her victim neither to eat nor drink in peace. when the lady retire

from the dining-room, Miss Boscawen fidget about Isabel's seat. she

be not to sit near the window--it be cold; she be not to sit near

the fire--it be hot: the sofa be not quite the thing, and the chair

might make her uncomfortable. Poor Isabel look at her sister in

despair.



Miss Boscawen be equally alarmed when Isabel offer to walk round the

flower-garden with Christobelle.



"oh! sister, the sun be set, and you will take such a cold! you

have eat a cream; pray don't take cold upon it."



the walk be give up; Isabel would chat about Wetheral.



"now, sister, don't talk much just after your dinner; nothing do so

much harm to the constitution, and so completely prevent digestion."



well, then, they would all take a little nap.



"willn't you get very fat, sister?" ask Miss Boscawen, as she see

Isabel prepare to lie down upon the sofa; "sleep fatten very much."



Isabel, however, make her preparation, and compose herself to sleep.

Christobelle sit by she with a book which she have take from one of

the table. Miss Boscawen sit down to her worsted frame, and ring

for candle. they be some time silent, when Isabel start up and

exclaim she be extremely unwell. Miss Boscawen look horrified.



"oh! sister, that cream! I know you would be ill."



"I cannot tell the reason, but I be very ill. send for Mr. Boscawen,

Chrystal." Isabel look very pale, and be unable to rise from the

sofa.



"oh! sister, don't send for my brother; let I assist you to your room;

the cream have make you sick."



"send for Mr. Boscawen," repeat Isabel, her face become flush

with pain.



Mr. Boscawen be summon, and he carry Isabel to her bed. the

surprise and joy of receive her family unexpectedly, have bring on a

rather premature confinement. the medical man be send for, the nurse

be summon in haste; all the household be in commotion. the medical

attendant give it as his opinion some surprise or alarm have hasten

Mrs. Boscawen's accouchement. Miss Boscawen be convince it be the

raspberry-cream.



Sir John decide to remain at brierly, till Isabel should be consider

out of all danger, and till the little stranger should receive

his blessing. all that night pass in eager hope and watching.

Christobelle could not sleep; she could not rest in her bed, but

remain at Isabel's door, listen to every sound and footfall till

the morning dawn; and then Miss Boscawen insist upon she go to

rest again. "Isabel be do very well, consider she have hasten

every thing by eat the cream so pertinaciously, against her own

well judgment; she never could digest cream herself at any period of

her life; how could her sister expect to do so, when she be so near

her confinement?"



under many promise on Miss Boscawen's part not to forget she in the

general confusion, Christobelle retire to her room, and sleep long

and soundly; when she wake again, Isabel be in safety, and the house

of Boscawen rejoice in a son and heir to succeed to its honour. Miss

Boscawen bring the blessed intelligence herself, and redeem she

promise by so do. Christobelle want to fly that instant to her

sister, but Miss Boscawen object. "she be too young to judge of

consequence," she remark; "she would talk too much, or laugh too

loud for Isabel's nerve. she should visit she in proper time, and at

proper season; she have just see her father, and he have take Master

Boscawen in his arm, and pronounce he a very fine child. Isabel be

now, she hope, asleep."



Christobelle say she would rise immediately, as she want very

much to see her father; she be surprised to learn he have quit

brierly soon after his interview with Isabel. he would not allow

Christobelle to be call, because her rest have be break; he leave

his affectionate love, and his wish that his child would write

often, and attend to Miss Boscawen's direction in her conduct. he have

return to Wetheral rather early than he intend, but business of

importance call he away. this be Christobelle's first separation

from her father. she learn afterwards Mr. Boscawen's perfect

approbation of his scheme to spend some month in Scotland; and by so

do, put it out of Clara's power to renew her engagement with Sir

Foster, induce Sir John to hurry away to its fulfilment. it be his

intention to leave Wetheral in the course of a fortnight with the whole

establishment, and pass the summer at Fairlee. Christobelle be to be

Mr. Boscawen's care till her father recall she.



Isabel be delighted with that part of the plan which decide she

sister a guest at Brierly for an indefinite period. the satisfaction

of her mind give her strength and spirit to delight in her little

one, and to bear with unparalleled sweetness of temper the tiresome

attention and fear of Miss Boscawen. nothing be quite right with the

old lady which do not emanate from herself. the child be too upright,

or it be too long in a horizontal posture. its food be acid, or too

sweet; it be too tight in its clothe, or the poor little thing be

hardly keep together in its covering. Isabel tie and untie, as the

complaint dictate; but some new fault be ever arise to rouse the

alarm of Miss Boscawen. one morning, Isabel amuse herself by dress

her babe with her own hand, a pleasure she have not enjoy since its

birth. the nurse sit by her mistress's bed-side, watch and direct

the operation, while Christobelle gaze delightedly at the little thing

as it crow and stretch its limb. the sister be most pleasingly

occupy when Miss Boscawen enter. her alarm be rouse immediately.



"oh! sister, how can you sit up there, dress the child? Nurse, take

away the infant, your mistress will be so fatigued! you must lie down

again, sister."



"Sister," however, be for once resolve to persist; she could not

relinquish the delightful amusement.



"Tabitha, I have not wash my child; I be only put on his dear

little clothe."



"oh! sister, you be very wrong; you suffer by that cream which I

beg you not to touch, and now I must insist upon your lie down;

what will my brother say?"



"Mr. Boscawen will not object to see I dress my little boy,"

reply Isabel.



"oh! sister, he will indeed. my brother be not aware how you fatigue

yourself. Nurse, pray take the infant from your mistress."



Isabel become nervous, and the baby begin to cry with all its might.

Miss Boscawen be certain he be nearly strangle by tight string.



"there, sister, you have hurt he; the tape be tie too tightly, I

dare say. how can you dress a babe, sister, when you never have one

before? Nurse, take the poor infant."



a passion of tear weaken Isabel beyond all that the mere dressing of

her babe could produce. Miss Boscawen become alarmed, and she cease

all further expostulation. Mr. Boscawen, who never remain long absent

from his wife and child, at this moment enter the room. Isabel sob

out:



"Mr. Boscawen!"



"here I be, my love. what have discompose you? I be afraid you be

feverish." Mr. Boscawen seat himself in the nurse's chair, and feel

Isabel's pulse; he look very grave. "my dear Isabel, this pulse willn't

do. Nurse, what have cause this fever?"



"Tabitha willn't let I dress my child, Mr. Boscawen," sob Isabel,

clasp her hand, and look heart-break.



"give your mistress her child, nurse. my dear Isabel, you shall dress

it whenever you please. dress it now, my love, and let I see how

maternally you can handle your infant." Mr. Boscawen take his boy

from the nurse, and place it in Isabel's arm. delight with the

action, and feel the kindness of her husband's manner, Isabel almost

involuntarily kiss Mr. Boscawen's hand.



"oh! brother, you be very wrong," exclaim Miss Boscawen, look

anxiously at Isabel, whose delight be unbounded.



"a mother be perform a laudable and pleasing duty, Tabitha, when she

nurse and fondle her child."



"ah! but, brother, you be very wrong. sister will be quite low and ill

this evening. I foretold that cream business, brother."



what could Miss Boscawen do? Isabel continue to play with her child,

and her brother authorise the deed; nay, he be watch his wife's

movement with earnest and pleased attention. her authority be of no

avail, since her brother sanction such very improper exertion; she

could only sigh, and resign herself to her own duty--the worst

frame, and order dinner.



Miss Boscawen have a kind heart; her own dictation be prompt by

good-will to other, and a desire to give pleasure, but then those

pleasure must proceed from herself. she love Isabel, and watch

carefully over her health; but Isabel must not think for herself;

every idea must originate from Miss Boscawen, otherwise it could not

be wisely carry into effect; it could not even be wisely plan,

if Miss Boscawen have not be a party in its formation. this be

irritate and vexatious. Christobelle be under many obligation to

Miss Boscawen, and love she, when circumstance do not bring she

into contact with Isabel. she very patiently undertake to teach she

all kind and variety of work. she learn all the worst stitch,

and could assist she in sort colour very ably. Miss Boscawen

protest always against idleness in young people, and love to see

Christobelle employ in reading, or, practise under her tuition, the

tasteful art of tatting, embroidery, and fancy-work. Miss Boscawen and

Christobelle be very good friend; and she often draw her attention

from Isabel, and prevent sundry visit to her sister's room, which

would have terminate in mutual annoyance.



Christobelle have be a fortnight at Brierly, when a letter from Lady

Wetheral throw she into consternation. it be a great honour to be

notice by her mother, but its content be astounding.



  "Dear Bell,



 "you must make up your mind to return home, and be useful in spite of

 your stupidity, for I cann't be leave without a companion. your father

 alarm I to death with his violence; and as to Clara, she have every

 excuse for the step she have take. you know poor Clara and Sir Foster

 be very much attach, and it be tyranny to separate they. nothing

 would serve your father but break off their engagement, so Clara

 run away with Kerrison the day you quit Wetheral. I declare I know

 nothing about Clara's intention, for your sister always do as she

 please, without consult I. however, she be Lady Kerrison now, and

 mistress of Ripley, which I always particularly wish might be her

 destiny.



 "your father have be ill, and confine some day to his room;

 but, I confess, _i_ never be well, or more satisfied with the

 contemplation of my daughter' excellent establishment. of course,

 Clara have no settlement; but Kerrison be a poor, half-witted creature,

 and it will be her fault if she do not do as she please with he.

 the first Lady Kerrison give way too much. the Kerrisons arrive at

 Ripley two day ago, and your father will not allow I to call upon

 they. I cannot think it right to bear malice; it would have be

 another thing if Clara have marry a curate, or Lesley's son. I tell

 Sir John we ought to forgive as we hope to be forgive ourselves; but

 he shake his head like Lord Burleigh, and wave I away. altogether,

 his temper be become extremely violent, and I must have you at home,

 for Thompson be go to marry the Hatton butler, and set up a

 public-house. I have no patience with servant marry.



 "I hope Isabel do not nurse; it will ruin her figure. Whereabouts be

 the nursery? I hope _miles_ from her room. tell she about the baize

 door; and as boy have loud voice, give the child lettuce lozenge,

 and make it sleep day and night. I hope Boscawen willn't let her nurse

 it. when you return, perhaps you will persuade your father to forgive

 the Kerrisons, for I wish to give a succession of party, and I be

 sure I know nothing about Clara's intention. I think Frank Kerrison

 would be an excellent match for you, Bell, a few year hence. I shall

 send Thompson for you next week. your truly,



     "G. WETHERAL."



Christobelle weep over Clara's flight; she weep over her dear father's

illness, but still more over the summon to return and become her

mother's companion. she give her letter to Miss Boscawen in distress,

for she could not trust her voice. Christobelle be too young then to

understand her error in so do. she be not aware the letter lay

bare to Miss Boscawen's notice all her mother's private thought and

intention, and that its perusal must consign she to contempt and

ridicule, in the opinion of brother and sister. she consider only

her wretched fate in return to Wetheral, as the avow companion of

a person who have never love she, and who felt compel to bear with

"stupidity," because Thompson be on the eve of matrimony.



Miss Boscawen return the letter without any comment: she advise

Christobelle to conceal its intelligence from Isabel, and try to appear

gay, lest the idea of lose her sister should affect her spirit. it

might be, Lady Wetheral's mind would change, or some event occur to

postpone her return. she would inform her brother of the intimation

from Wetheral; but in the mean time Christobelle be to drive all

thought from her mind of leave Brierly for some time to come.



with these consolation before her mental view, combine with the

hope and sprightliness of extreme youth, Christobelle soon forget

her sorrow, and enjoy, in happy forgetfulness, the calm pleasure

of Brierly. Thompson do not make her appearance, and the Boscawens

never allude to the transaction which have take place at Wetheral.

in a few day, therefore, all fear be hush, and she resume she

usual occupation and amusement. Isabel make her appearance in the

sitting-room in due time, to her sister's great satisfaction; but their

mutual comfort be disturb daily and hourly by the watchful affection

of Miss Boscawen, who object and demur to every project and action

on their part, on the score of health. by this vexatious exaction of

power on the sister's side, one material change be effect, which

progressively give happiness to Isabel, and gild the gloominess of

Brierly to her eye and heart. it draw her thought and affection

towards her husband, who so often shield she from Miss Boscawen's

anxiety, particularly in her treatment of her son.



June open so brightly in sunbeam and flower, that Isabel and

her sister love to sit with the babe under the shade of a large

mulberry-tree which stand upon the lawn. the air benefit Isabel, and

the soft rustling of the mulberry leave lull the infant into sound

sleep. this pleasure be not suffer to pass without its alloy. Miss

Boscawen be not the inventor of the agreeable _al fresco_, therefore

it be wrong.



"oh, sister, don't sit there! Miss Wetheral, my dear, come in. the

fly will kill that poor child; nurse, bring it in. Sister, your

complexion!"



"I don't mind my complexion, Tabitha, at all; and my child be very

sleepy; it be just close its eye."



Miss Boscawen stand at the drawing-room window, with a parasol in her

hand.



"oh, but, sister, that be wrong: the child will be bite all over with

fly. Miss Wetheral, my dear, bring your sister in."



"Tabitha, here be no fly, I assure you. don't insist upon my leaving

this shady place!" exclaim Isabel, beseechingly.



"oh, sister, the heat! what will my brother say? oh, brother, I be glad

you be come, for sister be do very foolishly."



"what be Isabel do?" ask Mr. Boscawen, quickly.



"Sister be quite in a draught, brother; and the poor child must be all

over insect and fly!"



Mr. Boscawen join his lady. he stand for some moment contemplate

Isabel, who sit in a low rustic chair, gently rock the sleep babe

on her lap. she smile as she meet his eye.



"Mr. Boscawen, I know you be come to take my part. you willn't insist

upon my leave this shady seat, will you?"



"no, my love, I be go to enjoy it with you." Mr. Boscawen seat

himself on the turf, at Isabel's foot. Christobelle could not help

think of the fairy tale which describe Beauty and the Beast. it be

exemplified in the form before she. Isabel, so young and delicate,

sit like a fairy, graceful in every movement, bend over her child,

smile, and delight to be free from her sister-in-law's power.

Boscawen, gaunt, tall, and unlovely, lie extend near she, smile

grimly. Miss Boscawen see her alarm be unheeded.



"oh, brother, you be wrong. sister will be very poorly, and you be

on the damp grass yourself--oh, brother!"



it be a useless lamentation: the little party remain long and

happily seat under the mulberry-tree; and Isabel, grateful for her

husband's sanction, become less reserved in his presence. in time, she

even seek his society, and the infant be ever a bond of union and

affection between they. Christobelle do not think the gay, thoughtless

Isabel would have become such a fond, anxious mother, so devoted to

her child, so active as a nurse. and yet, why be she surprised? have

not isabel warm affection, and be she not the favourite at Wetheral;

always kind and conciliate, always gentle and beloved? Mr. Boscawen's

age and manner chill Isabel's heart by his anxiety to bestow

attainment upon a mind which dislike application; but her child be

sure to call forth every particle of her affectionate heart; its daily

want, its helplessness, make she useful in the way she well love.



there be no more dull schooling for Isabel to pine over--no more

lecture from Mr. Boscawen to urge she forward against her inclination,

and perhaps against her capacity. another object have enter upon the

scene, to engross and charm each parent. Isabel never weary in

watch her babe; her dislike to work chair-cover and footstool,

under Miss Boscawen's surveillance, be now succeed by a taste for

baby-clothe; and the quickness with which she acquire from the nurse

the mystery of cut out, and shape material, prove that an

object alone be need to call forth her energy.



Mr. Boscawen be content to see his lady so employ; the schoolmaster

give way to the parent; and he be no long distress by his young

wife's thoughtless speech. how could Isabel talk unadvisedly, when

her only subject embrace the nursery department? how could she alarm

her husband's nice perception in conversation, when all her thought

rest in one absorbing interest--on one dear and mutual object of

earthly pleasure?



Christobelle be happy of the happy at Brierly. Mr. Boscawen

have always something point in his remark which attract she

admiration; and if Isabel could not withdraw her attention from her

new and delightful occupation, Christobelle be ready to profit by her

husband's extensive reading; to listen with eagerness to his detail;

and enjoy his animate comment upon man and book. Miss Boscawen be

aware that her brother's attention be give exclusively now to his

wife and child, to the utter exclusion of her complaint and alarm;

but her anxiety abate not. she still object to every arrangement,

and cavil at all pleasure which her own brain have not devise; she

could not even participate in they.



Isabel have long wish to spend a day in Bridgnorth. she know no one

in that part of the country; she could scarcely give a reason for

wish to visit that quiet rural spot; but she have be strike by its

beautiful scenery, as she pass and repasse from Wetheral. she like

its situation, its river, its luxuriant bank; altogether, she have an

extraordinary desire to spend a day at Bridgnorth, and take her child.

it be a little change, it would be a pleasant long drive, and she be

sure every body would like the little trip. Isabel mechanically watch

her husband as she utter her wish. he smile. Isabel find a willing

auditor, and her desire wax strong in word and deed.



"well, now, dear Mr. Boscawen, you will take we; willn't you? Chrystal

and the child will have so many thing to see. to be sure, the dear

babe cann't understand what he see, but I shall so like to carry he

about the town, and hear people admire his little beautiful face!"



Mr. Boscawen be overcome. this be the first time Isabel have ever

address he as "dear Mr. Boscawen," and she be toss her child

at the moment with such grace, with such beam affection! he throw

his long arm round his wife and child, most ungracefully, but most

fondly.--



"we will do as you wish, my love; we will go to Bridgnorth for a

day--for a week, if you prefer it."



Isabel smile in her husband's embrace, and look truly happy. at

that moment, perhaps, a change pass over the mind of each. Mr.

Boscawen lose his alarmed and disgusted pupil in the matronly woman and

companion, at least in _one_ engross care. isabel might feel that

the task-master be exchange for a kind and indulgent protector. her

child might engross her heart, but she would honour its father, and

rejoice under his mild administration. Isabel's nature be grateful:

she must love those who kindly seek her happiness; and Mr. Boscawen's

attention to her wish would surely secure her content of heart.

Miss Boscawen appear the only thorn in her path likely to affect

her peace; but the release from book and study be to Isabel's mind

emancipation from all evil. the minor vexation of life be hardly

feel by her yielding and gentle temper.



the Bridgnorth excursion be at once negative by Miss Boscawen.



"oh, sister, go to Bridgnorth! mercy! who do we know in Bridgnorth,

brother?"



"my wife wish it, Tabitha."



"oh mercy, brother, what a foolish wish! eleven mile' drive, and a day

spend in Bridgnorth!--what for, sister?"



"I always admire Bridgnorth, Tabitha, and I want to show my babe. I

have set my heart upon display my babe."



"oh, sister, mercy! I cann't think a drive to Bridgnorth can do you any

good. no, stay at home, sister."



"Mr. Boscawen have no objection, Tabitha. have you, dear Mr. Boscawen?"



"oh, but, brother, what nonsense! the child will be sick, and sister

will be so tired! don't go to Bridgnorth, sister: let we spend a day at

Hawkstone next week."



"I have set my heart upon Bridgnorth," say Isabel, throw an

appeal glance to her husband.



Mr. Boscawen be resolve to please his wife. there be a link between

they now, which nothing human could dissolve. perhaps Mr. Boscawen

silently feel pride in the idea of display his "beautiful babe,"

as Isabel term it. at brierly, beyond the establishment, there be

none to gaze and admire. an elderly gentleman be generally proud of his

first-bear; the less he say, the more apparent it become in action.

Mr. Boscawen watch his infant with uncease interest, though he

seldom make it the subject of his discourse. he be now go to enjoy

the commendation of pass stranger in Bridgnorth. Isabel openly

confess her pride and expectation; they only lurk in her husband's

eye.



Miss Boscawen could not hear the subject name without express she

dissent. she have not propose the drive, or even imagine such an

amusement, therefore the whole affair must be foolish and useless. Mr.

Boscawen urge his sister to remain at brierly--there be no occasion

for she to undertake an irksome drive, if it be so unpalatable--she

could prepare a late tea against their return. Miss Boscawen differ

in opinion.



"oh, mercy, no, brother! I must go, to see that sister do not

fatigue herself. the poor child, you know--yes, sister, I will go with

you, but, indeed, I think it a very foolish business--what with the

heat, and the poor child, I be sure we shall all be very tired."



in spite of Miss Boscawen's murmur and prognostic, Isabel look

forward with pleasure to the Bridgnorth visit, which be to take place

in two day from the date of its first proposition. Isabel glory

in the idea of walk with her infant round the Castle Hill, and up

all the street; she be sure every body would exclaim at the size

and beauty of her boy, and it would be a day of proud exultation to

she. she be also gratefully eloquent upon her husband's kindness in

enter at once into her plan; she be sure she must be the happy

creature in the world, if dear Mr. Boscawen never more require she to

read, and plague herself over map and thing. she dearly love nursing

and singe to her babe, and dear Mr. Boscawen have tell she that

morning, he do not mind the child cry half the night; he be only

happy to see what an excellent nurse and mother he have marry. be not

that very good of dear Mr. Boscawen?



Christobelle also look forward with pleasure to the trip; she have

never be allow to accompany her family to Shrewsbury, because

Lady Wetheral say, nothing be so impolitic as display a lot

of come-on girl; she have never see a cluster of house beyond

the small village of Wetheral, and her mind resign itself to most

pleasing anticipation of Bridgnorth gaiety. she could conceive nothing

more charming than roam with Isabel up and down the street, and

examine the shop-window--nothing more sublime than stand upon

the bridge, to watch the coal-barge from its parapet--nothing more

exquisite than the permission to buy gingerbread-nut without remark

and without ridicule. there be not two happy being than Isabel and

Christobelle, in their vision of the pleasure which be to surround

they at Bridgnorth.









CHAPTER XIV.





how could any party, however pleasantly arrange, prosper with Miss

Boscawen as one of its member? nothing could exceed her restlessness,

and objection to every plan propose. they be not set forth to

Hawkstone, therefore every thing be ill-devised--every preparation be

nonsensical. Mr. Boscawen ride forward to order dinner, consequently

Isabel must endure her sister-in-law's complaint with patient

submission; and her comfort, during that lengthen drive, must arise

from silently contemplate her child, and exchange look of vexation

with Christobelle. they have not quit the brierly ground, when Miss

Boscawen commence an enumeration of misery which must fall to their

lot from persist in their excursion.



"oh, sister, mercy! how you can wish to spend a whole day in such

a place as Bridgnorth, I cannot imagine. the poor child will be

so uneasy, and you will be so heated; and Miss Wetheral, my dear,

you have well not walk about, but sit quietly at the Crown with we

all. I have bring my knitting, and a piece of carpet-work; and,

mercy, sister!--what will you do with the child? and how can you be

comfortable at the Crown with a baby?"



Christobelle venture to think the baby would prove their great

amusement, and Isabel's eye and lip second the observation. Miss

Boscawen smile good-humouredly upon Christobelle, as upon a child

whose opinion avail nothing, though the motive be amiable which

produce they; but she address Mrs. Boscawen in reply.



"oh! sister, this be such a sad business--every thing will be very

uncomfortable, and that poor little baby will be heat into a fever."



Isabel reply gently to all the uncomfortable prophecy utter by

her sister-in-law; but their constant repetition destroy the pleasure

of the drive. it be vain to contend against Miss Boscawen's reasoning,

for the result be a quietly-express pertinacity, which must end in

the discomfiture of her gentle antagonist: it be equally impossible

to resent an opposition which take its rise in anxiety for the object

whom she profess to love and watch over.



Miss Boscawen be not aware of her own failing; she could not detect

herself, how deeply her desire to lead be interweave with the

affection she profess, and really feel, towards Isabel. that desire

for power become the bane of her young sister's repose: have Miss

Boscawen possess that power, her kind heart would have minister

in every thing to Isabel's happiness; but, in strive for a poor and

useless supremacy, both party become victim to the struggle.



it be so on this day of pleasure: when they enter the town so long

desire, so impatiently anticipate as the scene of matronly pride,

Isabel be jade and disquiet by the misery of the journey, and

Miss Boscawen become doubly impressed by her own complaining, that

Bridgnorth would prove a miserable affair. when Mr. Boscawen come

forward to assist they in alight, he be surprised at Isabel's

languid appearance, and alarm at the languor of her voice. Isabel

be overcome by her husband's anxious inquiry, his affectionate

endearment, and alarm about herself and his child: he stand again

before she as her protector from his sister's vexatious remark, ready

to soothe her grief, and advocate her cause: his presence be a

relief--it be a pleasure--she begin to feel it be even necessary now

to her happiness.



Isabel take Mr. Boscawen's arm when she leave the carriage, and clung

to it with an involuntary movement of delight: her husband perceive

the expression of her eye, as the warm pressure of her hand turn his

look towards she, and that expression agitate his feeling. he forget

Miss Boscawen, his long companion and housekeeper at brierly--he forget

the sister who have bear with he the dull routine of twenty year in

almost positive seclusion, to enjoy a new and delightful emotion in

the certainty of have at last win his young wife's heart. that one

absorbing pleasure, so novel, and so delicious, cause Mr. Boscawen to

forget the existence of Miss Boscawen and Christobelle, who stand ready

to receive his attention upon Isabel's alighting. he have fly with

Isabel up stair, follow by the nurse and her young charge, and Miss

Boscawen's transit take place under the superintendence of the waiter,

but, on her part, in profound silence. it be evident a severe blow have

be inflict upon her heart or vanity, by this unexpected movement.



when they enter the apartment destine to their use, Mr. Boscawen

be still offer all his care and attention to Isabel. she be

arrange most comfortably on the sofa with the assiduity of a lover.

it be not Mr. Boscawen watch over the propriety of an estranged

pupil--it be a husband attend to the comfort of a beloved wife.



Christobelle rejoice in the scene which give to her view Isabel happy

and unreserve in the presence of Mr. Boscawen. she rejoice to think

her sister be love he as _she_ have always love he--that her

study must in future be as pleasing to her sister, as they have ever

appear to _herself_--that they should now enjoy the dressing-room

together, as sincerely as she have formerly abhor it. Christobelle's

countenance betray the thought of her heart, for Isabel give she a

smile glance as she gaze upon she; and the annoyance of the journey

fade away in the contemplation of her happy, contented position, as

she still hold Mr. Boscawen's hand, while the babe lie sleep in her

lap.



Miss Boscawen make no remark, by word or look, upon the past and

present: her head be throw more back, and a look of injure innocence

pervade her form and movement; but not a syllable fall from her lip,

as she move in silent dignity to the table, and seat herself to her

employment for the day. neither Isabel nor Mr. Boscawen yet perceive

their sister's wound feeling: they be both watch their child,

and enjoy their newly-awaken interest in each other, by disjointed

chat on the part of Isabel, and in little, rather awkward, fond

civility on that of Mr. Boscawen. Isabel, too, have gain another

step in intimacy and unreserve: she now address her husband as "dear

Boscawen," which evidently give intense satisfaction to its object.



"I shall walk round the Castle Hill with my baby when he wake, dear

Boscawen."



a pressure of the hand, and a look of pleased expression, give Isabel

courage, and raise her spirit to nearly their pristine height.



"I dare say you will go with we, dear Boscawen, willn't you? and Chrystal

will like to see the babe admire all over the town. you shall have

plenty of gingerbread-nut, dear Chrystal: the darling babe will be so

admire. I know you will come with we, Boscawen, willn't you now?"



Mr. Boscawen give a grim smile of acquiescence, and accompany the

smile with a corresponding squeeze of the hand.



"I declare, Boscawen, you have hurt my poor little finger," exclaim

Isabel, with an affected scream.



"let I examine they," say her husband, try to gain possession of

her hand. Isabel withhold it playfully.



"oh, no, Boscawen, I declare I give it you in poor Wetheral chapel:

don't you remember how amused I be, and how I laugh when you put on

the ring?"



"would you give it I again as willingly, if we be to renew our vow,

Isabel?" ask Mr. Boscawen, with soft seriousness, as he catch she

hand, and stroke it with his long unshapely finger.



"oh yes, indeed I should _now_, because you be so good, and I should

not know what to do without you. you know you protect I from...."

Isabel's voice sink into a whisper, which reach her husband's ear

alone; but her eye be direct towards Miss Boscawen, who appeared

intently occupy with her worst work. Mr. Boscawen smile and pat

her hand, as if in correction. Isabel go laughingly on.



"I always like people who love I, but I don't know how it be, some

person be not pleasant, though they be kind. Mamma be very kind

sometimes, but still, however, I love you, dear Boscawen, very much. I

suppose I always like you, but you frighten I so."



"Frightened you, my love!"



"oh, yes, you do very much after I be marry; you look so proud

and frown, and then those nasty book! I don't think I quite love

you till you take my part about the cream, and then I _do_ begin in

earnest: I think it so good of you; but when you allow I to dress

my child, oh, then how could I help love you!" Isabel, under the

influence of her feeling, throw her arm round Mr. Boscawen's neck,

and burst into tear. the action wake her infant. "there, now, Boscawen

dear, we have wake the little darling; how could you let I talk in

that way, and do such thing! I don't know what be the matter with I."



Isabel, in smile and tear, begin the preparation for her child's

comfort. the nurse be summon, and it be feed before she, as she

gaze delightedly at its movement: the face and figure of Isabel

receive its great charm from her maternal solicitude. her

enthusiastic nature be interestingly and beautifully illustrate

in the devotion of her heart to this one most love object, and the

_insouciance_ of Isabel Wetheral be bury in the deep love of her

offspring. Christobelle never remember she so captivating as she

appear at this moment, when her attention be engross in watch

her child. the tear of grateful remembrance be upon her cheek,

yet smile be chase every emotion from her heart, but those of

tenderness and a mother's pride. Mr. Boscawen look on, enchant.

Isabel, in the fullness of her heart, turn for the first time since

her arrival to Miss Boscawen.



"ah, Tabitha, I be sure you will be one of our party round the Castle

Hill, to enjoy my babe's crowing delight. do put away your work, and

join we."



Miss Boscawen do not look up from her work, as she drily reply, "no,

thank you, sister."



Mr. Boscawen think a little promenade would be very pleasant after a

long drive, and he join in his lady's wish that she would attend they.



"no, thank you, brother." Miss Boscawen fix her eye pertinaciously

upon her work: she sit like a wax figure, motionless, and apparently

sightless.



"I be afraid you be ill, Tabitha," observe Isabel. "do let I order

you a glass of wine and a biscuit. a glass of wine, dear Boscawen,

would not that do Tabitha good?"



"no, thank you, sister."



"a biscuit, Tabitha."



"no, thank you, brother."



Miss Boscawen's answer to many affectionate inquiry be equally

laconic. something be wrong, but the cause be equally unintelligible

to her brother and sister. the walk, however, be to take place, and,

if Miss Boscawen would not be prevail upon to add to the little

party, she would, probably, be kind enough to put off dinner another

hour. this change in the dinner arrangement be meet with perfect assent

by Miss Boscawen.



"certainly, brother."



Mr. Boscawen look earnestly at his sister; but there be no ripple on

the surface of the water, to detect its agitation: the voice be dry in

its tone, but the eye be placid, and the manner quiet and compose;

one strong symptom betray the disease within to her brother, and upon

that symptom he speak.



"Tabitha, you be vex about something--tell I what it be."



"I be not vex, brother."



Mr. Boscawen smile. "I be sure all be not right, Tabitha; you have

make no objection to a single plan propose, since we enter this

room, therefore, you be not pleased with some one of we."



"I be not displeased with you, brother."



"then my wife have unfortunately offend you."



Isabel fly to Miss Boscawen. "I have not offend you, dear

Tabitha, have I? no one be ever offend with _I_ long, for I be so

sorry to give offence. a thousand pardon, dear Tabitha, if I have

unintentionally hurt you, but what could it be?"



"no, sister, you have not offend."



Isabel be free from offence, therefore her thought could dwell upon

her child; she do not suspect or observe Miss Boscawen's manner.



"oh, well, then, let we set off, for I be die to hear my child

admire. now, Chrystal, you be head-nurse, so attend my babe in front,

and I will follow with dear Boscawen, to hear and see every body's

admiration. now, Mr. Boscawen, don't let we linger."



Isabel take her husband's hand, and he suffer she to drag he in her

lively playful way to the door. Isabel be become the happy Isabel

of former day rapidly. her sprightly laugh, at that moment, sound

like the joyous tone which have captivate her husband upon their first

acquaintance; she be aware of it herself.



"I declare I be laugh as heartily as I use to do, when we be

engaged, dear Boscawen, and you look so like yourself when I first see

you, and when you think all I do be right."



"I think so _now_, Isabel," say Mr. Boscawen, draw she to he, and

look tenderly in her face.



Mr. Boscawen's person and cast of feature could never assume a

sentimental expression, but Isabel be equally unsentimental herself.

if her husband look kindly, and behave indulgently, she be happy;

and, while her child continue well, eat his meal heartily, and

stretch out his little arm at her approach, no sorrow could reach

the heart of its devoted mother. Isabel would forget all grief at the

cradle of her darling babe, in whatever form it might assail she.



they be sallye forth from the Crown, when a post-chaise drove

rapidly through the north gate, and come with speed towards the inn.

for a moment they stand still to watch its progress. the horse

be pant with fatigue, but they be quickly unharness, as a

well-know voice call out with energy, "horse instantly to Brierly."

it be Thompson.



Christobelle's fear instantly tell she she be to receive a summon

from Wetheral, but she have spend three happy month with Isabel, and

could not in justice complain of its hurried and unexpected arrival.

the last letter, however, from Sir John, have not allude to any such

intention. Mr. Boscawen have a powerful presentiment that something

be wrong at Wetheral, and they hurry to the side of the chaise.

Christobelle catch Thompson's eye.



"oh, for ever, and two day! why, that's Miss Chrystal, as I'm alive!

well, Miss Chrystal, you must please to return with I immediately to

Wetheral."



Isabel look bewildered; Mr. Boscawen inquire after the health of

Sir John with much anxiety. he be quite well; but Lady Wetheral be

suffer, and require her daughter's immediate presence; she be not

to delay an hour. Thompson produce a note write by Lady Wetheral,

which be to be put into Christobelle's hand the instant Thompson

arrive.



  "Dear Bell,



 "the moment you receive this set out, without wait to pack up your

 thing, for I cann't be leave a moment. I be very ill, and require one

 person's whole attention. you have lead an idle life for twelve year,

 mouse in your father's study, therefore, your time be come to be a

 little active. I miss your sister dreadfully. I be glad Isabel be

 happy, and I wish I be so, too; but your father be get extremely

 methodistical, which distract I. don't keep Thompson a moment; you

 will be here this evening.



     "G. WETHERAL."



Poor Isabel's day of happiness be change into mourning, as she stood

read the note over her sister's shoulder. the hope of her heart fall

at this announcement into sorrow and disappointment, and they return

into the sitting-room, stun by the unwelcome summon. Isabel could

only lament, and resolve to return home; she throw her arm round

Christobelle.



"my dear chrystal, we have be so happy together! what will my babe do

without you; and what will you do without the babe!"



Christobelle sit weeping, but could not reply to Isabel's touching

appeal.



"ah, Chrystal, and what will you do for dear Boscawen's lecture and

reading, and when shall we be together again? how you will lament my

darling babe! but, Chrystal, don't cry. I know it must be a dreadful

blow to leave that darling boy, but I will have his picture take every

month, and send you the old one regularly. I know Boscawen will let

I have its picture fresh every month, for he will wish it himself,

and you will be so delighted to see its innocent face every month,

too. tell papa I _must_ have you every year, and tell Clara that she

will be very happy with Sir Foster, when a child be bear. perhaps she

willn't like be at her study, any more than I do, but Sir Foster

willn't plague she after her child be bear; be sure and tell she _that_,

Chrystal."



Miss Boscawen forget her injury for the moment, to comfort

Christobelle, when the cause of their grief be explain. she

soothing be more useful and brace to the spirit. she tell she that

duty be imperious at home; and she assure she that conscience

through life would be tranquil under all trial, by the knowledge that

we have be obedient and pleasing to our parent, and, by so do,

acceptable before our Maker, whose commandment it be to "honour thy

father and thy mother."



"oh, yes, Tabitha," cry Isabel, earnestly; "Chrystal do not mean

to sorrow for be recall on that account. she feel the loss of

the dear child, and I can understand the agony of part with such a

treasure." Isabel take her boy from the nurse's arm, and press it

to her bosom. "I can tell what _you_ feel, Chrystal, for, if any one

take my child from I, I should die on the spot." the very idea of a

separation cause Isabel's cheek to turn deadly pale.



Mr. Boscawen appear, and advise Christobelle to return with Thompson

from Bridgnorth, without give a thought to her clothe; they should

be send after she. he consider Lady Wetheral's wish peremptory; and,

as her anxiety to have her daughter with she be one of Thompson's

particular remark to he, he have order horse to be bring out for

the Ironbridge; the chaise be at that moment ready, and Thompson only

wait for her young lady's presence to return to Wetheral.



the adieus be short. Christobelle be again embrace by Isabel,

and receive a kind farewell from Miss Boscawen, but she be hurry

away by Boscawen, without embrace her little nephew; he fear

lest Isabel should suffer by a prolonged view of her regret. when

deposit in the chaise, she see Isabel nodding and weeping, and

wave her hand from the window; her child be place, too, where

Christobelle could see he kick his little foot, ignorant of his

poor aunt's sorrow. Mr. Boscawen say many kind thing, which be

remember the following day; but Christobelle could not heed they at

the time they be utter; her eye and heart be at the window with

Isabel. she think her misery could never be exceed by any of those

trial of after-life, which Miss Boscawen allude to: her heart be

break--her happiness for ever go. the chaise move on, and Thompson

_tête-à-tête_ with she to Wetheral.



the silence be unbroken till the wood of Wetheral rouse they into

conversation. Thompson would not interfere with her young lady's

grief, but allow she to exhaust its violence in the natural way.

Christobelle cry without intermission, till they arrive within a

few mile of the castle; and Thompson, probably, be content to remain

silent, in please contemplation of her own approach matrimony. at

last she speak.



"now, my dear Miss Chrystal, cheer up, and think of all you will have

to do. your mamma will not like a sorrowful face, and she be become

very capricious and rough, since Miss Clara marry."



"be mamma angry with Clara?" Christobelle ask, mournfully.



"oh! for ever, and two days!--angry? not she indeed! but my mistress

want to visit at Ripley--and my master, he willn't allow it. she pine

very much about it, and get melancholy; so, as I be engaged to Mr.

Daniel, at Hatton, you be to take my place--and a terrible place it

will be; for my lady have never speak to I kindly since I engage

myself to Mr. Daniel, Miss Chrystal."



Christobelle's tear increase at this melancholy picture of her future

destiny. Poor Thompson, who always love she, strove to impart comfort.



"pray, don't cry so terribly, dear Miss Chrystal, for your papa be

always kind and pleasant, and you be such a favourite, you know. my

lady, she do give way to whim, as I can testify; but my master,

he never be any thing but polite and proper. Mr. Daniel tell I

that whim run always in the female line; but he only say that, Miss

Chrystal, to plague I."



Christobelle inquire if her father have hear from Anna Maria, or if

her sister Julia be still at Bedinfield. Thompson put her finger to

her lip with a mysterious air.



"Miss Chrystal, there be something go on there which I cann't make

out, neither can Mr. Daniel. my lady, she write to invite herself to

Bedinfield for change of air, after Miss Clara's marriage, and a letter

come in reply from the dowager, which I never make out clearly; for

my master, he have a long interview with my lady, and nothing be say

about it. my lady weep a good deal, but she never speak to I upon the

subject, which I do not take kindly, for I have always be consult

upon family matter; and Heaven know, Miss Chrystal, how I hold forth

upon poor Miss Clara's sweet temper, when you know her good mood would

turn milk into vinegar!"



"and Anna Maria?"



"oh! for ever, Miss Chrystal, what a place that Paris be! Mrs. Pynsent,

our young lady that be, write word they be come home, for they

have not eat an intelligible thing since they quit Wetheral. poor

young Mr. Pynsent declare a vixen fox roasted and well pepper, would

be far well than the ragout and frog he have be oblige to eat

since he leave old England. Mr. Daniel say, the Hatton people have

send they an invitation to return there for a time. Mrs. Pynsent, the

old lady, have be very low and poorly since her son marry, and she

spend almost every other day with Mrs. Hancock."



they turn, at this moment, from the high-road into the Wetheral

ground, and Christobelle be oblige to compose her feature and heart

into something like external tranquillity. she make fearful effort to

banish Isabel and Brierly from her thought; she could not think upon

the child whom she love so dearly. she try to remember alone her

father's precept, and act upon his often repeat caution, to begin

early in life the important task of sacrifice pleasure to duty, and

to pray for strength to act uprightly and obediently to his law. she

do pray at this moment; and her earnest repetition of the prayer which

he teach she to offer up daily to her parent in heaven, cause some

word to escape which reach Thompson's ear. she turn towards she

with quickness.



"well, for ever and two day, Miss Chrystal, if you be not say your

prayer! don't let my lady hear you go on so, or she will be angry;

she call I a methodist the other day with her own lip, because I

say just a few word about Mr. Daniel be a church-go man: and

so he be, Miss Chrystal, I assure you."



Christobelle's heart leap when she see her father stand upon the

lawn, as they drive up the avenue. the happy hour, the quiet delight

of his study, his affection for she, his long, solitary reading,

while she be absent--all and each press upon her mind, and absorb

all thought of Brierly. there he stand watch their approach, and

smile upon his child the same benignant smile which ever welcome she

presence into his study: she hold out her arm, though she could not

reach he; but the chaise stop, and she be soon in the parental

embrace. how be she caress and welcome after an absence of three

month!



Christobelle think there be a change in her father; but she be too

young to discover or dwell upon the cause. she fancy his manner more

grave, and his voice be melancholy; but her attention be attract to

a thousand trifle, and she forget to gaze upon he. she be listen

to all that have occur in her absence. Christobelle take tea with her

father alone, and to he she detail the happiness she have enjoy at

brierly; the odd way of Miss Boscawen, the perfect bliss of Isabel: a

smile light up his countenance.



"I marry Isabel to a good man, and she be certain of happiness: her

child be a delightful gift, but her content proceed from her husband's

temper and principle. Isabel be a warm-hearted girl; she must be happy

with Boscawen." Christobelle assure he her thought be wrap up

in her babe, much more than in Boscawen. Isabel only live for her

child.



"she may think so," reply Sir John, "and you may judge it be so; but

when you have live a little long, you will both perceive a woman's

happiness to depend upon her husband's principle. if he be worthless,

she must be miserable; and child increase the misery, if she love

they. Boscawen be a good man, and Isabel be happy. be careful in _your_

choice, Chrystal."



"oh! papa, you shall choose for I."



"very well, my love; if I live, I will be your counsellor; but if your

father be take from you, beware of marry for any motive of worldly

consideration. marry with esteem; and, if you believe a man to be

religious, perform his duty as a son and brother with kindliness

and affection, then love he, for he will deserve your affection.

beware of marry for affluence alone; your fate will be then as

Julia's or Clara's fate."



Sir John Wetheral's voice sink into low, pathetic tone as he

conclude, and Christobelle be silent from an awful feeling which

steal over her frame, and forbid remark. a tap at the door rouse they

from the silence of many minute; it be Thompson with a message from

Lady Wetheral, request her daughter's presence. Christobelle look

at her father with alarm; her hour be arrive, when the thing of

this world must no long appear like a vision of beauty; her life, in

future, would be a lengthened chain of annoyance, and she must bend to

the destiny which await she. she follow Thompson to her mother's

apartment, where she have seclude herself since Lady Kerrison's

marriage, in terror; but Sir John have smile upon the movement, and

Christobelle could not escape her lot. she be certain of an unpleasant

reception, but restrain her tear from flow. Lady Wetheral be

seat near her work-table, upon which six wax-light stand burn.

she look up.



"oh! you be come, Bell: there, sit down, for I cann't bear any one

to come near I, heat the atmosphere. I think you be grow tall

and gawky with your visit; it's very odd you should be so much plainer

than your sister. I suppose Isabel be very busy with her boy, poor

thing! I hope all her child will be boy; girl be great plague.

your father will not allow I to see poor dear Clara, and there be no

settlement make upon she, which worry I to death. suppose Sir Foster

die, and Clara should become a widow without any provision; I cann't

be trouble with any of you again. I cann't be annoy with daughter

return upon I, when I have take such pain to establish they. I be

extremely worried about Clara, and my spirit be sink fast; not a

soul to take care of I. Thompson on the eve of marrying!--nonsensical

stuff! servant, of all people, marry! Daniel cann't settle fifty

pound upon Thompson, and so I tell she, simpleton!"



Christobelle have nothing to offer in the way of consolation; she be

always under a spell before her mother. her tone of voice, too, be

irritable, and the fear of offend close her daughter's lip from

answer. Lady Wetheral proceed.



"you be awkward and dumb as ever, Bell: don't wriggle in your chair,

and look so intolerably stupid. I think Boscawen would have talk

or read you into something like ease of manner. I shall be tire

to death with your abrupt motion revolve round I. I must make

you useful in your influence over your father, Bell; and you must

contrive to gain his consent to our visit at Ripley. your poor

father be become very selfish in many thing. I mean to pay a visit

of a few week to Bedinfield, but the dowager have send I a letter I

cann't understand. your father say the purport of it be to decline my

company, but I could see no purport at all. the pynsent be in France,

and I never like Boscawen; therefore I ought not to be refuse my poor

Clara's society. this be dreadful seclusion, and I have this little

illumination to drive away blue devil. I never see Sir John now; my

influence be quite go."



it be necessary Christobelle should now endeavour to enter into

conversation, and assist, as far as lie in her power, to console and

amuse the disquietude of her mother's mind. she, therefore, inquire

if it be a true report concern Anna Maria's return to England.



"yes, Anna Maria be on the point of return from Paris, very much

against my wish; she will be only a secondary person at Hatton, and

their complaint be very foolish about that fine city. I think every

thing have go wrong since my daughter marry; I have not be well

or happy since Clara leave I, and never shall be again."



"I hope you will, mamma; I will do all I can to please you."



"what can you do?" reply her mother, quickly, and with considerable

irritation in her tone; "you be too young to establish, or to think

about it these three year; how can _you_ please I? I be decline at

Bedinfield by the dowager, who, I be sure, manage her son and his

wife, for neither of they add a line to regret my postponement, if it

_be_ one; but I could not understand it. my daughter Pynsent cannot

ask I to Hatton when she return; she will be a guest herself. I must

not see Clara; and if I do, she have no settlement. what pleasure have

accrue to I from their splendid match?"



none, certainly, as far as Christobelle could judge from her mother's

complaint, but surely Brierly be a home of happiness; she tell she so.



"Brierly may suit _you_, Bell, but what amusement would it be to I?

Isabel spoil her figure and disorder her dress, by carry a

heavy child about all day; Miss Boscawen sit upright like all the

generation of old maid; and Boscawen keep only a pair of horse,

and never entertain the neighbourhood! I should be shock and

distress all day."



"they be so happy, mamma!"



"I dare say, Bell: so be the pig when they have clean straw and

plenty to eat. I cann't fancy any thing but merely animal enjoyment at

brierly."



who could reply to such determined obliquity of reasoning? Christobelle

perceive, indeed, that four splendid match have fail to produce

pleasure to her mother's mind. each establishment appear clog

with an evil, which overbalance their boasted worth and magnificence.

deeply as she covet, and have labour for her daughter' wealthy

suitor, the affluence of their position could now give no

satisfaction. the excitement be over, the object be attain; and

the disadvantage connect with each be now as fluently expatiate

upon as be once their glory and their triumph. all this language of

complaint, this unexpected and unfounded source of grievance, pain

and dispirit Christobelle. it be ceaseless in its flow, and hurtful

in its consequence, to herself.



Lady Wetheral's nature and temper be change in her daughter's eye:

that agreeable fascination of manner, which so often soften away an

abrupt expression, be depart; the playful tone of voice and action,

which have so long hold powerful influence over her husband's mind,

be no more. her ladyship become seclude and irritable, pine over

Clara's banishment, regret the absence of her settlement, and

offend at her own banishment from Bedinfield, till it become painful

to approach she; and Christobelle's spirit sink under the confinement

and terror of her presence. she become ill; and her father's anxiety

seek a remedy for the evil she endure, by issue a pardon to the

error of Lady Kerrison, and admit the family to a renewal of its

ancient association. this prove the signal for domestic peace.



Lady Wetheral, eager to profit from the permission so tardily bestow,

fly immediately to Ripley: the carriage be at the door in a quarter

of an hour after peace have be declare; and she quit her solitary

apartment, in the highest apparent health and spirit. during her

absence, Thompson appear before Christobelle, and beg she would

apologize to her lady for a step she felt call upon to take during

her lady's absence, for many reason. Christobelle inquire with

surprise to what she allude.



"oh, for ever, Miss Chrystal! I think the fashion of runaway match

be come into vogue at Wetheral. I have have many conversation with

my lady; but, really, they have be of so unpleasant a nature, that I

must beg to take french leave, as Miss Clara do. assure her ladyship,

if you please, Miss Chrystal, of my sorrow at be oblige to part

in this cursory sort of way; but, as I be engaged to marry Mr. Daniel

to-morrow morning, it be useless to argue the affair any long. I

hope, Miss Chrystal, you will do I the honour to call upon I, and

take tea, some fine Sunday, with we. we shall always be sensible of the

attention."



Christobelle stare at Thompson's disclosure; but she be dress

for departure, and appear anxious to be go. Christobelle say

her mother would miss her service, and who be to succeed she in

perform those which Lady Wetheral require? Thompson smile.



"my dear Miss Chrystal, my lady will not be very much surprised, for

I have threaten some time to leave suddenly. I have be bait

like a bull, these two month, about Mr. Daniel; and yet, miss, the

church enjoin matrimony to servant as well as other people. Mr.

Daniel quote St. Paul, to prove the thing. however, I decline any more

controversy; for, my lady, she lose her temper now: therefore, I shall

be much oblige by your inform she of this step."



Christobelle give the require assurance, that she would herself name

the affair to her mother; and Thompson, after make her adieus, and

repeat the pleasure she should feel in receive Miss Chrystal to

tea, quit Wetheral and its eventful scene, to seek a new home, and

become the property of Daniel Higgins.



Christobelle be read with her father a scene in Macbeth, when

Lady Wetheral enter. she have return from Ripley; and the extreme

paleness of her countenance, her tremble hand, and quiver lip,

announce some fearful accident or event. she lay her hand upon her

husband's shoulder, and look in his face, but do not utter a word.

Sir John grasp her hand, and bade she be compose; but his lady's

distress prevent all utterance for some moment: at length, a deep

sob relieve she, and she speak in hurry accents--



"John--the brute have beat she!"



Sir John fear his lady's intellect be shake by some horrible

accident: he again take both her hand, and seat she, beseech she

to gain calmness, and explain the cause of her agitation. Lady Wetheral

place her hand upon her heart, and weep for some time in silence.

it be distress to look upon she, suffering, without possess a

knowledge of its cause, or be able to soothe its violence. a pause

ensue, till the paroxysm of weeping relieve her heart, and enable

she to account for the extraordinary emotion. she take her husband's

hand, and speak in broken sentence.



"John, I do not believe Sir Foster's temper be so bad as people

represent--I do not think he would use Clara ill; or, indeed,

John, she should never have enter Ripley, to be treat like his

spaniel--oh, John!"



"tell I, at once, Gertrude, what you mean," say her husband, calmly.



"I go to Ripley, John, to give my daughter the delightful information

of your having overlook her little fault; and I enter the

sitting-room, where Clara and Sir Foster be quarrel, oh, so

dreadfully!--I be exceedingly shocked--I do not think a daughter

of mine would ever quarrel as Clara do, with her husband--it be

so underbred--so very vulgar! Sir Foster swear he would kick Clara,

if she persevere in her assertion--it be all about a wretched

fishmonger.--Clara persist, and my child be knock down before my

eye--I see my beautiful Clara upon the ground; her feature swell,

and her dear face crimson. oh, John, I never see such a scene!"



Lady Wetheral again weep, and proceed brokenly to describe she

feeling and continue her account.



"I never feel so distressed and shock in my life! I have always

inculcate the propriety of command their temper into my daughter'

mind. I always lay great stress upon the bad taste of make scene

for servant to report and comment upon. I be sure I lecture my girl

by the hour, on the necessity of keep up appearance, and avoid

scene--public scene--which the neighbourhood must ridicule. I cannot

bear that Clara should become an object of ridicule. what will Mrs.

Pynsent say? nothing can equal my shocked feeling. I tell Sir Foster,

he be a brute, too disgusting and monstrous for remark or notice from

_I_; and I assure Clara, her violence of temper have do little

credit to my instruction, and ruin her appearance most cruelly. my

observation be of no avail; Clara persist in assert the odious

fishmonger be right in his charge, as she raise herself from the

ground, and another blow be strike. oh, John, I leave my child bleed

on the ground--neither of they listen to I, or reply to I. what

can be do to hush up this dreadful scene, for my cry bring in

three footman? oh, John, what be to be do?"



her ladyship's tear again flow copiously.



"I will go, instantly, to Ripley," say Sir John, seriously, but

calmly. "Chrystal, my love, be ready to accompany I in ten minute."



"I shall want Bell to talk to, my love--don't take that great girl with

you, every where."



"I particularly wish to point out to my daughter's notice the misery

and crime of connect herself with a man whose only virtue be the

possession of rich, Gertrude. make haste, Chrystal; the carriage will

be round in ten minute."



Christobelle fly to her room, and prepare to accompany her father.

when she return to the study, it be empty. Lady Wetheral have

return to her apartment, and Thompson be no long there to receive

and assist she. Christobelle be on the point of ascend the stair,

to make known her flight, but the carriage be already at the door, and

her father call for she. she enter the carriage as her mother's

bell ring furiously, but time be too precious for delay; the order be

give, and they proceed towards Ripley with rapidity.









CHAPTER XV.





Sir John Wetheral speak very seriously to his daughter during their

rapid transit: he point out the crime of sacrifice principle and

content upon earth, to bow to idol which tempt the bad passion of

human nature, and give the soul to mammon. he lay before her notice

the fate of those who forget their maker's injunction, to care for

their soul, and not for the body; and who strove for earthly thing,

without consider they could not carry they to that place, where the

innocent and upright spirit alone could be triumphant.



Christobelle listen to her father's mild admonition in silent,

please attention, and her heart drink in the holiness of the subject,

and the justice of his remark; but when he change his tone and

subject, to charge himself with negligence, in allow his lady's

influence to prevail over his well reason--when he take blame

to himself for allow the marriage of Julia, so contrary to his

own wish, to a man so little calculate to make she happy, and

prophecie, in melancholy accent, that his grey hair would be bring

in sorrow to the grave, by his own unpardonable indolence, and blind

affection--_then_ she weep to hear he, and press his hand to her

heart.



"do not say so, papa--do not die, or what will become of I?"



he smile at her energy.



"I be not go before my appoint time," he say, put one arm

round her waist. "I shall not leave _you_, Chrystal, unprotected,

whenever that time may arrive, for your mind be store with those

precept which can mitigate the evil of this world. you have a parent,

my child, who be not a fallible father, such as I be, and to he I

commit you, and do commit you from your birth. you be give up

exclusively to I, with your poor mother's consent--indeed, by she

express wish--and I have endeavour to lead your mind to those

truth which must advance your happiness. I have lead you, Chrystal, to

the fountain of living water, and from that fountain you will drink

the cup of tribulation, but it will be sweeten by the knowledge that

it come from his hand--that all trial be send to the good, to see

if their faith be sincere, and their patience an abide trust in he

who give and take away. if, Chrystal, your earthly father be take

away, and your home break up, remember that Father above, and remember

that house make without hand, promise to all who walk steadily and

faithfully to the end."



Christobelle's heart be wring with the seriousness of her father's

word, and the peculiar tone in which they be utter: it seem

that he be prepare to leave for ever the home, and the study, which

have shelter her youth from every storm, and have be the scene of

their daily and long communion together. if her father be no more,

who besides Isabel would cherish his companion, and love she as he

have do? who would save she from her mother's irony, and soothe her

increase irritability towards she? Christobelle become wild with the

idea of his early death, and, clasp her hand, cry, "oh! dearest

papa, don't talk so--don't frighten I, and promise not to leave I."



"Nay, Chrystal," he reply, soothingly, "do not alarm yourself; I be

here in present health; and I trust, for some year to come, to be

allow to watch over you. I _speak_ seriously, because my word will

be remember by you hereafter, when I may not be near to give counsel;

and I _think_ seriously, because Clara's unhappy marriage may affect

her conduct and character: she be too young to escape the contamination

of pass her life with Sir Foster Kerrison."



Sir John become agitated as they turn into Ripley Park, and draw

near the house which hold his unfortunate daughter: he wish to

gain firmness with gentleness for the approach interview, and

he mutter several time, quickly, "I hope I shall not forget

myself!--God help I, I hope I shall not forget myself!" he be

agitated even to nervousness, when they drive past the conservatory,

and the bell peal their arrival; but Christobelle be then too

young and inexperienced to be useful, or even to understand the depth

of a parent's agony. she follow he in silence to the hall and into

the sit-room, where Clara lie extend upon a chaise-longue, with

a bandage round one arm, and a severe bruise upon her eye. she rise,

upon their entrance, with self-possession, and, apparently, with utter

oblivion regard the past, for her eye flash with angry feeling,

and she speak only of the present moment, and of her own distress.



"you be come to witness a pretty scene at Ripley, papa, and to

congratulate Sir Foster, of course, upon be the great brute in

Shropshire. pray see if 'brute' be not legibly stamp upon my arm, and

write upon my left eye. look at this, papa."



Clara draw the bandage from her arm, and a dreadful sight present

itself: her anger rise as she gaze upon it.



"if my absence should give _one_ qualm to that brute, I would never see

his face again; but I will plague his heart out!"



her father be greatly shocked: he be offend and disturb by the

exhibition of Clara's temper, but he detest the cowardly violence

of a man who could strike a helpless wife, even through extent of

provocation: his first movement be to insist upon her return home.

"return with I to Wetheral, Clara, instantly; I will not see you

treat like a slave, or bear that my daughter should be strike down

like a dog, by a coward! Clara, return to your home, and I will tell

Sir Foster he shall reach you again through my heart."



Clara shake her head. "Papa, I det Sir Foster; and I would

willingly fly to the wild of America, if that distance would free

I from his brutal presence--but my mother would speak bitterly to

I. she drive I to Ripley by everlasting persuasion, and I will not

bear her taunt at my return. my mother have do this by her love of

high establishment, and I be marry! she tell I this morning, anger

ruin my appearance; but _she_ have ruin my happiness. nevertheless,

I'll plague his torpid heart, and torment he by day and by night! he

shall feel that I can strike, too, in another way!"



"Clara," cry her father, "let I not hear such dreadful threatening

from a young woman's lip...."



"I will threaten!" interrupt Lady Kerrison, start to her foot;

"and I will do it! be I to be bearded on every side, without revenge?

I be passionate by nature, but I be rage with ill-usage, and I'll

torment he--yes, I will retort upon he faithfully!"



such language from a youthful and beautiful creature seem to stun she

father; and Christobelle stand petrify at such a display of female

intemperance. could this be Clara, her own sister? be this irritable

creature the sister of Isabel, of Julia, of Anna Maria? as she stood

bare her arm, and fix her eye upon her father, she look a

Pythoness unveil future woe and tribulation to the enemy of her

country.



Clara be yet stand, when Sir Foster walk into the room, tap

his boot, and hum his usual air: the same smile be upon his

lip, and the same vacant expression be upon his feature: he nod

familiarly to his guest, as though their parting be but of yesterday,

and he sit down in his capacious-cushion arm-chair as quietly, and

with the same enjoyment, as formerly. his eye glance at Clara, and a

chuckle sound proceed from his throat--the same note of internal

gratification which issue in the boudoir, when Lucy Kerrison detail

his prowess with the fishmonger. Clara understand its meaning, and she

point towards he with a bitter contempt.



"there he sit, smile and curl his audacious lip, as if he be

think of any thing but cowardice and cruelty! would you imagine

that man could strike a woman to the ground, for uphold justice and

right?"



Sir Foster wink his eye with the rapidity which denote observation;

his colour rise at Clara's remark, but he do not reply. why do Clara

persevere?



"would you think _that_ animal, call a man, ever rise from his

dulness to revenge himself upon my person, for affront he dare not

revenge upon a fishmonger?"



Sir Foster be rouse: he approach Clara, and hold her arm. "will you

hold your tongue, or I'll kick you to the devil!"



"no, I will not hold my tongue: I tell you the man be

right--right--right--he be right--if I die say it! now, will you

dare touch I before my father, coward?"



"oh, Clara!" Christobelle exclaim, "do not persist in use provoke

word--oh, be like Isabel!"



"I'll be Clara Wetheral," she reply, indignantly; "I will never

submit to tyranny, or crouch to brutality. I would spurn a quarrel

about a salmon! beat a woman about a salmon!--is there a coward upon

earth who would dare have act as this man have do?"



Sir Foster appear irritated to the top of his bent, and his hand

be raise to strike. Sir John Wetheral could be silent no long; he

call to his son-in-law, in pierce tone, "Kerrison, be a man!" Sir

Foster do not touch Clara--he turn away with a great effort, and

resume his seat; but he close his fist, and shake it at his wife.



"if I don't wallop you some day properly!"



"ay, when the fishmonger return," answer Clara, in taunt tone.



the father's distress at witness this scene cannot be describe.

a parent may feel with he the desolation of heart he endure, as

he listen to his daughter's unadvised and unwomanly rail, and

comprehend his deeply-pain, disgusted feeling--but no pen can depict

it. he stand for some moment unable to master his emotion; and, to all

appearance, he be bow down under its influence. Christobelle be

sure the effect of this scene would have a fearful result, and that his

mind would dwell upon the reckless conduct of Clara, and her future

destiny, till his health would suffer. when utterance return to his

open lip, which have essay in vain to move, Sir John advance to

Sir Foster, and speak kindly, but firmly.



"I have see a dreadful quarrel between two people, who be my near

relation, and who have be marry three month: this be a sight, Sir

Foster...."



"Plaguy devil!" mutter Sir Foster.



"I have see great provocation on Clara's part, but I beseech you never

to lay your hand upon my daughter, as you hope to see your own child

happy in marriage."



"his boy be brute already," exclaim Clara, haughtily.



"Peace, Clara," reply her father, "and hear I, while I call upon

_you_, by the affection I have ever feel, and the kindness I have

shew, to be gentle and obedient to your husband."



a laugh of contempt break from Lady Kerrison. "yes, papa, obey an

hyena, and be gentle to a tyrant!"



"D---- I, if I stand this!" cry Sir Foster, provoke beyond

endurance, and, seize a heavy volume from the table, he hurl it at

Clara's head: it miss its aim, and fall at Christobelle's foot. Clara

again laugh contemptuously. Christobelle rise in alarm, but her fear

be not for herself; she throw her arm round Sir Foster, in terror,

and implore he to overlook her sister's conduct. she find fluency

of speech, as she besought he to bear with her temper, and take no

notice of her remark. she implore he to think of her dear father,

and to promise he would never strike Clara, let her conduct be ever so

provoking. "oh, leave the room, Sir Foster, when Clara become angry,

but do not throw such dreadful thing at her!--do not commit murder in

your passion!"



Sir Foster wink his eye during this address, and smile, but

Christobelle could perceive all decorum be banish between they, for

he reply with coarseness, "I'll serve she out, if she jaw in that

style."



it be impossible to interfere with Sir Foster and his lady, when each

party forget prudence and propriety alike. it be but too evident

that Clara disdain to conciliate, and that she render her husband

furious by unfeminine and violent opposition. from the coarse mind

of Sir Foster also, that mind which Sir John have deprecate--which

his lady have palliate--which every one connect with Ripley

deplore--from such a mind, under the influence of provocation, nothing

but abusive language could proceed, or violent conduct be elicit.

it be therefore incumbent upon Clara to obey the wish of a man

with whom her life must pass away in wrangling, should she oppose his

measure. but Clara have never curb the strength of her passion:

her mother's influence have never be exert to reach and amend that

peccant part, and, as the wife of Sir Foster, those passion increase

to the threaten destruction of her happiness and respectability. it

be impossible the present state of thing could exist. Sir Foster or

Clara must yield in time, and who be to watch the conflict?



Sir John Wetheral place his hand upon the bell-rope, and wave his

hand to demand attention. he beseech they to heed his word, ere he

ring for the carriage to convey he from a scene which have harrow

up his soul; this be no time for reproach and recrimination; he

would reproach no one; he perceive both party be in fault, and

he trust they would both see their mutual error. "it be grand in a

man," he say, "to overlook a wife's failing; her helplessness, her

weakness, demand indulgence, and a woman never look so lovely in

the eye of God and man, as in her performance of the duty allot

she. he would now depart, firmly believe he be quit two rational

being, responsible for their breach of vow to a high authority than

himself. he would hope all thing; he would hope, nay, he be certain,

each party regret the transaction of the day, and he trust

all remembrance of its bitterness be end. he must now return to

Wetheral."



Sir Foster make no reply in word: he attend to his father-in-law's

gentle admonition, because his usual wink motion and smile

evidence his power of hearing; but Clara betray her withdraw

attention by the half-close eye and head avert. when her father

approach to take leave, she salute he with affection, and express

a desire to see he often at Ripley.



"come very often, papa, pray, and see if I be alive. don't leave I

quite in the power of the brute around: the five boy be enough to

kill a giantess, and the next book throw at my head may do mischief."



oh that propensity to repeat and allude to past disagreeable! not a

shadow of tact have descend to Clara from her mother, to preserve

domestic peace. the reckless speech again wake up contention; for Sir

Foster advocate his own system of education, by exclaiming,--"Hold

your tongue, will you?"



"I shall _not_ be silent," retort Clara: "don't expect to make I

subservient to your vulgar prejudice, as your first wife be compel

to be. I insist upon say your five boy be like your terrier in

every particular."



the presence of her father check the action which would, under other

circumstance, have deal heavy punishment upon the speaker. Sir Foster

grind his tooth, but the closed fist attest his intention, and the

respect which induce the effort to curb his resentment. Clara see the

effect of her father's presence upon his mind, and madly take advantage

of the moment to continue her invective.



"they be terrier in their feature, terrier in disposition, and

terrier in their feeding."



Sir Foster become pale with rage: he be a man of few word, but

his wrath be terrible to witness. he call down every imprecation

upon his lady's head, and vow most fearfully to "wallop she" the

first convenient opportunity. Sir John hasten Christobelle from

the contemplation of such dreadful look, and from the sound of such

horrible word. he withdraw with she as their voice rise high in

altercation, and leave the scene of turbulence far, far behind.



Christobelle have indeed see the misery of a match form upon the

baseless fabric of worldly rich. she see it be unblest and full

of woe. their drive to Wetheral be silent and sad, for there be

that upon the father's mind which banish repose. Clara's nature be

too fearless and too violent to render she an object of esteem, or

even to awaken compassion in her lot. her determined insolence, and

contemptuous bearing, towards her husband--her daring manner, and

offensive observation, be insupportable to the eye and the ear. it

be impossible to advocate the cause of a being, however youth might

plead extenuation, who have deliberately and clandestinely marry

Sir Foster Kerrison, in defiance of her father's strongly express

objection, yet, in three month' matrimony, dare to the uttermost the

passion of her choose companion for life.



much as her father sorrow over his daughter's destiny, he could not

uphold her cause; her passion be too powerful, too unrestrained

for his interference; he could not upbraid Sir Foster, when he have

witness the provocation give by Clara, and he could not again offer

his home to a disobedient wife. Clara must henceforth be a warning

to her acquaintance, a beacon-light to warn they from the peril she

have scorn, defy, and sink under. but who have guide Clara to this

perilous position? who have teach her youth to covet wealth, and stake

her happiness against title and affluence without reflection?



oh, mother! what do you gain upon this pass scene, by barter

your child's welfare for a tinkling sound?--what will you gain

hereafter, when the soul commit to your care on earth be require

at your hand? be the atheist, the gambler, the reckless, and

blasphemer, to receive they, and become responsible for their lose

state at the great account? I tell you it be not so; you have sell

their mind to mammon, and you shall answer for that you have receive,

and have not give back.



Lady Wetheral have discover Thompson's flight when Sir John and

Christobelle return to Wetheral, and her indignation be extreme. to

be leave by a menial in that offensive manner be degrading; but that

Thompson should have fly from her duty, to enter matrimony, be

disgusting. Thompson marrying! and with all the mystery of an heiress

too! it be an insult she have not believe Thompson would have presume

to offer; but every thing be wrong, every thing be most wretched

since her daughter have marry. what be now leave to she but poor Sir

John, who be half a methodist, and an awkward girl, who be as learn

as she be plain? it be very odd her intention to visit Bedinfield have

be frustrate. she suppose all her child intend to decline she

visit.



with these idea and feeling, it be not to be suppose Lady Wetheral

could be happy; and her disappointed mind prey upon her health and

temper. Christobelle be the victim of this state of thing; she could

never be sufficiently attentive or sufficiently agreeable; she be

tiresome, awkward, or learn; she be to be an old maid, a nuisance

in society, an arguing, philosophical excrescence, whom people would

avoid and detest; she have not half the sense and conversation of poor,

dear Thompson. Christobelle's spirit flee under constant and frivolous

exertion of the power of tormenting. she be seat in the boudoir,

with Lady Wetheral, one morning at work, not many day after the

scene at Ripley; the irritability of her temper be increase by the

recollection of former day and former employment. she commence she

usual complaints.--



"I think I be bad in health and spirit when I sit in this room; it

put I in mind of my poor daughter, who be go. I be now quite

deserted and forlorn; not one of they invite I to their home!"



Christobelle mention Brierly and the affection of its inmate.



"Fiddlestick, Bell! you be always quote Brierly! I don't like

Boscawen. I have no opinion of a man who allow his wife to be drive

by a pair of horse, when he can afford four--I dislike avarice. and

Isabel would make I so nervous, by carry a great heavy baby about,

and disorder her dress! I shall never visit brierly."



"the pynsent will be home soon, mamma."



"what's that to I, Bell? you don't suppose I shall stay at Hatton, and

hear Mrs. Pynsent's remark about Ripley, and Clara's folly in come

to an open rupture with her husband? the Tom Pynsents should have

accept Hatton when it be first propose to they. I shall not visit

there till Anna Maria be mistress of the property."



"but you will go to poor Clara, mamma."



"what be I to go to Ripley for?--to see my daughter ill-treat, or be

treat myself with indifference? Clara have no business to make herself

conspicuous by quarrel. I wish, Bell, when you do vouchsafe to

talk, that you would choose well subject to converse upon. your poor

father's education have only fit you to be a nuisance. I hate girl

with book in their hand, and dulness on their tongue."



Christobelle change the conversation.



"Mamma, your worsted work look beautiful upon that ottoman; I could

almost fancy that rise have perfume, it be so natural."



"just the opinion of a girl who follow a man's occupation, instead of

her own feminine amusement: have you any knowledge of work, you would

have think otherwise." her mother give a glance of disdain at the

ottoman.



"I assure you, mamma, I understand all the stitch. Miss Boscawen

teach I."



"one old maid teach another, Bell."



"I don't think I shall dislike be single, mamma. Miss Boscawen look

so beautifully dress, so clean, not at all like your description of

old maid."



"if you have any anxiety to be establish like your sister, Bell, you

might please and amuse I in my seclusion. no one come near I now,

not even Miss Wycherly, who be always at Wetheral with Julia. I don't

understand it. you might bring about an intimacy with Frank Kerrison,

Bell, and ask he here to read with you. he will inherit Ripley, you

know."



"Mamma, I don't like Frank Kerrison, he swear so."



"Nonsense, you matter-of-fact thing: if he swear now, it do not

follow he will always swear."



"but papa say, it be seldom leave off. I don't like Frank, he be so

violent with his sister."



"but you would be his wife, not his sister, child. what stupid notion

you have!"



the hall-bell ring violently. Lady Wetheral's eye brightened.--



"some one have arrive at last to amuse I. I hope it be Penelope come

to ask we to her marriage. she ought to do so, for Julia's sake."



the door open, and Clara enter, to their great astonishment. she

seat herself with perfect coolness.



"there," say she, "now let the brute seek I in my father's house!"



"my dear Clara, what bring you to Wetheral?--is Sir Foster with

you?--will you dine here?" ask Lady Wetheral, in delighted accent.

"I cannot tell you how a little society charm I in this dull place.

you have make up that foolish fracas, my love, and you be both come to

dine with I: be that it?"



"I be certainly come to dinner, and to sleep too," reply Clara,

take up the work which Christobelle have drop in surprise. "where

be your thimble, Bell? I will finish this sprig for you."



"but, Sir Foster, my love--where be Sir Foster?"



"I really cannot say: perhaps, kick the nurse-maid, as I be not at

Ripley to stand in their place."



"be you alone, then, Clara?"



"I hope so. I mean to be alone for some time."



"my dear Clara, you surely have not be quarrel again!"



"again! oh, no! it have be one long-continue quarrel ever since I

marry!"



"I be really shocked at your conduct, my dear love. how often I have

implore you all to avoid scene when you marry! my dear Clara, you

must remember my earnest instruction. this be a sad dereliction from

good taste!"



"you should not have marry I to a brute," exclaim Clara, become

impetuous.



"Clara, I be not at your side, when you elope with Sir Foster," cry

her mother, in a vindicating tone.



"perhaps not; but you may remember the mean you take to induce I to

elope, mamma. you do not know the moment; but you be aware of the

intention, bring on by your own hint and anxiety to see I at

Ripley. Bell can bear witness to your remark and innuendo."



"I be sure Bell cannot," reply Lady Wetheral, in alarm.



"Bell can, though! Bell, I charge you to reply to my question. do not

my mother induce I to run away with my brute? speak truly."



"you cannot say so, Bell," say Lady Wetheral, burst into tear.



"Bell, answer truly!" and Clara drag she from her chair, to stand

before she. Christobelle struggle to get free; but Clara grasp she

with a force she could not resist. "now, Bell, tell my mother the

glaring truth!"



"I will not be question--I will not speak--let I go, Clara, let I

go!"



"go, then, stupid fool, too weak to utter the truth!" Clara release

her grasp, and Christobelle flee to a distant chair, to remain a

spectator of the ensue scene.



"Clara," say her mother, reproachfully, "what could induce you to

blame _I_, for your own impolitic conduct? if I wish to see you the

wife of a man stand high in situation, I never counsel you to

forget the propriety of life."



"you hold up Sir Foster to my view, as a match which you pray for,

and desire I never to relinquish," retort Clara, with passionate

energy. "you have marry I to a heartless brute, and now you turn

against I!"



"no, Clara, I do not deserve that reproach; your temper be too violent

for your peace, or mine." her mother weep.



"I know my temper be like the whirlwind, but you never complain of

it, or subdue it! you only bid I conceal it when Lucy come here, till

I be actually the wife of a monster! I cannot conceal it now, for it

chafe under ill treatment. oh, if you have but check it in childhood,

to meet this extremity!" Clara grow almost madly passionate and

vehement; she throw herself upon her knee before her weep mother.

"if ever my misery exceed my forbearance, it will be your doing, oh!

hard-hearted mother! you have sell I to a wretch who will drive I

to desperation, and you must answer for it! my temper be warm--I know

it--but any other man would not have make I despise he so horribly. I

have provoke he, and I _will_ provoke he; but it be your doing, for

I do not understand a man's brutal nature. I think they be all

like my father!"



Lady Wetheral become almost convulse with agitation. "ring for

Thompson--Thompson, Bell!" alas! Thompson be no long at Wetheral;

but Christobelle be acquaint with her mother's way, and bring the

usual remedy to her hand. she do not avail herself of their use;

her mind be too deeply occupy to heed they: she push her daughter

aside, without be aware of the action.



"Clara, I never think a child's reproach would rise against I! I do

not imagine a daughter could raise her voice against a parent, who have

seek so unceasingly the happiness of her married life."



"in what way, in what way?" demand Clara, throw herself on the

ground with a movement of despair.



"I secure the luxury of life to you, Clara."



"oh, folly, folly!"



"I secure to you a proper position in society, Clara."



"oh, folly, folly!" continue Lady Kerrison.



"I be anxious to see you enter life, court, admire, and envy, my

dear Clara."



"_who_ admire and envy I?" cry Clara, start to her foot.

"_who_ envy my situation, or would change place with such a wretched

creature? by the Heaven which witness the sacrifice of my youth and

hope of happiness, I would willingly exchange with the humblest woman

who break stone for her daily bread, and devour it in peace! oh,

Chrystal, never marry while you live!"



the exertion of complaint, and the powerful passion which war

in the soul of Clara, exhaust her strength after this vehement

exposition of her suffering; and she lie upon the sofa, like a child

who have sob itself into silence. it be a solemn sight to see so

young and fair a creature, so deeply engage in the strife of passion

and contention; the expression of her countenance be already tinge

with angry feeling, and her beautiful mouth be lose its attitude

of repose: if such be Lady Kerrison's vehemence of character at this

early period of her marriage, what would become of she in after-year?



Clara fall into a doze, which continue till the hall-bell again

announce a visitor. Lady Wetheral, also, endeavour to acquire

a composure which would not appear at her call; Lady Kerrison's

reproach have startle and destroy her tranquillity. her hand

tremble under their effort to resume their occupation, and sigh

burst from her bosom. Christobelle be glad the bustle of a fresh

arrival draw near the door, to divert her thought from her sister's

sorrow. Clara start from her sleep, at the sound of approach

voice, and rise from her couch. the servant announce Sir Foster

Kerrison.



Sir Foster walk fiercely towards his lady, without take notice

of Lady Wetheral or Christobelle, who stand amazed, as he advance

to the sofa; he do not even wink his eye. Clara remain in haughty

expectation of his address, her head throw back, and her eye flash

defiance. "now, sir, be you come to beard I at Wetheral!" be her

indignant exclamation; "be you come here to prove how brutally you can

treat a woman, even in her father's house?"



"go home!" cry Sir Foster. "go home this instant!"



"I will never return, if there be a roof elsewhere to shelter I!"

return his lady. "I be weary of existence under a tyrant's power."



"you willn't? who be master at Ripley?" Sir Foster raise Clara in his

arm, and, in spite of her resistance, he be carry she from the

boudoir. Lady Wetheral endeavour to interfere; she beseech Sir

Foster not to commit himself before the servant--before the world--by

use force towards his wife; but he heed not her observation, or

her prayer. Clara be bear into the hall, unable to contend with the

grasp which detain her prisoner. in vain she scream, "oh, father,

my father, save I!" he be not within hearing. in vain she vehemently

threaten to plague her husband, till life should be a burden to

he: Sir Foster make no reply. before the household, who assemble at

the pierce cry of Lady Kerrison, before the Ripley servant, who

be station with the carriage, do Sir Foster bear his lady to the

hall-door, and, order his footman to their post, Clara be place

in the carriage by main force. she struggle violently to regain she

liberty, but her delicate limb be unequal to the conflict; she

sink back almost faint with her useless effort; and, Sir Foster

take his place by her side, nod and wink, and chuckle, as he

exclaim, "done it well, by Jove! Jerry, drive like wink!" the

Ripley carriage dash furiously down the avenue.



Lady Wetheral feel intensely the publicity which accompany Sir Foster

Kerrison's resumption of his wife's society. the action itself be

disagreeable--must be most offensively disagreeable to Clara--but

the manner of the thing, the public display which surround the

whole affair, be inexcusable! it be beyond a doubt now, the affair

of Ripley be discuss in the servant' hall and dining-room

throughout the neighbourhood--a most horrible idea! People might be

as unhappy as they please, and quarrel whenever they feel inclined

so to do, but it be an offence against society, to perpetrate little

misunderstanding before the world. nothing could be in such wretched

taste. Clara be very foolish and impolitic to irritate a man like Sir

Foster, and blame she for the result. she have always caution Clara

and the rest of her girl against scene.



the remembrance of her salutary caution, however, do not operate

upon Lady Wetheral's nerve, or bring calmness to her mind. Clara's

word rang in her ear; and her figure, as she kneel in the attitude

of upbraid, glide before her eye. she could not forget those

pierce expression, "if ever my misery exceed my forbearance, it

will be your doing, oh! hard-hearted mother!" the voice sound through

the house, it follow she into the dressing-room; she complain

to Christobelle that it would haunt she in her sleep, and that her

death would be cause by filial ingratitude, after all her anxiety

to promote her child's welfare. "I be sure these scene be enough to

destroy I, Bell, and I think Thompson might have spare her part in

the transaction. she make my dose of sal-volatile exactly to my taste,

and now in my extremity I dare not touch your mixture, for I dare say

they would excoriate my throat. Mrs. Bevan will never be what Thompson

be; she look perfectly bewildered when I require any thing. Clara have

kill I: ingratitude be, indeed, hard to bear, and it will disgust I

from make any further sacrifice on my own part for other. I shall

not concern myself with your marriage, Bell. marry whom you please;

but, if you marry less well than your sister, never come into my

presence." Christobelle promise never to marry without her concurrence.



"so you all say, and act in defiance when opportunity offer. say

nothing to your father, Bell, about Clara; it be lucky he ride to

Shrewsbury this morning; he would have lay the blame upon I, too; he

always lecture I now: say nothing about it, pray. what be that?"

her ladyship start. "oh, it be that ungrateful voice; it speak quite

plain to I! I be sure I shall have a nervous attack, if that voice

haunt I."



Clara's reproach have sink deeply into Lady Wetheral's heart, though

she affect to carry off this impression with bravery of manner. in

vain she take repeat dose of camphor-julep to still her nerve, and

recover a portion of her spirit; the trembling of her limb increase,

and she acknowledge it would be impossible to meet poor Sir John at

dinner; Christobelle must take her place, and invent any excuse she

please for her absence, so that the truth be conceal from her

husband. she be on no account to hint to he the transaction of

the morning. it be fortunate for Christobelle that her father make

few comment upon his lady's illness during their solitary meal; but

his disposition be perfectly free from suspicion or curiosity, and

conversation turn upon other subject. Christobelle be delighted

by one piece of intelligence on his part. the Tom Pynsents be to

arrive in England the follow week. Mrs. Pynsent and Mrs. Hancock

be in Lewis's shop, and they inform he of their instant return

to Hatton. Paris have not amuse Tom, and he be long to return to

England; they have even come to the resolution of never again quit

Shropshire. Mrs. Pynsent be full of bustle and happiness at the

idea--she would now get Tom back, and thank God all his dog be in

fine condition--not a puppy lose. Tom would find every thing as he leave

it, and Sal Hancock must be off to Lea. Mrs. Hancock wink her eye at

her sister's remark.



"I tell you what, Pen, Tom will know a thing or two, when he come from

France; ten to one but I get into fashion this time."



"you be hang, Sally Hancock!"



"they be not so whitewash in France, Pen. I'll make a good bet our

Tommy have have a 'cherry amy' by this time."



"none of your surmise, Sally Hancock; you know I cann't bear any thing

say about Tom. I'll be hang if I take you home for that fib!"



"faith, you must carry I somewhere, Pen," reply Mrs. Hancock,

coolly; "you cann't leave I and my game-leg here."



"hold your tongue, then, about Tom and 'cherry amys.'"



Sir John think it be time to make his bow to the lady, and he

quit the shop, leave the sister in high altercation. the

quarrel of Mrs. Pynsent and Mrs. Hancock be fortunately as short as

they be frequent and public. ten minute after Sir John's departure

from Lewis's shop, he see Mrs. Hancock upon her sister's arm, walk

with great difficulty and in apparent pain; but both lady be

laugh immoderately, and attract the notice of the passer by from

the loudness of their conversation.



Christobelle trust that Tom Pynsent's return would operate

advantageously upon her mother's spirit, and assist the recovery of

her tone of mind, which appear sink. she could not understand

the extraordinary change which have take place in a person naturally

so active and lively. it appear as though Clara's marriage have

act as a sedative upon her mental and physical energy, and numb

their vigour. she have sink rapidly into a nervous, solitary being,

unequal to every exertion, indifferent to her husband's society, and

dead to all resource. yet be Sir Foster Kerrison the long-covet

object of her wish, and every thought of her heart have be give

to the accomplishment of that most desire union. Clara married Sir

Foster, and obtain Ripley. what then cause this lassitude of body

and mind? this melancholy exhibition of energy unemployed? of time

heavily pass in dull complaining, and nervous misery? her daughter

be highly and wealthily establish; and her view for each have be

promptly and successfully fulfil.



what _could_ produce such a fearful change in the graceful Lady

Wetheral, once, and so lately too, the gayest of the gay; ever

animate, ever pleasing, even to those who know and fear she

matrimonial speculation? because, all that be triumphant have

fled;--because all that be most exciting have pass away. the hope

and fear which have give zest to life be unfortunately at rest, and

there be nothing now to lead on the energy, and compel exertion.

the cause be withdraw, and the effect be fatal to a happiness which

consist in ceaseless anxiety to procure establishment for her

child. all solicitude be now end, and the mind sink, unemployed,

into listlessness. every thing become gloomy in its routine; every

thing be conduct in its usual daily form, but there be no long

the spirit which give animation to ceremony. the shadow still remain,

but the substance have depart, which throw a mantle of gaiety and

brilliance over the proceeding of Wetheral Castle.









CHAPTER XVI.





nothing could exceed Tom Pynsent's pleasure at behold himself again

in England, and at Hatton. the Wetheral party be summon by the

warm-hearted, affectionate mother to attend the arrival of her son,

and rejoice over his "second birth;" and a large party of relative

be invite to dine at Hatton, and celebrate his return. Mrs. Pynsent

particularly desire Christobelle might appear upon the occasion. she

think the young one have suffer enough in the matrimonial line;

and, as that "poor bit of a girl be not old enough to be hawk after

the man," she think the lanky thing ought to be allow to enjoy

herself for a few year, and begin her pleasure by rejoice over

Tom's arrival. Sir John Wetheral decide that Christobelle should

accept the invitation; and his lady offer no objection, though her

daughter could not feel gratified by her remark.



"oh! go, by all mean, Bell, as Mrs. Pynsent wish you to meet Anna

Maria. you and your father, of course, must hunt in couple; your

taste be so similar and so agreeable. I be much too nervous to join

that coarse party. of course, Mrs. Hancock will be there; I cannot sit

in Mrs. Hancock's company. Anna Maria will come to see I some early

day. I must beg of you not to colour up so vulgarly, when any one

address you, and try not to sit down to any one's table so hungry and

thirsty as you manage to do at home. pray, eat a meal before you set

off, to prevent that dreadfully famished look, Bell."



"I be always hungry with exercise, mamma."



"nothing can be so insupportably in bad taste. I shall not be at

Hatton to shudder under your voracious _exposé_, but I shall imagine

you commit a thousand error. I hope the Farnboroughs will not be

present to observe my young daughter. I suppose I must be content

to remain solitary, and submit to Bevan's attention for that day. my

daughter marry so early have leave I a poor, solitary being."



Christobelle be anxious to be useful, and she try to look cheerful,

as she exclaimed--



"I will remain at home then, mamma, if you please."



"not as a _companion_, Bell. I cannot fancy you presume to offer

yourself as my companion. oh, no! go with your father, by all mean."



Christobelle be accustom to be treat with petulance; it be vain

to hope for any change for the well, and her delight at the idea of

her visit shelter her heart under this blow. how weary it be

to endeavour to please, and yet to prove ever unsuccessful! but the

visit to Hatton would balance much annoyance: she look forward with

intense eagerness to the first dinner engagement which have vary her

existence; and she feel doubly grateful that her first appearance in

public should take place without the fearful accompaniment of her

mother's presence. her father be sure to be kind and encouraging. how

slowly do the day appear to pass by, ere she could be dress for the

festivity of Hatton!



a select number of friend assemble at Hatton on the eventful morning

of Tom Pynsent's arrival. Sir John Wetheral and Christobelle arrive

first, and the Wycherlys, Charles Spottiswoode, and Mrs. Hancock

follow in their own order. _they_ be allow to witness "Tom's"

re-entrance into Hatton--they alone be to witness the restless joy

and expectation which revel in Mrs. Pynsent's heart and eye. none

other possess a claim to intrude upon her son's happiness, or divide

with herself the first word, the look, and the affectionate embrace of

her only child.



Mrs. Pynsent wander round the room, and perambulate the Hall, as

the time steal on towards the expect moment of meeting. the hound

be station in the park, with the whipper-in, to greet their master

and do he honour, by bay deep and loud as he draw towards his home.

the man be array in their hunting costume by Mrs. Pynsent's desire,

that her own dear boy might be surround by all he well love, in

the style he most approve, "for, married or unmarried, her Tom would

love the dog and his old mother to the end of time." Mrs. Hancock

sit silent and quiet till her sister's restless movement rouse she

attention.



"I say, Pen, you've get the stagger."



"how can I be still, Sally Hancock, when I be expect Tom? I cann't

sit like Bobby, there. look at Bobby, sit with his leg cross,

and his face as calm as if Tom be no son of his."



Mrs. Hancock wink upon the company as she call out to Mr.

Pynsent:--"I say, Bob Pynsent, Pen may have--"



Mrs. Pynsent turn quickly upon her sister.



"Sally Hancock, you be quiet now. you know Tom and Bobby, too, willn't

endure your joke. if you begin joke, you will be send back to Lea

before Tom arrive."



Mrs. Hancock be not in the least degree ruffle by the threat.



"none of your great gun, Pen. I'm as silent as a mouse. I think I

should never be silent again though, when we catch Charley Snooks in

the booth that race-day."



"Sally Hancock, what thing you do remember! shall we ever forget

squeeze into the pit of the play-house, and find Polly Sydenham

twig we from the side-box?"



again both sister be plunge into a recital of past levity, and

be laugh immoderately, when the hound send forth their cry,

and run in full chase round the swell of the park which front the

entrance to Hatton. they be lay on the scent of a red-herring,

which have be previously drag round the knoll, the moment the

travel-carriage enter the lodge. this be Mrs. Pynsent's

particular command. she be resolve to celebrate her son's arrival

in a manner most consonant to his taste and feeling, and her heart

prompt this mode of testify her delight at his return. the cry of

the dog be a signal to rush towards the hall-door, and Tom Pynsent

be wave his hat, and tally-hooing with all his might, as the

carriage tear up the serpentine road from the lodge-gate. Mrs. Pynsent

be in ecstacie of joy.



"here, hallo, Bill! fetch your master's horse out in a minute; he have

be saddle these two hour. I know what my Tom will do; his old

mother know he well. Jack Ball! off with you, and turn the colt

into the park. stir along, boy! look at he--bless he! come, Sally

Hancock, let we have a cheer for Tom."



Sally Hancock be nothing loth; she shoulder her stick with the air

of a corporal, and both lady startle their companion by utter

a loud and protract huzza. Tom Pynsent answer the shout. his body

be half way through the carriage window, as he continue wave and

hurrae to the scene before he. at last the carriage draw up, and

Mrs. Pynsent's arm once more encircle her darling son. she hung

round his neck entrance.



"my blessed Tom, my only and sweet boy, your poor mother be happy to

get you back again. the dog and colt, Tom, be well; the hound

all well, my Tommy. your poor mother have look well after they. and

there's your father, wait, Tom, to shake hand--and here's Sally

Hancock!"



Mrs. Pynsent withdraw her arm reluctantly, and her son advance to

shake hand with his father. Mr. Pynsent's mild countenance shone with

pleasure as he congratulate he upon his return, and confess how

much he have miss his society. Tom Pynsent be in tear spirit at

find himself upon Hatton ground, listen to affectionate speech

deliver in pure English again. he shake hand with every one, and

salute every lady.



"how do you all do? how do you do, my fat aunt, Hancock? how do you do,

Pen? why, Spottiswoode, have you wait for I to be your bridegroom's

man? how do you do, Sir John? I have bring home my little woman,

quite rosy, you see--here she be. so, little Miss with the long name,

how be you? upon my soul, you all look 'grass!'" Tom Pynsent hold his

hand to his mouth, and turn again to the hall-door.



"Tally-ho, there!--bring 'em round, Barton!"



the saddled horse be trot up, and Tom Pynsent spring upon his back.

he wave his hand to the company.



"I use no ceremony.--One gallop round the park, and I'll be amongst you

again. Tally-ho, there. Tally-ho!"



the mettle steed plunge and rear under the tighten rein, while

his master speak; but, in an instant, he dash from the door, and the

horse and his rider be see fly down the park, follow by the

whole complement of dog and attendant. Mrs. Pynsent gaze after her

son with proud delight.



"I say, Bobby, there he go! don't I tell you he would love to see

his dog round he? bless he, his mother know his taste. there's

his little wife go off with her father! she do not stay to look

at Tom. _she_ don't care for his whim, Sally Hancock--how should a

Wetheral care for any thing?--I don't, and I cann't, abide a woman who

be indifferent to Tom's whim."



"don't mob the Wetherals, Pen; it's only the old lady: _they_ cann't

help their mother."



"how well Tom sit a horse!" continue Mrs. Pynsent, who could not

withdraw her eye, or mind, from one object, for a moment. "there he

go, neck or nothing!"



Mr. Pynsent remind his lady that Anna Maria be in the drawing-room,

and that she have scarcely welcome she. Mrs. Pynsent snap she

finger.



"Tom be my son, and I'll attend to no one till he return. Pen be with

the young woman. I willn't stir till Tom come back. if the young woman

love Tom as I love he, she would be watch he in his delight

there, look so handsome and happy! I don't like she for leave Tom!"



Mrs. Hancock be quite of her opinion, and Mrs. Pynsent be soften by

her coalition.



"Sally Hancock, you shall dine here, to-day, if you will promise to be

quiet."



"now, Pen, what do I _ever_ say?"



"I be afraid of you, Sally Hancock. you know Tom and Bob willn't bear

your remark. you know you never be fit for lady' society, after

you marry that Hancock."



"what be the matter with Hancock, except he be tipsy or angry, Pen?"



"will you promise to be quiet, if I ask you to stay dinner, Sally

Hancock?"



"I'll try for it, Pen."



"I believe you must return to Lea, after all, Sally Hancock. Tom will

be very angry: he cann't endure your remark."



"fiddle diddle, I'll be very good, to-day: I will, _indeed_, Pen."



Christobelle linger at the hall-door, to enjoy the cheer sight of

the hound, and to watch Tom Pynsent's enjoyment. when that display

be lose to her view, she fly again into the drawing-room, and seat

herself at Anna Maria's foot. Christobelle gaze at her sister, and

fancy four month' absence have affect a change. Mrs. Tom Pynsent

speak with volubility, and her manner be less timid and pleasing.

a very high colour be upon she once pale cheek, and her eye be

unnaturally bright and sparkling: altogether, Christobelle think

her sister Pynsent very much change. when she have again receive a

salutation from her lip, and a brief compliment upon her growth and

appearance, Anna Maria continue her discourse.



"oh, I like every thing exceedingly at Paris, as far as society be

concern: every thing eatable, shocking--but the Count de Nolis

assure I the march of improvement have begin, and would be very

evident when he return. Tom do not like Paris. he feel the want of

sporting, and those sort of noisy pursuit which be disgusting to the

Parisians. the Count de Nolis introduce we to many delightful french

family. I must confess I do not like it at first, but I be sorry to

quit Paris. english custom be so wearisome, after the ease of french

society!"



Sir John Wetheral look surprised at Anna Maria's sentiment, and

he glance his eye upon Christobelle with an anxious expression, as

she sit gaze at her sister. Miss Wycherly be entertain beyond

expression by the change in her manner, and amuse herself by call

forth Anna Maria's remark. she inquire who the Count de Nolis be,

who figure so much in their train.



"the Count! oh, the dear and lively creature you ever see. he be

engage to pay Tom a visit, or rather myself, for I don't think Tom

like he. he will visit we in the autumn. I have be oblige to bring

a French maid home, to dress I, because a lady's maid here be only fit

to dress an english woman."



"have you renounce the title of english woman, Anna Maria?" ask she

father, gravely.



"no, indeed, papa. I shall always be English; but Félicé have such a

way of blend colour, and make up dresses!--You shall judge for

yourself. be there a party, to-day, at dinner; or, be we to have a

_soirée_?"



Mrs. Pynsent and her son enter the room, follow by Mrs. Hancock, as

Anna Maria speak. Tom Pynsent advance to his lady.



"well, little woman, chat away!--Do you see, Sir John, how rosy we

be by our trip? I wish you could have see she talk and chirp to

De Nolis. you would have be surprised."



"my heaven! what a couple of paint cheek!" exclaim Mrs. Pynsent,

in a tone of horror.



"a couple of what?" cry her son, quickly. Anna Maria become

perceptibly distressed: her husband survey she with look of perfect

satisfaction and admiration, entirely unconscious of the cause of her

agitation.



"yes, she be rosy enough now, bless she! I be glad France have do

such wonder for my wife: she look as healthy as the good of they in

Paris. De Nolis advise she to rouge at first. no, none of that, say

I. no wife of mine shall paint, like Jezebal. I be right, you see,

for her cheek soon grow bloom as a rose--didn't they?" he add,

chuck she under the chin.



Miss Wycherly smile. Anna Maria recover her self-possession,

and begin a tirade against English costume, without answer she

mother-in-law's observation. she speak so much more rapidly than

"Miss Wetheral" have ever speak. she seem to have acquire so

much alertness of speech and manner--so much forwardness in make

remark--her eye be so bright, and her cheek bear such a deep

_couleur de rise_, that Christobelle sit in fix attention, watch

her movement. she think Anna Maria remarkably improve in person;

she admire the vivacity of her countenance, and manner; but she

be no long the simple and elegant Anna Maria, so gentle and so

mild--that many opinion have decide she to be insipid. every one

appear watch she with nearly equal surprise and attention. Mrs.

Pynsent stand with her arm akimbo, and her eye root upon her son;

but the other be all earnestly listen to Mrs. Tom Pynsent, as she

comment upon the dreadful _tournure_ of the english fashionist.



"I assure you, Penelope, you could discern an Englishwoman the instant

she appear in the street. her walk be firm and good, but her shawl

and bonnet be only English. I have such a lecture from De Nolis! he make

I put aside all my Shropshire habiliment, and I be oblige to be

entirely refit by Le Boi."



"well, by Jove!" cry Tom Pynsent, "that be not _my_ do: De Nolis

be the lady' favourite, and he turn my little wife's head about

dress. I like she just as well in her stout silk pelisse, that put I

in mind of Wetheral and Shrewsbury."



Anna Maria playfully place her hand upon her husband's lip.



"do be quiet, Tom, and don't be so very english."



Tom Pynsent kiss the little hand which enforce silence, and hold

it in his own capacious palm. Anna Maria draw her chair close to her

husband, and, lean her head against his side as he stand near,

continue her discourse.



"upon my word, papa, I like Paris dearly, but Tom complain of this,

and dislike that. he would not eat his dinner, because it be stew

frog; he say he would not eat frog--he would not drink sour wine--he

would not do any thing to be comfortable."



"I want to come home in a fortnight," say Tom, still play with

his lady's hand; "but my little wife would not listen to I. De Nolis

and herself lead I a pretty dance, I can tell you. hang I, if I

understand their jargon in Paris, and I only know Jack Smith, and Tom

Biddulph, to talk with. Spottiswoode be at Florence; De Nolis jabber

away every where with my wife; while I and Jack amuse ourselves with

quiz Biddulph. my wife have never any leisure to write home, or talk

to _I_."



"my dear Tom!"



"no, I vow you be always laugh and talk with that french

fellow, and his cursed broken English."



"but who ever see I without _you_, Tom? and what pleasure should I

have have, if you have not be close to I?"



Anna Maria clasp her husband's hand with an air and manner so

affectionate, that all heart present feel assured of her domestic

happiness. her father's expressive face became enliven, and Mrs.

Pynsent almost involuntarily give Anna Maria a startling slap upon her

shoulder, as she cried,--



"I'm a happy woman, since my Tom be love by we all alike. I tell you

what, young woman, I fancy you could not love my son, because you

do not remain to witness his delight with the hound; but now, I see

you _do_ love he, though you will never understand his old mother's

fondness."



Anna Maria start at the blow, but she hold out her hand to Mrs.

Pynsent, and assure she every one must love Tom who live with he. he

have linger in Paris against his will to please _she_. he have suffer

every disagreeable annoyance in silence to give _her_ satisfaction; and

Tom have never object to any whim or amusement require by herself.

how then could she do otherwise than love he beyond every earthly

creature?



Tom Pynsent look all astonishment during the dialogue which pass

between his wife and mother. it do not occur to he that his Anna

Maria's love be less sincere than his mother's affection: and as to

his wife's recapitulation of his virtue, "who the devil marry a

woman unless he mean to indulge she?"



this little scene, and Anna Maria's public testimony in favour of

her husband's kindness have great effect, however, naturally and

unsuspiciously as it have be speak. Mrs. Pynsent be charm by her

daughter-in-law's simple and affectionate statement, and she be the

head-piece at Hatton. from that moment every good feeling be enlist

on Anna Maria's side by Mrs. Pynsent; and her fondness for her daughter

threaten to equal the affection she bear her son. she tell she

sister, Hancock, Anna Maria might paint her cheek as scarlet as the

babylonian woman's gown if she like, _she_ would raise no objection.

she care for nothing but Tom, and if his wife love he and make

he happy, she might paint and talk of that Frenchman as much as she

please.



the dinner-party appear to Christobelle's eye the _ne plus ultra_

of human happiness. she be attend to by every person; and no one

appear startle by her awkwardness, or the vulgarity of her manner.

Lady Wetheral's search eye be not present; her severe remark

do not sound in her ear, and she enjoy profound peace of mind

and body. no subsequent dinner-party ever equal that day in its

effect upon her head and heart. she sit between her dear father and

Charles Spottiswoode, enjoy their conversation, and look upon

happy face. Miss Wycherly's lively spirit be ever amusing, and

her spirited dialogue with her cousin Tom appear to Christobelle

to be the concentrated essence of wit and cleverness: she laugh

unrestrainedly and joyously throughout the evening.



Sir Foster Kerrison and Clara be among the dinner guest, with Lucy.

Clara's expression of figure and countenance be that of extreme

hauteur, and she do not look at, or address Sir Foster during the

evening. Sir Foster himself have regain his usual "_far niente_" since

his last appearance. when the gentleman return into the drawing-room

upon the summon to tea, Sir Foster deposit himself in an arm-chair,

without address any of his neighbour. he look on the amusement

and the different groupe with a smile, as he sat stretch to his

utmost length; his eye wink with tolerable rapidity, and a subdue

chuckle every now and then evince that his mind receive pleasure

from some part of the conversation which reach his ear at interval.

Clara alone preserve a haughty silence to all, and appear cold

and indignant. Lucy Kerrison, whose age approach near that of

Christobelle, sit by she after tea, and confide to she hear the

misery of Ripley.



"I declare, Miss Wetheral, Ripley be more solitary and disagreeable

than ever. Papa and Clara do quarrel so dreadfully, that we cannot

expect any one to come near the house." here Lucy lower her voice.

"there be such a scene the day papa bring Clara away from Wetheral!

oh! Miss Chrystal, what dreadful thing they say to each other! Papa,

you know, be very violent, though he look so still and quiet, and

Clara be very provoking. Papa strike she once, and yet she would not

be silent; she be very insolent, and papa threaten to turn she out

of the house before the butler. it be very dreadful. well, Clara run

away, and papa, you know, bring she back. good gracious! how Clara

do abuse he in the hall before all the servant! papa only laugh

then. I assure you they quarrel this morning bad than ever; papa

forget as soon as it be over, but Clara keep worry, worry, worry,

till another quarrel be begin. I wish some one would ask I to stay

with they: Lady Wetheral promise to have I with she; but I have never

be ask since Clara married papa."



Christobelle mention her mother's illness, and her lowness of spirit.



"I be very sorry. Ripley be nothing now but a scene of quarrel. I be

not aware of Clara's temper at Wetheral. I fancy her quick-feeling,

but not violent. I assure you she make papa bad, by her provoking

manner and her determination to have the last word. what can it signify

who have the first or last word in a quarrel?"



Christobelle be equally surprised at Lucy's description of Clara's

talent for tormenting. she know her disposition be very warm, and

that she could be rouse into violence; but she have never evince a

disposition to provoke. Christobelle have always consider she too

proud to descend into wanton provocation, and too indifferent to her

husband, to endure altercation after the cause have pass away, which

provoke resentment. Clara's bad feeling be perhaps rouse into

action by Sir Foster's violence. have her good genius interfere, to

prevent the unhappy union of two being so ill suit to each other,

Clara have be a happy and well woman, and Sir Foster a more

respectable and intelligent neighbour and friend. Christobelle look

at Clara as Lucy proceed in her remark, and could perceive her brow

lower, and her handsome mouth compress. the cause of the morning's

quarrel, as detail by Lucy, be indeed frivolous, and wretche in its

folly.



"that horrible fishmonger be at Ripley this morning, and Clara begin

vex papa with the old affair over again--good gracious! how she

do irritate he! well, papa never forget to revenge himself at

the moment, so he go into the servant' hall, and bring a large

fish into the sitting-room--goodness, how it smell! Papa chuckle

very much, so I know he be prepare for mischief; and he throw

the creature into Clara's lap, upon her beautiful silk dress--upon

my honour! Clara tell he he be a brute, too brutish for his own

servant' hall; and there be such a dialogue! I run away; but the

servant listen at the door, and hear it all. Pelham say it be a

proper billingsgate on papa's side, and only just 'over the way' on

Clara's part. Papa have forget it now; but Clara will remember it for a

month to come."



this be a sad prospect: Clara, so young and inexperienced, be

already wed to dissention, and begin her young career of life

in bitterness! Clara, full of spirit, and energy of character, be

deepen the shade of evil, by an unwomanly and improper contention

with the husband she have choose against her father's wish. what

must be the consequence of powerful passion constantly in collision

between Sir Foster and Lady Kerrison, since their early matrimony be

so discordant? Miss Wycherly speak anxiously and feelingly upon the

subject to Anna Maria.



"this be a fearful match, my dear Mrs. Tom, and Ripley will be the

grave of your sister's respectability. the Kerrisons' quarrel be

already the topic of conversation at every table where your family be

not present. can you advise Lady Kerrison to be patient?--will she bear

any interference?"



Anna Maria hope all thing, when they be more settle at Hatton. Tom

would perhaps interfere a little, and if any one could bring thing

about, she be sure it would be Tom, he have such a peculiarly agreeable

manner. she would speak to Tom upon the subject.



Clara's eye glance towards the groupe, and she rise to join they.



"what be you all chat about so earnestly?" she observe, as they

make room for she. she seat herself between her sister. "go on with

your subject: what be it?"



Miss Wycherly answer for all.



"we be talk of matrimony, Lady Kerrison."



Clara's eye sparkle with a thousand fire, as she slightly wave she

hand.



"let I continue it with you, Miss Wycherly, for I be able to speak

from experience. who be counsel for that state? I be decidedly upon the

other side."



"we be only observe how much power the woman possess over the

man's mind, by gentleness, patience, and soft word, under trial, my

dear Lady Kerrison."



"Gentleness! patience!" remark Clara, with a laugh of disdain,--"ask

my brute any thing patiently!"



Anna Maria catch her hand, as she extend it scornfully towards Sir

Foster.



"now, dear Clara, don't be energetic. I will ask Tom what he think.

Tom always say thing so agreeably."



"I will say what be true, if it prove disagreeable," reply Clara,

withdraw her hand from Anna Maria's light grasp, and again point

attention, by a graceful movement, to Sir Foster, who sit silently

wink his eye. "if there be a creature bear to be a blessing to

woman--patient, gentle, and interesting--look at _that_ man."



Sir Foster wink violently. Anna Maria bend towards Lady Kerrison.



"Hush, my dear sister; do not offend Sir Foster, I beseech you; pray do

not attract people's notice. my dear Clara, forbear!"



"Nay, he be attractive enough in himself," observe Lady Kerrison, in

raise tone; "no word of mine can exalt he high among the brute

creation, than he stand by nature."



Mrs. Tom Pynsent become alarmed at her sister's audacity, and she

sign to her husband, who be seat by Mrs. Tyndal, to join the

little circle. he advance immediately.



"well, my little wife, what be you wish? the dear count be not

here, be he? therefore you want _I_ among you."



"now, be quiet, Tom." Mrs. Tom Pynsent look round to discover a

disengage chair: her husband see the inquire look, and he seat

himself upon the carpet.



"well, now, what be I summon for?"



"my dear Tom," reply his lady, smile, "I particularly wish you

to give I your opinion upon matrimony before the young lady here

assemble."



"_my_ matrimony, if you please," observe Lady Kerrison--"you be

request to take a comprehensive view of _my_ matrimony." she look

haughtily towards Sir Foster, who sit within hearing. "there sit my

animal: shall we decide upon the specie?"



"Hush, Clara, hush!" softly whisper Mrs. Tom Pynsent.



"my dear Lady Kerrison!" burst from the lip of Miss Wycherly.



"every one have a name and a place," continue Lady Kerrison, heedless

of all caution and counsel. "pray, Tom Pynsent, assert your opinion as

plainly as I do mine, and tell I what a mother deserve, who wed her

young and unsuspecting child to a brute, without contemplate her fate

in prospect? pray, Tom Pynsent, what be the conclusion of that fate?

will it rest in dull misery, or will the indignant spirit burst its

fetter?"



Tom Pynsent affect ignorance of Lady Kerrison's meaning: he see Miss

Wycherly and Lucy Kerrison cast look of alarm at Sir Foster, who be

wink very rapidly; he see, also, tear spring to the eye of his

wife--something must be do: he rise hastily.



"Anna Maria, this be a very _english_ party, to your little trumpery,

new-set taste! your french Count would have lecture you for sit so

long in one spot. come, Chrystal, and Lucy, let we have a round game or

a country-dance. who will play we a country-dance? Pen, rattle the key

for we."



Miss Wycherly be eager to break up the conference, and she play

country-dance with great spirit: five couple be therefore soon

arrange, and Christobelle be lead forth by Charles Spottiswoode.

when they reach the termination of the set, Mr. Spottiswoode

address his partner with an air of mystery, and inquire, in low

tone, if she have lately hear of or from Bedinfield. Christobelle

could give no satisfactory intelligence. a letter have certainly be

receive at Wetheral lately, but she have not be make acquainted

with its content. Mr. Spottiswoode's reply be very complimentary to

Christobelle: she feel it exquisitely.



"Miss Wetheral, I address you as no common person; and I feel assure

a young lady, who have be the companion of Sir John Wetheral, must

be prudent beyond her year. Penelope have never receive any reply

to several letter address to Lady Ennismore, and I be anxious to

understand the cause. your sister be not ill, I hope?"



Christobelle be unable to answer even that simple question; she know

nothing, and have hear nothing with reference to the Ennismores.



"it be very extraordinary!" be Mr. Spottiswoode's quick reply, but

nothing more be say, for they be again indefatigably engage in

dancing, till eleven o'clock, when Sir John Wetheral approach his

daughter, and advise she to rest till the carriage be announce. as

she seat herself, accord to his wish, Christobelle hear Mrs.

Pynsent speak to Mrs. Tyndal with some vehemence.



"upon my word, there will be a dreadful blow-up soon: I go to see

Sally Hancock into the pony-carriage, and who should be in the hall

but those two people abuse each other. that matchmaking woman have a

thousand sin to answer for: she will pay for all this, Jane Tyndal, in

the next world!"



Christobelle felt assure the Kerrisons be the party in question. her

eye seek they, but they be not in either of the drawing-room. she

turn to Mrs. Pynsent in terror, and inquire for Clara.



"oh! my dear, they have kill each other by this time, as far as

intention can go. they be fight in the hall half an hour ago."



Christobelle turn pale with distress, and Mrs. Pynsent, whose

heart be as kind as her manner and address be abrupt, pity she

suffering. she put her hand gently upon Christobelle's shoulder, and

speak with emphasis.



"_You_ cann't help it, my poor girl; _you_ need not vex yourself: it

will all come home to the right person, but that willn't be you. only

take care you be not the next sacrifice, and sell yourself for money

at people's bidding."



"oh! Mrs. Pynsent," cry Christobelle, "where be papa?"



"here, come with I, young lady, and I'll take you to your father.

remember every word in your heart of heart which _he_ utter." Mrs.

Pynsent put Christobelle's arm within her own, and continue, as they

quit the room, "some of her young one have turn out well, in

spite of she. I hope that will tell for her hereafter. don't fret, now,

and make your poor father wish himself at Old Nick: he'll want comfort

at Wetheral, and you must comfort he. here, Sir John, I've bring

your good girl to you: don't let she marry in a hurry--ware sheep!

there, take she into your care, and hide she for the next seven year."



Sir John Wetheral receive his daughter with smile pleasure, and

they proceed to make their adieus to the remain company. the

Tom Pynsents be engage to spend the follow day at Wetheral, and

Mrs. Pynsent invite herself to accompany they. she have no intention

of leave Tom, just as he be return from outlandish place. it

might disturb the family party at Wetheral, but she like to watch he

enjoy the good roast beef of Old England and home-brew ale again,

and she would follow he to Old Nick, to see he look so jolly and

happy. "Bobby might have Sally Hancock to keep he company; he do not

object to she when he be alone."



Sir John Wetheral particularly request the pleasure of Mr. Pynsent's

company to complete the family circle.



"oh! well, I'll tell he what you say," reply Mrs. Pynsent. "Bobby

have be snore these two hour: he cann't bear late hour at all. we

shall do very well without he to-morrow, for he only sit lick his

lip. Bobby never shine much--but I'll give your message. Sally Hancock

will take very good care of he: it's a treat to she, you know."



the Wetherals' farewell be rather lengthy, for they have many friend

to hold converse with. Miss Wycherly hover round they for some time,

as if she have some disclosure to make which require effort. she

suddenly catch Sir John's hand as he be quit the room, and speak

quickly, "have you hear from Bedinfield lately?"



"not very lately; why do you appear so anxious, my dear Miss Wycherly?"



"I be very uncomfortable about Julia," she reply: "I have write

three letter without receive any reply. I be sure the Dowager be

there; and I be equally sure she separate Julia from her friend.

Julia always love her friend, and there be something wrong when

a woman be compel to drop her old companion. it be not Julia's

fault; I'll stake my existence upon Julia's true heart: there be double

deal somewhere, Sir John."



Sir John express his intention of visit Bedinfield the follow

week, and Christobelle be to accompany he. he would be the bearer of

a letter from Miss Wycherly with pleasure. Miss Wycherly's mind be

greatly relieve.



"oh! if you go, Sir John, all will be well. I shall hear the truth from

you, and you will find how unchanged dear Julia be. tell she, from I,

that my love and gratitude be unchangeable, and that my home be her

home for ever and ever. tell she I care not for her silence, because

it be not _her_ do; and though we may never more meet, she will be

Julia Wetheral, as freshly and fondly my friend, as when she marry a

man who could not deserve she. tell she this from I, Sir John."



Miss Wycherly pass on with her lover, and the Wetherals enter their

carriage in silence. Sir John sigh heavily, and do not enter into

any conversation with his daughter during their drive home: doubtless

there be bitterness in his thought. Christobelle lose all painful

recollection of the emotion cause by Mrs. Pynsent's conversation,

in pleasing remembrance of the pleasure of the day. she have enjoy

herself with the pure, unalloyed happiness which attend youth, ere

it be pursue by care, and before it endure disappointment. she

consider that day as the very happy portion of her life. she

have be kindly and hospitably welcome by every one, and not a word

of reproach or disgust have be level at she. every one seem

delight to see her eat and dance, to her heart's content. nothing

could surpass the pleasure of that day--nothing have ever equal it!



Sir John part with his daughter in the hall. he kiss she, as usual,

but his voice be melancholy, and the parting short.



"good night, my love--I be go to my study."



"good night, dear papa!"



Sir John turn away, and Christobelle listen to his step, as it

echo through the hall, till he close the chapel-door behind he.

she then retire to her own room, and sleep soundly, in spite of

anticipation of lecture from her mother upon suppose impropriety

commit at Hatton.









CHAPTER XVII.





Lady Wetheral be extremely disconcert by the knowledge of Mrs.

Pynsent's intend visit for the day. the hour of breakfast pass

slowly and miserably to Christobelle, who bear the whole burden of

her petulance, and give offence by the silence with which she hope

to dispel her irritability. "she be not at all like her other girl.

Clara be warm in her temper, but she have always something sharp or

witty to say. Christobelle be the dull creature she have ever be

doom to sit in company with. Thompson be a great loss, poor dear

silly woman; the good creature in the world, and the great fool for

marry a man who could not settle something upon she. if Christobelle

would have the kindness to inform she how Clara look, she would be

extremely oblige by the information. perhaps that be a subject on

which she might condescend to speak."



Christobelle tell her mother all she have see and hear; and how

fearful she be, that another dispute have arise between the

Kerrisons, which would increase Clara's violence. Lady Wetheral smile

incredulously.



"Clara will soon find herself no match for Sir Foster, and then she

must yield by degree. one or other must domineer, and the battle will

be short: Clara will feel compel to command her temper in time, and

all this nonsense will be forget. People always forget the fault of

the rich. Clara must give a splendid ball when it be blow over. how

do Anna Maria appear to like be a guest at Hatton?"



"she be so happy and agreeable."



"she be very unlike her mother, then. I never would visit Wetheral

till your father's tiresome old mother die, and Christobelle follow

her example. I expect to hear your sister designate 'Mrs. Tom' every

where. country place be so second-rate in their custom! I hope no

one will be guilty of such bad taste before _me_."



Christobelle have nothing to bring forward upon any subject which she

consider likely to amuse; and, be therefore, again silent. her

mother pat the table a few second.



"be Mrs. Hancock at dinner yesterday?"



"yes, mamma."



"and how do she behave?"



"she be quite silent."



"Mrs. Pynsent be tolerate, because her position in life raise she

among the high of the land; but Mrs. Hancock be unfit for lady'

society:--I be go to say, for female association; but she do not

often intrude. Miss Wycherly be a softened likeness of Mrs. Pynsent.

there be great insolence in such marked bluntness of manner; one only

meet with it in retire country place."



another long pause.



"your father talk of visit Bedinfield next week, and he mean to

intrude you there. I shall send for poor dear Isabel and her child, I

think."



Christobelle be all astonishment. what! summon the Brierly party, whom

she always deprecate! her surprise be visible in her countenance.



"any thing very extraordinary, Bell, in wish to see my daughter? I

wish you would endeavour to suppress impertinence in your look and

motion, before you leave home. what be you sit there for? pray

retire to your occupation."



Christobelle go into her father's study--that sanctum sanctorum for

painful feeling, and mortified spirit, and there she remain till

the Hatton carriage arrive. she have a long and serious conversation

with her kind parent upon many subject. he speak most feelingly

upon the distress of mind he endure, respect Clara's conduct and

destiny. he have suspect at Hatton that the Kerrisons be not upon

speaking term; and, though Sir Foster be not the man to whom he would

commit the care of a daughter, yet he fear that Clara's turbulent

disposition increase her own misery, and defy her husband's control.

he besought his youthful daughter to pray without cease for a mild

and teachable spirit, that her future day might not be steep in

misery. he point out the worldly and avaricious feeling which have

induce Clara to marry; and which he fear would wreck the peace of

Lady Ennismore.



Lord Ennismore and Sir Foster Kerrison be selfish man--man who care

for their _own_ pleasure, not for the happiness of those who live

with they. what have Clara reap from her connexion with the Kerrison

family?--Contention and disgust. what have Julia gain by an early

removal from her family? he firmly believe she be a victim to the

strongly imperious and fascinating Lady Ennismore, who be jealous of

any influence over her son's mind, and who would not endure a rival in

her power.



Christobelle listen to her father's anxiety in sorrowful silence;

young as she be, she have be too long his companion not to have

gain some powerful view of the great truth he have ever be

anxious to inculcate. she have also be too long his companion not to

comprehend and feel for his disquietude. she throw her arm round his

neck, and promise to be guide by his counsel in every action of her

life; but she besought he not to take blame to himself for Clara's

wilful conduct, or Julia's determination to become Lady Ennismore. her

father smile, but do not combat her prayer. Christobelle be too

young to be make the confidante of his feeling--much too young to

distinguish the cause of his self-reproach. he could not tell _she_

of one whom he deprecate as the cause of Clara's misery; that he be

mourning, when too late, the power he have delegate into unsafe hand.

he would not tell she his indulgence to his wife have be treacherously

and even wickedly deal with; that he have give his affection to a

worldly being, and that its consequence be now gnaw at his heart.



true, he could turn with pleasure to Anna Maria and Isabel, and behold

_they_ happy. they have marry man of principle--man whom he approve

and value; but who would wipe away the tear from Clara's eyes?--from

Julia's once smile cheek? not the Protector, who swear to cherish

each young and inexperienced creature at the altar. not the world,

which condemn and punish its err and unhappy member, with

ruthless pertinacity. they must turn to another and more merciful judge

for pardon and peace; and have they be teach to pray for help in

time of need? a father could not unfold all this to the youthful mind

of his child; though his melancholy tone and countenance strike she

attention, as he speak to she of earthly and heavenly thing. she could

not _then_ understand the chastening of his mind, but she listen in

deep attention to his precept; and fancy that nothing in this world

could have power to attract she from he who love and cherish she so

dearly. to marry, and quit the study, its quiet, its book, its happy

association! oh! Lucy Kerrison might wish to leave Ripley, and the

family quarrel which break its rest; but Christobelle feel she could

never like a human being, as she honour and love her father.



the Pynsents arrive in the high spirit at Wetheral, and the sight

of Anna Maria give animation to her mother's countenance for a season.

she think she very much improve in look, and it be not her fault

that Anna Maria have not rouge before she marry; but Sir John have

many prejudice, and that be one of they. Tom Pynsent be delighted.



"well, I do like to hear every one say my little wife be rouge; it

prove how rosy she be grow. all my care, Lady Wetheral, all my care.

I let she do as she like; Biddulph, and Jack Smith, and myself, go

after she, and the Count; every where keep she in sight, you know. she

talk herself into that pretty rosy face."



"you be not conspicuous, my love, I hope," say her mother, smile.



"oh, no; Tom like I to chat my French, do you not, my love?"



"I like you to make yourself happy," answer Tom, affectionately.

"you make _I_ happy, by get such a nice healthy bloom."



a look of affection, and a pressure of the hand, attest his lady's

gratitude and love, though she colour through her rouge at her

husband's remark.



"when we have lunch," continue Tom Pynsent, take nearly half a

pigeon-pie into his plate, "when we have just take off the edge of

hunger, we'll have a ride on horseback, Anny, and go over the old

ground again. you must have an old habit here, somewhere; let we go and

see our old love haunt."



Anna Maria be nothing loth; her matrimony be of only four or five

month' standing, and they be lover still. she be quite willing to

take an agreeable ride with her dear Tom.



"let we have the young one, too," exclaim the good-natured Tom

Pynsent; "habit and horse for two, and you shall see the world,

missy."



"I shall want Bell," say Lady Wetheral, annoy at the idea of a

_tête-à-tête_ with Mrs. Pynsent.



"ay, Miss Bell, stay with we, I shall want a cast vote, and I

shall want you to introduce I to Sir John's study," cry Mrs.

Pynsent, give Christobelle a thump upon her shoulder. "I must become

acquainted with you, young lady."



Lady Wetheral's possession of manner conceal the disgust she endure

at this movement. she turn to her eld daughter, and inquire at

what hour she would wish her horse equip.



"oh, my poor Lady Mary, let she be saddle at three, if you please. I

think three o'clock, Tom, will do."



"Lord, Mrs. Tom, you will be as hot as fire, ride in the blaze

sun," exclaim Mrs. Pynsent.



"perhaps Mrs. _Tom Pynsent_ would prefer her ride at four o'clock,"

observe Lady Wetheral.



"my daughter, Tom, will melt away," reply Mrs. Pynsent, give she a

touch with the elbow. "suppose your pretty face melt, eh, Mrs. Tom?

that would be a pretty confession, wouldn't it?"



"at what hour, Mrs. Pynsent?" demand her mother, address Anna

Maria, and take no notice of Mrs. Pynsent, the elder.



"say four, then, at once," continue Mrs. Pynsent, "and don't confound

mother and daughter; I be Pen Pynsent, and that be my daughter,

Tom--Mrs. Tom, till I be underground, and out of the way."



Lady Wetheral bow with much suavity and politeness to her unrefined

companion. "she have great pleasure in acknowledge her daughter Mrs.

Tom Pynsent, the wife of an excellent and honourable man, stand high

in the county."



"to be sure--and very happy to get he. every girl cann't marry such a

tight lad as Tom; as good a son as ever comfort a mother's eye. he's

none of your pimmeny fellow, like I know who; or a rant, violent

husband, like Foster Kerrison. he's good, downright Tom; and Mrs. Tom

may look the good of they in the face."



Tom Pynsent wink at his lady, and continue pay his _devoir_ to

the pigeon-pie. Lady Wetheral could never argue with Mrs. Pynsent, and

a short silence ensue. Mrs. Pynsent's forcible mode of express

her idea, and her perfectly opposite view upon every subject,

prevent all hope of coalition with Lady Wetheral, who could not

endure abruptness, or what the world denominate "a good, downright

person." her education in high life do not enable she to shape she

sentiment and action to the tone of country society, so far remove

from the atmosphere of courtly phrase; and of all her acquaintance,

Mrs. Pynsent be the least suited to her taste. she dislike

"truth-telling," disagreeable people; she deprecate people who "speak

their mind" upon every point, and at all time; in short, Mrs. Pynsent

be never to be endure but as the mother of Tom; and now he be

secure, nothing could be more intolerable than her presence.



Mrs. Pynsent take up her workbag after luncheon, and sit down to knot.

Lady Wetheral politely station herself near her guest, and appear

occupy with her worstedwork. Anna Maria look over Christobelle

as she be busy copy a drawing for her father; and Tom Pynsent

be go to sit an hour with he in the study, and talk of Paris,

till the riding-horse should make their appearance. Mrs. Tom Pynsent

compliment her sister upon her first essay in landscape-painting,

and prognosticate she would be the only accomplish Miss Wetheral of

the family. her mother smile upon she.



"I may certainly confess you be the 'beautiful,' my dear Anna Maria. I

quite congratulate you upon the addition of a little rouge."



"I'm sure I would never congratulate a daughter upon her paint face,"

exclaim Mrs. Pynsent; "a woman with her cheek raddle, be like the

poor thing in the street."



Anna Maria blush, but in perfect good humour with her mother-in-law.

she answer the remark with a confession of its propriety, and

express her wish it should not be make known to her husband that she

_do_ employ art in improve her complexion.



"I be very foolish to rouge at all, because Tom do not like the

idea of it; but the Count de Nolis press it so much as a material

improvement to a lady who be naturally pale, that I try a very

little gradually; and poor dear Tom have such pleasure in fancy I be

become bloom, that I never could bear to disappoint he. I assure

you it be only to please Tom."



Mrs. Pynsent be appease at once by this candid confession: any thing

which bear a meaning, or shew of affection towards her son, win she

instant assent. she be satisfied the motive be good, and she uphold

her daughter-in-law from that hour in deceive her husband. but there

be a reservation in her approval.



"it's a nasty trick, Mrs. Tom, and a bad trick; but if you love your

husband, and wish to please his eye--God help me!--I have nothing to

say. whoever love Tom, have my heart and good-will. but leave it off as

soon as you can."



"it be very become," observe Lady Wetheral, "and it be do in all

the highly fashionable circle."



"yes, it's _do_, my Lady Wetheral, and so be many abominable

practice. your high lady do gamble, and they do intrigue, my Lady

Wetheral; but you would not approve your daughter's fashionable turn, I

hope, in that line."



her ladyship dislike "home thrust" also, in her catalogue of country

annoyance. she make no reply to Mrs. Pynsent's remark, but coolly

inquire of Anna Maria when Miss Wycherly's marriage be likely to take

place.



"oh! I be most likely to know my niece's affair," resume Mrs.

Pynsent; "my daughter, Tom, cann't explain Pen's intention. Bill

Wycherly give up Lidham to the young couple."



"a very excellent resolution," observe Lady Wetheral, with emphasis.



"I don't think so, at all. Bill should keep the staff in his own hand:

I'm very angry with he. let the young wait for the old, be my maxim."



"the old, perhaps, be more fit for retirement," drily remark Lady

Wetheral.



"they be fitter to be call fool who renounce their birthright,"

retort Mrs. Pynsent, "and so I tell Bobby when he offer Hatton to

Tom. my son know well than to accept it. Tom never forget his duty,

and his wife may say her prayer for having catch he."



"I should feel inclined to soften that expression," observe Lady

Wetheral, in her gentle accent; "the idea of catch a young man be

not a pleasing figure of speech."



Mrs. Pynsent give a short, loud laugh. "why, my Lady Wetheral, we willn't

stand upon word; I express my knowledge of fact in few roundabout

phrase. I say what I think, and I cann't help the cap fit too tight

to be agreeable."



Anna Maria behold the disgust of Lady Wetheral's mind express upon

her lower brow. a slight frown be the only public token of distaste

which be ever allow to transpire: her ladyship never rebut, never

argue. it be, she aver, an indisputable sign of ill-breeding,

wretched taste, and bad temper. she frown, and her daughter know its

purport. it be impossible to leave two such ill-assorted companion

together; the undisguised sentiment of Mrs. Pynsent, utter with

masculine energy of manner and voice, would overpower her conscious

yet refine companion--perhaps cause a nervous attack, and originate

an illness. Mrs. Tom Pynsent relinquish all intention of ride with

her husband. her presence might check her mother-in-law's vivacity;

it would certainly give pleasure to her mother, and it must be a

satisfaction to Christobelle. Mrs. Pynsent's good nature even turn

her daughter-in-law's express intention to Christobelle's advantage.



"very good move, Mrs. Tom--very good move. you and myself be old

woman, as it be; we will sit here chat to my Lady Wetheral, but

let every one have their turn. Tom will ride with poor Miss Bell, and

amuse she: the poor thing be coope up to death here."



"my daughter Bell have every advantage. I rather think my daughter

consider her mother's society sufficiently agreeable," say Lady

Wetheral, bend politely but haughtily to her guest.



"consider a fiddlestick, my Lady Wetheral!" reply Mrs. Pynsent,

knot with great energy. "what young girl consider herself

agreeable with no playfellow, and a hipped Lady-mother? no, no; air,

my lady--exercise, my lady--companion, my lady: _that_ be poor Miss

Bell's proper entertainment. Tom will ride with she, poor thing."



Lady Wetheral do not condescend to reply to this sally. however

lowly Christobelle stand in her eye, however petulant she might be

to the "stupid, awkward girl _herself_," "poor thing!" sound most

offensively to her ear. Anna Maria again interfere by ring the

bell, and beg that Mr. Tom Pynsent might be summon from the

library. Tom's presence, she know, be always desirable every where;

but his mother's attention would be rivet upon her son, and Lady

Wetheral would escape the inevitable contention which follow she

own remark. this be the first time the lady have ever be place

a whole morning in juxtaposition. Anna Maria be sure the visit would

never take place again. each party would decline a second day of family

intercourse.



Tom Pynsent's entrance with Sir John effect a change in every one's

situation. Christobelle be to ride; Mrs. Pynsent decide upon that

measure, and her father enforce it. he be then to do the honour

of the conservatory and garden to his guest, while the mother and

daughter work and converse _tête-à-tête_. so far, all be prudently

arrange, and promise peace.



Christobelle be enchant with her ride. Tom Pynsent do not possess

conversational power, but his want of talent be more than balanced

by invincible good-nature, and manly courage of body and mind.

Christobelle love he for his kind heart and anxious wish to make

every body happy; and she love he for the devotion he express for

Anna Maria at all time, and in all place. it be not an uxorious

affection, effeminate, and annoying to witness. Tom Pynsent love with

his whole heart the woman who possess his name, and be to share

his fortune. he love she with a manly tenderness, which display

itself in a thousand form, and raise he in public estimation by its

amalgamation with his very existence. it connect his wife with the

stable and the kennel; it connect she with all his amusement. she

be part and parcel of every thing in which he be concern. what a

man have Julia throw from herself, ere he discover Anna Maria's love

and suffering!



Tom Pynsent shew Christobelle, with infinite satisfaction, the spot

most consecrate to memory, as the scene of Anna Maria's confession.

he seem to linger with pleasure in the lane where his wife first

disclose her long-conceal misery, and where he have dismount to

impress a thousand kiss upon her hand. his tone change, as he

recapitulate his astonishment and delight.



"by Jove, when I think of all this, I could never bear to ride here, if

any thing happen to my little wife; but I hope not--I hope she will

see I into my grave, and be comfortable with you all. she would do

very well without I, but I couldn't exist without she. I should let

Kerrison have the kennel then, and take the shoe off the hunter. by

Jove, they might turn out for life, then."



Christobelle listen to her brother's remark with great interest;

she could not understand the deep affection of his heart at that

time, but she be sensible to the compliment of be the depository

of his thought. she be delighted with his notice and attention;

and particularly feel its pleasing influence, because her mother

undervalue and reproach her daily and hourly at Wetheral. she be

very sorry when their ride be bring to a close, and she again

return to her apartment to dress for dinner.



Anna Maria join her sister; her hair be force into immense curl,

by her french attendant, Félicé, and her ringlet be frizz into

bow. Félicé follow her mistress in green silk. such a novelty

be rare and alarming in Shropshire; they have hear of the allied

sovereign be at that moment in London, but nothing approach to a

foreigner have yet appear at Shrewsbury. Félicé be a creature to be

stare at, and Anna Maria would become most formidably fashionable when

once the knowledge of her arrival should transpire. Anna Maria say,

"she have bring she maid to friz Christobelle's very english head of

hair into something like effect. she bid her look in the glass, and

smile at her hair, comb straight in front, and just turn up at the

back. it be something that would horrify De Nolis in the autumn. she

must positively have it dress properly."



"see now, Félicé; Miss Wetheral's hair must be dress this way."



"_Comme-ça, madame_," repeat the smile pretty Félicé.



"yes, _comme-ça_: friz this dreadful crop into curl, _boucle_,

Félicé--_grand boucle_, like mine. _Donnez mademoiselle un_ very nice

_tournure_, and let she be _très bien mise_. you may laugh, Bell, but I

assure you a Parisian perfectly understand what you mean, if you only

use the word '_coiffure_,' '_parure_,' or '_tournure_;' they fill up

the rest of the sentence intuitively."



Christobelle submit to the torture of the comb and curling-iron

with great satisfaction. whatever be fashionable in Paris, must be

admire and envy in England, and her mother would be pleased to see

she decorate by the hand of approve good-taste.



the hair be not the "_ultima thule_" of Félicé's care. a "_bustle_"

be append to Christobelle's waist, and the fold of her muslin frock

be draw over it with the nice care; her dress be drag down

to give a lengthened appearance to the waist, and the band tighten

till she could hardly breathe. Mrs. Tom Pynsent and her "_artiste_"

be charm with the result of their exertion. Félicé speak a long

sentence, which Christobelle translate to her sister, whose knowledge

of the language be not at all improve by four month' residence in

Paris. it be a well-turn compliment upon the change in the young

lady's appearance. Anna Maria regret that their education have be

so little attend to by Lady Wetheral.



"Papa have teach you so many accomplishment, Bell! you draw, and you

speak French, and quote delightfully, Charles Spottiswoode say. you

have have many advantage over we. the Count de Nolis say I be rapidly

improve in French, and he advise I to return to Paris soon, to

learn the accent; but I cannot speak it half so fluently as you do. I

wonder what mamma will say to your head? I think it perfect."



their appearance certainly make a sensation in the drawing-room,

for Lady Wetheral raise her glass with a surprised and satisfied

expression of countenance, and examine Christobelle very attentively.

Mrs. Pynsent catch a glance of her head, curl, frizzed, and bow

in all direction; and she exclaim, "Hollo, there! why, Miss Bell,

what's the matter now? they have make a dancing-dog of you!"



"you have do a very kind action by your sister, my dear Mrs. Tom

Pynsent," say Lady Wetheral, still gaze at Christobelle through her

glass; "you have quite christianize her style and appearance."



"ha, ha!" laugh Mrs. Pynsent, "poor Miss Bell! well, now they _have_

do it. Curly-head christian for ever, Mrs. Tom! who be you go

to baptize next?"



"but do not Bell become her baptism?" ask Anna Maria, smile.



"she be always a pretty girl; and, what be far well, she be a good

and kind-hearted girl; but I don't like your french fashion."



"pray, Bell, let your hair be attend to in future," say Lady

Wetheral, still hold her glass to her eye. "I approve of your

present appearance. I cannot endure your thick, short hair hang over

your eye."



"by far the most natural, at her age," observe Mrs. Pynsent; "a young

girl dress up that figure, be very unnatural and ridiculous."



Lady Wetheral do not reply. Tom Pynsent be much amuse at the

transformation, when he enter the room. he banter Christobelle,

with great good-humour, upon the havoc she would cause among the

heart of the schoolboy, the very next vacation, if she persist in

twist her hair into sausage; and he pity poor Frank Kerrison,

who would certainly renounce murder cockchafer, to write verse

upon her beauty. Sir John smile, and stroke his daughter's cheek,

but he offer no comment upon her person. the circumstance be almost

too trifle to amuse even the dull half hour before dinner. a whim

of Mrs. Tom Pynsent have lead she to dress her sister's hair; and its

end be answer, by cause a few smile and a jest. the incident

pass away, and be forget in the summon to dinner; but that very

trifle occurrence lay the foundation of much future misery:--it

wake up Lady Wetheral's slumber energy, and lead she to speculate

upon the establishment of a creature whom she have, till that moment,

renounce as awkward and vulgar--a girl belong exclusively to her

father--whose futurity be indifferent to herself. cause, however

trifle in their origin, swell into fearful effect, under the agency

of the weak or wicked.



when the lady return into the drawing-room, Anna Maria and

Christobelle enjoy a short _tête-à-tête_ during their mother's

_siesta_. Anna Maria say it would be impossible to hope for pleasant

intercourse between the house of Pynsent and Wetheral. the two lady

have not agree in one sentiment upon any subject during Christobelle's

absence, and each appear irritated and weary. it be altogether

abrupt truth on one side, and haughty silence on the part of her

mother: she be very certain there would be no pleasant result from

this day's occurrence. her two relation have never before pass a day

together, dependent upon each other's society; and it have only teach

they how impossible it would be to meet again upon those term. she

would tell Tom her thought as soon as they arrive at Hatton--Tom

could manage every thing--she do not believe any body could resist

Tom's pleasing way of arrange thing: perhaps Tom would entreat his

mother not to contradict Lady Wetheral so very flatly.



this be distress intelligence: if Lady Wetheral feel disturb by

Mrs. Pynsent's peculiar style of manner, there would be an end at once

to Christobelle's happy prospect; she be become jealous of her

daughter's society, though she profess indifference; and she could

see little of her sister's company, if Mrs. Pynsent be necessarily

include in the invitation, which welcome the Tom Pynsents, at all

time, to the now dull hall of Wetheral Castle. Lady Wetheral's

offend taste be a mental wound which never close. she be not

harsh towards vice--it might redeem itself; but rudeness of manner,

or a vulgar phraseology, be beyond the limit of pardon. in both

particular do Mrs. Pynsent certainly transgress; and her ladyship's

remark, after their departure, betoken her disgust and aversion to

the society of her depart guest.



"I shall feel oblige, Bell, by your silence upon the event of this

disgusting day. let I forget, if possible, that I have be, for eight

hour, the companion of stentorian coarseness and vulgarity. I must

regret see your sister but seldom, as I apprehend I shall do. I

cannot be upon term with a woman who designate her son's lady 'Mrs.

Tom:' now ring, if you please, for my _sal volatile_."



the next day's post bring a letter from Mrs. Boscawen: its content

be most cheer. "she be very anxious Christobelle should know

how beautiful her darling babe be grow, and that it have outgrow

its first pinafore. Boscawen be quite as fond of the darling as she

could possibly be herself, and Christobelle would be amuse by see

he nurse it to sleep, while she tamboure its little frock. Miss

Tabitha be go to stay a few week at Worcester, with Mrs. Ward, and

there be no one now at Brierly to alarm she with heat, and cold, with

drink too little, or eat too much. she be perfectly happy with

her dear Boscawen, nursing and laugh all day long--no book--no

lecture. oh, if Chrystal could but see she _now_!"



a postscript, in Mr. Boscawen's hand-writing, be equally valuable, and

give deep satisfaction to Sir John Wetheral. these be his words:--



 "I have live many year in seclusion, and in the dull misery of a

 long bachelorship; but I be repay by a happiness, too fondly value

 to describe. the remainder of my life will pass in make an innocent

 and exemplary wife and mother, as happy as mortality will allow, and

 poor human nature can enjoy.



     "your faithfully,



     "C. BOSCAWEN."



it be grateful happiness to Sir John Wetheral, to reflect upon the

destiny of Isabel. Boscawen's age be an unpromising opening to the

fortune of a young creature attach to juvenile pleasure, and

averse to the restraint of tuition: but Sir John judge that the

high principle of the man to whom he should commit the welfare of

his child, would be the safeguard of her happiness. the atmosphere of

Wetheral be unfavourable to mental culture. at brierly, the society of

her husband would enrich Isabel's mind with store from his own deep

resource; and her heart would become refined and exalt by Boscawen's

strict integrity of thought and action. he have judge rightly. isabel

love Boscawen for his kindness of heart; and the birth of her infant

knit their feeling together, in one dear object of continually

increase solicitude, which would not dissolve again. Anna Maria be

happy, also, with her honest and affectionate Tom Pynsent; but what be

to be the hope of Clara?--clouds and darkness rest upon it.



Christobelle be now to prepare for her visit to Bedinfield. she

wonder at the sudden intention, on her father's part, to go uninvited

to Lord Ennismore; but she be not a party to the event--if such there

be--which give rise to the meditate visit. Christobelle's youth

preclude she from enter into the consultation, or bear a part

in the correspondence, of her father: she could only guess all be not

right, when he speak of Bedinfield, because his smile flee, and his

expression become melancholy; but she be an utter stranger to its

cause. she be perfectly content to know she be prepare to visit

Julia, and to travel with her father. her mother speak very seriously

to she the evening before they quit Wetheral.



"Bell, you will have Taylor to attend you at Bedinfield. I admire Miss

Willis's taste in your dress: she be unrivalle in her selection,

and your figure be considerably improve since Félicé have give you a

few general instruction. the long waist be extremely become to you.

your hair give quite a changed expression to your whole person now,

Bell."



"I be very glad, mamma, you approve of it."



"I do, very much: I have some hope you will equal your sister in

appearance. if you persevere in attend to your hair, which be

such a graceful ornament to a woman, I shall have some pride in your

well-doing. I never look at you before, Bell, you be such a

dowdy-looking creature. walk across the room--head up, Bell: really,

that dress be very become."



Christobelle walk several time up and down the boudoir, to allow

her mother to complete her observation. she be to throw her head

gracefully back--she be to curtesy, as if in the act of receive

company--she be bid to come forward and offer a fan, with an air

of easy composure. she perform many disagreeable, but extremely

necessary evolution, to give her mother satisfaction; and,

unfortunately, her dress, and her eagerness to bring the lesson to an

end, assist her success. she be decide a creature not destitute of

a certain air, and, as Landscape Brown would word it, there be "great

capability," with severe pruning, and much persevere determination,

to shine. if Christobelle make good use of the three follow year,

her mother do not despair of match she even high than Lady

Ennismore. "a very frenchy style of dress and walk would prove a great

novelty, and attract gentleman who always approve the novelty they

fail to admire. she would cause a sensation, and some contention

in opinion, which would inevitably make she the high fashion in

Shropshire."



this be an unlooked-for change in the politic of Wetheral. little

do Christobelle think Félicé's hand would have work such evil to

an unsuspecting, unspeculative creature as herself. little do she

dream, under her tasteful assistance, to spring, at a bind, from the

"awkward, dull Bell--Sir John's tiresome, learn daughter," into an

object of speculation, which would again waken her mother's power into

action, to draw she from happy tranquillity, into scene of distract

contention. she be glad to think the Bedinfield visit stand between

she and a second lesson upon graceful movement. she could not dive

into the future, or draw conclusion from the present, at this moment:

she rejoice only to escape lecture upon style, and reprimand for

act upon impulse. Christobelle hope to find freedom and happy

enjoyment at Bedinfield, and that pleasing thought give her spirit

to endure her mother's uncease effort to arouse "a proper vanity"

in her mind, and make she look forward to a ducal, or, at least, the

coronet of a marquis.



"Bell, you shall certainly be emancipate from the seclusion of

Wetheral, and receive the first advantage which a dancing-master can

give. I will endeavour to persuade your poor father to give we a spring

or two in London, or a trip to Paris. Paris I should approve most.

Félicé have quite delight I with her tasteful fancy."



"I prefer Wetheral, mamma, and my pleasant reading with papa in the

library, if you please."



"young lady be not the sound judge upon their own case," reply

her mother, drily; "they may prefer indolence to activity: and, for

a season, they may be blind to their own defect; but they will take

care, in the end, to throw the consequence of their folly upon

their parent, as Clara do. she forget her own very insupportable

violence of temper; and her endeavour to blame I as the cause of her

high position, as Lady Kerrison, be improper. _I_ find my daughter

establishment, but I look to _they_ to fill that situation with

propriety."



"Sir Foster be very violent to all his people, mamma" Christobelle

observe, hope to shield Clara from remark.



"your sister know that, Bell: every body know Sir Foster be a dull

brute. she should never have enter into collision with he. if he

kick his servant, he be not likely to strike his wife without

provocation. Clara be extremely provoking."



it be true, indeed. Lady Kerrison do act most unadvisedly in rouse

a turbulent nature, when it be actually at rest: but who point she

attention to the match, and soften down every report which bruit

Sir Foster's violence to the neighbourhood? surely, Lucy Kerrison's

remark upon her father's temper be a beacon to parent, to avoid the

domestic quicksand of Ripley--yet Christobelle be present, and hear

her mother vindicate Sir Foster's treatment of the fishmonger, and urge

the eligibility of the connection. Lady Wetheral continued:--



"I be not at all pleased with the junior Pynsents be guest in the

country--Mrs. Pynsent will follow they every where, and quote 'Mrs.

Tom' to her friend. I cannot say that match have be productive of

pleasure to I. Lady Ennismore, the dowager, have be offensive in

her conduct, by presume to close her son's house to his friend.

Bedinfield be no pleasant refuge for _I_, I can see. I can never

witness Clara's quarrel--and Brierly be so seclude, besides Isabel

have the child always with she, that I have no satisfaction in _that_

quarter. what comfort have I in my girl' marriage? you must make

up to I for these sad disappointment, Bell. you shall marry Lord

Selgrave, when you be both introduce into life."



"Lord Selgrave, mamma! I never see he in my life."



"so much the well: the introduction rest with I. Lord Farnborough

will not leave Shropshire, and Selgrave, the boy, will be amongst

we. Farnborough Stacey will be the favourite residence, even when he

become Duke of Forfar. you shall be Lady Selgrave, Bell, the future

Duchess of Forfar: do not that title raise your little vanity, and

produce ambitious wish?"



"no, indeed, mamma, I would rather be comfortable in the library,

read to papa."



"if there be any thing I detest," exclaim Lady Wetheral, with great

asperity, "it be a slothful and mean mind, content to grovel in

lowliness--untouched by ambition--crouch in dullness, and blind to

prosperity. leave my presence, Bell. go to your chamber, and let I

see you no more."



Christobelle prepare to obey the harsh injunction. she light she

taper, and turn to utter "good-night." her mother wave her hand.



"say nothing. I do not choose to be disturb to-morrow by your

appearance. I have no regard for blind obstinacy--pass on in silence,

if you please."



Christobelle quit the boudoir in tear. why be her early life to

be embitter with reproach concern those thing which might

never take place? and why be her mind to be torture into project

which could not affect her heart, or her time of life? she rush to

her father's study, and throw herself into his arm, weeping. he be

surprised at the movement, and still more so at her words:--"Oh, papa,

don't let I be oblige to marry. don't make I think of Lord Selgrave;

for I never see he, and I cannot marry he."



"my dear chrystal," he exclaim, in astonishment, "I cannot understand

you."



Christobelle explain to he her mother's wish, and her anger at she

disclaim matrimony with Lord Selgrave. he smile.



"this be sad folly, my dear child; I ought not to allow myself to

feel entertained at your alarm, for I see the pernicious effect of

education extend to yourself: but do not weep, Chrystal. no one

shall take you from I, without your consent."



"I may always live with you, papa, and stay at Wetheral?" she ask, as

the tear course down her cheek.



"you shall never quit I till you say, 'Papa, I wish to leave you for

the home of another.'"



"and that will never, never be, my own dear papa!" Christobelle

embrace he with joyous gratitude, and smile through her tear.



"then be happy, my child, and think no more of little Lord Selgrave.

you, at least, shall not reproach I hereafter with weakness of

character. go and sleep sweetly, and prepare for to-morrow's journey."



Christobelle receive her father's blessing, and her heart be no

long sorrowful. he would watch over and protect she! she would not

be drive to marry Lord Selgrave, and renounce her peaceful station by

his side. she could live with he, and read to he for ever! she become

calm, and her mother's angry glance fade from her recollection.

Christobelle retire to her slumber in peace, that night.









CHAPTER XVIII.





Bedinfield appear a kingly residence. the mansion stand before the

traveller's gaze, with its tower and battlement, grand and impose

to the view. have Lady Wetheral accompany her husband, she would have

decide that happiness must reign uncontrolle in that most stately

dwelling. there be grandeur and repose in the scene, as they advance

to the massive pile of building; and there be stately ceremony

enforce, when they arrive at its portal.



it be seven by the chapel clock, when Sir John Wetheral and his

daughter enter the hall of Bedinfield, and a train of footman in

gorgeous livery bandy their name, till they be usher into a vast

apartment, richly carve in oak. it be untenante: there be a vase of

rare exotic upon a small silver table, which some hand have apparently

quit in haste, for some of the flower have fall upon the Persian

carpet, and their stalk be wet and freshly gather. Christobelle's

young idea have consider Wetheral Castle the criterion of elegance,

and her eager curiosity examine with surprise the magnificent

decoration around. the superb silver table--the costly cabinet--the

whole style of grand simplicity delight her taste, and astonish she

mind. she turn to her father with feeling of ecstasy.



"can there be any thing more grand than this, papa? can any place be

more superbly beautiful? oh, look at that lovely cabinet--that row of

cabinet--and those painting! how happy Julia must be!"



"do all this create happiness, Chrystal?"



"oh no, that be a wrong word--but how _please_ Julia must be, look

at these thing, and think they be her own! but why do not Julia

come to we, papa? do not she expect we to-day?"



Sir John pause, as he be accompany Christobelle in her passage up

the apartment, and he address she with seriousness.



"Chrystal, make no observation of any kind, and ask no question of

I, or of Julia. I expect great prudence from you. you be now my

companion and friend, and you must learn to veil much surprise, by

silence. be very prudent, my child, and remark nothing to your sister."



"I will be very prudent, papa," answer Christobelle, in a whisper.

the vastness of the room, and the mystery express in her father's

word, strike she with awe. she already feel as though silence must

reign with so much grandeur, and that liberty of speech dwelt not

in lofty apartment. she continue silently examine a portrait of

extreme beauty, which she be aware represent the Dowager Lady

Ennismore, in her youth. it still retain a considerable degree of

likeness--the eye could never change--its extraordinary expression be

there--and the haughty look, subdue by the collision of high society,

be admirably express in the painting. Christobelle be irresistibly

attract by the portrait, and she gaze upon it till a door open

near she, and rouse her attention. a female attendant approach.

she be a tall, stately person, attire with peculiar neatness and

precision. she bring Lady Ennismore's compliment of welcome. her

ladyship invite her guest to retire to their apartment. she would

have the pleasure of meet they in the drawing-room when the great

bell peal, and after her guest have refresh themselves by change

their attire.



Sir John Wetheral advance, slightly bow to the stately messenger.



"I believe I address an attendant of Lady Ennismore?"



"I have the honour to attend the Dowager Countess of Ennismore," be

the reply.



"your message be from Lady Ennismore, my daughter, be it not?" observe

Sir John, anxiously.



"my message be from the Dowager Countess," reply her attendant.



"Lady Ennismore be probably from home?"



"the young Lady Ennismore be in her dressing-room," be the answer. "I

be depute to attend Miss Wetheral to her apartment."



this be extraordinary. be not Bedinfield the property of Julia and

her lord? yet the message of compliment be tender by the Countess

Dowager, as if she still preside over the mind and estate of her son.

there be something gravely suspicious in this coldly polite reception,

which disturb the father's heart. Christobelle beg to know if her

room be situate near her father's bedchamber, and she turn to he

with a look of earnest alarm. he smile.



"Miss Wetheral feel a little nervous among stranger; may I inquire if

the room destine for we be near each other?"



"they be near," be the laconic reply, and Christobelle prepare to

depart. a servant enter at the moment, to offer his service to Sir

John, they proceed together to the great gallery, into which their

apartment open. the stately female pointed to a heavily-carve

oak-door, as she precede Christobelle. "Sir John Wetheral sleep in

the crimson chamber." she then throw open the door of a large gloomy

room appropriate to Christobelle. "your, Miss Wetheral, be the

tapestrie chamber." she then curtsey and withdraw.



Taylor be in a dressing-room adjoining, lay out her young lady's

wardrobe, and Christobelle survey the horror of the tapestrie

chamber, which she be sure would in itself disturb her slumber. the

"murder of the innocent" stand in enormous proportion at the bottom

of the room face her bed, which be decorate with sable plume round

its summit. the brawny arm of the soldiery seize the young child,

their dreadful eye, and the weapon they brandish over the head of

the hapless babe, take effect upon her imagination, and terrify she.

Christobelle be quite sure the glare of the high wax-light, when she

retire for the night, would raise they into live body, that would

"live, and move, and have their being," to her extremity of terror. the

deep recess, the dark oak furniture--all and each combine to render

the room terrible. she would have give world to be at that moment

even in the boudoir at Wetheral.



Sir John tap at his daughter's door, as he prepare to descend to

the drawing-room: Christobelle be dress, and ready to accompany he.

she beg he to see she safely to her room-door every night, and

confess her alarm at the idea of pass so many hour in a place so

full of horror. if he could only see the horrid object which glare

round the wall of her room, he would not wonder at her disquietude!



Sir John endeavour to reason Christobelle into calmness, and he

inquire why her rest should be disturb by pictorial representation

of scripture history. be not the hand of her Maker as mercifully

stretch forth to uphold she among gobelin tapestry, as in the

paper hanging of Wetheral? Christobelle acknowledge it be so. she

be silence; she do not offer any defence for her alarm, but she

could not suppress they. that chamber would never be she "sleep"

apartment. she should never be able to close her eye.



a servant be in wait to announce they, as they descend into the

hall. the folding-door be throw open, their name be call over

with proper emphasis, and they find themselves in the presence of Lord

and Lady Ennismore, and the Countess-dowager. the latter rise, and

advanced with her usual suavity. she take both Sir John's hand in her.



"my dear Sir John, this be a real and unexpected honour. I be delighted

to see you. Miss Wetheral, you be welcome: Julia be anxious, I see,

to appropriate you--fly to she, my love. we be a small family-party,

you see, Sir John Wetheral; but we shall endeavour to amuse you at

Bedinfield. Lady Wetheral be well, I hope."



Sir John reply in courteous term, that his lady be in health.



"I hope you will find our dear Julia well, and as handsome as ever.

our Staffordshire air be excellent, and Julia's bloom be, I think,

increase. Julia, I must not monopolise your father. it would not be

just, so I resign he with reluctance."



the Dowager lead Sir John towards the young Lady Ennismore, who receive

he with almost wild fondness. Lord Ennismore also come forward.



"I have much pleasure in bid you welcome, Sir John Wetheral, as

also yourself, Miss Wetheral. I hope I see you both in good health."



Lord Ennismore bow low, and resume his seat. the Dowager Lady

Ennismore speak for her son.



"my dear Ennismore feel with I the honour and pleasure of this

unexpected visit. I have much to show Sir John, now that he have

favour we with his company. I shall do the honour of the Park to

he, with great pleasure, and request his opinion upon our new lodge."



"you will doubtless, my dear mother, show our guest, Sir John, the new

line of road through the plantation."



"my dear Ennismore, our very first drive will be through the

plantation. I be proud to exhibit your taste; it will always hold its

place in my mind, as our lion of Bedinfield."



"it be not my suggestion, my dear mother," reply the poor,

dull-look Lord Ennismore.



"my dear son, you approve of my idea, which make it your own affair.

the new drive be certainly an affair of your own carry out. I have

little to do with it. the architect, you know, be secondary. the

fill up require knowledge and taste: that be your part, dear

Augustus."



a smile of satisfaction steal over the pallid face of Lord Ennismore,

but it could not light up the leaden expression of his eye, as they

rest upon his mother's face.



"I be glad you think highly of that road, my dear mother."



"I think it the fine work upon the estate, my dear son. I be try

to inoculate Julia with my enthusiastic delight, yesterday."



"Julia do not admire it as you do," observe Lord Ennismore, rise

from the chair near his lady, and take a seat by his mother.



"we be not all grant the same taste," reply her ladyship.

"Bedinfield have be my home many year, and you, my dear Augustus,

be bear here. it must be a cherished place to my heart."



"I hope it will be always your home."



Lord Ennismore take his mother's hand, and hold it in his, till dinner

be announce.



Julia do not hear the conversation which take place between Lord

Ennismore and her mother-in-law, neither do she observe her lord's

change of situation: she be learn the news of Wetheral from her

father's lip, and her whole attention be fix upon he, and the

communication which deeply touch her heart. Christobelle hear she

complain of the silence of all her friend: she dwelt with energy

upon the silence of Miss Wycherly, and mourn to think how slightly

her friendship have stand the trial of a few month' absence. she have

invite Penelope to visit Bedinfield, but even politeness have not

elicit an answer from Lidham. she feel very keenly the conduct of she

early friend, but Lady Ennismore have warn she seriously that such

would be the case, and her kindness be Julia's great consolation.



"have you not _once_ hear from Penelope?" ask her father, speak

low.



"I have never receive a letter from Shropshire since I marry, papa."

Julia's eye fill with tear at the thought of estranged affection.



"Penelope charge I with many message, Julia. she desire I to say

that, absent or silent, her heart be unchanged, and Lidham be your

home, equally with Bedinfield and Wetheral."



"Dear Penelope!" exclaim Julia, with clasped hand, "I be loth to

think she love I less; but her happy lot should not make she silent

to her old friend!"



Julia's movement attract the attention of the Dowager. she address

herself again to Sir John.



"my dear Sir John, what do you think of Staffordshire scenery? we do

not relinquish the palm of beauty to any county in the southern part of

Great Britain. tell I exactly your route."



Sir John give a concise statement of their little journey, which

be comment upon by her ladyship with vivacity. she enter

into description of Staffordshire scenery, and the Staffordshire

aristocracy, with increase energy, keep all attention engage

towards herself, and allow no respite for recommence a

conversation with Julia. Lady Ennismore chat even through the

immense hall, and to the very dinner-table. Christobelle also watch

the eld Lady Ennismore with uncontrollable surprise take her seat

at the head of the table, while Julia quietly place herself at her

father's side. Christobelle look at her father, to observe his

movement; she do not meet his eye; his expression of countenance and

manner be very grave, but he give no evidence of having notice the

circumstance: he be converse with Julia upon the arrival of the Tom

pynsent.



the dinner pass in solemn grandeur. the party be too limited for

general conversation, and the presence of many servant check

all approach to remark beyond commonplace allusion to the weather

and climate of Staffordshire. Christobelle admire the simplicity

of the apartment, in its magnificent proportion and grand style

of architecture, but she be glad when the meal conclude, and the

servant be withdraw.



the Dowager Lady Ennismore be then see to great advantage:

Christobelle could not help admire the perfection of manner which

render she so fascinating to every one with whom she come in contact.

in spite of Julia's position, so decidedly a position of disadvantage

to herself, and improper, as the wife of Lord Ennismore--in the very

face of that impropriety, in spite of dislike to Lady Ennismore, as

the cause of Julia's present situation, Christobelle behold she with a

powerful admiration. she be attract by that refined attention, that

power of pleasing, so delicate, so full of tact, accompany by great

personal beauty, which take the sense captive, even while we struggle

against its power. she admire the witchery of her eye, as she glance

upon each person those captivating and flattering meaning, which few

mind could resist: and she be, beyond expression, charm by the

attention which be offer to her youthful age, which fall like oil

upon the water. the Dowager be long past her _première jeunesse_; yet

the vivacity of her conversation, and the propriety of her style of

dress, throw over her whole person an air of indescribable attraction.

Sir John appear to watch her ladyship with deep attention; no

wonder, then, that Christobelle's unsuspicious age drink largely of

her fascination, that she could never imagine the deep wickedness of

her nature, or believe such win manner conceal an imperious and

dangerous spirit. her whole attention be fix exclusively upon the

Dowager Lady Ennismore.



all move together into the drawing-room. the Countess laughingly

apologise for the abstemious habit of Bedinfield, and express

her gratification that her dear son never love the pleasure of

the table--pleasure altogether so gross, so unintellectual, that

she wonder gentleman could lend themselves to an enervating and

disgusting consumer of existence.



"we be very sober people, Sir John, and our little family-trio never

separate after dinner. I consider you in that affectionate light also,

therefore we will not lose each other's society during your stay.

I must have you form a little ring round I, that I may enjoy the

conversation of each. my dear Miss Wetheral, you must remain near I;

I do not forget my young friend. my dear Julia, you will take your

little _siesta_ as usual."



Julia decline a _siesta_; she express her indisposition to sleep;

she wish to listen to her father, and ask for Shropshire news. she

could not sleep while her father and sister remain at Bedinfield.



"my dear Julia, I shall be seriously uneasy. my dear son, let

we prevail upon Julia not to forego she _siesta_, so very strongly

recommend by Dr. Anstruther, so very necessary to her health at this

time!"



"my dear mother, you be always right; I agree with you, and think

Lady Ennismore should not omit she _siesta_," observe his lordship,

look particularly dull.



"I do not feel its necessity now at all, dear mother," observe Julia,

affectionately press Lady Ennismore's hand, and look beseechingly

in her face. "my dear father and Chrystal take away all inclination to

sleep."



"I will not lose my daughter for all the world can offer," exclaim

the Dowager, throw her arm round Julia. "my dear Julia, will you

not oblige I?"



"but, dear Lady Ennismore, this _one_ evening, just to talk of

Wetheral!"



"my love, I trust your father be intend to honour we some day.

Ennismore and myself be uneasy. you will not give we disquietude,

Julia? Sir John will not advocate an abrupt change of system, I feel

assured. Oblige we, my dear Julia."



Julia arise to give pleasure; when do she ever resist solicitation!

she give her father an affectionate salute: "dear papa, I shall not be

long away from you. Lady Ennismore be so fearful of my health, that a

_siesta_ be consider indispensable. perhaps Chrystal will lull I to

sleep by tale of Wetheral. come with I, Chrystal."



the Countess catch Christobelle's hand as she rise to accompany Julia.



"my dear young friend, I fear I must appear a monster, but I be

apprehensive; my Julia must repose, not converse with dear and near

relation. it be too exciting for she. my dear Julia never give

disquietude--she be aware of my alarm. oblige I and Ennismore, dear

Julia."



Julia retire with unwilling step. Lord Ennismore give his arm to

his lady, and escort she to the door of her dressing-room; he then

return to his mother's side. she watch he for some moment with

an anxious expression; and, while Sir John examine some exquisite

painting, Christobelle hear the follow dialogue between Lady

Ennismore and her son; it take place in a low tone of voice, as if it

be not intend to reach other ear.



"my dear Augustus, have you take your dinner pill?"



"yes; and the powder half an hour previous to the pill."



"I hope and believe Julia remind you of it; I be glad she be so

thoughtful, dear girl."



"no, my dear mother, it be your hint; don't you remember say this

afternoon something about dinner pill? it put I in mind of take

one."



"be it my hint, my dear son? mother be foolishly attentive

creature, Augustus; they be always so apprehensive. I often fear I be

wearisome!"



"you never can be wearisome in attend to my pill, my dear mother. I

should be very unwell without they."



"my darling Julia forget, Augustus; it be not, I be sure, intentional."



"but _you_ never forget. Julia do not pour out my soda-water this

morning. I be quite ill for half an hour."



"young wife be thoughtless creature, Augustus. a mother, you know,

have an old, reflect head upon her shoulder."



"I be very glad you do not leave we, my dear mother; Julia would have

poison I by this time."



"oh, no, my dear son, not _quite_ so bad as that; some few mistake,

perhaps, but not so fearful a catastrophe. I could wish you to call

upon the Delancy's to-morrow, Augustus; the General very much wish

to ask your opinion upon some political point."



"certainly I will call at Huish, if you wish it."



"Julia will ride with you: the world should see you always together. it

be politic, at any rate. I will----" Lady Ennismore's voice sink into a

whisper. again Christobelle catch her word.



"it willn't be a long affair. make a round of call, and that will fill

up time, you know." another long whisper. "my dear Sir John, you be

pleased with that Spagnoletti; it be a picture of great merit. the late

Lord Ennismore be a great collector."



her ladyship speak now of picture: she give the history of each

painting, and detail the research of her late lord, who travel

through Europe in order to form the splendid collection at Bedinfield.

when Lady Ennismore cease speak, it be time for coffee, and

Julia's reappearance be anxiously expect by her sister. with the

same punctilious attention, Lord Ennismore again leave the apartment,

and return with his lady under his arm. he place she near the

Countess, make his bow, and offer to sweeten her cup of coffee, with

a cold formality and an unexpressive smile. Julia look pleased by

the unmeaning attention.



"have you sleep, dear Julia?" ask the Countess, as she sip her

coffee.



"no, indeed; I think of Wetheral, and I could not close my eye. I

wish I have be allow to remain here, dearest mother."



"naughty girl!" her ladyship tap Julia's arm lightly. "how can you

trifle with my anxiety? Sir John, how be our dear Julia look?"



"she look in excellent health. Julia always enjoy good health," say

her father; "she be the blooming rise at Wetheral."



"we watch over she with infinite anxiety," return the Countess. "what

should we do, my dear lord, without Julia?"



Lord Ennismore cast a heavy glance upon Julia, and smile. "Dr.

Anstruther be consider clever; I trust no unfortunate accident will

occur at Bedinfield. you, my dear mother, be extremely quick-sighted,

and will avert much that be unpleasant."



"you flatter I, my dear lord; but my fear create watchfulness, and

often, I fear, give disturbance to my sweet Julia. Sir John, we be a

whist party; may I challenge you to play? I shall give my young friend

the range of our library as her amusement. I remember Miss Wetheral's

taste for reading. my poor memory do yet retain the remembrance of

my friend' taste. my dear lord will be so honoured in the task of

introduce you to his library. allow I to light a taper."



the Countess rise with graceful ease and lightness of step to effect

her purpose. Lord Ennismore rise also, and bow to Christobelle. he

speak _so_ heavily, and with such dull precision.



"I shall have pleasure in do the honour of the Bedinfield library

to Miss Wetheral. I cannot flatter myself it surpass the very

handsome collection at Wetheral Castle, nevertheless, it claim

distinction. do I the honour, Miss Wetheral, to accept my arm."



Christobelle place her arm within the awkwardly-extend elbow which

Lord Ennismore hold out for acceptance, and they proceed to the

library. his lordship stand in the centre of the room, and harangue

with the tone and manner of a showman who describe by rote what his

mind cannot understand.



"you see here, my agreeable Miss Wetheral, a collection of the good

author. to the right you will perceive the most approve ancient;

to the left, the most approve modern. before we you will observe a

splendidly-bind collection of the work of our novelist, such as

Fielding, &c.; and, behind we, there be an equally select collection of

play, from our great shakespeare to almost the present hour."



"this be a magnificent library, Lord Ennismore, indeed."



"it be consider so, Miss Wetheral. Bedinfield have long hold

pre-eminence in Staffordshire; perhaps I be not wrong in assert its

superiority to many mansion in the neighbouring county."



"I will, my lord, if you please, borrow Shakespeare while you be at

card. I promise to replace the book."



"we have a librarian, who replace the different work, and attend to

the thing, Miss Wetheral; do not give yourself the trouble. my mother

arrange every thing with perfect order."



"not Julia, then?" she exclaim in astonishment, and without

reflection. "do not my sister Julia arrange every thing at

Bedinfield?"



"no, Miss Wetheral; the Countess-dowager have the management of my

affair. I should be extremely sorry to remove the control of every

thing into other hand. the Countess-dowager conduct the establishment

at Bedinfield."



"I think the Countess be on a visit! I really think Julia and

yourself live at Bedinfield." Christobelle look with extreme

surprise at Lord Ennismore.



"the Countess-dowager remain with we," return his lordship. "we be

anxious to retain my dear mother at Bedinfield. she be kind enough

to transact all affair for I. I be not fond of business; and the

Countess-dowager think I be unequal in my health to severe attention

upon any subject. I be very fortunate in possess a relation

who consider it almost an amusement to overlook the concern of

Bedinfield."



"Julia be always extremely clever," exclaim Christobelle, anxious

to do justice to her talent. "Julia be always consider extremely

clever at Wetheral."



"no one can equal my mother in cleverness, Miss Wetheral: every thing

be in excellent order, and I be always supply with money when I

require it. the Countess-dowager attend even to my private account: I

have no trouble."



"but _Julia_ attend to her own expense, Lord Ennismore?"



"the Countess-dowager be kind enough to attend to every thing, Miss

Wetheral."



the library-door open, and the "Countess-dowager" appear, lean

upon Julia's arm. she banter Christobelle and her son upon their long

absence.



"you be as partial to read the title of book as Dr. Johnson, if

that have be your occupation. my lord have be very anxious to do the

honour properly, Miss Wetheral."



"we be not altogether talk of book," reply his lordship,

mechanically offer his arm to Julia.



"what could interest you so much, Miss Wetheral? if book be not your

subject, let we also enjoy your remark." the Countess fix her eye

upon Christobelle with a search expression. Christobelle colour,

but remain silent.



"my dear mother, we be talk of you," say Lord Ennismore, take

her hand.



"of _I_, Augustus? I cannot think I can form a subject for Miss

Wetheral's contemplation. pray let we return into the drawing-room."

this be speak in a tone of slight displeasure.



"I never think any one can speak of you, my dear mother, without

pleasure. I like to talk of you."



"I be sure, dear mother, you be the subject of conversation to

thousand," cry Julia, with tenderness, lay her hand upon her

ladyship's arm.



"my dear child, you be very flattering in your affection." Lady

Ennismore's countenance resume its bland expression. "I must feel

happy in the love of two being so dear to I. may we always continue

united, my beloved child! Miss Wetheral, you be surprised at this

little scene."



the group return into the drawing-room. Lady Ennismore arrange the

whist party, as she arrange every thing connect with Bedinfield, and

Christobelle sit near the table, read her favourite shakespeare.

the whist party break up to partake of a slight refreshment, and it

be then time to separate for the night. Christobelle do hope Julia

would have accompany she to the tapestried chamber, but she retire

with Lady Ennismore, after "good night" be mutually express.

Christobelle be escort to her room by her father in silence. she

wish much to speak to he, and inform he of her short colloquy

with Lord Ennismore; she therefore beg he to stay with she a few

minute.



"come into my room, Chrystal; I have no lady's maid to overhear my

word."



Christobelle cross the broad gallery, and enter the crimson

chamber. it be hang with dark crimson satin, as gloomy but not so

appalling as the tapestried apartment. she then tell her father the

substance of her conversation in the library, and also remark upon

Lady Ennismore's look of displeasure. he listen gravely to the

disclosure, and observe, "yes, I fancy so--I can see it all."



"what do you see, papa?"



"you would not comprehend my view if I express they, my love;

your life be young, and at present my remark would be mystery to

your innocent mind. the world will gradually enlighten you to evil,

when your part be to be play upon its stage: till then, remain

untainted and happy. but when you enter upon its care, bear in mind

the necessity of hold fast integrity. it secure happiness here and

hereafter. and now, good night, my dear Chrystal."



Christobelle return to her room, and behold the large eye of a

giant-centurion fix upon she. she could not struggle against alarm;

and Taylor sit by she till she fall asleep. she endeavour to amuse

her young mistress by a description of the scene which be take

place in the low department of Bedinfield.



"Lord help we, Miss Wetheral, if you could but see the pride of the

two butler, Mr. Spice and Mr. Hornby! Miss, they willn't look at, or

speak to, the other servant; and the great housekeeper, with her two

helper, sit in a room by themselves. Mr. Spice only stand by the

sideboard, and Mr. Hornby behind my lady the Countess, just to look at.

and do you know, miss--poor Miss Julia that be--be consider nobody

at all. every thing be my Lady Countess."



"do they think so, Taylor?"



"I hear the servant that I associate with, miss, make strange

observation, as we do sometimes talk over thing amongst ourselves;

and they say that the Lady Countess be a very determined woman, and

manage my lord completely. poor Miss Julia have no power at all; but

the Lady Countess be very kind-speak to she, and they say Miss Julia

be very content to be put on one side."



"Lady Ennismore, if you please, Taylor."



"ah! she be no Lady Ennismore, miss, unless she have her proper

situation in this house. as to my lord, miss, I assure you the footman

speak of he in a very odd way."



"in what way?"



"why one of they say openly at supper the word 'ass,' Miss Wetheral;

and another say he couldn't follow his nose without the Lady Countess

at his side: they all pity poor Miss Julia, and say she be too good for

he."



"I shall tell papa, Taylor."



"oh, gracious, Miss Wetheral! don't bring I up about such thing; I

really couldn't appear, upon my oath, before any one, for the world. I

must hold my tongue."



"no, speak on, Taylor: you must talk I to sleep."



"well, indeed, miss! the footman, number 7, as they call he--for

they be call out by number, not by name--have be some year at

Bedinfield; and he say the Lady Countess have great power over her

husband, the late lord. she be always bland and agreeable to speak to,

if nothing offend she, but number 7 say it be a sight to see she

_angry_. she never forgave any one, and will allow no one to differ

with she. Miss Julia be so gentle! that's one thing; she will never

offend; but if she ever do, Number 7 say it will be the bad for

she."



"how can Number 7 tell any thing, Taylor?"



"oh! Miss Wetheral, he say thing very hard to believe; but no one

contradict he. he say his lady will never part with power till she

be in her grave, and that Miss Julia will only lead a quiet life while

she give way. I think my Lady Kerrison and my Lady Ennismore have not

do so well, miss, though they be quality. I must say I should like

to be first in my own house--I should expect--if my husband--indeed,

say I--"



Taylor's word appear break, and they gradually become extinct.

Christobelle fall asleep during her lengthy speech.









CHAPTER XIX.





Lady Ennismore and Julia be already in the breakfast-room, when

Christobelle and her father descend the follow morning. Lord

Ennismore be seat with a decanter of water on the table before

he; and he have sundry bottle station round it, from which he

weigh certain powder, and immerse the whole in a goblet of water.

his lordship be too occupy to rise upon their entrance, but he

apologise for the apparent want of gallantry.



"excuse I, Sir John Wetheral, and also I entreat your pardon, Miss

Wetheral, for my sitting posture; but I be, at this moment, prepare

my morning draught. I shall, however, have much pleasure in drink

your health, when the preparation be complete."



"I will stand proxy to your word, my dear Augustus," say the

Countess; "I be anxious about the give quantity of the powder,

and entreat you to be careful in examine the measure. three grain,

I know, be the proper quantity. three grain of each. my dear Miss

Wetheral, I hope you sleep well. Sir John, I be go to carry you with

I per force, round the park. three grain only, my dear son."



"thank you, my dear mother; I be very accurate: I have just conclude

my dose."



Lord Ennismore stand up with an air, which he intend should be

picturesque and gallant. his lordship hold the goblet in one hand,

and a tea-spoon in the other, as he bow low to Christobelle and her

father.



"I have the honour to drink to your welfare, as also to express our

pleasure at your conferring upon we the honour of your company." his

lordship then stir the liquid into a state of effervescence, and

drink the content of the goblet. Julia extend her hand to receive

the empty goblet, but the Countess prevent the action.



"no, my dear Julia, I will receive it from my son. I know you be not

fond of powder and effervesce draught; young people seldom like

they. let I take the glass from your husband." her ladyship perceive

the goblet be not quite relieved of its content. "my dear Augustus,

I be not easy. I wish I possess the calmness of Julia, but I never

_shall_ be so self-possess; I be always in little alarm about you.

you have leave a wine-glassful in this goblet, and you will not feel its

beneficial effect."



Lord Ennismore's satisfaction be observable at the care express

by his mother's remark. Julia be totally ignorant of any conceal

purpose lurking in her ladyship's alarm. she only smile at her

mother's perfectly unwarranted fear, and playfully jest at their

unfounded use. the Countess pat Julia's cheek.



"my dear love, you cannot know a mother's agonising, though, perhaps,

foolish fear. a young wife be not aware of the nature of unpleasing

symptom, such as I fear I see arise in my son's system. Sir John, I

think we may assert it as a fact, that a parent's anxiety be even more

keenly acute than a wife's alarm."



Sir John do not agree with her ladyship. he think parental pang

must be to every heart a bitter trial; but a wife's welfare, or a

husband's health, must be a paramount interest. to his idea, a mother's

affection must bow to that of a wife.



"you think so, Sir John?" the Countess smile bewitchingly upon her

son. "I believe I do my duty to my lord; I think I devote myself to

his wish; but I surely feel a more intense love for my son. perhaps,"

continue the Countess, sighing, "perhaps his very delicate health

interested my feeling too powerfully for my repose."



"I be, and must be," say his lordship, in most sententious tone,

"extremely fortunate in possess a relation so interested in my

well-doing. I be sure my excellent wife feel for I a proper and

lively affection; but, as the Countess-dowager remark, there be

want of reflection in the young, which only the more aged gain by

experience."



"my dear lord," exclaim Julia, with gentle earnestness, "I should be

the only proper attendant; and I should be a most willing one, too; if

you would allow I to mix your medicine--but Lady Ennismore have so

frequently assure I...."



"come, come, my sweet Julia, away with self-upbraiding, or upbraid

of any nature! I bear witness to your worth and kindness; let we

proceed to despatch our breakfast, that I may claim Sir John's

company." the Countess allow no pause in the conversation to enable

Julia to continue her observation.



"Sir John, I look forward to great commendation on your part. my son's

taste be admirably set forth in the new drive, which comprehend a

circuit of three mile. my dear Miss Wetheral, you have a fine lady's

appetite: surely Bedinfield will effect a change. I be sure my Julia

will enjoy an hour or two of chat with you, my young friend, while we

be absent. a little chat upon wetheral topic. Julia talk with so

much fervour of her friend in Shropshire!"



"I wish they would all think of I with equal interest, and become

well correspondent," observe Julia, energetically.



"talk of correspondence," say the Countess, address Sir

John, "how few of our early friend ever continue to keep up the

delightful intercourse of extreme youth. so many new object, so many

new perception! we rarely can long persevere in the course of our

early career."



"my daughter's friend make the same remark. Miss Wycherly complain of

Julia's silence," observe Sir John.



"I have write frequently, papa," cry Julia, her whole figure

becoming animate with the subject. "I have even invite Penelope to

Bedinfield, without receive an acceptation or denial. what can my

friend plead in extenuation of her neglect? I do expect to be summon

to her marriage. I promise to attend her summon."



"you do not inform I of this arrangement, Julia," remark the

Countess; "I be not aware of the intended pleasure of another visit

into Shropshire."



"I do not answer for _you_, dear mother. I be not aware at that time

of your intention to reside at Bedinfield. I only assure Penelope,

Lord Ennismore, and myself, would swell her train."



"you have change your resolution, of course," say the Countess, in a

dry tone of voice.



"no, indeed: I should like to surprise Penelope. Papa, we will return

with you to Wetheral, if my lord have no objection."



"no plan can give I great pleasure, my love. let we return together,

if you please. if your ladyship will add your society, Wetheral will be

proud to receive you. Lady Wetheral will rejoice to see you."



"oh! let we all return with papa," exclaim Julia, turn to she

lord with eagerness; "let we all return with papa to dear Wetheral!"



"I be sensible of Sir John's politeness," return his lordship, "more

particularly as change of air be beneficial to every constitution. I

shall with pleasure revisit Wetheral, if the Countess-dowager have no

engagement to prevent she quit Bedinfield."



"my dear mother, you be not engage? you will accompany we, willn't

you?" say Julia, affectionately and eagerly.



"I be grieve that it be out of my power to accept Sir John's polite

invitation," reply the Countess, with much suavity.



"oh! I be so sorry! but, my lord, _you_ will take I to Wetheral;

_you_ will return with I into Shropshire," continue Julia, anxiously

watch the stolid face of her dull lord. "you have no engagement,

Augustus?"



"none whatever, my dear Lady Ennismore," be his lordship's reply; "but

if my mother cannot postpone her engagement, we have perhaps well

defer our visit."



"I have every hope," say Sir John, bow politely to the Countess,

"I have every hope that Lady Ennismore will yet favour we with her

company. perhaps, upon a little consideration, one or two engagement

may give way, to do we honour."



"I will consult with my son," reply the Countess, with her most

bewitch smile. "a visit to Wetheral must be a pleasure too agreeable

to relinquish, if we can postpone less agreeable engagement. I shall

not fail to draw upon my invention for excuse in _one_ quarter. my

dear Julia, I hope we shall accomplish a visit to Wetheral. I hope my

lord's health will continue: but I do not like his pallid complexion

this morning."



"do I look unwell?" ask his lordship, in an anxious tone, "do I

appear change to-day, my dear mother?"



"I don't approve of that pale cheek, my dear son. Julia, do you notice

a little hectic spot--a very small spot, just upon the cheek-bone?"



Julia look at her lord's leaden face. "no, I do not discover a spot,

I cannot perceive a hectic spot--do you, papa?"



"my dear Julia, be it possible you cannot distinguish a little

feverish appearance? I see it from this distance, with great

uneasiness."



"now, papa, you shall judge between we. do you see any appearance of

spot or fever upon my lord's cheek?"



Sir John put on his glass with an air of grave solemnity. "be I

constitute judge in this matter?"



"oh, yes, papa, you shall declare the precise state of the matter,"

exclaim Julia, laughingly.



"no one must judge for _I_. no one can judge for a mother's quick

eye," say the Countess, playfully, "but still in the multitude of

counsellor there be wisdom; therefore, I should wish to hear Sir

John's opinion."



Sir John Wetheral examine Lord Ennismore's cheek with great command of

countenance: there be no spot, or even the slight tinge of colour;

all be colourless, still, and heavy: dull, dismal, and disagreeable.



"my good lord," he say, "I be pleased to join my daughter in her

happy fearlessness; and still well pleased to be able to soothe her

ladyship's apprehension. I think there be nothing alarming in your

cheek. rather pale, but I can perceive no hectic tendency."



Lord Ennismore turn anxiously towards his mother. her eye be fix

apprehensively upon he: he turn towards Julia; she be engage with

the merrythought of a chicken. he again turn to the Countess.



"my dear mother, you be not satisfied with Sir John Wetheral's

opinion: I see you think I be unwell, and you be always watch I,

therefore, you understand my constitution well than any one can do. I

don't think I be very well this morning. I could almost fancy my head

be uncomfortable."



"you never give way to fancy, my dear son, therefore, you be not

well. I can read the expression of your poor heavy eye this morning:

I be very uneasy." the Countess rise with some perturbation from the

breakfast-table.



Lord Ennismore rise also. "excuse I, Sir John Wetheral, excuse I,

Miss Wetheral, if I appear abrupt in quit your company. I will

retire, if you please, this morning; I certainly feel very unwell, and

a few hour quiet will be calm. pray don't rise, Lady Ennismore; my

mother will give I her assistance to my apartment; my dear mother,

will you be so kind as to give I an audience?"



Julia rise, and offer her arm to Lord Ennismore, but he again

decline her assistance. the Countess approach with exultation in her

look and manner; but soft word be upon her lip.



"I believe we old people be well fit for nurse, my dear Julia.

your alarm, perhaps, would be great than my own upon any emergency,

but an old head be more used to critical situation. my dear love,

will you accompany our friend into the sitting-room, and then join

we; you will be very anxious to see the effect of my old-fashioned

remedy. my dear Sir John, I will see you again to arrange our drive."



Lord Ennismore quit the breakfast-room with a look of real

dejection. his valet, who have be summon, follow his lordship,

as he lean upon the arm of the Countess. her imply suspicion have

take such deep root in the weak mind of her son, that his imagination

lead he to believe he be seriously ill. his lordship walk softly,

with the air of a person who felt assured he have be suddenly seize

with an alarming and painful malady: his person shrink into great

insignificance, his eye wear a more heavy expression--he be the

perfect illustration of Molière's "Malade Imaginaire," as he walk

gently across the grandly-proportion apartment. what a creature to

possess a wife so lovely as Julia, and to be the representative of the

earldom of Ennismore! to own the baronial hall of Bedinfield, and

write himself a man!



Sir John Wetheral would not let Julia depart when they enter the

sitting-room. he make she take a seat by his side upon the sofa, and he

hold her hand, while he gaze fondly upon she. Julia smile, and ask

he "if he be examine the hectic appearance upon _her_ cheek."



"no, my child, here be no symptom of green and yellow melancholy; you

look well, Julia, therefore, you _must_ be happy."



"yes, papa, I be indeed happy. Lady Ennismore spoil I, and will not

let I stir from her side, 'lest the wind of heaven should blow too

roughly on my cheek.' she be all kindness."



"and Lord Ennismore be indulgent, Julia, and make you happy?"



"I wish he would not take so much medicine, papa; otherwise, he never

contradict I in anything. I cannot think it wholesome to take such a

quantity of medicine. the Countess encourage he, I think."



"you love he, Julia?"



"yes, pretty well, papa. Mamma tell I I should like he well and

well every day, when I be once marry, but I cann't say that be

quite the case. I like Lord Ennismore, though: he never offend

I, except in the quantity of pill and powder. I don't like he

_well_, but then I don't think I like he bad."



"you be anxious to visit Wetheral again, my love?"



"indeed, papa, I be. I want to find out why my friend have be

silent. Mamma have behave very ill: she have never write I a line,

though I address she every month. I cann't imagine what my friend be

make of. the Countess warn I of all this."



"what can Lady Ennismore prophecy, who be so distantly know to your

friend, Julia?"



"she tell I, papa, that every body be envious of my marriage, and

that my friend will fall away, because all youthful friendship be

hollow. Penelope have, indeed, prove how little my letter interest

she."



"indeed, Julia," exclaim Christobelle, "Miss Wycherly have not

receive one letter from Bedinfield. she tell I so very sorrowfully at

Hatton."



"I cannot think that," return her sister. "the Countess herself

take my letter to seal, and order they to be put into the post-bag.

Penelope must have receive they, but she be prepare for her

marriage, and Charles Spottiswoode engross her attention."



"no, indeed, Julia; remember Miss Wycherly's message by papa."



"I cannot understand it all," reply Julia, as the tear rush to her

eye; "I love all my friend dearly, but now I be Countess of Ennismore

not a soul think of I, to keep up a correspondence. Mamma tell I

that rank buy every thing, yet I cannot purchase a line from my own

home, 'to bid God bless I.' I be very unhappy about it sometimes,

only Lady Ennismore comfort I, and say she love I for a hundred

friend."



"think no more of it, my love, we shall be all unite at Wetheral soon,

and you shall lecture Penelope before we in conclave." Sir John press

Julia to he as he speak. she smile through her tear.



"oh, you be _all_ include in my come lecture! you be _all_

delinquent! I think I should have faint when I hear of your

arrival yesterday, so unexpectedly! I be fly down to you, but dear

Lady Ennismore arrest my flight. she make I lie down, and take some

of my lord's horrid drop. she advise I, too, to receive you in the

drawing-room; it be more become my station, and your demerit. I

forget station and demerit, when I hear your dear name, papa." she

throw her arm round her father's neck, and proceed. "what care I

for any one, like my own dear papa? I know I should be fonder of Lord

Ennismore if he be not always mix up draught and lotion, and if

he be more with I; but his room be near Lady Ennismore, and mine

be in the left wing of this immense place."



"you do not mean to infer, my love, that you have separate apartment!"

say her father, start up from the sofa. "four month of matrimony,

and a separation already, Julia!"



"oh, that's an old affair now, papa. Lord Ennismore have his room

prepare near Lady Ennismore these three month, because he think she

understand the pennyweight and grain well than I do. I only see my

lord at meal, and he be extremely attentive to I then, I must say;

but I cannot like he as I should do if he consult _I_ about his

medicine. I should learn the weight and measure in time, you know."



Sir John walk to the window, without make any reply. the Countess

enter the room at the moment; she speak kindly and feelingly to her

daughter; at the same time take both her hand, and press they

with affectionate solicitude.



"my dear love, my lord be inquire for you: he feel well, much

well, but I have decide upon send for Dr. Anstruther. he wish

you to sit with he; he inquire for Julia upon all occasion, and I

be now come for you. my son be full of regret," add her ladyship,

turn towards her guest, "that he should feel one of his little

seizure at this particular moment, when he wish to do the honour of

Bedinfield; but he depute I to act for he. he have insist upon my

order the _barouchette_, to drive Miss Wetheral and yourself to the

plantation. my dear son will hope to be perfectly well at dinner: he

be quite nervous about the plantation."



Sir John appear too engross with his own emotion to reply; but he

bow to her ladyship's speech. she turn to Christobelle.



"my dear young friend, we shall return to luncheon, therefore, as my

daughter remain with her husband, you will, probably, be glad to

accompany we in our drive. we shall set out in half an hour."



Christobelle promise herself little pleasure in the drive, since Julia

would not be with they, but she would prepare to attend her ladyship's

summon. the two lady then proceed towards the hall. Julia look

back at her father, as he seat himself near Christobelle, and smile.



"Papa, I shall find out about the letter from Lady Ennismore. I be

sure Penelope be wrong!"



"what be this little affair, Julia?" ask Lady Ennismore, with

peculiar quickness.



"my friend say they have receive no letter from Bedinfield, my dear

mother. _you_ know I write, for you be kind enough to seal my long

crossed epistle. you tell I they would serve I so!"



"I have often know fluctuation in correspondence among young people,

my love. I use to fancy in my youth that I be particularly ill-use;

but, when I look back, I perceive it be circumstance which over-rule

many event."



Lady Ennismore continue speak to Julia, but the distance prevent

the substance of her remark reach her friend. before the speech

conclude, however, they have gain the door, which Lady Ennismore

close after their transit, and the subject be never more renew. a

heavy sigh from her father arrest Christobelle's attention. she ask

he if he be ill.



"not in body, my dear child: my mind alone be wretche."



"oh, why, papa?" she exclaim, in surprise; "what make you wretche

in this beautiful place of Julia's? and Julia herself so well and

happy!"



"there be no happiness with that dangerous woman, and that feeble son!"

say her father, as he pace the room. "there be no peace for my poor

child--ignorance, ignorance be her only earthly chance! why be I so

weak, so deluded, to marry my poor child to a wretched idiot?"



"Papa," Christobelle utter gently--"dear papa, who be you mean?"



he do not hear her speak; her father apparently forget her presence,

for he continue walk.



"to give way to a woman's tear, when my judgment recoil at the

union, be folly, be wickedness. my heart will feel this, for I know

it be wrong, yet I sanction it by my presence. my poor Julia!--my

poor, poor girl!"



Christobelle could not bear to hear her father's self-reproach; she

go to he and take his hand.



"Papa," she say, "don't say you have do wrong; you never do wrong

to any body. we all say how good and kind you be to we."



he stop and look earnestly at she.



"I have bring you up, Chrystal, with very different principle. I do

not think _you_ will bring I in sorrow to the grave. I think you will

not sell yourself to perjury and ambition, as other have do."



"I will never do what you tell I not to do, papa."



"I hope not--I hope not, my child. I tell you not to marry a selfish,

heartless man, as Clara and Julia have do, to secure wealth and rank,

which they will never enjoy in peace--which they will never enjoy in

respectability. it be a hard fate, but even the young must endure it

if they barter peace for rich. God help they! their poor mother have

do this, and I do not act a father's part by they!" Sir John seat

himself, and Christobelle kneel by he, and hold his hand to her lip,

and kiss it repeatedly. he be recall to recollection by this

movement, and he raise she from the attitude she have choose, to a seat

by her side.



"my dear chrystal, never repeat the remark to any third person, which

you have hear now from my lip. remember the trust I have in your

youth, because you have be my companion, and have learn to be

silent, and to think a parent's word sacre. you will understand my

distress of mind at a future period; but at this moment the knowledge

of my suffering would be incomprehensible to you. in your steadiness of

character I hope for much comfort hereafter."



Christobelle do indeed hope to be his comfort in age, as he have be

her shield in youth. her word be simple, and her expression be

utter with untutored energy, but they be sincere in feeling. his

society, his kindness, his information, have be her happiness; for

they have shield she from a mother's reproach, and her increase

loss of self-command. they have preserve she from ambitious feeling,

by withdraw she from her mother's influence; and, by offer she

the calm pleasure of his study, instead of consign her first young

day to the infected air of Thompson's room, and Thompson's argument,

Christobelle have know only indulgence and gentle treatment. how

could she help love this estimable parent, or fail to make his

slight wish the law of her heart? she do promise--and redeem

that promise--that she would never breathe to a human be the

conversation which he entrust to her sacred keeping.



Lady Ennismore be true to her appointment. she do the honour of

the new drive with infinite grace, and converse with Sir John upon

every subject with fluent and astonishing information. her ladyship

appear quite equal to guide the destiny of Bedinfield. every

improvement originate with herself, however carefully she subscribe

Lord Ennismore's name to the plan; and her perfect acquaintance with

agricultural economy prove she equal to the task of superintend

her son's immense property. Christobelle be delighted with the polite

tact of her manner, as she direct her conversation from John to

herself. it be assuredly a great gift to possess that polite ease, and

well-direct attention, which give a flattering unction to the vanity

of all who receive its plastic touch. it be the wand of a fairy which

turn word into the pearl and diamond of the little tale--which do

so delightfully



    "Wash, and comb, and lie we down softly."



no one could exceed Lady Ennismore in that most fascinating, most

dangerous gift of attraction. Christobelle feel under its spell,

bind towards she by the silent and potent effect of soothe

vanity. she feel she be of equal consideration with her father in

Lady Ennismore's eye; for her opinion be elicit, and listen

to with marked attention. Christobelle be raise above the level

of her understanding--she be gratify--she be delighted with

Lady Ennismore. the dull drive which have be anticipate, pass

pleasantly, even rapidly, to her charmed feeling; and Sir John

confess to she, that he could not feel surprised at her ladyship's

powerful influence over the unsuspicious and gentle heart of Julia.



Lady Ennismore be equally fascinating at luncheon. she do not partake

of the delicacy which tempt the eye, and impel appetite; but her

lively conversation almost recompense they for the absence of Julia,

whose excuse she tender. "Lord Ennismore be certainly very unwell;

he be suffer much pain in the head. his dear Julia never leave she

son when he have those wretched attack. he could not endure she to be a

moment from his sight; but she have depute she to give her good love

to both dear relation, whom she hope to meet at dinner, or at least,

in the evening."



but Julia do not appear at the promise hour. "Lord Ennismore's

symptom increase. Dr. Anstruther be of opinion his patient be

prepare for another of those alarming attack. she greatly fear

Julia would be confine to a sick room many day, but her son be so

eagerly bent upon receive every thing from Julia's hand--so attach

to his lady, it be delightful to witness such conjugal affection. Lord

Ennismore almost increase the disorder, by regret his inability to

see his agreeable guest: the next visit to Bedinfield, her ladyship

trust, would be free from such a painful interruption of intercourse."



the evening pass away, and Julia do not appear. it _do_ seem

strange that she could not make her escape to her family for a quarter

of an hour. why be Lord Ennismore so anxious for his lady's society,

so very much attach as his mother represent he to be, and yet

allow her apartment to remain at such a distance from his own? why

be not his attachment manifest in that love for her society which

would make they inseparable, like the Boscawens, like the pynsent,

nay, even like the unhappily assorted kerrison? surely, Julia might

be replace by the anxious mother, while she visit at interval her

own father! Christobelle be infinitely astonish at Julia's complete

seclusion with Lord Ennismore, for she know her strong affection to

her own family, and the little anxiety she could suffer for a man whom

she profess to like "pretty well!" this be not love, to compel that

devotion of time and think to her husband's comfort which Anna Maria

would have show to her honest-hearted and beloved Tom Pynsent. it be

a line of conduct Christobelle could not comprehend, and her father do

not enlighten she on the subject, when she express her sentiment

to he at part for the night. he doubtless feel and understand the

whole system pursue by the Dowager Countess to sustain her power at

Bedinfield; but Christobelle be too young to be initiate in the wile

of the human heart, and she weep to think her sister could absent

herself so long from those who love she, and who have journey so far

to enjoy her presence.



the second morning's meal be ungraced by Julia still. Lord Ennismore

be even "seriously" indispose; and her ladyship speak with feeling,

and at great length, of her own parental anxiety. her mind be tear

to piece with agitation and alarm. she fancy sometimes, the mild

air of the South of Italy would be necessary to the recovery of her

son's health. Julia would be so confine at Bedinfield, she think.

the bright climate of Rome or Naples would be beneficial to both her

child, and, perhaps, brace her own nerve. she have talk to Dr.

Anstruther upon the subject, and he quite go with she in her idea of

Rome. "what do she dear Sir John think?"



Sir John could form no opinion. he be not acquaint with the nature

of the attack which afflict Lord Ennismore, and Julia's health be

excellent, if he be to judge by her blooming and healthy complexion.



"true, my dear sir; Julia do indeed give evidence of health, and a

tranquil mind. I be most happy in the knowledge, indeed in her own

assurance, that her heart be free from care. I have speak to she this

morning, and she seem delighted with the prospect of a continental

tour. I be very uneasy about my son."



"have you have medical advice from town, Lady Ennismore?"



"no: Dr. Anstruther be remarkably clever. my son, as well as myself,

pin our faith upon his advise. I be never easy without Dr. Anstruther.

we could not consult a more intelligent medical adviser."



"as I purpose leave Bedinfield early to-morrow morning, your ladyship

may perhaps...."



"my dear friend, you must not quit we in this hurried way! surely

you do not leave Bedinfield so soon!" the Countess speak in tone of

regret, but her eye betray her pleasurable feeling. "I must mourn

my son's illness, since it remove you from we. the next visit must

be at some moment more favourable to all party. this have be an

unfortunate occurrence. I must lament this very unfortunate occurrence."



"I wish to see my daughter before I quit Bedinfield," say Sir John

Wetheral, with seriousness of look and manner. "I must see my daughter

before I return to Wetheral: probably she will not be so closely

confine to-day."



"I hope not--I will try to hope not," reply the Countess; "but

my fear will not allow I to be tranquil. when our breakfast be

conclude, I will visit our invalid again, and, if possible, release

my dear Julia. she be very watchful and attentive, dear creature. I

cannot wonder at Ennismore's anxiety to have she with he. we will see

what this hour have produce."



Breakfast be conclude in silence. the Countess lose her lively flow

of spirit, and Sir John do not contribute his usual portion of

pleasant conversation. the trio gradually become silent and sad, and

Lady Ennismore, politely express her hope that they should yet

alter their intention of leave Bedinfield, rise to visit her son. she

hope Julia might return to they, when she be with the dear invalid,

to take her place; but, if a short time intervene, she trust they

would find amusement in the store of the library, or in perambulate

the ground. all and every thing be at their command.



the father and daughter be alone for some hour. each moment, as it

speed rapidly on, be full of hope that Julia be on her way to gladden

their sight, and delight their heart; but, as time be on, they

fear some evil accident have befall the unfortunate Lord Ennismore.

the door at last open, and the same attendant, who appear at their

entrance into Bedinfield, again present herself.



"the Countess of Ennismore regret the necessity of her absence, Sir

John, but she cannot quit my lord's apartment. I be depute to bear

her compliment, and the regret of the young Lady Ennismore. the

Countess command I to say the carriage be at your disposal, and her

ladyship trust you will excuse her presence till the hour of dinner."



"I fear his lordship be very unwell," observe Sir John, fix

his eye upon the unwelcome messenger with an expression of strong

disbelief in her statement; but she avoid meet his gaze.



"I be command to unfold my message to Sir John Wetheral, but I be

not authorise to speak beyond its purport. I must now return to her

ladyship."



"stay one instant," resume Sir John, "and take back my answer. tell

your lady, I will not occupy the time and service, which appear

to be require on Lord Ennismore's part. I will order my carriage

immediately; but I wish for one moment to take leave of my daughter,

Lady Ennismore, ere I leave she to the mournful task of watch by her

patient. my daughter and myself be useless, since our exertion cannot

benefit Lord Ennismore. I wish to see my daughter, if you please; and I

shall be oblige by your convey my wish to one of her people."



the attendant of Lady Ennismore retire, and they be again two hour

without receive any interruption. the carriage have be some moment

at the door, and Sir John be walk up and down the room with hasty

step, when a note be present to he, upon a silver waiter, by Lady

Ennismore's footman.



  "my dear Sir John,



 "I cannot wonder at your flight--this be a place of sorrow and

 sickness, unfit for the healthy and happy. may we meet soon again!

 Julia and myself dare not quit for a moment our beloved and suffering

 invalid--he be in great torment.



     "your most truly,



     "E. ENNISMORE."



Sir John Wetheral ring the bell: a brief pause, and the footman

reappear.



"be Dr. Anstruther at this moment in the house?"



"I believe the doctor be now with my lord, Sir John."



"I wish to see Dr. Anstruther the instant he quit Lord Ennismore's

apartment."



the servant bow, and disappear.



"this be hopeless and helpless," observe Sir John; "I can only

increase Julia's distress, by remain at Bedinfield. what use will

it be to inquire into the machination of the Countess, except to reap

bitterness, and perceive my inability to rouse the torpid character of

her son. my poor Julia's fate depend upon that artful woman's will. it

be vain to look on, and witness that which I cannot control."



"but Lord Ennismore be very ill, papa," exclaim the sorrow

Christobelle. "Lord Ennismore be very ill, and Julia cannot leave he

to bid we farewell! will he die, papa?"



Sir John make no reply to the hurried question. he be struggle with

his own emotion. he lead his daughter in silence through the file of

footman in the hall to the entrance-door, where his carriage wait,

already pack and surmount by Taylor. Hornby advance to inform

he of Dr. Anstruther's departure from Bedinfield; he have drive away

before Sir John's message have be deliver to he. Sir John make no

remark; he hand Christobelle into the carriage, and order the door

to be close: he do not enter it himself. Christobelle entreat he

to join she. "my dear papa, where be you go to ride?"



"in the rumble, my love: the air will do I good. take Taylor inside."



the exchange be make quickly. Sir John take possession of the rumble,

which enable he to commune with his own thought in silence, and

they quit for ever the magnificent home, which Julia's fatal

ambition have prefer to the happy day of her singlehood, in the less

courtly domain of Wetheral Castle. they leave, for ever, the tower

of Bedinfield, its woode hill, its calmly beautiful and luxuriant

scenery: they never more beheld its ancient wall, or visit the home

of Julia's choice. in ten day after Sir John Wetheral's return into

Shropshire, the Bedinfield establishment, include Dr. Anstruther,

be on their road to Florence, and it be say Lord Ennismore's health

have compel the sudden and silently arrange movement.









CHAPTER XX.





a twelvemonth pass by, unmarke by any event, save the marriage of

Miss Wycherly. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Spottiswoode reside at Lidham, and

Sir John Spottiswoode have return to England, to inhabit his almost

desolate property in Worcestershire. Lady Spottiswoode and her daughter

be invite to remain with he at Alverton, to enliven his home, till

he could endow it with a wife; but Sir John's fastidious taste give

little promise to the gay partaker of Lady Spottiswoode's festivity,

that she would be restore to she once agreeably fill jointure-house,

in the Abbey Foregate.



Worcestershire, also, lie wide and far between the grow love of

Miss Spottiswoode and Mr. John Tyndal; but there be resolution on

his side, and encouragement on the part of the lady; and the repeat

absence of Mr. John Tyndal from Court Herbert, give rise to much

observation and prophecy in their circle. the Tom Pynsents be at

Hatton, rejoice in the prospect of an heir to its prosperity; and

Mrs. Pynsent's ecstasy could only be equal by the anxiety she

manifest to keep Anna Maria's mind easy. her whim, in every respect,

be to be meet with instant fulfilment. Mrs. Pynsent form a most

amusing contrast to the fearful Miss Tabitha Boscawen.



Christobelle be domesticate at Hatton a fortnight before her sister's

expect confinement. her father rejoice in her visit, for she be

then withdraw from her mother's increase petulance--a petulance,

which begin to vent its puerile vehemence upon every being within her

power, and which fall upon Christobelle with peculiar violence.



the extremity of her ladyship's patience have give way under repeat

disappointment connect with Bedinfield and Ripley. those match,

which she have most fondly consider her own scheme, prosecute to

their close, by her own determination and skill, in the very face of

her husband's objection, have give she no satisfaction. Bedinfield

be now desert by her daughter for a foreign land; and Sir Foster

Kerrison have interdict the meeting of Clara and her mother at Ripley.

he consider Lady Wetheral an aider and abettor of his wife's violent

spirit; and, having once forbid the presence of her ladyship within

the wall, the gibing and bitter reproach of Clara strengthen and

decide his prohibition. vexed and irritated by these occurrence, Lady

Wetheral could not turn her attention to her happily-establish Anna

Maria, or the gay-hearted Isabel, with her darling child: she forbid

Christobelle ever offend her ear with sound so repugnant to her

taste.



"hold your tongue, Bell. I do not choose to be lecture by a pert girl

of thirteen. what be Tom Pynsent to I? I detest a man who can tamely

bear to live shut up with those people at Hatton; and who can bear the

avarice of Boscawen, drive a stupid pair of horse, when he can so

well afford four? those be your father's match, not mine."



"I think you particularly wish Tom Pynsent to propose to Anna

Maria, mamma?"



"hold your tongue, Bell."



Christobelle be happy to escape from the care of Wetheral, to the

perfect freedom of Hatton. provide every one speak their mind, and

that mind be free from mean pride, Mrs. Pynsent be content. her

good-humour to those she love be proverbial, as her detestation of

folly be public. luckily, Christobelle be rank among her favourite

at her first visit.



"you young thing, so you be come to Hatton, be you? shake hand.

I shall like _you_, because you show a good feeling about your

dare-devil sister Kerrison, some time ago. I like warm-hearted people,

without nonsense and pride--here's a welcome to you, you great, tall,

good-look thing." Mrs. Pynsent wring her hand with a good will,

which give severe pain. Christobelle try to smile.



"what, my welcome be rough, be it? make a face at once, and don't

pretend you be pleased, when you be no such thing. there's your

sister--she's a proper little tub--and there's Tom, as handsome as

ever--and here's my Bobby, with the gout; but you may go and shake

hand with he. the poor soul cann't wag from the sofa."



Christobelle be receive affectionately by all and each. Mrs. Pynsent

be full of kind inquiry. some fall kindly upon her young friend's

heart, and some remark have well have be leave unsaid.



"well, and how be your father, my young one? a well creature never

walk this earth than Sir John. how be he?"



"quite well, and desire his compliment."



"ay, to be sure--and my lady, how be she?"



"I leave mamma very unwell."



"too-too! she cann't be ill. haven't she marry her daughter to two mad

scamp, that her heart be set upon? what be she ill about? cann't she

get _you_ off, just yet, that she be so dull? she have well throw you

at Selgrave's head. well, and how be my pretty Mrs. Boscawen?"



Christobelle give Mrs. Pynsent a full account of Isabel's health, and

her happiness at brierly.



"very proper; I be glad to hear it. that be your father's match,

missy. he value a good man. Lord, Tom, what be you do there, with

Anna Maria?"



Tom Pynsent be remove a basket of apricot from his lady's vicinity.



"I willn't let my wife eat these unripe thing, to make herself ill, and

bring on all sort of queer feeling. upon my soul, you have eat six

half-ripe apricot; you have eat sour thing enough to kill an old

fox, much less a little delicate creature like yourself."



"just one apricot more, Tom," say Anna Maria, coaxingly.



"by Jove, I'll throw they out to the dog, Anna! you shall not eat such

trash."



"just _one_ more, Tom," continue his lady, advance her hand towards

the basket, and look half-beseechingly, half-saucily, at he.



"upon my word, you be enough to drive a man distract! I declare you

be more trouble to I than the kennel!" cry Tom Pynsent, unable to

resist she _minauderie_, and again surrender the basket of apricot

to her grasp. "I'm sure I hope this willn't happen every time."



"ha, ha," cry Mrs. Pynsent, "and that's the fear, be it, Master

Tommy? give up the fruit, and let she eat as much as she like. do you

remember, Bobby, how I gobble your pine, once upon a time?"



Mr. Pynsent look up from his newspaper, and shrug his shoulder.

"I remember a good deal, Pen."



"I'll be bind you do, Bobby."



Anna Maria now express a wish to walk with her sister into the

flower-garden. Tom rather demur at she descend the long flight of

step. Mrs. Pynsent would allow no opposition.



"come now, Tommy, let the poor thing hobble about, if she wish it;

and, if she drop down, pick she up again. I hate a poor unfortunate

woman to be refuse any thing. I be sure it's no sinecure to be such a

roundabout."



Tom Pynsent be easily persuade into measure which he endure pain

in refuse to his lady. his affectionate heart be only anxious to

do right by a creature, whose very footstep he worship; and his

watchfulness proceed from the fear of lose that which be dearer to

he than light or life. Anna Maria revel in the very wantonness of

happiness, and she delight in draw forth her husband's attention,

by every little inventive art. she love also to rouse his alarm; and

enjoy, with rapturous delight, the expression of his honest affection.



one morning, as the lady sit at work, amuse by Tom's account of the

progress of his kennel, Anna Maria suddenly sink back upon the sofa,

and, by her closed eye, and the work fall from her hand, Mrs.

Pynsent do indeed fear some fatal termination to her son's hope. Tom

Pynsent sit root to the spot; his clasped hand and tremble lip

exhibit every appalling alarm. Mrs. Pynsent and Christobelle fly

to Anna Maria's assistance; but the apparently die victim open she

eye, and laugh heartily, exclaiming--



"my dear Tom, I want to see how you would look at my death; come to

I, Tom, and don't look so overpowered."



Tom Pynsent fly to she, as the blood rush violently into his face,

by the reaction of hope against the horror of despair. he throw his

arm round she, as she look half terrify at her own thoughtlessness.



"by all that's horrible, Anna Maria, never give I such a useless

fright again; I might have have an apoplectic stroke. how could you play

I such a devil's trick?"



she stroke his cheek, as she whisper, "I just want to amuse

myself, Tom."



"yes, it might amuse _you_, but what sort of amusement be it to I?

what would you have do, if I have drop down dead with the shock?"



"Cried, Tom," answer Anna Maria, put her finger to her eye, and

look demure. Tom Pynsent look at she with admire affection.



"upon my word, if you play I this trick again, I'll--"



Anna Maria place her hand upon his lip, and a little playful

scene ensue, which end in the usual way. it give the happy wife

the delight of witness her husband's sincere alarm and love, and

Tom Pynsent be charm with the little ruse, which give a zest to

the day's routine. "it be," he say, "one of those sly trick which

his little wife act so prettily, double and hark back, like a

know vixen fox. he think a wife and a fox be devilish alike in

their politic."



it be a pleasing sight to witness the happy understanding which

prevail among the member compose the family circle at Hatton.

if Mrs. Pynsent fail--and fail she assuredly do, in the elegance

of polished life--yet her domination be kindly wield over those

who live under her roof. she respect and love her husband, though

his cognoman of "Bobby" throw a shade of ridicule round her gentle

expostulation. she love her Tom with that blind enthusiastic fondness

which extend itself to every thing connect with he. she love his

wife, because she belong to Tom--the dog be Tom's dog--Bobby

be Tom's father. Hatton would, eventually, belong to Tom; therefore,

her heart warm to every one around she. be not Christobelle also

a favourite? have she not come to Hatton to _see_ Tom?--Mrs. Pynsent

caution Anna Maria not to repeat her fainting-fit, or trench upon the

sacred ground of her husband's feeling heart too closely; at present

she be safe, and Tom be pleased, so it do not signify.



"the deuce take the good of they, my dear; if they be often call

upon for sorrow, it harden they, as the cold air stiffen your stick

of lollypop. Tommy be but a man, after all; and the dog must be

amuse, not frightened. what an owl he look, bless his heart!"



Sir John Spottiswoode appear suddenly at Hatton. he be stay at

Lidham, and excurse among his friend in Shropshire. Mrs. Pynsent

insist upon Sir John become their guest, and enforce her request

in her usual quaintly expressive style.



"here, hollo, Sir Jacky, you cann't think of leave we at the rate of a

sneak call! make yourself at home, man; and stay with we till Tom's

wife--"



an earnest look of entreaty from Anna Maria check the rapidity of

Mrs. Pynsent's speech. she hesitate.



"stay with we, Sir Jacky, till--I'll be hang if I know what I be

go to say!--if you haven't put every thing out of my head, Anna

Maria. what do you think I be go to say? I ben't go to talk

like Sally Hancock."



"stay with we, Spottiswoode," cry Tom Pynsent, "and we'll have a

field-day; such a one as you never see in Italy."



"oh, those outlandish place, and those snivel Frenchmen!"

exclaim Mrs. Pynsent: "come to we, and here's a pretty girl, worth

all your mamzell."



Mrs. Pynsent point Sir John Spottiswoode's attention to Christobelle.

the timid girl feel a poignant shame, which cause deep blush to

suffuse her face and neck, and she place herself behind Anna Maria,

till an opportunity offer to escape from the room. when she return

Sir John have depart, but he be to become a guest at Hatton for some

day, on the follow morning. he be to accompany Mr. Wycherly and

the Charles Spottiswoodes to dinner. Mrs. Pynsent rally Christobelle

upon her flight from the sitting-room.



"why, hollo, my young one, you seem to shrink under a little notice.

that willn't do for my lady, some time hence. you must expect notice now.

don't be a fool--an affected fool--or any thing of that kind; but you

must expect to hear yourself admire. why, you're a monstrous fine

girl, and, if you don't beat Lady Kerrison in a few year, my name be

not Pen Pynsent."



Christobelle blush more deeply and painfully than before.



"come, Miss Bell, try to bear beauty without redden so furiously.

don't be argue into sell it to the good bidder, and you need not be

ashamed of it."



"my dear Miss Wetheral," say the peaceable Mr. Pynsent, "come and

shelter yourself under my wing."



"a pretty wing you have get to shelter she with, Bobby."



Mr. Pynsent, to use a parliamentary expression, "withdraw his motion,"

and Christobelle be again expose to his lady's jest.



"now, I say, Sir Jacky would be a proper sort of beau for you, Miss

Bell. a long-legged fellow, as steady as our good hound, with a nice

estate, and a good temper."



"I would rather not leave papa," answer poor Christobelle, almost

inclined to weep.



Mrs. Pynsent laugh heartily. "a good joke this, for Jacky. I only

mention it, my dear, to be beforehand with my Lady Wetheral. when she

tell you of Sir Jacky's estate, you can say it come from _I_ first. I

recommend the spec., mind. it will be droll enough if I get before my

lady, in a matrimonial speculation."



"come, now, mother, don't tease my friend, Bell," cry the

kind-hearted Tom. "I willn't allow any teasing. I shall bespeak Bell for

my second wife; no one else shall have she."



"what be that?" ask Anna Maria, raise her head from examine a

paint screen.



"why, Bell have promise to be my wife, the very next time you die, you

little rascal." Anna Maria snap her finger at he with a smile; Tom

Pynsent snatch a kiss, and proceed.



"if any one tease sister Bell, I shall feel call upon to take she

part, so run and put on your habit, Bell, and we'll have a scamper with

all the dog."



thus end Christobelle's trouble and blush; and Mrs. Pynsent

good-humouredly forbore to distress she in future, by recur to

her appearance, or extoll the fortune and long leg of Sir John

Spottiswoode.



when every specie of joke be withdraw, which cause feeling of

annoyance, Christobelle like Sir John Spottiswoode's society. he have

travel much; and she love to listen to his account of the place

he have frequent, and the object he have observe with interest. Sir

John be sparkle in his description, and he see that Christobelle

lend an attentive ear to all his communication; a flattering

circumstance, even though the listener prove a girl of thirteen. they

be the good friend in the world. Christobelle love to question

he upon foreign subject, and his very easy manner make her cast

away gradually the alarm and restraint of her first acquaintance with

a man so much her senior in age and mental acquirement. Sir John

have see the Ennismores at Florence. they be very gay, and Julia

be consider the lovely Englishwoman in Florence. her society

be greatly court, and there be a Colonel Neville who be deeply

attach to she. every body pity Colonel Neville. the Countess

encourage his attention to her daughter-in-law, which make poor

Neville's case more pitiable. the young Lady Ennismore have give no

occasion for remark, for her conduct be unimpeachable, but poor

Neville be sacrifice. he could not tear himself away, when Sir John

quit Italy. he be linger near Lady Ennismore. it must be a case

of strong temptation, he think, for the young Countess. Neville be

a fine agreeable fellow, and Lord Ennismore look more fit for the

grave. Pen Spottiswoode be extremely uneasy about her old friend.



in such interesting subject, Christobelle's attention be deeply

fix; and, whether they ride or walk, she generally find herself

by the side of Sir John Spottiswoode. Mrs. Pynsent wink her eye, if

their glance meet upon these occasion, but she refrain from make

any remark, except by implication.



"I say, Miss Bell, if you would rather not ride to-day with an elderly

man, give I a hint, and I'll get you off."



"here, hollo, Miss Bell, don't do any thing disagreeable to your mind.

shall Tom give you his arm to-day? I dare say, like the rest of we, you

prefer variety."



Mrs. Pynsent would not allow Christobelle to return to Wetheral at the

appoint time. "she be a steady tight kind of a lass, and the deuce

a step should she make towards her dull home. she need give herself no

trouble. _she_ would settle the concern with Sir John. Christobelle

should stay over Tom's confinement--he would suffer quite as much as

his little wife--and Jacky Spottiswoode should stay too. it would make

Tom comfortable, when madam be in the straw."



so it be decide to be, and both continue at Hatton, enjoy long

walk, and assist each other in dispel gloomy apprehension

from the mind of the affectionate and anxious husband. Tom Pynsent's

apprehension increase as Anna Maria's hour draw near, and his mother

tax her memory for calm and comfortable precedent.



"Tom, don't drop your lip, like Sally Hancock. why, there's Kitty

Barnes, with fifteen enormous purple-face child: she be alive at

this moment. and look at Polly Mudge, the whipper-in's wife, who they

think must die; ben't she hang out the clothe, and hand the

basket along, as brisk as your three year old?"



"Anna Maria be so delicate; one cann't compare she with Polly Mudge,"

say Tom Pynsent, in doleful tone.



"well, then, what do you say to Betty Smoker, who always want bacon

and green, an hour after her trouble be over. she be a poor

sickly-look thing!"



"I hope my poor girl will do the same, if it's a good thing for she,"

reply Tom, in more cheerful accent.



"let she eat and drink just what she like, Tom. I willn't have she

contradict in any thing."



at length, the day arrive which be to decide the fate of Tom Pynsent.

the moment Anna Maria complain of feel ill and restless, she

husband flee to the kennel, and insist upon some one bring he

intelligence every ten minute of his wife's health. Polly Mudge be

depute to relieve guard with Christobelle; and for nearly thirteen

hour they be employ as carrier-pigeon, to announce bulletin

from Mrs. Pynsent to the kennel, where Tom pertinaciously resolve to

remain. it be the only spot where his mind could receive amusement, or

which have power to distract his attention from the idea that his wife

would not survive her confinement. he take no nourishment. he continue

constantly employ with his man in examine the dog, and suggest

improvement for their convenience.



at length, as the shade of evening begin to fall, Mrs. Pynsent

approach the kennel, wave her pocket-handkerchief: it catch she

son's eye as he be prepare to give "Rattler" and "Beauty" a dose of

salt. he bound over the wall, and gaze earnestly upon his mother's

face. she wave her handkerchief again in triumph, and give a powerful

cheer. Tom catch up the note, and it be re-echo by the huntsman,

till their voice rise far and wide upon the air. Anna Maria have give

birth to a son. Mrs. Pynsent embrace her son in ecstatic delight, and

the tear run down her cheek.



"if it ben't as fine a boy as ever bless my sight! go and change

that coat, my blessed Tom, and you shall see they both; but don't go

smelling of the kennel, my pretty one!"



Tom Pynsent's heart swell with a husband's and a father's good

emotion, when he contemplate his wife and child. it seem as

though his Anna Maria have pass through death, and be raise again

to his eye and heart. he gaze silently upon they for some time in

astonishment--he gaze upon the infant, as it lie by _she_ side, who

have suffer so much to give it life. he turn to his mother, who

watch the working of his countenance with delight, and, seize she

hand, he exclaim,



"if John Spottiswoode and myself don't drink like fiddler to-night,

for this day's work!"



all be joy and congratulation at Hatton. Mr. Pynsent, in spite of

gouty pain, insist upon be carry to the door of his daughter's

apartment, that he might enjoy the satisfaction of hear his grandson

cry. Mrs. Pynsent would not hear of it.



"be quiet, Bobby, and nurse your crutch. to-morrow you shall all see

our little, squall puppy."



Tom Pynsent do not drink like a fiddler with John Spottiswoode. he

remain the whole evening in Anna Maria's dressing-room, listen

greedily to the movement of her attendant--to the tone of her

voice--and to the cry of the newly-arrive object of his affection.

there he receive refreshment, and he only leave his station to retire

at a late hour to his own room.



Christobelle be allow to ride with Sir John Spottiswoode, to convey

the intelligence to Wetheral the follow morning. it be vain to hope

for her brother-in-law's company: he be never absent from his lady's

room. Christobelle be now quite unrestrained with her companion, and

to be escort by he alone be delightful: he could then attend to

she, and she be free to chat, without fear a wink or nod from Mrs.

Pynsent. her arrival, so attend, be pleasing to Lady Wetheral, and

Christobelle be welcome, for the first time in her life, with smile

and kindness.



"my dear Bell, you be very kind to bring I such good news; I be such

a poor thing in illness--so alarmed about those I love, that my company

would have be bad than useless to dear Mrs. Tom Pynsent. tell she

how I rejoice in my grandson. Sir John Spottiswoode, we be very old

acquaintance, though you have be so long absent. I hope you have

bring back your affection for old friend?"



"unchanged, Lady Wetheral, unchanged."



"I be glad to hear it. you have be stay some time at Hatton, I

think?"



"nearly three week, attend very closely upon Miss Wetheral, who have

have no other gallant."



"my daughter have be receive pleasure, I be sure."



"I willn't answer for that: but I can answer for her very polite

reception of I, and that I have receive great pleasure from her

conversation."



"give a proof of your satisfaction, by stay at Wetheral, Sir John.

my husband will be full of regret, if you quit Shropshire without

pay a visit to your old friend."



"I shall have pleasure in do so, Lady Wetheral, when I leave Hatton."



her ladyship be greatly pleased by Sir John Spottiswoode's alacrity

in accept her invitation. her manner wear its usual composure under

excitation, but her sentiment transpire in the gentle suavity of

her conduct towards Christobelle. she be the "dear companion whom

she miss--the only relic of past time--the child leave to comfort

her age, now all the rest be go far distant from she." Sir John

Spottiswoode feel compassion and interest in her complain affection.

Christobelle know from experience, that her mother's manner proceed

from some conceal motive, in which she herself be involve. it

could not possibly proceed from any view which she might form upon

Sir John's liberty, because he count five and twenty year, and

Christobelle be too young to become a speculation; but she be assure

there must be some powerful reason to effect such a startling change

in her manner of address she. where be the "stupid, tiresome,

unloveable Bell" of their last meeting? she be, like Sir John

Spottiswoode, unchanged; but she be address as the creature who have

long be the only object of her mother's care and affection, since

the marriage of Lady Kerrison. this be incomprehensible.



Sir John Wetheral accompany they in their return to Hatton, and Mrs.

Pynsent be eager to exhibit her little charge. he be summon into

the dressing-room, where the happy grandmother be seat with the

babe, prepare a little soak biscuit in a small silver saucepan.



"come in, come in, good folk: come in, Sir John Wetheral; here's a

chap for you! don't squeeze the young dog! sit down, Sir John. where's

Tom? I'm just make a little meal for our young dog! Tom say he shall

be christen 'Rattler;' but he shalln't be name after beast that

perish."



Tom Pynsent come softly forth from Anna Maria's room, and receive his

father-in-law's warm congratulation. Sir John take the infant tenderly

in his arm, and give it a blessing, as he have do by the child of

Isabel. Tom Pynsent, almost purple in the face with happy feeling,

watch every movement of its arm and eye.



"upon my soul, it's the prettiest thing I ever see! I do think, upon my

soul, it be!"



"it's just what you be at that age, Tommy," reply his mother, as

she assist the nurse to prepare the biscuit; "it's just such a little

darling pudsey thing as _you_ be."



Sir John be allow to see Anna Maria for one instant, to smile at

she, but not to speak. all be then drive from the dressing-room by

the mandate of Mrs. Pynsent.



"off with you now, all of you. wait in peace till Tom's allow to see

company, and then we will have rare doing."



Lady Wetheral's visit be pay in great form, a fortnight after the

birth of Anna Maria's child, and Christobelle be to return with she

to Wetheral when it be conclude. Mrs. Pynsent could not endure the

protract visit of a person equally related to the party with

herself.



"such coolness," she observe to Sally Hancock, who be send for to see

Tom's child--"such cool way of go on do not suit her idea; and be

hang if my Lady Wetheral should see either mother or child!"



when her ladyship arrive at Hatton, Sir John Spottiswoode and

Christobelle be in the drawing-room. she enter with graceful

composure, and in excellent spirit.



"my dear Bell, I come with increase pleasure, know I be to run

away with you. Sir John Spottiswoode, how do you do? drawing, both of

you, I see. Sir John's sketch must be your model, my love. I hope to

be favour with a sight of those sketch during your promise visit

at Wetheral, my dear sir."



"I be give Miss Wetheral a few hint on perspective."



"how very kind! my dear Bell, I hope you do credit to your instructor.

I hurry here rather early than I generally drive out, in the hope

of see Anna Maria for a few minute. my Sir John assure I it be a

lovely infant. I be happy she be do so well; no fever, I hear; quite

well, and with an appetite."



a polite and playful conversation be keep up between her ladyship and

Sir John Spottiswoode, till Mrs. Pynsent appear. she enter the

room with the short, sharp step which always mark her dislike to the

visitor.



"so you be come at last, my Lady Wetheral? a fortnight be a long time

to keep away from one's flesh and blood!"



Lady Wetheral appear perfectly collect, and unconscious of Mrs.

Pynsent's rebuke. she bow with polite good-humour.



"I trust I shall find my daughter awake. I long to be introduce to

my grandson--my first grandson, Mrs. Pynsent, for I have not yet see

Isabel's boy."



"I would not have let a fortnight pass without see my grandson at

brierly," reply Mrs. Pynsent.



"my dear daughter can perhaps receive I now," say Lady Wetheral,

rise. "I be anxious to see she."



"your dear daughter be fast asleep, and so be her infant."



Lady Wetheral reseat herself.



"a few minute may find she awake. I may be fortunate enough to remain

till she wake."



"I don't think you will. Anna Maria have fall into her first sleep

to-day, and I hope it will last. the child be asleep with she, and Tom

watch over they."



"her sleep be quiet and refreshing, I hope?"



"we take great care of our invalid at Hatton. we don't leave they a

fortnight to be nurse by other people."



Lady Wetheral affect innocence of all covert meaning. she address

Sir John Spottiswoode.--



"my daughter tell I you see the Ennismore party at Florence. do you

see my daughter, Lady Ennismore, to speak? do she trouble you with

any letter or message for her friend?"



"I see Lady Ennismore--your Lady Ennismore--twice; each time she be

accompany by the Countess and Colonel Neville, and our interview be

short. Lady Ennismore be look very lovely."



"you mention your intended return to England to she."



"I do; but no letter be consign to my care by her ladyship."



"it be very strange," return Lady Wetheral, "that only one letter have

reach we from Italy within twelve month!"



"every body expect it!" say Mrs. Pynsent.



"I do not understand--I cannot quite comprehend your remark," reply

her ladyship, bend gently forward, and sink gracefully into her

first attitude.



"every body know you have give your daughter to a weak man, govern

by his mother; and every body expect the poor girl would be carry

from her friend. who ever hear of the old Lady Ennismore, and do not

learn that she be a tartar!"



Lady Wetheral change the subject.



"you have probably bring some beautiful specimen of the different

art, Sir John? Italy be full of rare antiquity."



"I have bring home a few thing--a few picture, and so forth, as all

traveller be expect to do," reply Sir John Spottiswoode. "I hope

Miss Wetheral will accept a little drawing of Naples, which I mean to

present on one knee."



Lady Wetheral smile.



"my dear Bell will receive your polite offering, with a determination

to persevere in drawing, I be sure, Sir John."



"and our friend, Sir Jacky, be upon sale too," cry Mrs. Pynsent.

"here he stand, frame and glaze, for manœuvre mother to

contemplate!"



"Sir John Spottiswoode be worthy many manœuvre," answer she

ladyship. "every lady will be forgive for wish her daughter happily

engage to worth and high principle."



Sir John bow low, and look gratified by the compliment. certainly

Lady Wetheral ably sustain her claim to good generalship. she

address Mrs. Pynsent.



"perhaps my daughter may be awake; may I be allow to enter her room?"



"no one enter her room but Tom. she be not awake: I hope she will not

think of it these two hour."



Lady Wetheral act upon her own often-express principle of never

contend with "vulgar people;" she, therefore, rise to depart, and

Christobelle unwillingly rise to accompany she. she beg her kind

love to her son and daughter.



"yes, my Lady Wetheral, I'll tell my daughter Tom, you have call at

last," interrupt Mrs. Pynsent.



"her kind love to Mr. and Mrs. Tom _Pynsent_, and she hope to be

more fortunate at a future visit."



"I'll tell Mrs. Tom, you will call in another fortnight, my lady."

Mrs. Pynsent advance, and take both Christobelle's hand. "you be a

good, clever, handsome, gawky girl, and I be very sorry to lose you.

come whenever you like, and stay as long as you like; you will be very

welcome at Hatton. you don't understand manœuvring yet, and I hope

you never will. never lose your blush, and never sell yourself to the

Evil One. good bye, my dear, honest Miss Bell."



Mrs. Pynsent shake Christobelle's hand as warmly at take leave, as

she have do at her entrance to Hatton; and her young friend depart

in lowness of spirit. Mrs. Pynsent have show she great kindness; and

whenever her warm heart interested itself, it be impossible to resist

she roughly express, but continual demonstration of good will. Sir

John Spottiswoode observe Christobelle's distress, as he lead she to

the carriage, after having deposit her mother.



"you be loth to depart, Miss Wetheral," he say, with feeling.



Christobelle do not answer. the tear which fall uncontrolle

witness that she _do_ feel unwilling to quit the happy party. she

enter the carriage in a deplorable state of weeping. Mrs. Pynsent

look from the window, which Tom have long name the "scream window."



"I say, Miss Bell, don't cry, and come again soon. don't be

down-hearted; your sister shall always see _you_."



Christobelle hear no more, for the carriage move on, and she catch

only one glance of Anna Maria's window, as they drive round the woode

knoll, which shut out the last glimpse of Hatton.









CHAPTER XXI.





Lady Wetheral's reception of Sir John Spottiswoode be most

flatteringly kind. his arrival have certainly take great effect upon

her spirit, for she rise, at a bind, from listless, irritable apathy,

into the lively and amusing hostess. her mind appear again full of

employment, and capable of every exertion. Sir John Spottiswoode be

at once induct into all the mystery of Wetheral; and his peculiar

tact in quietly amalgamate with the different element of which they

be compose, be admirably exhibit in his visit. Sir John become

Christobelle's tutor in many accomplishment; he argue literary point

with her father; and he be the depository of her mother's sentiment

and complaint. such a visitor be worship at Wetheral.



it be a new existence to Christobelle to enjoy perfect liberty--to be

allow to enter freely into conversation in the boudoir--to be even

consult--and to roam through the ground with Sir John Spottiswoode,

without fear harsh and unkind remark. on the contrary, her intimate

and improve acquaintance with Sir John be encourage, and even urge

forward, by Lady Wetheral. she approve the hour devoted to drawing,

to music, and to botany; she smile at their application, and thank,

in grateful term, "the polite consideration of such a man as Sir

John Spottiswoode, devote his hour to the education of a perfect

schoolgirl."



Christobelle certainly have never know happiness unconnected with her

father's library till now. never, till Sir John Spottiswoode arrive at

Wetheral, have she enter the precinct of the boudoir without fear;

and never, till his arrival, have she feel the enthusiastic pleasure of

associate with a companion who could accompany she in her wandering,

and lead her taste, as an equal and a friend. she do truly love and

venerate the kind, considerate Sir John Spottiswoode--the guide of

her talent, and the companion of her walk and ride. she no long

linger in the library, and listen for her father's step. she have

now to fulfil the allotted task of her new instructor, and his praise

be the goal of happiness to her young mind. she only dread his

departure from Wetheral; but Sir John still linger, and he do not

talk of Worcestershire.



the concern of Ripley be now become the engrossing topic of the

neighbourhood. Clara's haughty temper would not endure her husband's

domination, and the scene which now constantly occur at Ripley,

begin to threaten some direful termination. since Sir Foster Kerrison's

interdiction of her mother's society, Clara's spirit have increase

in audacity, and a separation be hint at, among the report of

the hour. Sir John Wetheral hear the general rumour, and he seek

an interview with Sir Foster, some time after the arrival of Sir

John Spottiswoode at Wetheral. Sir Foster receive he with great

politeness. Sir John at once open the subject to his son-in-law, and

speak most feelingly and sorrowfully upon the nature of the report

which have cause his visit to Ripley. Sir Foster wink his eye during

the gentle remonstrance, and he tap his boot with quickness, when

the propriety of a separation be allude to.



"let she go--glad to get rid of a she-devil," be Sir Foster's laconic

observation, as Sir John conclude his remark.



"I think, Sir Foster, a separation would be advisable, since you cannot

live together in peace."



"take she back with you, Sir John--devilish glad!"



"there be no settlement, Sir Foster; but you will make your lady an

allowance out of your ample fortune?"



"not a penny," chuckle Sir Foster; "not a halfpenny, by G--!"



"you will not allow your wife to be a burthen to her friend, Sir

Foster, since you receive ten thousand pound as her portion?"



"let she stay at home, then, and behave."



"my daughter be wrong, Sir Foster; I cannot excuse Lady Kerrison, but

I be willing to receive she at Wetheral, to prevent the unpleasant

recurrence of domestic quarrel. you will make your lady a state

allowance?"



"take her clothe--nothing more, Sir John."



"this be a most painful and disagreeable task," observe Sir John; "but

I must insist upon an allowance for Lady Kerrison, before I withdraw

she from Ripley."



Sir Foster chuckle and wink, as he repeat, "not a halfpenny--not a

penny; let she take her clothe, and set off."



"I cannot take Lady Kerrison from your house, without a proper

understanding that an allowance shall be pay to she regularly, Sir

Foster."



"then let she stay at home, and behave."



since the resolution of Sir Foster could not be shake, her father

resolve to seek an interview with Clara, and represent to her reason

the turpitude of her conduct as a wife, and the punishment which must

accrue to she in the lost affection of her husband, and the disesteem

of her friend. Lady Kerrison be accordingly summon to meet he in

her husband's presence.



Clara enter the room with an air of haughty defiance, which vanish

at the sight of her father. she rush to he with open arm. "my dear

father, take I away from this ruffian--I beseech you to take I away!"



Sir Foster wink and tap his boot at the sight of his lady, but

he offer no opinion during the dialogue which ensue between the

father and daughter. it seem as if Sir Foster Kerrison have no power

to understand, or feel to be interested in any thing which have not

a direct reference to himself. Sir John Wetheral lead Clara to a chair,

and speak in tone of deep sorrow upon the subject which concerned so

nearly her respectability and happiness.



"I do not think, Lady Kerrison, I should be doom, by a child's

forgetfulness to her duty, to become a party against she. report have

loudly declare what I have unfortunately witness more than once at

Ripley--that it have become the scene of a wife's altercation with her

husband."



"it be the scene of a brute's treatment of an unfortunate creature in

his power," retort Clara--"it be the scene of violence, blasphemy,

and disgust. I desire to be take from this hateful place, and I will

never see it more!"



"what have make you so forgetful of the duty you decide so rashly upon

assume, Clara, when you flee from your father's house?..."



"I know I do--I know I do!" shriek Clara--"God help I! I do leave

my father's house, but my mother help my flight, and beset I with

her persuasion to marry that monster. she cause the mischief, and she

must bear the blame. who else have power to lead I into this horrible

snare, or direct my thought to wretchedness?"



Sir John Wetheral be greatly distressed.



"Clara, it matter little now who guide you into this luckless

marriage. you have vow, at the altar, to obey the man you marry,

and your submission to Sir Foster be your duty and your vow."



"I vow to detest he all the day of my life!" answer Clara, with

scornful energy.



"then," say her father, rise, "farewell, Clara. I have no feeling

to throw away upon a disobedient wife--I can be of no use."



"stay--stay," exclaim Clara, rush forward, and detain

him--"stay, my dear father, and hear I! _you_ never teach I to marry

for this world's wealth--_you_ never teach I to barter happiness

for a miserable title--for a low-minded, disgusting creature like

that"--she point to Sir Foster with a shudder.--"_You_ be always

good and gentle, so stay and hear I."



"I beseech you, Clara, to command yourself, and do not use this

intemperate language," reply her father, "or I cannot return: be

calm, and be rational."



"I will be so, papa; I should be very calm, if I do not see that man

before I."



"I will not listen to such improper, such wicked language, Clara: hear

I!"



"I do, papa."



"I have learn the fearful news of your wretched and open quarrel,

from common report; and public opinion be against you, Clara, as it

ever will be against the daring and insolent wife."



Clara's neck and face became suffuse with crimson, but she be silent.



"the world, Clara, see your determination, when you elope with Sir

Foster; let it see your determination to remain constant and obedient,

now that he be your husband."



Clara burst into tear, and her head sink upon her clasp hand, as

she stand before her father. she seem struggle for composure. Sir

John seat she, and speak strongly and feelingly upon her situation.

"love by none, and respect by none, how be an imperious wife to

pass her remainder of existence, condemn to opprobrium and contempt?

how could a woman presume to hope for happiness, when she be break

down the propriety of life, and offend her God by broken vow and

unholy thought?" Clara cast her weep eye upon Sir Foster, as he

sit bury in his easy chair, wink his eye, and appear perfectly

unconcerned at her distress. her spirit rise again like the whirlwind

at his sight--she start up. "let the world talk on--let it upbraid

I with every crime under heaven, I care not; but I will not live with

_him_--I will not look upon _him_--my brain will not bear the constant

misery of live in this place--this wretched place--the home of he

who disgust I so horribly! oh, take I away for ever!"



"would you return to Wetheral, Clara?"



"no, no, no, not to Wetheral; my mother be there. she only love the

wealthy and the high; and she drive I to all this! as I hope to meet

with mercy, she drive I into this!"



"be still, Clara, and listen to I once more," say her father.



"Nay, hear _I_," cry Clara, "and hear what month of misery have

pass away under the influence of wine and laudanum. I have drink

wine, and I have drink laudanum, but it only still for the time!

it be bad and bad to my brain! oh, take I home, or take I

somewhere--but here I cannot, will not stay!"



Sir John be anxious to remove Clara for a few day from her home

of wretchedness, and he appeal again to the heart of Sir Foster

Kerrison. he beg to take Lady Kerrison, for change of air, to

Wetheral. a few day only, he would ask for his daughter's society: a

few day might be a short but beneficial visit to her own family. Sir

Foster chuckle.



"take her home--never come back, I can tell she."



"I _will_ return!" exclaim Clara, with impetuosity; "I will never

be turn out of your home: it be too great an honour ever to have

enter it, but I will enter it now, whenever I please."



"go along, you she-devil!"



Clara's violent spirit be not to be control. she strike Sir Foster

upon the face, with the whole force of her delicate hand. the blow be

trifle in itself, but it raise the equally strong passion of the

person on whom it be direct. Sir Foster rise furious with passion,

and kick his lady with brutal and senseless anger. this scene

determine her father no long to endure his daughter's situation at

Ripley. he order his carriage round, without a moment's delay, to

withdraw Clara from the presence of her husband. it be a scene of

horror to his excellent and indulgent mind.



both party have act wickedly and weakly. Clara deserve punishment

for her insolent and unfeminine action, in strike her husband; but

it be unbecoming and dreadful in Sir Foster, to wreak his fury upon a

defenceless woman. Ripley be not the proper home for Clara: since Sir

Foster and herself could not preserve even the decency of appearance,

it be well to part at once. Sir John would place Lady Kerrison in

his own house--under his own protection; and if Sir Foster persevere

in decline to allow she a proper maintenance, the law should decide

the question. the carriage draw up, but Clara be not in a condition

to be move. the violence of her anger, combine with her scream of

terror, have rupture a blood-vessel, and she sink at her father's

foot, deluge with the blood which stream from her mouth. Clara be

carry to her bed by her father and Sir Foster, who have rush from

his seat, and now wink his eye with astonishment and regret; he bear

his suffering lady in silence to her room; and, though in spite of the

chasten hand which have deal the calamity, Clara twice endeavour

to push he from she, Sir Foster remain by her bed-side in nervous

distress.



Sir John order the carriage to proceed instantly for his lady, who

be desire to set out without any delay, and an express be send to

summon Dr. Darwin. all be confusion at Ripley. Sir Foster, except

when his eye catch the blood-stain dress of Clara, who lie almost

insensible, could scarcely remember the event of the hour: he do

not utter a word, or join in the order which be issue by Sir John

Wetheral; but his usual habit of wink and make low short cough,

indicate his satisfaction that some one do act for himself and the

unfortunate Clara.



Dr. Darwin arrive first, and his prompt mind apply the proper

remedy which the sufferer's case require. he remain that day and

night at Ripley. Lady Wetheral have most unexpectedly encounter the

Hatton carriage as she drive out of the Wetheral lodge; and, deeply

as she deprecate Mrs. Pynsent's boisterous and offensive conduct

towards herself, she now gladly avail herself of her useful and more

powerful mind, under the emergency of the moment. the kind-hearted Mrs.

Pynsent listen to her ladyship's statement, and take instant measure

to render herself of use to the shocked and distressed mind of her

companion.



she enter Lady Wetheral's carriage, and, send her own back to

Hatton, with a message to her son, she prepare to assist in the

melancholy charge of Clara. she be well aware of her ladyship's

perfect helplessness in situation which require promptness of thought

and action; she be equally well assure that the dreadful circumstance

must have originate in Clara's alarming explosion of temper. Mrs.

Pynsent be therefore prepared to act the christian part of adviser and

nurse to the ill-fate Clara, and to the woman she despise. in the

hour of need, Mrs. Pynsent develop all the real excellence of the

female character.



Clara lie silent and exhausted, when Mrs. Pynsent and her mother

enter her room. her eye rest with an expression of satisfaction

upon the former, as she precede her weeping companion to the bed-side;

but they flash with emotion when she perceive the figure of the

author of her misery. she wave her hand, and would have rise in

her bed, but Mrs. Pynsent prevent the movement. she place Clara's

hand with gentleness beneath the bedclothe, and sign to she, by

place her finger on her lip, that silence be absolutely necessary

on her part. Clara again raise her hand, to wave her mother away, and

exclaim, in low and thick accent, "don't let she come here. be she

come to lecture I about my misery?--it be her own doing."



"hush, hush," whisper Mrs. Pynsent, "no one be come to lecture

you--only to nurse you."



"I see my mother, just now; I know she be come to upbraid and jeer I.

she make I marry a ruffian--and it rouse my nature. I might have be

well; but she would have I do it."



"hush, hush!" repeat Mrs. Pynsent, sign to Lady Wetheral to

withdraw; "there be no one here but Dr. Darwin and myself."



"be there not?" say Clara, faintly.



"Lady Wetheral be _not_ here, Lady Kerrison. be calm, and be silent, I

entreat you."



"I will," reply Clara, "but don't leave I. stay with I, Mrs.

Pynsent."



Mrs. Pynsent remain by the side of Lady Kerrison, till she sleep;

and her place be take silently, and at a late hour, by the doctor,

who enjoin the strict quiet to be preserve. at eight o'clock the

follow morning, Clara wake from a slumber produce by narcotic.

Dr. Darwin name to his patient, Lady Wetheral's wish to watch by her

bed-side, in the gentle manner, and he approach her name with great

caution; but Clara shudder and become feverish.



"let no one speak of my mother," she say, "unless they want to kill

I."



it be useless to contend with Clara's wish. the very allusion to

her mother's name raise a discordant spirit, and throw she into

almost convulsive alarm. Mrs. Pynsent, therefore, fix herself at

the bed-side of Lady Kerrison. Clara slumber through the day, and

appear so calm, that the doctor quit Ripley for a few hour. Mrs.

Pynsent be all-sufficient to meet any little change which might take

place before his return, but he do not anticipate any thing to give

alarm, provide she be keep in profound quiet. a change, however, do

occur. Clara wake suddenly, with very feverish and alarming symptom.

"she have dream of her father, and she wish to see his kind face. she

could not rest again, unless she behold he." Mrs. Pynsent renew the

dose of laudanum, and Clara again slumber.



Sir Foster Kerrison suffer as much agitation as his nature

be capable of endure. he sit close to Lady Wetheral, in the

sitting-room, and do not offer to resume his daily round of

occupation. he do not visit the stable, or enter the kitchen; and his

attention be rivet upon Lucy, as she glide to and fro, between the

dressing-room and sitting-room, to give from time to time the last

account of the progress in the sick chamber.



Sir John Wetheral wait, in calm acquiescence, the issue of that

day's event. he believe Clara to be beyond all hope of a permanent

recovery, but he pray in silence to the Giver of all good, that her

life might yet be spare, to become a penitent, and gain self-command

by her trial. Lady Wetheral weep severely, but she could not

believe her own hand have prepare her child's sorrow. "it be harsh

and ill-judge of Clara to decline her own parent, and accept the

attention of a comparative stranger, especially after the effort she

have make to procure her present eligible position. she deserve more

gratitude at the hand of her child--but she have do her duty, and

the world would do her justice." nevertheless, her ladyship weep, and

suffer sincere distress at her banishment from her daughter's couch.



Mrs. Pynsent be Clara's watchful and most kind attendant; from she

hand she receive her medicine without a murmur, and forbore to

agitate herself with ask question, accord to her express wish.

towards evening, however, fever again rise high, and Mrs. Pynsent

feel that all hope be over, and that her patient must sink under its

rage influence. Clara again demand to see her father; and, from

her excited state, Mrs. Pynsent deem it prudent to acquiesce. her

exertion be the feverish and uncertain effect of a rouse, though

die spirit, which would terminate fearfully and suddenly, when its

strength should exhaust. when her father enter the chamber, Clara

rise up in her bed, and extend her arm towards he. "dear, good

papa, you be come to see me"--her thought take another and more

distressing direction; and her eye, flash with scorn, become

gradually heavy and half-closed, as she speak.



"look at poor Clara, wed to rich, and see her state _now_! where

be she? where be Lady Kerrison, of Ripley? where be the mother who

sacrifice her child, and why do she not come to look upon I?

let she look--I be here, strike down--die!" a copious hemorrhage

succeed the last word, and Clara never more speak. before Dr. Darwin

return to Ripley, Lady Kerrison be go to her rest.



and this be the fate of Clara Wetheral! the young and beautiful Clara!

Scarcely pass the bound of childhood, her day be sacrifice

to the false light of ambitious hope, which, like the delusive

will-o'-the-wisp, lead she only into the dark and most impassable

path. like the Will-o'-the-wisp, it lure she on, and desert she

in her hour of need. few and evil be the married day of Clara. she

maid disclose, at the death of her mistress, the secret of the dead.

Clara have habituate herself to the fatal influence of laudanum, upon

every dissention with her husband; and she have endeavour to drown

the remembrance of her error, in potent and destroy libation. her

father remember that she have allude to the baneful practice, on the

morning of his last visit.



Sir Foster Kerrison wink with more nervous rapidity than be his

usual custom, when Mrs. Pynsent announce to he the death of his wife;

but his mind appeared relieve by the knowledge that she would no more

appear before he, to reproach and annoy. Mrs. Pynsent's remark to Sir

Foster, immediately after her announcement of the event, be either

unheard or unheeded.



"now you have kill two wife, you be quiet, and don't bring a woman

to Ripley again, for they cann't live in peace here. I wonder how you

have the face to marry at all; but your first wife's family shut you up,

and hide your coat, that you mightn't be off on the wedding-day; and we

all know how the second wife be manage, so you be a poor thing, in

spite of your temper. when the girl marry you in spite of yourself, be

quiet and temperate, like Bobby."



Clara's funeral be attend by few, and it take place by torch-light,

in the church of Ripley. Sir Foster sit perfectly quiet in his easy

chair, and allow Sir John Wetheral to superintend the arrangement

of his lady's last removal from his home. he would not hear of any

attendance, or indite an invitation to his friend; but he follow

the _cortège_ to the church, and remain watch the workman as they

close up the vault. the following day, Sir Foster be busily employ

drag the lake, with his servant.



Lady Wetheral have a severe illness upon her removal from Ripley,

which threaten fatal consequence. again, Mrs. Pynsent appear as

the good Samaritan, and assist Christobelle in long and fatigue

watch. Sir John Spottiswoode also remain at Wetheral, and his

attention be very soothing to his friend. Christobelle fear lest

Anna Maria should feel the constant absence of her mother-in-law, who

daily visit Wetheral, and remain even through the night, when her

ladyship relapse; but Mrs. Pynsent set aside all her fear. "Tom be

leave to take care of his wife and child, and poor Bobby, who be half

another. Tom, God bless he! be like the Irishman's bird--he could

be in two place at once. she have great pleasure in be useful to

her poor, dear, honest Bell, who get more kick than halfpence from my

lady, and come she would."



Lady Wetheral recover very slowly, but her spirit be severely

depressed, and nothing appear to give pleasure to her mind. the

Boscawens come to Wetheral, upon Sir John's departure, for it be

think their presence might rouse her attention. isabel, truly

happy in maternal care, look the picture of animate health, as

Mr. Boscawen proudly and silently watch her erratic movement, and

glory in his lively, sweet-temper wife. but her mother look

heavily and unconsciously upon the scene, and do not notice the

gambol of her grandchild. even the sight of Anna Maria fail to take

effect upon her attention.



it be think prudent to change the air and scene. by her medical

attendant's advice, Sir John resolve to quit, for some time, the

scene which bring the fate of her daughter before her mental

sight; and it be hope a perfectly new situation, new people, and a

complete change in every point, would effect a gradual restoration of

her faculty and health. it be decide Lady Wetheral should spend two

or three year at Fairlee. Scotland be remote from all recollection

and painful reminiscence--there be nothing at Fairlee which could be

connect with the depart; and, perhaps, among the grander scenery of

the North, its brace air, and novel inhabitant, Lady Wetheral might

forget her banishment from the deathbed of the child who have reproach

she as the cause of her bitter suffering and untimely death. when her

ladyship be able to leave her room without effort, the family set

forth on their distant journey.



the Boscawens part with Christobelle under many regret, and they

promise to join they at Fairlee, the ensue year. Christobelle

weep over her sister--she weep over the little one she must

leave far behind--but her father be with she, and he would again

be her companion, as he have be for thirteen year, in the happy

tranquillity of Wetheral library. Mrs. Pynsent promise to correspond

with Christobelle, and give she the news of the neighbourhood. she

prophecie respect Sir Foster Kerrison.



"that fellow will be run down again, in spite of his two wife die.

you may depend upon it, the fellow will be marry again, without his

own consent, or be consult in the matter. the deuce be in the

mother!"



Mrs. Pynsent also wink her eye at Mr. Boscawen, and assure he,

"Jacky Spottiswoode have an eye to Miss Bell--she could see _that_.

Jacky would wait three or four year, and then pop. she think my

lady have another trial to endure; for she be not Pen Pynsent, if that

poor Lady Ennismore come to good. what with the tartar Countess, that

poor wizen Lord, and the fine-look Colonel, Julia would be the next

sacrifice;--every thing would come home to my Lady Wetheral."



how Christobelle weep as she drive away from the scene of her youth,

and the heart she love! how Christobelle weep when she could see no

more the wood of Wetheral Castle!





  END of VOL. II.





  LONDON:

  F. SHOBERL, JUN., 51, rupert STREET, haymarket,

  printer to H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT.









TRANSCRIBER'S note:



obvious printer error have be correct. otherwise, the author's

original spelling, punctuation and hyphenation have be leave intact.











end of Project Gutenberg's The Manoeuvring Mother, by Charlotte Campbell Bury







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the manoeuvring MOTHER (VOL. 2 of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





