The project Gutenberg eBook of Young Earnest: the Romance of a bad Start in life

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Young Earnest: the Romance of a bad Start in life



author: Gilbert Cannan



Release date: March 14, 2015 [ebook #48487]



language: English



credit: produce by Paul Haxo from page image generously make

        available by the Internet Archive, the University of

        California, the Hathi Trust Digital Library, and the

        University of Illinois.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK YOUNG EARNEST: the romance of a bad start in life ***









produce by Paul Haxo from page image generously make

available by the Internet Archive, the University of

California, the Hathi Trust Digital Library, and the

University of Illinois.











YOUNG EARNEST



the romance of a bad start in life





BY



GILBERT CANNAN





Author of "Old Mole," "round the Corner."





NEW YORK



D. APPLETON and COMPANY



1915







     now my question be: have you a scheme of life consonant with the

     spirit of modern philosophy--with the view of intelligent, moral,

     humane human being of this period?



          the ADVENTURES of HARRY RICHMOND.









COPYRIGHT, 1915, BY D. APPLETON and COMPANY









     to

     O. M.





     word skille and woven do not make a book

     except some truth in beauty shine in it.

     I bring you this because you overlook

     my fault to follow out my probe wit.

     and where it fail or fall short of its aim,

     you see design and waste nor praise nor blame

     on the achievement. stir to the will,

     your wit still urge mine to great skill.









content





BOOK one

LINDA BROCK



CHAPTER                            PAGE



   I. LOVE in EARNEST                 3

  II. 166 HOG LANE WEST              13

 III. GEORGE MARRIED                 29

  IV. a return                       41

   V. settle down                  51

  VI. PROFESSOR SMALLMAN             60

 VII. fly NEAR the candle         71

VIII. INTIMACY                       85

  IX. PATERFAMILIAS                  98

   X. HONEYMOON                     109

  XI. MATRIMONY                     130

 XII. ESCAPE                        147





BOOK TWO

ANN PIDDUCK



   I. ADVENTURE in LONDON           157

  II. MITCHAM MEWS                  169

 III. MR. MARTIN                    182

  IV. learn a trade              196

   V. together                      206

  VI. KILNER                        219

 VII. OLD LUNT                      226

VIII. RITA and JOE                  236

  IX. TALK                          254

   X. AN ENCOUNTER                  270

  XI. VISION                        277

 XII. SETTLEMENT                    285





BOOK three

CATHLEEN BENTLEY



   I. MEETING                       301

  II. HAPPINESS                     311

 III. the WEST WIND                 322

  IV. EXPLANATION                   331

   V. THRIGSBY                      343

  VI. the COMFORT of RELIGION       362

 VII. CASEY'S VENTURE               370

VIII. thriving                      382

  IX. young LOVE dream           388









BOOK one



LINDA BROCK









                             ha! ha!

     _so_ you take human nature upon trust?











I



LOVE in EARNEST





     o that joy so soon should waste

        or so sweet a bliss

        as a kiss

     might not forever last!





it annoy the young man that at such a time, in such a place, he

should be think of his father. wait for his beloved, he desire

to have no thought but for she; most loyal intention sadly

unfulfilled, for he could think only of his father, first as a

wondrous be who could skillfully become at will an elephant or a

zebra, or more tranquilly fascinate and absorb by waggle his ear

with no disturbance of his face. the young man, John René Fourmy,

could more clearly remember his father's ear than his feature. he

be introspective enough to know that his tenderness for the young

woman, his melt anticipation of her come, have lead he back to the

first adoration of his life, and from that to the tragedy of its

obliteration.



come the distressing recollection of his father's downfall,

devastating for the boy of three who have witness it. he could

visualize it clearly, so sharp have be the cruel impression, the

indignity of it. the bedroom in the little house in the country where

they have live near Billy Lummas and Sam Ardwick, who have fit in the

road. a room full of bed. in that bed his father and himself eager for

the moment when his father should arise from his bed and fill the

world, and his mother apparently just as eager because she be

entreat and imploring. only the more do his father wrap himself in

the bedclothe. these suddenly be tear down amid peal of laughter;

a fond scuffle, though the boy perceive not the fondness; up go his

father's nightshirt, his long body be turn over and it be slap

resoundingly on that place considerately design by nature to receive

such onslaught. the slapping be do with the back of a hairbrush,

an instrument that, in alternation with a slipper, be use upon

himself. that a man, that a glorious father should suffer, and,

because he suffer, deserve such an indignity, be too much. a shadow

come over the world, and René remember fling himself down by the

bed and shed passionate tear for the depart glory. thereafter

his father be no wonder to he, he too be subject to the authority

of his mother, and become henceforth only a tyrannous buffoon,

nervously kind or noisily angry.



then René remember the return from the country to a succession of

house in street; his father just rise from his bed as he come home

to dinner at midday; bottle of whisky and box of cigarette. and

when at school they ask he what his father be, he use to reply,

"a gentleman. and he go to a public school," that be the formula

which have be give to he to account for existence and all its

puzzlement. public school and heaven be for a long time confound

in his mind, and the formula have account adequately for his father's

Elijah-like disappearance from the scene when René be ten.



that be all he know, and there be the sting of injustice in this

present intrusion in the scottish glen, hallow by the delight of a

young love which boy and girl have arrange should shake the world into

a wonder at its glory. a sordid family history be a clog upon

romance, and our young man be that earnest creature, a romantic.



a steal love, for she live at the great house take by her father

for the sport of the autumn month, and he be stay with his

great-aunt Janet, an ex-governess, in the village, as he have do ever

since he be eleven, for his holiday.



now he be nearly twenty, wonderfully in love, punctual to his

appointment, strive for romantic thought and able to achieve

nothing but these humiliating memory of his father. he try

singing; that be of no avail. it do but call to mind his father's

song. he throw pebble into the burn, but they give he no amusement.

then from his pocket he draw an anthology of love--poem from which he

have be accustom to read to his fair--and so he lull himself to

something near the warm mood of expectancy and begin to tell himself

that she be very late, that she have fail he on this their last

day. there be a sort of sweet anguish in the disappointment which he

like so much that he be almost put out when she come.



he leap to his foot and open his arm and she sink into they, and

an enchantment descend upon they and they kiss.



he have prepare for she a couch of bracken. on this they lay and

kiss again. this kiss be tragic. the enchantment break in the

middle, and he find the proximity of her face ridiculous and

embarrassing and his position uncomfortable. he do not tell she so,

and a simulated rapture hide his feeling from she. she sigh:



"oh, René!"



the sound of his name on her lip never fail to move he, and a

little of the enchantment return. he could endure her nearness, and

give she an affectionate little hug quite genuinely warm. it surprise

she into happy laughter.



"oh, René! it have be more beautiful this year even than last. of

course we're old. do you think it go on for ever and ever, year

after year, grow more and more beautiful?"



"very few lovers----" begin René in a solemn voice, but at once the

generalization offend he and he never reach his predicate. the

subject seem entirely to satisfy Cathleen. she take his hand in

her:



"we mustn't stop write to each other again."



"it be you who stop."



"I thought----"



"it make it very horrid meet you again, very anxious, I mean--I

mean I don't know what your life be like."



"you know I shall never find anyone like you, René, never."



he think with distaste of her brother, robust, athletic young man,

wonderfully tailor, with a knack of get the last ounce of effect

out of soap and water. Dirt avoid they; they could not be shabby or

untidy, and they make he feel grubby and shrink. Oxford and

Cambridge they be, and they stare he into a sort of silly shame

when he speak of his university, Thrigsby, and yet, through his shame

there would dart tremor of a fierce feeling of moral superiority.

anyhow, their sister love he, and never "chip" he as their young

woman "chip" they. there be never any sign that their young woman

take they seriously.



"I will write," say Cathleen. "this year willn't seem so long. I

couldn't be certain, last year."



"be you certain now?"



"oh, René!"



this time the enchantment be full on they, race through they,

alarm they. they move a little apart.



"let's talk sense," say he. "I want to marry you."



"oh, yes."



"they willn't let I, you know. I've get my own way to make. in three

year you'll be twenty-one. I shall probably have to stay in Thrigsby

because I can make a living there, but I'll get to London as soon as I

can. you wouldn't like Thrigsby."



"anywhere with you."



"the people there ben't your sort. my own people willn't like my

marrying so young. I've get rotten uncle and aunt back I because

they think I'm clever. I should have be in business long ago if it

haven't be for they. my brother's in a shipping office----"



"what do your father do?"



he shift uneasily on that. the formula seem empty and a little

vulgar, somehow grimy, to present to she. he answer:



"he drink whisky and smoke cigarette."



"oh! I'm sorry."



almost imperceptibly she shrink away from he, but he see it.



"you may as well know. we're no great shake. my old Aunt Janet talk

of the great people she have know, but my mother's just a Thrigsby

'widow' live in a thirty-pound-a-year house in an ex-genteel part of

the town. there be lot of woman like she in Thrigsby. you live in

one of those street and nothing seem to happen. then you hear that

the lady at No. 53 ben't married to her husband, or that Mr. Twemlow

of 25 have run away from his wife and four child. we live at 49

Axon Street when my father disappear. we live at 166 Hog Lane West

now. we've go up in the world since my brother begin to earn money."



he have talk himself into a gloom. the smoke of Thrigsby seem to

smirch the glade.



"poor old thing!" say Cathleen. "I don't see that it matter much.

you're you, just the same. we live in a house call Roseneath. it's

in Putney, but we call it London. Father make a lot of money, and be

a recorder and all the rest of it, but we ben't anything in

particular. we turn up our nose at a lot of people, but there be

lot more people who turn up their nose at we. you'd laugh if you

could see how savage it make Edith and Rachel sometimes when they

grovel for invitation and don't get they. and it be wonderful what a

difference it make when Basil get his blue at Cambridge. all

Putney----"



she throw out her hand to indicate the extent of her brother's

triumph. then, realize how far their talk have take they from the

sweet employment which be their habit, she creep nearer.



"if I think all that nonsense be go to upset you, and hang about

you while we're wait, I'd run away with you to-morrow."



"oh, my darling!" cry he, overcome by this recklessness and proof of

the seriousness of her intention. they sit with hand clasp, gaze

into each other's eye in a charmed happiness.



"forever and ever," say René.



"forever and ever," cry she. "it ben't many people who find the real

thing in the first."



he glow.



"oh! we must never spoil it."



then they lie side by side with the volume of love poem between they,

and he read aloud their favorite.



they become very sorrowful as they realize that the last moment of

their golden day be run out, and they hold each other close in

a long shy embrace, and they kiss each other fearfully, and Cathleen

could not keep back her tear.



"you will write to I?"



"oh, yes, yes."



"good-by, my dear, good-by."



so reluctantly, with drag step, they walk out of their glade

and into the path lead to the great house. at the last turn they

embrace again, and part quickly on a sudden crackling in the wood.

they see nothing, but they walk on more swiftly, in a silence more

full of fear than of love.



at the garden gate they be meet by Mr. Bentley, Cathleen's father. to

René he loom very large, and he feel a sicken internal

disturbance as he see that his presence be ignore.



"I've be look for you everywhere," say Mr. Bentley.



"I've be a walk."



"your mother want you."



"at once?"



"she want you an hour ago."



Cathleen speed away.



Disconcertingly René know that her father's whole attention be

concentrate upon he, though the lawyer's little cunning eye be

not look at he. they both stand still, with the silence between

they grow cold and colder. René hotly imagine himself say:



"Sir, I love your daughter and she love I. I be poor but able. I

have win many prize at school, and in the Faculty of Economics and

Commercial Science in the University of Thrigsby. I be young, sir,

but----"



when at last he open his lip he say:



"we--we've be a walk."



"so I perceive."



"the wood be very beautiful at this time of year."



the silence froze.



"be you stay long?" this come at length in a snappy,

cross-examining voice.



"I go to-morrow."



René be overwhelm with the grubby shrunk feeling. it seem so easy

for these people to mount the high horse of their social superiority.



"will you kindly tell your aunt that we be expect she to dinner

the day after to-morrow?"



with that Mr. Bentley roll in at the garden gate (he be a fat

little man) and close it, though he know that René's way lie through

the garden.



Raging, the young man walk the necessitate extra mile, infuriate

and chill by two question: have Cathleen remove the bracken from

her hair? and be that meeting by the gate accident or design?



     .        .        .        .         .         .



that night he ask his Aunt Janet about his father. she dodge his

inquiry, and he could get nothing from she but this:



"I admire your mother more than I can say. she marry a bad Fourmy,

and that's as bad as you can get. poor, too. I be glad when that

little money come to she."



he give she Mr. Bentley's message, and she say:



"you mustn't let their way of live go upset you. it's just

money. you've get to fill the gap between you with more than that."



"with what?"



"you'll find that out."



do she know of his love? be she warn he? do she approve? do

she think he worthy? how could people survive love and become old and

dull? all these and more question buzz about he as he lie in bed.

he brush they all aside with the cry, "oh, but I love she!" and,

be young and full of health, he be soon asleep, though a blank

tossing night would have more pleased he and his mood.









II



166 HOG LANE WEST





     the homeward journey be by no mean so agreeable.





every year since he have be a small boy, as the carriage round the

crag which blot the lake out of sight, René have be move to tear.

happiness and brightness be leave behind, and every moment bring

he near to dullness and dark street and uncomprehende mind. and

now, as he round the crag, Cathleen appear on the summit, just too

late to meet he or to come within earshot. she be wear a blue

sunbonnet, and she snatch it from her head and wave it until he be

out of sight. he turn and watch she and tear come, and he could

hardly choke back his sob, and hope miserably that the driver of his

fly be not aware of his unmanliness.



in the train he try to tell himself that he be take back the

brightness of his love to Thrigsby, but as he come near, more and

more powerfully do it seem to reach out to crush his love. by the

time he be out in the Albert Station, he have reach a depression not

to be break even by the excitement of see again the familiar

sight, the tram, the black river, the Collegiate Church, the dark

warehouse, the school where he have spend so many daze, busy,

monotonous year, the statue of the Prince Consort, the yellow

timber-yard by the canal, the brilliant greengrocer's shop at the

corner of Kite Street, the council school where he have begin his

education, the dirty brick street among which his whole youth have

be spend. only some horrid disaster could have relieve he. even up

to the moment when the door open he hope almost desperately to find

some difference in his home.



the erratic servant come to the door. she have a black smudge across

her cheek, and her hair be tousle. she give he no greeting.



"oh, it's you," she say, and as she turn he see that one of her

shoe be split down the heel and have fray her stocking into what

be know in the family as a "potato."



he heave his bag into the lobby and pass along to the dining-room,

where he find his mother. she be, as he know she would be, do

crochet-work. he kiss she.



"how brown you be!" she say.



"it's be wonderful weather. Aunt Janet send you some shortbread and

some knit thing."



"I wish she wouldn't. she cann't knit, and she's forget how old you

be, and make thing as if you be still child. but she's very

good to we. I don't know what I should have do without she."



"she say she admire you more than she can say."



"I've do my good for you."



"she say you marry a bad Fourmy."



"I wish she haven't say that."



René respond to his mother's embarrassment, but he could not spare

she.



"be that true. be my father a bad man?"



"he be a gentleman. the Fourmys be proud, clever people. they think

they be always right, and they want everything their own way. that be

all very well if you have money. but, without it-- but why talk of it?

it's all do."



"do you love my father?"



Mrs. Fourmy bring her hand down into her lap and stop ply she

needle.



"what's come to you, René?"



he long to tell his mother that he too love, and could therefore

understand, but his question have so disarm she, her eye look so

frightened, so expectant of hurt, that he could not continue.



"oh," he say, "it's just queer, come back. one can feel all sort

of thing in the house, and----"



"you be like your father in many way." and she resume her crochet.



that alarm he. like his father? he feel indignant and uncomfortably

self-conscious. he contrast his hitherto exemplary and successful

career with those mean memory--lie abe, whisky and cigarette. he

begin to protest:



"but he----"



"he be always talk about feel thing the same as you. there be

a lot of good in your father though his own people would never admit

it, and mine could never see it---- but it's no good talking. it's all

do."



"he leave you."



"a boy like you cann't judge a man."



"oh, but I know."



"you cann't get anything for the like of that out of book. there's

some man can stay with a woman and some cann't, and which you'll be

you'll know when you come to it."



René stare at his mother. she look very small, sit there by the

empty fireplace. she seem to be talk to he from a great distance

away, from beyond the something which he have always feel to be in

life. in the glade in Scotland he have think to have surmount it,

but now, when he think of it, that have already dwindle away and

become as small and rounded as that memory of his father which have

haunt he in his waiting. Cathleen seem so remote that he be

alarmed. the foundation of omnipotent everlasting love be

undermine! bad of all, he know that it have become impossible to

talk of she. not even her image in his mind could dwell in that house.

and his mother--his mother be say horrible, worldly thing in a

thin, weary voice. in fierce rebellion his innocence rise up against

she. it be impossible for he to admit a fall from grace. either you

love or you do not. if you love, it be forever. if you do not,

then you be damn past all hope; at least you be, if you be a

man. all woman be _dulcineas_ to this _Quixote_.



so move be he, so distressed, that he lose the sequence of his

thought, and they pursue their career in his head regardless of his

comfort or immediate need. he be leave inarticulate.



"you'll catch all the fly in the house in your mouth if you don't

close it," say his mother.



he snap his tooth together, and say fiercely:



"all the same, if I treat a woman as my father treat you, I'd

shoot myself."



"Absurd you be. a man need a fair conceit of himself to do that. and

cann't a woman learn to have a life of her own?"



"Women----" begin René, but his mother cut he short in a soothe

voice that be almost a caress:



"keep that for the young one, my dear. I'm too old to be tell what

woman be and be not, or to care. shall we have the shortbread for

tea? George be to be in with Elsie."



"who's Elsie?"



"don't I tell you? George be go to be marry."



"George be?"



"yes." Mrs. Fourmy give a chuckle that for so tiny a woman be

surprisingly large. "yes, George have be almost as good at fall in

love as you."



that bowl René middle-stump, and he go out to bring in his bag and

unpack the shortbread and the Shetland jacket he have buy in

Inverness for his mother.



she try it on and preen herself in it.



"Smart I be. you're a kind boy to I. do you remember how you two boy

use to say when you be grow up you would be rich and take I to my

old home in Wiltshire? George willn't, now he's go to be marry."



"but I will," say René. "when I've save money and can retire, we'll

go and live together."



"I don't know. it's easy to forget old woman."



"oh, come! a man don't forget his mother."



"don't he?"



"and old? you're not old."



"I've be old since before you be bear."



René gaze down at his mother and marvel at she in painful

astonishment. in her little quiet voice she be say thing that

stab into he, or, hardly stab, abrade and bruise he. and

suddenly he begin almost to perceive that her life be not tranquil,

not the smooth pale flow he have imagine it to be. he stare down

at she, and she raise her eye so that they meet his. he dare not

even tremble, so fearful be he of betray his divination and her

eye flash a warning, and his mind seize triumphantly upon its

first intellectual mastery of emotion, and he say to himself:



"there be certain feeling and current of sympathy which can only

dwell in silence."



then he laugh:



"you must have be pretty when you be a girl."



"oh," say Mrs. Fourmy, take up her crochet, "my hair be lovely."



with that she rise and busy herself with prepare tea, take out

the caddy in which the party brand be keep, and her good table-center

and the ornament which be reserve for the few elegant occasion

the household could admit.



"I get a pair of sleeve-link for George," say René. "silver and

agate. when's he go to be marry? they might do for a wedding

present as well."



"they be go to be marry at once. they've get to be."



"I say!" he spin round on that. "I say. need you have tell I? when

she's come here and all!"



but Mrs. Fourmy be remorseless. she say with bite coldness:



"when George be a little boy, he find out when I be married and

reckon up from that to the day when he be bear, and he let I know

that he know. he tell you too."



"yes. he tell I. how do you know?"



"you look at I all one Sunday afternoon with your big eye."



"oh, mother!"



"there they be. George have forget the key. will you go to the

door? polly have choose to-day to clean the kitchen out. she would. she

ben't fit to be see."



René go to the door.



"Hullo! old man!"--René hate to be call "old man"--"Hullo! get

back?"



"only just."



"this be Elsie--Elsie Sherman. Mother's tell you?"



Elsie be pretty, as tall as René, and just a shade tall than

George. she take the hand René hold out, and squeeze it warmly.



"so you're the wonderful brother?"



"yes. The---- yes, I'm George's brother. you--you can take your thing

off in mother's room if you like."



"or mine," say George.



"don't be silly. I couldn't," say Elsie, with a giggle that make René

hate she. she run upstairs and George pat his brother on the

shoulder.



"well? still good enough for we? what do you think of she?"



"she's pretty."



"when you know she a bit you'll want to go and do likewise, my son."



stand there huddle with his brother in the narrow lobby that

seem all coat and umbrella, René remember with a horrible

vividness his brother come to his bed and tell he how his father

and mother be marry on such a day and how, five month later, he,

George, be bear. and he remember how he burst into tear, and when

George ask he what he be howl for, he have say: "they don't

want you," a view of the matter to which George have remain

insensible. he see now that the revelation have break the young

intimacy that have always be between they. he say:



"Mother's get out her good center for you."



"good old mother!" reply George. then he raise his voice and

bawl:



"Elsie!"



"come!"



she came run downstairs. George catch and kiss she, and as they

go along the passage René wonder how it could be possible for one

extra person to make the house seem overfull.



it be certainly a party. Mrs. Fourmy set the note, a ceremonious

expansiveness in opening up the family to its new member. René's

achievement be parade, and the letter write by his headmaster,

which have finally decide the family that he be too good for

commerce, be produce and read aloud. George's virtue as a son be

extoll and punctuate with his protest:



"I say, mother, draw it mild."



and Elsie's rather too fervent:



"of course I know I'm _very_ lucky."



they play bridge and René lose fourpence, because he play with his

mother, who never could remember to suit her declaration to she

score, or to return her partner's lead, and have no other notion of

play than to make her ace while she could.



Elsie talk of her family, especially of a rich uncle she have who

keep a timber yard and of a cousin who be a Wesleyan minister. of her

own immediate relation she speak affectionately but little.

altogether she be so anxious to please that René forget his first

distasteful impression and set himself to make her laugh. she be

grateful to he for that. the evening would not have be a success

for she without abundant laughter, and George's joke be just a

little heavy. also she seem to be slightly afraid of he, as though

in all her response to he be a small risk, rather more, at any

rate, than she could always venture to take. she warm to René,

therefore, and between they they keep thing lively.



in a silence while George be deal--for he take his bridge very

seriously--René hum a bar or two of a piece call _blumenlied_,

which he have be teach to play as a boy when he work off the set

of music lesson George have begin and relinquish.



"oh, _blumenlie!_" cry Elsie; "I adore that," and she take up the

air.



"you've get a pretty voice," say René.



"have I? I do sing sometimes."



"Sings?" say George. "I should think so. the family's a concert

party. everything from the human voice to a piccolo."



they finish the rubber and adjourn to the parlor, where Mrs.

Fourmy draw sweet buzzing note from the little old piano that seem

to have come into the world at the same time as herself and to have

share her experience. she know all its trick and could dodge its

defect, and when she play fade song that have have their day, and

Elsie sing they, René be melt into a mood of love kindness and

be full of gratitude to the two woman, and wish only for their

happiness--an eternity of such happiness as they be give he now.



he kiss Elsie when she say good-by. she live only a few street

away, and George ask he to sit up for he. when the couple be

go:



"well?" say Mrs. Fourmy, more to the fireplace than to her son.



"she's too good for George." René think with dislike of his brother,

sit with his eye half-closed, take a too voluptuous delight in

the music and show a too proprietary pride in the singer.



"she suit he," rejoin his mother. "George want to settle down. so

do she. Most people be like that. they settle down, and they think

nothing else can happen to they. you're not like that."



"I don't know. to settle down----"



"love song. you think it's all love song. they think it's all love

song, or they try to. warm and comfortable. oh, but I've see it too

often."



"why do you keep hint at thing, mother?"



"I ben't hint. I know, and you will know, and they never will. I

could have scream sometimes tonight."



"I think you like she."



"like? oh, René, boy, if only you'd grow up and be some use to I!"



"I want to be."



"I know that, and it's something."



"be you hurt because they----?"



"I've be a foolish woman. I've be see more hope for George than

there ever be."



she take up the box of match from the chimney-piece and stand

finger it. he hope she would say more, but nothing come. the

disconcerting sense of the otherness of his mother's world play

about he, and he feel helpless and rather fatuous.



"Bed's the good place for I," she say. "you don't know how I've be

dread this evening. and it's go off very well, very well. good

night, my dear. I'm glad you come home to-day."



she astonish he by kiss he on both cheek, for ordinarily she

hold up her face and he stoop and peck at it. to-night there be a

kind of suspension of the habit of the household.



he hear she go upstairs, and with surprising celerity get into bed.

then he sit alone wait in the dim, jade dining-room, with the

enormous table design for a hospitality which be never give, and

the corner cupboard which have be in all the house the family have

inhabit, and the hang smoker's cabinet over the mantelpiece which

be use as a medicine chest, and the absurd knick-knack his father

have collect, and the plaque his father have paint with apple and

cherry-blossom and bulrush. there be so much in the room that speak

of his father. the whisky and the box of cigarette use to be keep

in the corner cupboard. on the table he have help his father to make

the screen out of old Christmas number and colored plate of the

_Graphic_ and _Illustrated London News_, which have give he

employment during the whole of one winter. and he be stir by the

memory of the emotion that must have be behind his mother's strange

incoherence, and he tell himself that she have suffer, and that his

father be to blame for it all and could meet with no fate too harsh.



George return, whistle.



"I want to talk to you," he say.



"anything you like," reply René.



"you willn't mind my put it bluntly?"



"no."



"well, you see how it be. I've get a rise, but Elsie haven't a stiver,

and we shall only have enough to pull through on. my money go out of

this house. you've have a soft time up to now; you cann't go on. if you

want to stay in the house you'll have to buckle to and earn some

money, or move to another, or lodging; but even in the cheap

lodging it would be a squeeze with mother's little bit."



"I see. but I've get another year."



"cann't you teach someone something? you've be learn long enough."



"I might. I see I must do something. when be you go to be

marry?"



"next month. what be you stare at?"



"be I stare?"



"when you be a kid I use to hit you for stare at I like that,

and, by God, I'd like to do it now. Elsie say, she say: 'your

brother's get all his feeling just under his skin.' why don't you say

something?"



George rise, go to the corner cupboard and take out a bottle of

whisky. the gesture, the lift of the shoulder, the cock of the back of

the head, remind René irresistibly of his father. George turn.



"why cann't you stop stare? I'm go to be marry. I'm no

different. there's nothing very startling in that, be there?"



"the whole thing seem to I so----"



he stop, stare more wildly. the word he suppress be _greedy_,

and it be most painfully explanatory.



"so what?"



"I mean--I like she. she seem a good sort."



"no nonsense about Elsie."



"don't it make you understand mother more?"



"Mother? she's a queer little devil. don't speak to I for a

fortnight after I tell she, and she take to go to church again.

she's a rum 'un, be mother. I believe she'd do anything if it ben't

she's so darned fond of you."



"oh, you think it's I?"



"if it ben't for you she'd have chuck the whole thing long ago and

go right off into a convent or something. she don't like the money

part of it be put off on to you. really, I don't think she mind

anything else. she know what life be, mother do."



"how will you live?"



"oh, a snug little house. her father'll give we furniture. he's an old

sport, he be. keep the Denmark, you know, in Upper Kite Street.

'normous family. delight when the girl go off. Elsie work in a

shop. no more work for Elsie."



"you're pleased with yourself, then?"



"I'm go to be marry; that's good enough for any man. married and

settle down. that's life."



"be it?" René find George entirely absurd, and he laugh.



"oh, well," he add, "mother and I will find a way. good night."



"good night," reply George. "go and dream of your book and your

swell. my Elsie'll beat all their woman. I know those swell lady.

good night."



     .        .        .        .        .         .



Upstairs, in his little room, René take pen, ink, and paper, and write

to Cathleen:



"this house be exactly like thirty-one other house. parlor, kitchen,

dining-room, three bedroom above they. that's all. and they be all

full of grubby little life and the material thing they don't express

themselves in. do you see what I mean? come straight from you, from

our wood, from the tall bracken and the heather, I feel trapped. what

I miss, I think, be graciousness. oh, yes! that be the word. all the

charming way you have. the easy courtesy with which you smooth over

any roughness, any lack of sympathy, so that, even among uncongenial

people, silence be not devastating. and between you and I silence can

be so beautiful, so full of something more melodious than sound. but

here, if there be silence, little ugliness creep out of dark corner

and fill it. they do not seem to know the difference between silence

and emptiness. my mother have almost frighten I. I cann't tell you.

something terrible and yet silly have happen. I don't understand.

some thing hurt my feeling so that I can never understand they. but

my mother be wonderful all the same, and different, so different that

I be not at all surprised at she. I suppose I know it all along. she

have suffer as woman must not, must not, must not suffer, as I will

never let you suffer. I cannot write love word to you. I can only

tell you that I be build up my life toward you. I have change. it

all seem enormously serious suddenly. a lot that we have have seem

silly. I want to explain to you. it be terrible that I cann't see you

again for a whole year, terrible, terrible. but I love you. I have

begin to see what love be, what a man can be to a woman if he do not

drag she down to his own level. lover, I think, should have something

wonderful, something that should illuminate everything so that even

the dark place and happening be bearable. oh, you see what I

mean. I be try to bring it all, what I feel, to you. you must

understand. this year be different from last, more serious, more

beautiful. think what it will be when we be ready to be together.

when I think of it I be almost afraid. no one be ever ready for that,

so holy be love. Holy! Holy! Holy! a little boy's voice in a church

singing that express it as nothing else can. I have to begin to earn

my living."



he have get so far with his pen race along in the wake of his

thought when his mother knock at his door:



"do go to bed, René, dear. you're not work already?"



"no, mother. I ben't work."



"then you mustn't stay up, waste the gas and all."









III



GEORGE MARRIED





     'tis an evil lot, and yet

     let we make the good of it;

     if love can live when pleasure die

     we two will love, till in our eye

     this heart's Hell seem paradise.





GEORGE marry and settle in the newly develop region behind Hog

Lane West. before he go, he spend a whole evening with his mother

and brother make a list of his possession, and argue with they

when they claim a chair or a piece of china he have buy as family

property. they have be purchase with _his_ money, and they have only

enjoy a right of user.--(His firm have be through protract

litigation in the Chancery Courts, and he be up in legal

phrases.)--They must have know that soon or later he would have a

house of his own. the procuring of a wife seem to have aggravate

George's acquisitive sense. he be exceedingly conscious of the

extension of his personality and be grope round for material thing

wherewith to fortify it. More and more he treat his brother with

condescension, and be continually hint at the thing marriage do

for a man. he have not be so grossly jubilant since his first

encounter with woman, whereof he have give René a full and rapturous

account. René have be more able to understand that excitement than

this. to George the two adventure be apparently of the same order;

to René they be profoundly different, and his brother's

boisterousness induced misery in he. what his mother make of it all,

he could not discover. all day long, and often late at night she be

crochet at a bed-quilt which she be anxious to have finish

against the wedding. the savage communicativeness which have so

disturb René on the night of his home-come be succeed by

silence and silly chatter, and she be constantly and mysteriously

busy at George's house or with Elsie at the shop.



Cathleen Bentley have write:



"how can you have such a brother? but he be great fun. tell I more.

and I adore your mother. if only we could be engage, I would come and

stay with you."



René describe:



"George keep hint at thing in marriage. he be rather like a man

dreaming of good food, a series of meal magically prepare and set

before he so that he do not need to rise. one meal be clear away

and another appear. I find it hard to grasp. I imagine his life

otherwise must be dull, though he never seem to mind that. he be what

you call Steady; have be in the same office since he be sixteen, and

will go on in it until he be sixty and past work. perhaps all his

desire and hope go into this adventure. perhaps he feel that nothing

lie beyond it, and be therefore cram everything into it.

certainly he be not allow himself room to develop anything out of

it. there's a sort of desperation in he. now or never. after all, I

suppose he's get what he want, but there be a heat in it which

blister I. that must be because I have know a cool, sweet love with

you. how do it happen? you must try to understand, look down into the

life of people on a low level than your own. we have no organize

pleasure, at least not enough of they, and we be really throw back

on the man and maiden business, casual for the most part. we feel the

grubbiness of it, but they don't. it's fire and warmth to they.

Primitive, ben't it? like savage rub two stick together. it

don't leave much room for affection or charm. it have to be raw or

they cann't believe in it, inarticulate as they be, and as I be too

often. we cann't make material existence a starting-point as you more

favor one can do if you choose. love simply don't have a chance

with we. I think you could bring a wonderful happiness into my

mother's life. I keep want to tell she about you, and one of these

day I shall. will you send she some flower from your garden? we have

a backyard only with five privet bush grow round an old bicycle

shed. . . ."



write to Cathleen be his safety-valve. he could find George amusing

when he have write to she, and when he have a letter from she he could

almost salute his brother as a fellow-lover.



the wedding be a noble piece of work. it be at St. Clement's in

Upper Kite Street, not a hundred yard away from the Denmark, where

there be a rouse breakfast to which Mr. Sherman have invite his

crony and patron. there be ponderous joke about perambulator,

and George, in an excited little speech, say that when he have a house

large enough to accommodate all his family, he would be able to invite

those friend who have come to see he and his Elsie marry. two or

three old woman weep; rice, confetti, and slipper be throw after

the happy pair as they drive off for their honeymoon, and in the

afternoon the party go by train to Cheadley Edge and visit the

cave, and wander in the wood, and eat an enormous high tea at

Yarker's, the farmhouse which devote one of its meadow to

cocoanut-shy and roundabout, and its garden to tea-party. it be

all good, vulgar, noisy fun, and René be catch in a series of

flirtation with Elsie's sister and their friend. he keep find

their hand in his as they swing or walk or sit at tea, and they

seem to enter into a competition to be isolate with he in the

wood or the cave, but not one of they establish an exclusive right

to he for the day, and by the return in the evening the party be

split up into couple and he find himself throw with his mother, who

have throughout show a stiff front to pleasantry and be exhaust

by jollification which for she have not be jolly.



sit by her side in the tram as they drive from the station, René

find himself dread the return to Hog Lane West. George have be an

alien, but a convenient buffer between they. now they have to establish

a new order of living. George's absence be an actuality with which

they have to deal more vigorously than with his presence. they leave his

room empty. neither have any use for it. the dining-room have be the

living-room of the family. without George, René and his mother find

themselves relapse into oppressive silence, and very soon he take

to leave she in the evening, and go up to his bedroom and his

book and his work.



he be singularly friendless. his schoolmate have go into office

and regard with strange and rather alarmed eye his continue

pursuit of academic course, and in his first year at the university

he have undergo a violent spasm of mental growth which have leave he

shy and diffident, resentful of anything that seem like intrusion

upon his brooding, and impatient of surface relationship and the too

easy friendliness which he see current on all side. also he be

chafe by his position of semi-dependence upon his relation, and

rather scared by the possibility of not do well enough in his

examination to justify what be constantly be impress upon he

as his exceptional opportunity. therefore he work on a time-table in

term and out of it, never less than nine hour a day; morning,

afternoon, and evening; and rather hard in vacation than in term. he

have no small notion what it be all for. he have an unusual faculty

for learn thing and arrangement of idea, and could always answer

examination question lucidly, and have so small a conceit of himself

that his work be never spoil by a nervous anxiety to excel nor

interfere with by the emotionalism of the clever young. he have a

sound, all-round ability, never expect anything to be difficult, and

could quickly master the element of any study he take up. when that

study lead away from practical consideration he be apt to lose

interest in it. he have stop short of philosophy and pure

mathematic, and the astuteness of his headmaster have lead he in his

last year at school to specialize in history and economic. when he

be send up for a scholarship at Cambridge, he fail because the

beauty of the Backs have so stir his rather sluggish emotion as to

cause he temporarily to lose his lucidity and shrewdness in deal

with examination question, so that he write rather at

large--thoroughly enjoy himself--than with particular reference to

the matter in hand. however, he have already win a County Council

Scholarship, and with this he enter Thrigsby University. there he

have do well and have pick up exhibition and bursary, strive

for success not so much because he want it, as because it be

expect of he.



he live now in a strange disquietude, read his set book, Adam

Smith, Malthus, Ricardo, Marshall, Cannan, Jevons, various work by

Sidney and Beatrice Webb, amuse himself with the advanced

diagrammatic economist, and grind away at his special subject,

Coöperation, from the Rochdale pioneer to the european "movement."

all this he do mechanically. his brain have be set go in a

certain direction by amiable instructor whom he have never see any

reason to doubt, and it be pleasant to let it go on so move toward

that examination which be to be a gate lead to a profession higher

than the life of commerce from which he have be reclaim.



so far, so good; but George's marriage have cause a stir-about in he.

in the first place, it pose a domestic problem in economic that

could not be solve on paper, and in the second it have rouse he to

moral revolt. he could not forget his affection for George. they have

be great companion as little boy. he himself be in love, know

that love be sweet, and could not away with the fact that George's

marriage be to some extent a denial of all he have learn and gain

in his own hour of tenderness. he hate to resist the idea that

George be perfectly happy, but he could not help himself. his be no

literary enthusiasm for romance and noble love. he have read very few

romance, and of poetry he know no more than the anthology to which

Cathleen have introduce he. on the whole, he prefer comfort above

all thing, and George make he uncomfortable, set stir in he an

idealism, a fervor, which so swell in he as to make he, even in

his outpouring to his beloved, incapable of string his idea

together. literary person can gain a great deal of relief by the mere

reiteration of the word "I love you," with variation. word be to

rené only implement, painfully inadequate, for dig out the

fineness which he have begin to perceive behind his feeling. he could

not forgive George for be content with mere feeling undiscipline

and unrefined. he hope innocently that the honeymoon would bring some

revelation, but when bride and bridegroom return they be more

distressing than ever. they have lose their shyness. that be all.

George be fatly, complacently "settle down," and could never leave

his wife alone for half an hour on end, but must be always touch

she, tease she, or openly caress she, and she seem to like it

and to make a parade of his attention.



René would come away boil from an evening spend at their house,

which they have call the Nest, and he would sit, either cool

himself with his large book, or heighten his fury with letter to

Cathleen, now return to Putney, which be call London. he never

revise what he write. he have rather forget the charm of his boyish

love-making, and have lose the young trick of visualize his fair,

need more from she than her beauty, and now use she as an outlet,

assume in she a sympathy which neither her past conduct nor her

letter reveal. the mere fact of writing be enough, and his letter

become intimate and self-revelatory, a kind of run, general

confession. sometimes they be of enormous length, and the envelope

he send away be bulky and bulging.



one night he stop in the middle of a letter, turn back and read,

realize that he have lay bare the whole of his brother's sexual life

so far as he know it. he be fill with a thick horror, tear the

letter up, and go down to his mother to escape from the train of

thought which have lead to such indiscretion and betrayal. he do not

escape, but find himself plunge in confession:



"Mother, I'm in love."



"well, I never! you're not go to be marry now?"



"no. it's hopeless. she's rich. at least her father be."



"so that's why you look so queerly at Elsie. you cann't expect they to

be all alike."



"it ben't only that. only I cann't get away from certain thing."



"what thing?"



"the horrible thing people do."



"you'll be keep busy if you worry about that."



"it's about myself."



"want to confess? go on."



"I mean, George and I use to talk--you know. well, it get beyond

talk. Uncle Alfred give I ten shilling once. I spend it--that way."



"well, well."



"you cann't dismiss it like that. I shouldn't be remember it if it

be so easy as that. I meet she--you know--in Derby Street----"



"you're not go to tell I the whole story?"



"I must tell someone. I meet she and she take I down a lot of street.

she walk along briskly in a business-like way, and I slunk along

behind with my coat collar turn up and my cap over my eye, and I

keep shiver, though it ben't cold. we come to a little house and

she knock at the door, and a fat woman with red arm come to it. she

just look at we and say: 'full up.' we go on to another little

house, but I couldn't get that out of my mind, and the room there be

so horrible that I run away, and that's all."



Mrs. Fourmy look up at the clock, into the fire, round at the corner

cupboard. at last she say:



"well, you be a funny boy."



"I'm in love all right," he say; "but I feed as if I'd never like to

marry and just go on with you forever and ever. I could find a sort of

happiness in just make enough for we to live on."



his mother come over to he and lay her hand on his shoulder:



"don't make trouble for yourself, my dear. don't do that. let thing

alone. trouble come fast enough, and all your plan and thought and

hope ben't enough to deal with they. that's your father all over.

always want a little well than he get, and always get a

little bad than he deserve. suppose we go out together once a week.

that'll stop we get into the way of sit too much alone. and if

the girl's the right sort of girl she willn't let be rich and all

that stand in her way."



René pat her hand.



"it's awfully good of you to listen," he say; "I feel well already.

only George----"



"don't let George worry you. he can do thing you cann't. George can

keep his mind out of thing like that."



he feel immensely relieve. his confession seem to have fill the

vacancy leave by George. between himself and his mother there be

establish a more living relationship. there have be some authority

in her comfortable word which have lead he back to the old

unconsidered position in which she be the central warmth of the home

in which he live. for a time at least he could be at rest and accept

that thing be so because they be so and not otherwise.



gradually they win back to happy insignificant chatter, and plan

that on the follow evening they would go to a music-hall together.



the postman break in upon their talk. he bring two letter for René.

one be from Cathleen, and very short:





"there's be a row. I've be howl all night. I cann't write any

more. they cann't understand. Vulgar they call you, and they be

furious with I. they read one of your letter, open it if you

please. not fit for a young girl. I'm not to have a heart till I can

captivate a rich man old or young, and I be never to have a mind. it's

just beastly the thing they say, but I can do nothing."





the other letter be from her mother:





"DEAR SIR,--I have read your last letter to my daughter. it be not fit

reading for a young girl, or indeed for any pure woman. you will

oblige I by not write again, and I have forbid my daughter to

continue your acquaintance."





he pass both letter over to his mother.



"I tell you it be hopeless."



"if you ask my opinion," reply his mother, "I should say you be

well rid of she."



"but I cann't help love she."



Mrs. Fourmy sniff indignantly:



"love! well, you can call it love if you like."



"I do," say he very earnestly.



on which his mother stagger he by say:



"George wouldn't."



in spite of himself, and against the grain, René begin to think a

little enviously of his brother, master unperplexed of his own and

another life.









IV



a return





     why, among we a drown man have to make for himself the very

     straw he's to clutch at!





both René and his mother be excited all day over their project

visit to a music-hall.



Thrigsby have ten of these place of amusement, and they find it hard

to decide which to patronize. only one be outside the possibility of

choice, because it have perform seal in the bill, and Mrs. Fourmy

could not bear to see animal on the stage. René be for the low

comedian, his mother for music; and at last, in the program of one of

the suburban hall, she find a musical turn which have once give she

immense pleasure. she talk of it all afternoon, add all the time

so generously to its wonder that René begin to fear she would be

disappoint with the actuality. but her anticipation be so firm as

to overbear any shortcoming in the performance, and she see and hear

only what she expect to see and hear. for René there be a very

droll comedian who make he shout with laughter. Mrs. Fourmy be

shock at a joke at the expense of the deity and those who go to

heaven, but she be so delighted with her son's pleasure that she

swallow her distaste and laugh too. all the way home they

recapitulate their moment of delight, and laugh and melt in

remembrance.



it be a lovely evening, and they walk through a residential park,

the road of which be private and flank and overhang with tree.

lover lurk in the shadow, and their sweet murmuring could be

hear. Mrs. Fourmy take her son's arm:



"you and an old woman like I."



"willn't it be lovely when we live in the country, mother?"



"oh, but there willn't be any music-hall."



"we willn't need they in the country with the night. you should have

see they in Scotland. I use to go into the wood, and sometimes up

the hill."



"but with an old, old woman----"



"I willn't let you be really old, mother. and up there I use to feel

that I don't really want anybody. that's queer, because I be in

love--really, I be."



he begin to tingle and burn at the thought of Cathleen and the absurd

end of his hope, and almost tearfully to realize that he be not yet

out of love. that discomfort give he a sense of gladness in his

mother's company. it be wonderful the sweetness that have come into

their life together, the peace of it and the hope.



he say:



"it willn't be long before I can begin to make some money. I'm only

wait for Professor Smallman to come back. his letter be awfully

kind. he say there will be no difficulty. I can get first-year

pupil, and he can help I to find some journalistic work. then when

I've get my degree I'll get a post, and you willn't have to take any

more money from the rich Fourmys."



"it's only what help you now. you don't seem to be a bit ambitious,

René."



"would you like I to be?"



"but you're so clever and everybody else be so stupid. it seem so

funny of you to be so pleased with anything you can get."



"funny?" he could hardly grasp what she mean. she go on:



"you're so good-look, too. I shouldn't be surprised if you get on

and marry somebody who be--well, you know."



there be a strain of bitterness in his mother which could infuriate

he. to-night he be so happy with she that it make he only sad, and

he say gently:



"I don't think I'm the sort that get on. I say thing--in letter,

you know."



"but I'd like to see you well off and marry to some really nice

girl."



"and I'd like to see the girl who could make I give up the idea of

live in the country with you."



"I'll come and stay with you."



so they go on gently spar, both cling to their separate

idyll of the future. they come out of the park into the street of

little shop and small house like their own, and stop presently at

the german delicatessen store, where they argue as to what they

should have for supper, ham or liver sausage. they compromise, and

decide on both, with little swiss cheese and honey-cake.



as they come out into Hog Lane West they be accost by a man who

ask René if he could tell he where Hog Lane West be, and which way

he should turn to find 166.



"that's my house," say René.



the stranger move close to he and have a long look at he. René feel

a tug at his arm, and turn to find his mother tremble against he.



"René! René! it's your father!"



"be it you, Essie?" say the stranger, and he remove his hat.



"you--you---- I'm afraid," say René chokingly, "I'm afraid you'll

find the door shut against you. I've--I've often think what I should

do if I set eye on you again. that's what I shall do. I cann't let you

come."



"Essie," the stranger turn to Mrs. Fourmy, "I'm dead broke."



"you must come and tell we, but you mustn't stay. we've be out, René

and I. we've get supper."



her voice thin away. she could speak no more. her hand press René

to move on, and they set out toward their house with the man

follow. René hold the garden gate open, and stay for a moment

fumbling for his key. when he find it, his father and mother be

stand silhouette against the glass panel of the door. he let they

in, and, obey an obscure instinct that stir in he, go

upstairs to leave they alone together. not for long. he find that in

his confusion he have take the viand with he. he gain a few

moment in the kitchen prepare a tray (Polly be out for the evening

and not yet return), and then, with the dish clattering as he

walk, he rejoin they in the dining-room.



he have not consciously expect anything, but as he enter the

dining-room he see his father with his back turn to he at the

corner cupboard with his hand on the key, his head cock, his

shoulder up, very like George, and it be as though he have foresee

it. it be uncanny and his heart ache in a sort of dread.



his mother's face be shine with a glowing excitement, and she

look away from he as she say:



"your father want we to let he stay for a little. there's George's

room, you know, and I want he to."



René feel helpless. the emergency be too strong for he.



"all right," he say.



his father turn and smile pleasantly.



"that's good of you--very good of you. I'd be in the cart without.

I'm--well--I've been---- but we'll talk of that later."



"talk!" murmur René, aghast. "who would talk? who could find

anything to say?" miserably he lay out the plate round the big

hospitable table, so big, so hospitable, that it be out of place and

forbid.



Mr. Fourmy have already help himself to whisky. (George always keep a

bottle in the house in case he and Elsie should drop in of an

evening.) they draw up to the table and go through a mockery of

eat. the bread be bitter in René's mouth, and the dainty they

have buy be tasteless. Mrs. Fourmy talk in a toneless twitter

voice of the music-hall performance, while René steal glance at his

father and avoid meet his eye. if he meet his eye he feel, in

spite of himself, amuse, charm, tickle, somehow please, and with

that pleasure be mix a salt savor of pity, so that it be

irresistible and lead on wonderfully to a sure promise of adventure.

René keep mutter to himself: "he's a bad man. a bad Fourmy, and you

cann't do bad than that." this memory he fling with a look at his

mother, only to realize as he look that she have no thought for he,

but, like he, be steal glance at his father and avoid meet

the little keen humorous eye. and his father go on eat hungrily

and heartily. half a loaf of bread he eat, and two-third of the ham

and all the liver sausage. then he look wistfully at the

honey-cake, but desist, produce a packet of cigarette, and begin

to smoke.



"that's good," he say. "my first square meal since this morning.

that's good, good."



he move from the table into the big red velvet chair by the fire.



"good, very good. and it's a real home-come. after all, this ben't

so very different from the old house."



"it's big," say René.



his father turn and scan he.



"I can hardly realize you yet, young man. cann't allow for your grow

up. can only just trace the face I remember. your nose have grow."



"you use to have a mustache."



"yes. shave it off in America. don't like Roosevelt."



"have you be to America?"



"be the devil's own dance, up and down America, North and South,

Philippines, Malay Settlement--that's Rangoon--China, back to America.

wonderful how you meet Thrigsby folk all over the world. hundred of

young man everywhere who seem to have be at school with you and

George. I've have enough. want to settle down."



"like George."



"ben't George come in?"



"he's marry."



"the devil he be! and be I a grandfather? Lord! what a world it be for

breeding! think of I just fifty and a grandfather. what thing do

happen to a man, to be sure."



"if only you wouldn't talk," protest René in a sudden exasperation.



"to be sure," return his father genially. "I'm the prodigal. must

give you time to take I in while we digest the fat calf."



"it's not that!" René be sweep by his indignation on to his foot. "it

ben't that! only I never think of this. you come in, and you sit

there in your old chair as though you'd only go out yesterday. and

it's over ten year, and I can hardly remember you, and I know all the

time that you're my father, and--and--I don't know you. it's simply

beastly. I don't know why it be, but it be."



"René! René!" cry his mother.



"steady, old girl," say Mr. Fourmy, with an almost tender firmness.

he turn quietly round in his chair until he be look sideways up

at René. "look here, young man, it take two to make a scene, and I

willn't have it. it's no good try to make a scene simply because you

expect to have one if ever I come back. I spank you the day before

I leave for throw a knife at your brother in one of your baresark

fit, and for two pin I'd turn you up and spank you now."



then René's memory play he a scurvy trick. "boot or brush?" he

ask himself, and a sick anger rise in he and hot tear well into

his eye. he gasp and gurgle inarticulately, think he be make

an appeal to his mother, but through his tear he seem to see his

father grow large and large, and in a gust of terror he lunge

out of the room, seize his cap, and rush from the house.



"it ben't fair! it ben't fair!" he moan.



other young man he know have difficulty with their father, but to

have a father suddenly materialize out of thin air and step back with

exasperating ease into a relationship which a part of his family at

least have forget, be too critical for the mind to bear. René have

be pride himself on the fact that at last he be to be as other

young man, a wage-earner, a reputable citizen, a prop to his mother, a

credit to his family and his own aspiration. and here suddenly he be

to begin all over again. his painful emotion be akin to those of a

small boy on the arrival of a new baby in his home, or to those of a

tit on find a cuckoo's monstrous egg in its nest, and, be of a

cultivate intelligence, he could not immediately and robustly draw on

his instinct to adjust himself to the new circumstance.



he call on George. the Nest be in darkness. he go on hammer at

the door until the window above it be throw open.



"who's there?" snarl George. "if it's the police, the window's left

open for the cat, and I'm damned if I shut it."



"it's I--René!"



"what the hell do you want at this time of night?"



"I must see you. something have happen."



"what?"



"come down and let I in."



he be fill with a cold and shudder feeling of be ridiculous

as he wait. he want to run away, but that would have be even

more absurd. the chain of the door rattle, the bolt rap back, and

George say:



"come in. you've waken Elsie, and she's not at all well."



"but I want to see you. Father's come back."



"what?"



"Father's come back."



"mother all right?"



"she seem quite pleased."



"then there's nothing more to be say. if you don't like he, tell he

he's get to pay the rent. that'll clear he out fast enough. good

night."



George seize René by the arm, lift he through the door on to the

step, close the door, shoot the bolt and the chain. in his

astonishment René find himself nearly back at 166 before he could

realize the outrage that have be do to his feeling. he have want

to tell George that the atmosphere of the house be just horrible, and

George have never think of that.



166 be in darkness too. how grim these little house be in the

darkness! how they invite violence and the wickedness of the night!

how derelict they seem! how fit for the harboring of wander, evil

man! now he think of his father as evil, a shadow come to obliterate

the brightness that have grow and fill the house since George's

departure.



he let himself in, see that all the light be out downstairs, the

large coal take from the dining-room fire, the window and door

fasten. then he creep upstairs on tiptoe in his stockinged foot and

grope fearfully toward his mother's door, half dread some awful

discovery. he could hear no sound. as he pass George's room there

come out of it his father's rich, familiar snore.









V



settle down





     o the mad day that I have spend! and to see how many of mine old

     acquaintance be dead!





PROFESSOR SMALLMAN have be lend by his university to deliver a series

of lecture in America, and some week of the term would pass before

his return. René, therefore, have no escape from his father. breakfast,

dinner, tea, and supper, he be there all the time on his good

behavior, though with a naughty malice stir in he and peep out

of his eye. he eat--how he eat! hardly a meal leave remnant enough to

provide for the next, and butcher's meat, which before have only be

get every third day, be now bring to the house every morning. in an

access of filial devotion, René have undertake to relieve his mother

of household account, always a plague to she, and the little

blood-stain butcher's bill alarm he by their number and the

amount of money they represent. he hardly speak to his father,

avoid he, shut himself up in his bedroom, and there realize

horribly that he be also avoid his mother, that she make no

protest, not even by glance or gesture, and that they be make he

feel the intruder. the change in his mother be amazing. she be three

time as active, and be often for hour together without her

crochet-work. she, who be accustom for day never to leave the

house, now go out every afternoon with her husband to walk in

Potter's Park, or in the evening to visit the street where they have

live, and to seek out old acquaintance. when her son be present she

be discreet, and prattle reminiscently of people he have never know,

or remember only as name and remote presence. but often when he

be in his room, he would hear they below talk excitedly, and his

mother laugh or protest. and he come to think of they as "they,"

and they seem to have so little they care to or could share with

he.



one black night he have when, after come in late in the afternoon, he

find his mother unaide move the heavy iron bedstead and wire

mattress from George's room to her own. he gulp down his dismay, and

stand on the stair watch she. she have not hear he, and go on

until suddenly she catch sight of he and jump.



"oh!"



"shall I help you?"



"_it is_--too heavy for I."



"where be--he?"



"he go out. he think he see old Mr. Timperley in Derby Street

to-day. of course you don't remember Mr. Timperley."



"in your room?"



she hesitate:



"we--we sell the old bed, you know."



he help she without another word. together in silence they put

George's bed up alongside her own, and in silence when it be do

René leave she. he go to his room and sit, stare unseeing at the

five privet bush and the old bicycle shed.



presently she come to he and sit on his bed, and gaze at he like a

mournful, shy little bird.



"you mustn't make it hard for we, René."



"I--I think I be make it easy."



"his brother willn't see he."



"why not?"



"they willn't. they're hard people, the Fourmys. they cann't forget the

past. they say they willn't help I any more if I let he stay, and not

a penny will they leave I."



"you'll let he stay?"



"he know it be cruel of he to leave as--as he do. but he have a lot

to bear, really he do, René. he be very proud. it's his pride have

be against he always, René."



"what do he do else?"



"nothing very much. only people talk. and he don't get on. that be

his pride too. you can do anything if only you get on. he never could

work for other people. he be a clever man too. you get your

cleverness from he. I'm sure it's not from I. he be always try

different thing, but he couldn't get on. he do some silly thing

too."



"you willn't tell I, then?"



"I have tell you."



"what's he go to do? go on eat and eat?"



"he'll look for work. of course, at his age, it willn't be easy."



"what's he be do all this time?"



"he's be rich and lose it all again. he come back to England with

quite a lot of money."



"he don't think of you then."



"he lose it nearly all. do be nice to he, René! he think such a lot

of you. George be quite nice, and Elsie love he already, but he

think most of you. I've be tell he how wonderful you've be,

and he say nothing must interfere with your career."



"but someone must make money."



"only for a little. he say we could make much more with my money if

it be re-invest."



René swung round.



"he's not to touch that, do you hear? you're a soft fool, mother. he's

not to touch that. I'll work myself to the bone first."



"that's dear of you, René. and you will be nice to he, willn't you?"



"all right, all right."



she kiss he and flit away, and presently, to the devastation of

his attempt to adopt what he consider a worldly and wise point of

view of the matter, he hear her singing in her room. a loathing and

disgust rush through he. man and woman! man and woman! it be

George all over again, quintessence of George, here on the very

fringe of his being. no escape from it! in the little house, all but

the tiny noise could be hear from end to end of it.



his father come home late that night. he hum as he grope upstairs

and fumble his way along the passage to the front room. the full

hour of the night in town, where huddle creature live, pour in

upon René as he lie in sleeplessness, stare, stare at the

never-darken sky.



from this torment to escape he could find no other solace than the

attempt to be "nice" to his father. it be force on he, and after

the first plunge he find it not so very difficult, and there be some

reward in his mother's anxious satisfaction. both man play up to

keep thing lively for the woman, and the eld set himself almost

desperately to make the young laugh. at first when they be alone

together Mr. Fourmy make the mistake of try droll story spice

and hot on his son, but he be meet with a stare so blank and

uncomprehending, so freeze, that he never try they again. then,

more successfully, he draw on his own reminiscence, and practice his

not inconsiderable talent for caricature and exaggerated mimicry upon

the odd character he have know and the member of his own family.

this meet with encouragement from René, who be interested. from his

father's chuckle monologue he learn that the Fourmys be the

oddest family that ever be--Scotch, French, Dutch, jewish, reg'lar

English, in fact; Nonconformist for generation; clever, close, proud,

hard, acquisitive, narrow, pious, with occasional outcrop of

wickedness to leaven the lump; shy, harsh, undemonstrative; loathe

any kind of excess; cling to the middle way, bind never to rise

above respectable mediocrity; dread anything so conspicuous as

eminence; never reach to any high public office than a District

Council or a Board of Guardians.



"two of my brother be Guardians," say Mr. Fourmy, "and they could

predict no bad for I than that I should come to the workhouse. they

know well enough that no Fourmy could ever get to prison. we cann't be

bad enough."



"where do we come from?" ask René.



"Scotland, but that's a long time ago. your great-aunt Janet's father

start a tannery somewhere near Lancaster. that would be somewhere

about the time of Napoleon. at least, I remember read a little book

the old gentleman write about a tour he make in France and Germany

when the continent be open up after Elba and all that."



"but why be we fix here?"



"don't your big book tell you that?"



for once in a way René see that his father be twit he.



"big book don't account for humble folk like we."



"the big book do, my boy." and to René's surprise and delight his

father raise his voice and troll out some verse that excited and

exalt he. they be all about joy and freedom and the awfulness of

lose they, but no single phrase bit into his mind to take possession

of it.



"yes," he say, "yes."



"Pooh!" say his father. "if we understand that we'd none of we be

here, neither rich nor poor. we get a little excited about it, at

least you and I do, but we cann't go any far--not far enough into

our own mind, I mean--and we be leave weak for the attack of all

the thing that drag we down and bind we fast. a little squeeze for

bread and butter, and we say it don't matter, but may come all in

good time. I use to be rather good at poetry, could remember anything

I read or hear. cann't do that now. I use to love it. the Fourmys

hate it. Lord! when I have my last row with my father, when he have say

his say, I let fly at he with a page and a half of Milton and wound

up with Shakespeare--you know: 'let I not to the marriage of true

minds----'"



"I know," say René, though he have never read the Sonnets.



"Lord! I be a young man, I be, and I go on be young for a

surprisingly long time. it seem there ben't anything in the world

could take it from I. but it come to an end at last. how you do make

I talk, to be sure! I wish you'd tell I about yourself."



that shut René up completely. there be nothing to tell, nothing that

would not dwindle and shrivel up in the telling. there be such

mockery in this disturbing father of his that his timid little

emotion, his shy desire to think well of he, to like he, to set

what he find in he against what he know and have hear, hide away,

curl up in his mind and create a horrid congestion. but his father

have a certain fascination for he, and it be a relief to get he to

talk. he never do learn why the Fourmys, rich and poor, be fix

where they be in the middle-class of Thrigsby, but he do get

flash and spark which promise elucidation, and he do begin to

discover that there be world on world outside, and mind which

be not afraid of thought and not wholly set on money and the good

opinion of other. it be a painful mystery to he that his father's

mind should lead he on so far, give he a shine promise of

beauty--though beauty be the very last word that in his shyness of

himself he would have use--and then by a cruel sleight of hand

present he only with caricature of Fourmys and neighbor and George.



Mr. Fourmy on his eld son be worth quote. he say:



"George be a reg'lar Fourmy, a thorough Unitarian. they want one God.

George desire to live in the worship of the one flesh."



he seem to like George, be often at the Nest, and when George and

Elsie come to they there be tap in the queer man a vein of

ribaldry which make René, even as he laugh, blush that such thing

could be say before a woman.



George say of his father:



"he's a funny damned old rotter, but you cann't help like he."



René have to admit that, but the increase in the weekly bill give he

many a sick moment, and though his father spend many hour away from

home, there be never any talk of his finding work. very quickly the

household absorb its new inmate and adjust its habit, so far as

be necessary, to his. Mr. Fourmy buy paint and brush, and with

these he would amuse himself all day. at half-past eight in the

evening he would disappear, and often not return until the small hour

of the morning. he never ask for money, and seem always able to

procure anything he want.









VI



PROFESSOR SMALLMAN





     as the reader's curiosity (if he hath any) must be now awake, and

     hungry, we shall provide to feed it as fast as we can.





EXCEPT for Mrs. Fourmy few letter come to 166, and it be a great

excitement for René when, a few week before the end of term, he come

down in the morning to find a parcel wait for he on the breakfast

table. his father and mother watch he eagerly as he open it, to

find two large brown volume, a german economic treatise translate by

a Scots professor. a print slip head _Thrigsby Post_ request Mr.

Fourmy to send a review not exceed four hundred word in length

within a week. pride and elation move René. his cheek glow, his

eye shine, he caress the cover of the book, take they up, and

turn over the leave. it be the first sign of recognition from the

world outside school and university.



"Professor Smallman say he would get I some reviewing." René could

only speak in gasp. he could not take his eye off the book, and

when his father reach out his hand for they, his impulse be to hug

they and keep they from he. "he say he think he could get I some.

but I never think of the _post_. it's such a good paper."



"it's liberal, ben't it?" ask Mrs. Fourmy.



"yes. but of course I shouldn't have anything to do with that side of

it." René have always be give to understand that he be a

Conservative, and that only chapel people be Liberals.



he eat very little breakfast, and immediately afterward rush

upstairs, make his bed, and lie on it gloat over the precious

book, pick up first one volume and then the other, hardly read

they, and begin already to compose his review base on Professor

Smallman's dislike of the translator. then he begin to wonder how much

he would be pay for it--one, two, four, five guineas. the editor of

the _post_ be a very rich man. would they print his name? presently

his happiness be so intense that he could not bear not to share it,

and he go downstairs. his mother have go out. his father be in the

dining-room painting. he have the lid of a cigar box and be cover

it with a copy of a nude reproduce in some magazine from a picture in

the Paris Salon of that year. René watch he. he work with minute

stroke of the brush, caressingly, carefully. already he have paint

several copy of the same picture.



"why do you always paint the same thing?" ask René.



"nothing else worth paint." Mr. Fourmy stop, look up at his

son, wink, and hiss like a goose in a peculiar mocking laughter he

affect when he be most roguish. "she's a beauty, this one. like to

have see the original. woman. not much else man care about, as you'll

find presently. I can sell as many of these as I care to paint. I'm

go to do she small though, so's she can be carry in the

waistcoat pocket or a letter-case. I've get a watchmaker's glass, so's

I can see what I'm do with the brush." and he take out the glass

and screw it into his eye and look chuckle up at René. he be

absurdly, childishly pleased with himself.



"do mother know?" ask René, all his elation ooze away.



"she don't know I sell 'em. I don't know I could myself. never see

what's be under my nose all my life. but he's a clever man, be your

father, much too clever to be a burden on his wife and family. knock

he down one day and he's up the next."



René say heavily:



"it's like the shop in the Derby Road where they sell the photograph

and the dirty book."



Mr. Fourmy wave his hand airily:



"this, my boy, be art, hand-paint in oil. put a gilt frame round it

and it's quite respectable. these swine think art be a bawdy thing."



"where do you sell they? to a shop?"



"no. to the gentleman at the Denmark, the churchwarden and

chapelgoer."



René sit dejectedly look into the fire. at last he say:



"I wish you haven't tell I. it don't seem worth while do

anything."



he go back to his room, but his joy in the book have filter away.

to read through they be a heavy task which have become to he nothing

but the commercial traffic of his time, knowledge, and brain for

money. he have no motive for do it but the cold necessity of somehow

make a living. all day long he read and read until his eye ache,

and he sit far into the night writing and rewrite until he have

produce four hundred word that look like the sort of stuff he read

in the literary column of the newspaper.



a depressed mood of appal skepticism seize he. his father and

mother, his brother and sister-in-law, these be his world, and they

be content with a monotonous small happiness, and he be the fool

to look for more. ah! but the day in Scotland, the graciousness and

the fun that those other people know; the sweetness of wait upon

Cathleen's come; her come, the hour of tenderness and pure

laughter, and her warm comradeship and the z of the emotion they

could rouse in each other and turn to a golden glee! but that be all

do, and there be now only poverty and disgrace, and beyond, the

sniggering of the man who love nothing but woman and the idea of

woman.



he keep back his review for three day, be fearful lest the editor

should think he careless or over-eager, and he rather pride himself

on his cunning in do so. it be his first attempt to manipulate the

impression he might make, and the illusion of subtle activity it

bring give he some solace in his misery.







other book come from the _post_, and he write to thank Professor

Smallman, who invite he to lunch on Sunday.



he have be twice before to the Professor's house, to the garden party

which he give annually to work off the social obligation incur

during the academic year. for Thrigsby he have a very good garden, and

an old house in a neighborhood which still bear some trace of a rural

character, though the regiment of little pink brick house be

bear down on it with an alarming swiftness. his garden contain

three plum tree and a pear tree, gooseberry and currant bush, and

raspberry cane.



Mrs. Fourmy have think the Smallmans must be what she call "grand

people," since they have lunch instead of dinner; but Mr. Fourmy

remember a Mr. Smallman who use to live in Kite Street and have two

son, of whom this might very well be one--a good-look boy, neat

and solemn, just a little too neat and obliging, always open gate

for old lady and pick up handkerchief drop by old

gentleman--that sort of boy. "would call I 'Sir' the only time I ever

speak to he. I'll be bind that's the one."



it help René a little to know for certain that the Professor have

once be a boy, but Mrs. Smallman he remember as a lady of a

gentleness and kindness almost terrifying, so kind that she have a way

of not seem to hear you when you be stutter out some

preposterously foolish remark. everything be so easy for she; she be

so sure of the strength of her position as a good hostess and the wife

of a popular and important man; and there be the child, who be

allow to look down from the nursery window at the garden party. you

could not talk to Mrs. Smallman long without have your eye draw to

they, and then, if you be a sensitive person like René, you feel

that this house be full of an intimacy jealous of its beauty, so that

it repel stranger. friendliness there be, but it end abruptly;

the wife's eye light on the husband, the husband's on the wife, or

the eye of both meeting and turn to the child at the window

could bring it to a cruel and sudden close.



René could not explain to himself the uneasiness that come over he at

the garden party, or the dread of it that overwhelm he as he

push open the gate and rang the bell on that Sunday.



there be a bright green parasol in the hall table, and by it be two

bowler hat. from the drawing-room come a faint buzz of chatter, and

he see that it contain the Professor and his wife; Blease, the

jewish Professor of English; M'Elroy, the great man of the University,

captain of the cricket eleven, President of the Union--it would take a

page to enumerate his distinction; a little man who look like an

unsuccessful attempt to repeat the Professor; and a young lady in a

bright green costume. René observe at once that the other man be

wear black boot, and become dreadfully conscious of his own new

brown pair.



"I'm so glad you could come," say Mrs. Smallman, and she introduce

he to Blease.



"seen you about," say the Jew. "third-year man, ben't you?"



"just begin my third year," say René miserably.



Blease have make his remark sound friendly, and acute. rather clever of

a Professor to be able to place a man outside his own subject!



"we stand for something, you know," continue Blease. "culture! a

handful of man uphold the standard. good for we to be keep in touch

with work life. don't you think so, M'Elroy?"



"yes. that's where we score over Oxford and Cambridge, though they can

never understand that."



their talk be above René. he remember Cambridge as a place of

enthral beauty, but to compare this and that be rather too

sweeping for he, and he find it baffle, and to regard himself as

stand for anything be entirely foreign to his temper. the talk

shoot to and fro above he, and he find his eye be engage by the

bright green. the young lady be sparkling, easy, gay, a little figure

of energy and charm.



"she be beautiful," say René to himself.



then he decide that she be not beautiful. she turn her face into

another light, and beauty come into it again; another turn and it

vanish. a will-o'-the-wisp, the hunting of which become an absorbing

pursuit.



at lunch René sit opposite she, and hardly ever take his eye from her

face. only when he seem in danger of meet her gaze do he turn

away. once he meet her eye and she smile, seem to be consider

he gravely and very seriously in the depth of her mind, then

dismiss he.



"she _be_ beautiful," think he, and from that moment she have his

homage.



presently she appeal to he:



"Mr. M'Elroy willn't have it that Thrigsby be well than London. what

do you say?"



"I've never be to London," reply René.



"don't you love Thrigsby?"



"it's be my home always. I don't know that I ever think about it."



M'Elroy say:



"one think about everything nowadays."



something in the young man's tone rouse René to protest.



"oh no . . . lot of thing one do without . . ." but he swallow

the rest. a sudden flow and ebb of emotion have leave he speechless,

and he feel utterly foreign to the company and to the charm

atmosphere of the household. Mrs. Smallman talk to he for a little,

but he feel that she be speak through he at her husband, so that

he could not keep his face toward she, but be constantly turn

toward the Professor as though the reply be to come from he, or

would at any rate be worthless without his indorsement. and always the

Professor smile with a vague friendliness that be disconcert.



after the meal he be take to the study, a long room with book all

round the wall, ponderous book, blue book, year after year of

report of learn institution; reproduction of italian picture;

photograph of Mrs. Smallman on the mantelpiece, a photograph of Mrs.

Smallman on the desk. René be give a large chair and a small cigar,

which he begin to smoke before he realize what he be do. he

rarely smoke, do not care for it, and presently he drop the cigar

into the fireplace. the Professor stand look out of the window. two

of the child be play under the plum-tree. the feeling of be

thrust out assailed René. the Professor turn:



"well?" he ask. "what's the trouble?"



"my father----" begin René.



"ah! well?"



"he desert my mother a long time ago. he come back. my brother's

married."



"I see. so you're the only possible breadwinner. any work in your

father? how old be he?"



"I don't know how old he be. but work? no."



"it's bad luck, but it often happen. I've have to keep my father since

he be fifty. what about your family? the name's well know in

Thrigsby."



so Professor Smallman be the boy his father remember! René gain

confidence. it be something to know that his experience be not

singular.



"they do help until my father come back. they willn't now, and I don't

want they to. they don't understand the pain of receive charity

uncharitably give. they call it ingratitude."



"they have their point of view."



"so have I mine," say René, astonish at his own boldness.



"your work's good," say the Professor. "Tweeddale's report of you

be always excellent. as you know, I don't come in touch with man

until their third year, and then only if they're good. you can take

that from I. I must tell you--it wouldn't be fair not to--that one

don't know in the least how good you be go to be. one have an

uncertainty about you. in a way, that's all to the good. I like what

you've write for the _post_. so do Pigott the editor. what about

journalism? do you write easily?"



"no."



"it rather scotch that, then. pupil? you could make a little that

way, but it's drudge work when you're read as well. I could give

you two first-year man, pretty bad, both of they, and Miss Brock, the

girl you meet at lunch, have a young brother who cann't get through the

matric. that's as much as you could manage."



René have no notion how much he ought to be pay. he ask, and when he

hear the amount his heart overflow with gratitude, and he walk

home with a new vigor in his stride and a prouder carriage of his

head. his father and mother be out. his news would not keep, and he

go round to George, first change his brown boot for black. he

reckon that in three term he would be able to make nearly as much

as his brother's whole income, and would have the vacation to repair

any damage do to his own work. then he would take his degree, and

the whole world, all life, would open up before he.









VII



fly near the candle





     a man's heart may minister comfort to he in the hope of that

     thing for which he yet have no ground to hope.





the Brocks live in Galt's Park, an elegant district shut off from the

rest of Thrigsby by gate and unoccupied lodge. here, in ease and

amid garden, dwelt family of an old-establish prosperity, many

Germans, Armenians, and Greeks, and some of the descendant of

Thrigsby's famous man. here also be the two hostel of the

university, some school, one co-educational seminary, the house of a

painter with a great local fame, and that of the municipal organist.

good man have live in Galt's Park, and it have once be the center of

thrigsbeian culture; but now all those who dwell in it have the air of

having be leave behind, and the little pink house be menace it,

even as they menace the garden of Professor Smallman.



through the winter René Fourmy come twice a week to coach young Kurt

Brock in mathematic and French. occasionally he be ask to stay to

lunch, and then he be too sore from the discomfort of Mrs. Brock's

broken English--she be a German from Hamburg--to be able to support

Miss Brock, Linda, in her effort to make conversation. also he be

engross in the problem first present to he on his original

meeting with she: be she, be she not, beautiful? sometimes for a

fortnight he would decide that she be so, and then his heart would go

out to she in homage, an impersonal emotion bestow on she as though

she be a tree or a sunset. that she might be intelligent interested

he not at all. except in the case of Cathleen Bentley, where he have

be surprise into an intimacy, refine and dilute with adoration,

he have regard woman as exist only to receive in ignorance his shy

homage.



as with the Smallmans, so here he have to give his mother a detail

report of the household and its manner of living. to she they also

be "grand," and she never tired of listen to the tale of their

doing, their servant, what they have to eat and drink, what they sit

on, what they wear, and whom they entertain. he report

faithfully--the ring on Mrs. Brock's finger, her richly-clothe

inelegant figure, her dog-like eye that could never smile, her

enormous appetite--whereon Mrs. Fourmy would sigh and say:



"I never be a big eater myself."



Kurt, the boy, René like, for he be so thoroughly convinced of his

own stupidity that it be impossible to teach he anything. german

only in name, he be English and Thrigsbeian in everything else, and

René feel almost that he belong to an old generation when he

discover that Kurt could not remember the horse-tram in the Derby

Road, or a time when there be no motor-car. Kurt possess a

motorcycle, or it possess he, so that almost everything else in his

eye be "bally rot." he except music, which, with his family, he

love german-fashion, greedily and indiscriminately. his attitude

toward his sister be that of one who know so much that he have

nothing leave to hope. against his mother and sister he use to protest

to René, whom he think of as a "poor beggar" but a "good enough

sort." René never see it, but often Kurt would outmaneuver Linda in

her attempt to waylay his tutor, and once he go so far as to mumble

this warning:



"what I cann't stand about woman be the way they go nose round."



"do they?" ask René, look up from _Hall and Knight_.



"my sister do. she want to know how a man work. she's like I with

a motor. haven't you get sister?"



"no. I wish I have."



"I don't know. have a sister like Lin be enough to put a man off

woman for life."



"she have always be very charming to I."



Kurt snort.







another day he growl out:



"Linda say you be like Schiller. you'd well look out. she say the

last young feller be like Mozart."



"I've never see a picture of Mozart," reply René.



"silly sort of face."



that very day Linda outmaneuver Kurt. as a rule he walk with René

to the gate of Galt's Park, but now, believe his sister to be

safely out of the way, and also wish to change the tire of his

motorcycle, he let René depart alone, and René be not go above a

hundred yard when he encounter Linda. he bow, remove his hat,

and be for make on, when she stop.



"I'm glad to meet you," she say, with such a smile that René feel

once and for all that she be beautiful, and be so confused by his

own enthusiasm that he do not take the hand she proffer, and put

she to the awkwardness of withdraw it.



"I--I----" he look desperately up and down the road, but could find

no topic, and end lamely by say:



"I--I like your brother."



"oh! kurt! but I be glad to have meet you. I hope you would be at the

Smallmans last Sunday. I be so disappointed." her voice too be

beautiful in its friendly, emphatic cadence.



"I--I ben't ask."



"oh, you ben't _ask_. you go. everybody go."



(he have never be able to identify himself with everybody, or to take

everybody's do for a reason for his own.)



she go on:



"I want to ask you if you would care to come and hear I play at the

Goetheverein--that's the german club--next Wednesday. it's a good

program; Schubert, Beethoven, Brahms. you'll love Beethoven."



"my mother play, but her piano have yellow key, and the music be

fade like the key."



"it must be beautiful to understand your mother. Professor Smallman

have tell I all about you, and I do hope you'll come."



"I'd like to come."



"that's settle then. we have supper at the Verein, and I'll introduce

you to some people you'll like to know. it's nice to know your

friend' friend, don't you think?"



René feel vaguely uneasy.



"friend' friend," he repeat almost interrogatively.



"friend," say Miss Brock, "be those whom you have always know you

would meet." this she say with a kind of recklessness that be almost

exaltation. it certainly startle René into something like emotion,

into the desire to respond. for the first time during their

conversation his eye meet her full, and he be confront with a

smile so charmingly inquisitive that he be compel to satisfy their

curiosity and he jerk out:



"yes. friend."



and it seem to he that she have give and he have

accept--something. gift and acceptance be so surreptitious that

the nature of they be a matter of almost complete indifference. the

great thing be the giving and the accepting, and the excitement of

the transaction drown the little emotion that have stir in he.

one more glance he steal at she, and he see that she be satisfied,

that their conversation be at an end. yet neither could end it, and

it be a relief to both when Kurt came hoot and snort by on his

motorcycle.



"till Wednesday then," say Miss Brock.



"you--you don't say what time."



"oh! eight o'clock. but you might like to come with we--call for we at

half-past seven. I wish you could speak German."



"I do a little."



"mother will like that. good-by."



she turn and walk away. René stand root to the ground. at his

foot he see her handkerchief. he stoop and pick it up. he dare

not run after she. he press the handkerchief to his lip, then

angrily squeeze it up into a ball and thrust it into his trouser

pocket. this do, he shake himself, throw back his head, and strode

vigorously homeward. he say to himself:



"I'm damned if I read love poem to she."



he have arrive at the conclusion that but for the love poem thing

would never have get so maddeningly out of hand with that other maiden

in Scotland.



he add:



"but she really be beautiful."



read a book at supper that night, he knock a glass of beer over

onto his trouser, fumble for his handkerchief, find Linda's, mop

up the beer with it, and give it to his mother to be wash. she

wash it with her own hand that night, iron it, and place it on

his dressing-table so that next morning he be confront by the

embroider name--Linda.



on the Wednesday evening he clothe himself in his good black coat, the

same he have have since he be seventeen, put on a white dicky and

cuff, and punctually at 7:30 stand between the stucco pillar on

either side of the Brocks' front door. the family be wait for he

in the hall. the woman be muffle up in veil, and Kurt be wear

a very smart overcoat and new patent-leather boot. behind Kurt in the

darkness--for the hall be light only by one flicker gas-jet in a

ground-glass globe--stand another male figure. this advance into the

light and be reveal as M'Elroy.



"you know each other," say Linda.



Kurt cut in with:



"of course, and Fourmy think he be so like Mozart."



René feel a pang of uneasiness. he turn to Linda to find her eye

rest now on M'Elroy, now on himself, with quick little darting

glance that seem to take in every detail. it exasperate he to be

pit against M'Elroy, but, the rivalry having be introduce,

though unsought by himself, he rise to it, and so, he feel, do

M'Elroy. by way of protest René move near to Mrs. Brock, who be

sit on the bottom stair.



"Gut Abend!" he say. "Ich bin----"



"Na, Sie sprechen Deutsch? so ist's gut. ist mir sehr lieb Deutsch zu

hören."



"Aber nicht----"



"Sie sprechen sehr gut. Mein Sohn wird nie Deutsch sprechen. Im

Goetheverein aber, will man so schöne Musik----"



"Ja," interrupt rené at a venture, and he find that, with these

three expression, he could get along very well and keep Mrs. Brock

perfectly happy talk away as she never do when the use of English

oppress she. she never stop. she talk he into the cab that

come for they, out of it, up the stair into the german club, and into

the concert-room where she present he to other woman like herself,

who nod and smile at his fumble utterance--and talk.



the room be arrange like a restaurant with little table all round

it, and the platform at one end slightly raise. for the most part the

audience sit in little family group and drank beer and eat

sandwich. René find himself confine between Mrs. Brock and another

stout matron, and begin to feel rather oppressed and to wish he have

not come. Kurt and M'Elroy have join a band of young man who take

possession of a corner and look on at the scene with english

disapproval of its Germanism. some of they René know for Meyers and

Schoeners and Krauses of the second and third generation.



the room be soon fill with smoke, and the atmosphere become very

thick, but the Germans eat and drank till their face shine. and

greedily they gulp down the music, which be beautiful and charming

and sentimental by turn, though all seem to meet with the same

approval. a pale young Jew play the violin until René be near tear

and Mrs. Brock heave fat sigh of contentment; a portly austrian with

a sweet little tenor voice sing Schubert's Trout song so neatly and

with such ease that René wriggle with pleasure; and there be

quartet and a solo flute and a piano duet by two little blonde girl

with pink leg and absurd pale eye, with which they ogle their papa

in the audience and the portrait of the Emperor William on the wall;

and Linda play a Beethoven sonata (rather dull), and the Prelude of

Rachmaninoff, which be receive with thunderous applause. she wear a

white dress and look very fine, plump, and comely, with her white

hand hover over she and descend on the key, and her head

sway until upon the close of the music it droop to show a

beautiful line from her neck to her waist. René have be so move by

the music that his eye catch greedily at this extra pleasure, and

they never move from Linda's face as she step down from the

platform, and come forward look for her party. she be greet with

"prosit" and raise tankard as she pass between the table. then

she stop and gaze over to the corner where Kurt be sit.

M'Elroy stand up to catch her attention. René see that, and also how

Linda shrink away from the assertion and the claim, feign that she

have not see, and thread her way toward her mother's table. to cover

her come, René begin to talk wildly in German:



"Das war wunderschön. Ich habe nie solche Klavierspiel gehört. Ich

bin----"



"Linda versteht. Ja. Aber sie fühlt nicht mehr als----" and a torrent

of long-involve sentence descend on René and bring he to a

hopeless bewilderment. that have be his grow condition. this

incursion into a foreign world, into an atmosphere of easy social

intercourse, be for he, a dweller among the humble ingregarious

inhabitant of mediocre street, an ordeal, a fierce conflict with

impression. already to have have so much music to absorb have put some

strain upon he. the effort to follow Mrs. Brock's conversation have

be exhausting, and to save himself he clung to Linda and the idea of

Linda. he rise as she come up. she stand for a moment with her hand in

her mother's, look, for a brief space, like a Cranach Eve, all

charm and tenderness, the very bloom of womanhood upon she. she take

his chair, and he have to fetch another. he be force to place it

close to her, so that he have some difficulty in not touch she.

presently she move so that the small accidental gesture must make

he touch she. he edge away, and she turn and look at he

searchingly, inquisitively. his face be blank as that of a statue.

his mind know no thought. he seem to himself to be drown in a

languor that be part weariness, part excitement, at her propinquity.



she laugh, and her laughter rouse he, but already she be talk

animatedly to her mother and her mother's friend, and René became

absorb in contemplate her honey-color hair, the round line of

her shoulder, the pretty modeling of her cheek and neck. and, through

her conversation with her mother, with her white shoulder and the

pretty modeling of her cheek and neck she carry on with René an

intercourse more terrifyingly intimate than any he have ever know. he

have a disquieting sense of use more faculty than he have ever

suspect in himself. it be pleasantly adventurous, but to a youth of

his virtue it savor too alarmingly of black magic that her attention

should be upon he while her word be elsewhere, and that he should

be so keenly aware of she. it send the room whirl round he, make

his identity, which hitherto have seem definite enough for all the

apparent purpose of life, melt and trickle away, and cruelly

transfer the center of his universe from himself to Linda. and,

when she look toward he again, it be almost as though she have

surprise his state, so certain do she look, but still inquisitive

and malicious.



"well? do you talk German?"



"I say you be _wunderschön_." he lean forward so that his hand

touch her arm. he be so desperate that boldness be his only

course. she have take something from he. he be in a mood to claim

it.



"be I?" she say. "you look as if you don't see I."



"but I do see you all the time, especially when you droop your

head."



"oh! then!"



and with the acuteness of his desperation he perceive that she be

aware of the effectiveness of the drooping of her head. that make he

angry, though he know not why.



"it's so hot in here," she resume; "will you take I home? it would

be nice to walk. the other will drive."



she explain to her mother, and René follow she, tear between

expectancy and alarm. at the door he meet M'Elroy. for a moment he be

delighted to see that hero, see in he an agent of relief.



"it's too bad, Linda," say M'Elroy; "I haven't have a word with you

all evening."



"well? there be other evening, and we be both so young." she say

this with a rather pretty german accent, the assumption of which

seem to infuriate M'Elroy, for he fling off with an angry "all

right!" and leave they. Linda smile slowly to herself, and René be

conscious of a doom settle on himself, and all his hope seem to

have go with M'Elroy.



they part to go to their respective cloakroom, and René tell

himself that she would change her mind, would dismiss he also and

wait for her mother, that what his eye have see he have not see,

that, after all, Linda desire of he nothing but the common civility

of his escort. but all his attempt evasion only excite he the

more, and by the time he meet Linda again at the door he be speechless

and in a sweat.



the night be cool, clouded, and dark. René walk very fast.



"I cann't keep this up," say Linda, and he drop to a crawl.



"that's well," she say with a sigh, as they walk down the nigh

empty street. "oh, dear, I should be so sorry if you haven't be

happy."



"I--I be happy. I love the music."



"you can tell almost everything in music."



"if you have anything to tell."



"how droll you be--so literal."



"Miss Brock----" say René. they be walk very slowly now. they

have turn down the last lighted street before the darkness of Galt's

Park. it gape before they, inviting, menacing, romantic, rouse he

to a mood of antagonism to the grow fascination she be exercise

over he.



"droll?" he say. "I don't know. I mean what I say, though. I cann't

always say what I mean."



"who can?" ask she.



"I mean, suppose you have a feeling for anything, for your father or

your mother or something beautiful, and the feeling be so big that it

cann't get out----"



"one get to think," say Linda in a quiet little voice, soothe,

caressing, "that man don't have feeling like that."



they pass through the gate into the darkness of the Park. they

walk on in silence, slow, slow, till they come to a weeping tree

that hang right over the footpath. here they stop altogether. the

blood beat at his temple, he be near choke, and there be Linda in

his arm and he have kiss she, shyly, coolly, almost defiantly. it

be soon over, but she linger, and out of the darkness come her

voice say:



"but you be the droll dear."



Stung into a passionate desire to justify his situation, he cry:



"by God, but I do love you."



a little cry from she (he scarcely hear it), a strong embrace, and

there come another kiss, wherein be neither sweetness nor delight,

but only a bitter hunger.









VIII



INTIMACY





     by hunger sharply speed

     to grasp at weapon ere he learn their use.





soon René find himself engage upon an intimacy with Linda

Brock--that be to say, he be ever at her command, her constant

escort, her listener. she talk of everything, seem to empty she

mind for he. everything she discuss--the relation of the individual

to the race, the race's right in the individual, childbirth, the

upbringing of child, and the position of woman. he have not she

reading, and be at first fog by her discourse, her voluble

juggle with topic and idea that could not enter his mind without

engender a certain heat and release some emotion. it be not

long, however, before he find himself master of her jargon, not long

either before she find out how to use it to bring he to a confusion

from which there be no issue but by kiss and embrace, and because

he kiss and embrace he love, or believe that he love. all his

unhappiness he ascribe to their necessary separation, and he be

persuade that his soreness could be heal, his dissatisfaction

repair in a future possession. the force of old habit keep his

work life intact, and there he be happy and proud to think that in

his love there should be so noble a coolness. he try to explain this

to she, and she say:



"yes, of course. you must keep your work separate. love and fine

thinking, you know."



he like the phrase, not know it for a quotation; but he never

observe that she always set herself to disturb his coolness, and

never let he go from she till it be drown in a flood of warmth.



she take he in hand, make he buy clothe, glove, spat, choose his

tie for he and his shirt; discover that he only wear one shirt a

week, and tacitly inform he that two be the irreducible minimum;

persuade he to abolish the parting in his hair and to brush it back;

to abandon his straight for wing collar; present he with

gaily-color sock; lend he book, modern work of fiction and

fashionable philosophy; induce he to become a member of the Union,

though she could never get he to speak at debate. on her instigation

he join a tennis club in the summer term, prove rather skillful,

and be invite by M'Elroy to play for the University second team.



Linda be ambitious for he, but she could not make he ambitious, and

she fail to develop opinion in he; but always, just as she be

despairing of he and on the point of dismiss he from her mind as

dull, he would come out with some simple comment that delight she

with its directness and force. then she would go to Professor Smallman

and talk about René, and the Professor would say:



"a good sound brain. nothing unusual except that one feel in he

thing unroused. no passion."



"ah! passion!"



"yes," he say, purr, "I put it rather neatly, I think, the other

day. the temperament of a clerk with a brain too good for that kind of

work. he have a conscience."



"but do you think he will do anything?"



"he will do what he think right."



"then you do agree that he be a force? I feel that so strongly about

he."



Professor Smallman smile in his charming, uninterested way.



"not much good be a force if you be an economist. that's

specialist's work. even business would be well."



and Linda begin to map out a career for René--business, the city

council, Parliament, and thereafter--who know?







René be very docile. his friendship for Linda make life more

gracious, more full, and he be shed the awkwardness that have

grow on he during his two year of solitude. he be able to go to

Professor Smallman's whenever he like, and other house have be

throw open to he.



at first he have endeavor to bring the new spirit that he have win

into his life at home, but his father have become merely ribald, and in

his mother the spark of feeling that have be strike out of she on his

return from Scotland have die away and would not come again. what she

feel and think she conceal with chatter, and too many of her note

be now exasperatingly echo of her husband's. for a short while

René go through an agony of shame when he feel his parent as a drag

on he, and he could never return home without an acute feeling of

sadness. to counteract this he use to talk to Linda of his mother as

she have be before his father's return, brave, humorous, quick to see

and to understand. in such talk Linda delight, and she make he

promise to introduce she to his household.



it be arrange.



"afternoon tea, I suppose," say Mrs. Fourmy. "thin bread and butter

in the parlor."



"I think she'd like what we always have. she particularly say you

ben't to make any fuss."



"but I'd like to wear my black silk. I don't often, now."



"you can wear what you like, mother. only let we have tea as we always

have it. I'm sure she'd like it well. not sardine or tin salmon

or any of those thing. they only have light tea because they have

dinner afterward. it would be silly of we to pretend to be anything

but what we be."



"but they'll think----"



"I don't care what they think."



Mrs. Fourmy steal a quick glance at he and say:



"no. you never do."



her tone rouse he to a hope that the old mother have come again, and

he turn to she, only to see the quick light die down in her eye and

into they come the querulous questioning expression that seem to

forbid he to pass beyond the empty word and look she give he. he

realize then how false an idea he must have give to Linda, and he

wish she be not come.







when the day arrive, just before he go to fetch Linda he seek out

his mother, and find she dress in her room with his father lie

on his bed smoking and reading.



"I'm go now," say René. "I shalln't be more than half an hour."



"I don't mind bet," chuckle his father, "that you'll be more than

that. there's no end to it when these woman get to dress up for

each other. look at your mother; she's be brush her hair this

half-hour past."



"I think you be out," say René, cold with an almost hatred.



"I? Tea-partying's my line. always have be."



"don't tease he," say Mrs. Fourmy. "don't tease he."



Mr. Fourmy have his waistcoat unbuttoned, so that to René he seem all

fat stomach bulge through coarse shirting. he turn away in

disgust. as he close the door he hear his mother say:



"it ben't fair when the boy's in love."



he hold the door open, and hear his father turn on the creak bed

and laugh and say:



"love? a gawk like that? statue be his line, not woman."



upon that René so lose himself in a sick dread that he be hardly

conscious as he walk, and seem to have be marvelously propel

from Hog Lane to Galt's Park.



Linda be ready for he in a light muslin frock and an adorable little

tip-tilt hat. he have never see she so pretty.



they decide to walk by way of Potter's Park to see the flower. rené

could hardly get his word out, but he feel that he must do something

to explain.



"you may be disappoint, you know. it mayn't be all that you think it

be."



"oh, but I have see the outside of the house, and one know what to

expect. I mean, if you see the outside of our house you'd know the

inside be pretty much the same as hundred of other. the curtain

always give you away. and nearly all the house on this side of

Thrigsby be like your. when I be at school I know a girl who live

next door to you. and, of course, I'm excited because it be--don't you

think--reassure when you be fond of people to know that they have

relation like the rest of the world."



René's shyness, the delicacy of his feeling have force upon her the

use of the phrase, "fond of each other." for all the excitement she

have rouse in he he have never become possessive nor make any attempt

to assert a monopoly. and one evening when she have flirt with

M'Elroy at the tennis club he have leave she to it, apparently not at

all distressed, and subsequently he visit on her none of the

jealousy she have expect. with M'Elroy her relationship have become

nothing but jealousy, and she prefer René's diffidence to that. and

also, as she have shape René outwardly, so inwardly she hope to mold

he to her liking. M'Elroy be too conceited for that.



"I promise you I shalln't be disappoint," she say.



"I want to ask you not to mind anything my father may say. he do

talk so. I hope he would not be in."



"you dear silly, I shalln't mind anything. I shall like it. I want to

see how you live, and if I don't like anything it will only be the

more wonderful that you be you."



he grip her arm very tight. she laugh though he hurt she. it be

the first uninvited caress he have give she.



"you be so strong," she say, and she take his arm and do not

relinquish it until they come to the gate of 166.



to his dismay René find Elsie with his father and mother. she

declare that she have only drop in, but she be array in her most

garish well and have put on her primmest and most artificial manner,

talk mincingly like a chorus girl. and she patronize Linda,

swagger over she as the married woman, chatter about her darling

baby, and make the party so uncomfortable that Linda could not hold

her own, and a gloom would have descend on they have not Mr. Fourmy

come to the rescue and tell droll story, spice and hot, of the

doing of woman in various part of the world. he cut into Elsie's

gush story with the story of the marine and the admiral's french

governess, and wound up:



"in Brazil the woman eat man. no half measure. eat you they do. look

to the right or the left and they knife you. what I cann't make out,

Miss Brock, be why any man stay in England."



Linda laugh merrily.



"hardly complimentary to we! but you come back, you know."



"so I do, for my old age. England's an old man's country."



"you willn't get I to believe that, or René either."



"ah, but René cann't see thing as they be. short-sighted René be. and

George be blind; ben't he, Elsie?"



Elsie giggle. she have be want to giggle for some time, and the

appeal to she set she off. she could not stop herself.



"oh! Lor'!" she gasp, "you be funny, Mr. Fourmy. you ought to be in

a pantomime. I never laugh like I do with you."



and once more Elsie dominate the party. René wilt. Linda drink the

many cup of tea press on she by Mrs. Fourmy in her nervous anxiety.

conversation flag, sputter, and Mr. Fourmy in desperation keep

Elsie giggle with familiar joke. Linda laugh at they too, and

René sink into gloom and his mother watch he anxiously.



at five o'clock Elsie give a little scream and say she must hurry

away to see that the servant (she have no servant) have make George's

tea. she hurry away, and then, relieve of the oppression of her

presence, René be just begin to hope for well thing when

Linda, to escape from the table, ask if she might see the picture on

the easel in the corner of the room. delighted, Mr. Fourmy turn the

picture to the light. Linda bite her lip and a dimple come in her

cheek.



"not bad for an amateur," say Mr. Fourmy. "just the lid of a

cigar-box and a little paint. I never do care about anything but the

figure."



he take the picture up and look at it lovingly, and with pride and

in a queer confidential voice that startle René and sting Mrs. Fourmy

into a sudden attention, he say:



"you can understand an old man like to do something with his hand,

and it's strange how, when I paint a little bit like that"--he point

to the hip--"it bring back wonderful moment I have have and rare

pleasure, not just in remembering, but as they be--wonderful!"



"I think so," say Linda with unwonted simplicity, and Mr. Fourmy take

her hand, stoop over it, and kiss it.



René look at his mother, she at he, and Linda, turn to Mrs.

Fourmy, smile and say:



"I be so glad to have come, Mrs. Fourmy. René and I be such friend.

we have such great hope for he and I want to see you. will you

take I home, René?"



Mr. Fourmy open the door of the room for she, hurry ahead to open

the front door, and with a tremendous dignity, bow again over

Linda's hand, thank she for come, and say:



"may life be good to you, and very amusing."



and Linda answer:



"I'd like to buy your picture, Mr. Fourmy. will you send it to I when

it be finish?"



"I would rather give it to you."



René's horror send he fly down to the gate. it be a minute or two

before Linda come. she be smile, and Mr. Fourmy have come out on to

the doorstep to watch she walk down. René see his eye follow she and

appreciate her movement, and he become acutely, alarmingly conscious

that she also be a woman. he be frightened of she as she come up to

he, but he be also angry, and he let fly:



"Linda, you cann't."



"cann't what?"



"you cann't let my father give you his beastly picture. you don't seem

to mind. I think you would. I think you would. he sit all day

do those thing over and over again."



"oh, René, don't be silly. I'm old than you."



that be the first he have hear of it, and it dash he. that a man

should love, could love a woman old than himself be in flat

contradiction to all his notion. he be furious. Linda go on:



"two year old. twenty year old in experience and knowledge. you

think like a silly little boy."



in a rage he turn on his heel and leave she. but at once a fierce

hunger to be with she seize he, to clutch she by the arm as he have

clutch she before, and to hurt she more, to feel her soft flesh

yield under his grip. that desire be strong than his fury, and

he run after she, and catch she up just at the gate of Potter's

Park.



"I beg your pardon. I beg your pardon. I do beg your pardon. I cann't

help it. I must be with you."



and he seize her arm and rush she ahead for a few pace until she

cry out at the hurt:



"René! rené! quiet! not now! wait!"



she be as excited as he, but not, like he, absorb in her

excitement. it be a delight to she.



he release she, and she lead he to a seat opposite a bed of Darwin

tulip, red and mauve and yellow. he sit by her side trembling,

drown in a flood of savage emotion, think not at all. slowly he

become aware of the tulip in front of he, and he say:



"the flower be very pretty."



that relax the tension he be in, and he stretch out his leg and

stare up into the sky, and presently he break into word:



"and the summer sky be beautiful, but not so beautiful as you, and I

love you."



his arm be fold on his chest, and he seem to be hardly

conscious of his word then in a calm voice he say:



"I never notice before how the sky be always change and move and

alive. I would like to sit like this until it all grow dark and the

star come out and the glow of the light of the town go up into it?

and, Linda, it have all become very different, haven't it?"



she say:



"I know it would come."



then they laugh together, and René clap his hand on her knee and

tell she she be a wonderful darling.



Linda observe then that they have begin to attract attention, and she

rise and walk quickly away. he follow she slowly, thrill to the

present, see nothing in the world but her brave little figure in

muslin with the tip-tilt hat. her hair be golden in the sun, and

her neck be white and the line of her shoulder be lovely. René

touch she lightly as he come up with she.



"we're go to be marry," he say.



"yes."



"ben't it fun?"



her answer strike he as amusing and he laugh. she ask:



"be elsie well in her own house?"



"oh, she's a good sort, really, and George--that's my brother--George

couldn't have do well."



"I have an idea from the way you speak that I shall rather like

George."



"I don't say anything to show I like he."



"no, darling." (René's heart leap at the word.) "no. I think you

dislike he. you hate your father. he be impossible, but such a dear."



René, sensitive in his ecstasy, for the tulip and the sky and she have

bring he to nothing less, feel a malice in she that scratch at

his heart. but, love she, worship the new radiant intimacy that

have spring up between they, he love even her malice.



they walk home slowly, laugh over the mischance, the absurdity

of the tea-party, and when they reach her house she make he come

in, play to he for an hour, and send he home drunk with love. he

call it love, for he suspect not that it could have any other

name. she have promise to marry he as soon as he have his degree and a

position, and he be to write to her mother and make a formal

proposal, since Mrs. Brock be old-fashioned enough and german enough

to desire that much of formal ceremony.









IX



PATERFAMILIAS





     the foolish man thereat woxe wondrous blith

     as if the word so spoken be half donne.





so far René's success have come from his power to do what have be

expect of he. he have do it without delight or enthusiasm but with

the concentration which come from his lack of interest either in the

past or the future. from the interest of other in himself he have be

able to borrow a little excitement every now and then, but he could

never sustain it. it be not lack of energy, mental or physical, but

rather that, do what be expect of he, he do it well enough to

lead to further expectation, and this give he a constant surprise at

himself to keep his existence zestful. he be not altogether

indifferent, but he could accept. he accept that Linda love he,

and be equally prepared to accept that she love he no long,

subject, of course, to any incidental pain he might suffer. believe

in everything that happen with no power of definition or

intellectual curiosity, he could never at any give moment realize his

position without reference to other, and therefore, when he find

himself embroil in this tender, disturb relationship with Linda

Brock, he need to bring it to the test of all his other

relationship--with his father, his mother, his brother, M'Elroy,

Kurt, and Professor and Mrs. Smallman. he could not talk about it to

any of they, but he hope to find in all some appreciation of the new

wonder that have come upon he, and he desire, for his comfort, to

find out what in this new development be expect of he. here he be

baffle. everybody be either tactful or insensible. thing inanimate

have change enormously for he. street, house, tree, have take on a

new beauty, a friendliness that make room for his emotion; but people

lag distressfully, and he often have an unhappy sense of leave

they behind, or, as he talk and listen to they, they would

dwindle. and yet, at the same time, he find they so wonderful that,

in their failure to respond to his need, they seem to he to be

untrue to their own wonder. he know not the nature of his need, but he

be leave subtly conscious of its being leave unsatisfied. he ascribe

his discomfort to his love, and call it "be in love." it give he

an insatiable desire for Linda's society, presence, contact; a harsh

sensibility to her beauty; an appreciation of her physical quality

upon which he never dare to think, because it lead he back in thought

to the moment of her colloquy with his father when he have feel so

strangely that he and his mother be not of their world. in this

distress his mind could find ease in the idea of marriage. that

settle the future and appoint an end to the force that urge he on

so mysteriously and powerfully; but, accustom as he be to live

humbly in the present, he need somehow to escape the isolation into

which the desire for Linda have cast he. he work hard than he have

ever do, but when he be not work, and issue from the coolness

of that limited mental activity, he be visit by a craving that not

even Linda could slake. he find most comfort in child and the idea

of child. he would go and see Mrs. Smallman, and sit with she in

the garden and silently watch Martin and Bridget play over the

meager lawn under the plum-tree. he would talk to Mrs. Smallman about

indifferent thing, and go sick at heart as he see how her eye and

mind be upon the child, how little occupy with himself, and how

rigidly she keep he from that mystery which he desire to comprehend.

again he would play with the child with an admirable success, so

that they would admit he as one of themselves, only as he emerge

from the game to be meet with an applauding smile from the charming

lady, which make he feel that she admire his performance but could

not herself admit he. she be friendly and amiable, and would ask he

to come again; and he would hear from Linda how well Mrs. Smallman

think of him--"Such a nice boy, and so fond of children"--but she

keep he separate. he try once or twice to tell Mrs. Smallman about

Linda.



"she be such a clever girl," she would say. "a good musician, of

course. my husband say she could take a first easily in almost any

subject. I be sure she will make a good wife, just the kind of girl to

make a man successful. we have often be surprised that she have not

marry before, but of course she be a girl who could only live

happily with a good brain. it do make such a difference."



everything she say lead back to her own bliss and exceptional fortune;

and while René give she due homage for her motherhood, her wifedom,

her gracious happy home, yet he come almost to hate these thing

without know that it be because they be securely bar in. yet

he could not keep away nor refrain from his attempt to storm the

citadel.



he would try through Smallman, who be even more exasperating. he

seem to divine that his pupil be grope after some reassurance of

human beauty, but he would hint darkly at the difficulty of married

life, generalize about the simplicity of human need, whisper of the

revelation of fatherhood, and, just as he have rené sit forward in

excited anticipation of the long-for marvel, he would double and

turn aside into the discussion of economic problem, or the

unsatisfactory nature of the academic life in Thrigsby. and then, with

the child, René would see that Smallman could never enter into

their game or their mind as thoroughly as himself.



on the whole he prefer George's gross swaggering over his

paternity, and there be a sure satisfaction in watch his

sister-in-law suckle her baby. but there again George and his wife

take upon themselves an excessive credit for the achievement, hoard

it, invest it in everybody whom they could get to take it, seem

to use the child as a means of gain admiration for themselves. they

seem to be incapable of recover from the astonishment of anything

so natural happen to themselves, and they too, a little more

exuberantly and less charmingly, bar René out.



"by Jove!" George would say, "there be nothing like it. it's wonderful

what you can do without when you've get that. and, as I be say to

Elsie, I cann't make out what swell do who have a nurse. I cann't tell

you how jolly glad I be when the monthly go and we could have it

all to ourselves."



to René George be so horrible when he talk so, that he would forget

the sentimental satisfaction he have have in the contemplation of the

change work in the household by the advent of his nephew.



"and imagine," George say once, "that one never think of it. you get

make love and all that. just a bit o' fun, as likely as not, and it

lead to this. by God, it's a big thing. Hark at the little beggar. I

tell you, René, my heart sometimes stop with fright when a long time

go by and he don't howl. oh, well, your day will come. it'll come,

all right. don't you worry!"



in desperation René lead the conversation elsewhere.



and at home thing be hardly well. he feel that his mother do not

like Linda, though she show no reluctance to talk of she, or indeed

to praise she. perhaps Linda have frighten she. and sometimes René

would feel that his mother have a real horror of love and marriage and

all but the most superficial and sentimental relation of the sex.

he would wonder how that could be reconcile with her reception of his

father or her excited business before the coming of Elsie's baby. she

be often disconcertingly silent when he come home from some

employment with Linda, and he learn that he must not tell she what

he have be do.



sometimes she would begin of her own accord to talk of Linda:



"she have such eye. she see everything. you feel she know every

stitch of clothing you have on. and the thing she wear herself--

well! but she's very pleasant and she's get a pretty smile. girl be

very different in my day."



"how be they different?" René would ask.



"I don't know. different. I cann't say. we be more patient. there

be some thing we don't talk of. but, of course, she's not english.

that would account for a good deal. if you ben't so set on she I

should say she be make a fool of herself. girl often do, you know,

with a sort of man they've not be use to. but I will say this for

you, René, you're not one not to take a girl seriously."



René look puzzle. his mother laugh.



"go on, you great gaby; don't tell I you don't know what you can do

with those eye of your."



this annoy he with its suggestion of a deliberate manipulation on

his part of the spring of affection.



"oh, mother," he say, "you've be so different since my father come

back, and I'm different, and everything seem to be change so

swiftly that it be hard to tell--hard to tell where we be. we seem so

far away from the old life, just you and I together."



Mrs. Fourmy look at he and reply:



"you remind I of the time when you be a little boy and use to sit

with an ashen face, very thin, with the tear roll down your

cheek. and when I ask you what be the matter you use to say: 'I'm

heavy.' you ben't like an ordinary boy. you seem to feel thing."



"I seem to feel thing now," he say miserably; "but I don't know what

thing they be." then, encourage by the warm interest he feel in

she, he add: "but I cann't want not to feel." and, dare a stroke

against the new baleful influence at work in the house, he tell she of

his recollection of the scene in the bedroom when she have spank his

father.



"well now," she say, "to think of your remembering that."



"it make all the difference," say he, "all the difference in the

world."



"oh, you poor mite," cry his mother; "and you couldn't see it be in

fun?"



"Fun!" he look incredulous.



"yes. we be very happy then."



he pounce eagerly on that.



"happy? be you happy? and now? and now?"



that be come to close quarter than she have courage for. she sink

into indifference.



"we're old now," she say, and he feel that she too have bar he

out. she also may have feel it, for she shift uncomfortably and lead

the talk away from herself and presently to praise of his father.



"he be too clever," she say, "and I couldn't see how clever he be.

I want he to beat his brother in their own line, and I want he

to love you two boy in my way instead of his. of course I'm not

clever, René, and I cann't say where thing get wrong. it's wonderful

how he's settle down now. I never think he would. and I want you to

be nice to he, René, for my sake. even if you're not go to be here

much long, I would like you to do that. he feel his position so."



the sting of indignation prick René into brutality. he have make his

effort to reclaim his mother from his father, and fail. he cry:



"what do he do?"



"what do man do when dullness creep over they and they be mortify

with failure?"



there be a note of vengeance in her tone, exasperation perhaps, a

savage determination to set abomination before the fatuous innocence

of her son. she succeed. he be beset with horror and a sick

repulsion from his mother who could allow, accept, and seem to rejoice

in such contamination.



Drearily he say:



"he's a dirty man," and upon that expression of opinion he leave she.







however he do attempt to be more amiable with his father, and even

go so far as to accompany he to the Denmark of an evening, and be

there astonish to find how the old fellow by sheer wit and masterful

presence lord it over the company of clerk, shopkeeper, theater

musician, agent, broker, bagman, school teacher, the odd

character, the small talent of the neighborhood. René notice that

Mr. Sherman ply his father with drink to keep he lively, and that

there seem no question of payment for it. Mr. Fourmy pay in talk,

yarn, jest, joke, impromptu fantasy, with sly hit at the

eccentric of the assembly. and although René hate the atmosphere,

the smoke, the drink, the greedy lap up of gross laughter, the

pounce on scrap of filth and equivocal utterance, he could not

escape some admiration of his father. this grow as they leave the place

and Mr. Fourmy shake off his air of large geniality and take his son

by the arm and ask if they might go for a walk together.



"to think," he say, "of your remembering a thing like that. and it

do make a change too. you use to come run down the road to meet

I when I come back from town. you stop do that. I notice it

once or twice, and then I give no more heed to it. I never be much of

a one to give heed to thing. cann't stand thing dull. never could. I

couldn't do what you're do now, plod away with those fat book

of your. it seem wonderful to I. I look into one of they the

other day. no. I never have the mind for it."



"Father," say René solemnly, "when I be bear, what do you feel

like?"



"Lord love a duck! what a question! I'd be expect it, you know.

and George be there, you know. but I'll tell you this, my lad. a

child's wonderfully separate at once, and no amount of clucking will

ever make it anything else. it's get its own separate life like the

rest of we. we're all separate, and it's just as well not to forget

it. we're never allow to forget it for long. I forget it. I think

we be a nice little happy family with no individual in it at

all--except myself. and then----"



"what then?"



"then, my son, there be a nasty mess."



"oh!"



"there always be a nasty mess. marriage knock a man to piece and

leave he to put himself together again. woman be more brutal. they

don't mind if marriage turn out to be no more than a pool of mud.

Lord, Lord! a woman will bear a child almost every year of her bear

life and be no more than a little girl at the end of it, a prying,

stealthy-minded little girl."



René be enrage and shock, but excite too, intellectually. he

turn to his father and say:



"Father, I want to know, I must know, how you could come back to my

mother."



"that," say Mr. Fourmy, "be what I be still ask myself."



René swung round and strike his father full on the mouth, thrill

sickeningly to the impact and raise his hand to strike again. Mr.

Fourmy catch he by the wrist and drag he up so that their face

be close together, both breathe heavily:



"Steady," whisper the old man, "steady! steady on, boy. it's the

woman bitch at you get into your blood. you're a good boy, a

virtuous boy. thing be hard for virtue. listen to I. do you hear?"

René nod. "very well then. Life's a damn dirty business, and it

grow damneder and damneder as time go on. it get so damned for I

that I clear out. see?" René nod. "I clear out till I could see

that it be damn funny. then I come back. it be grind I as it be

grind you."



he pat his son's arm so affectionately that René choke and the

tear run down his cheek.



they walk on, René lurching, until his father take his arm again and

lead he. there be a moon over they, and as he lead, Mr. Fourmy say:



"on a night like this even Thrigsby be beautiful. Lord! how I use to

hate the place. but when I have see thing I come to know that it be

like any other. there be good man in it and good thing, and over all

the same slime of meanness and fear that only very few can penetrate.

we live in a world of woman, boy, and we must make the good of it."



René hardly hear he, but he could feel the pressure of his hand and

be glad that here, at last, be one nature that do not bar he out.

it be so astonishing as to be repellent, but he be so hungry for

comfort that he could not withdraw.









X



HONEYMOON





     that God forbid that make I first your slave

     I should in thought control your time of pleasure.





MRS. brock grant René an interview. from the worldly standpoint it

be satisfactory. no great objection to the projected alliance be

make, and he learn that Linda have a fortune of her own which

provide she with an income of seven hundred a year. if anything, he

be distress by the information. he do not regard money as in

itself desirable. the lack of it be a nuisance to be avoid if

possible, but not otherwise to be consider. the past year have lead

he to believe that such a lack be easily repair. it be disturb

to the few idea he have on the subject to think that he would not be

able to satisfy any desire in his beloved which she could not herself

supply. however that do not occupy he long, for he be comfort by

Mrs. Brock's explain that she have discuss the matter with her

daughter--a good, sensible maiden, who admit that there be a

practical side even to romance--and they have agree to postpone the

marriage until Mr. Fourmy be settle in a profession. to make this

easy, Linda have consent to go to her relative in Hamburg for an

indefinite period, though, of course, she would go there as a

betroth.



he say:



"thank you very much, Mrs. Brock."



he try to say more, to remove the affair from the hard, business

footing on which it have be conduct, to lead his prospective

mother-in-law to give he some sign that she regard he as a

potential member of her family, but she suppress he by say:



"frankly, Mr. Fourmy, I don't think it would be wise of you to marry

with my daughter unless you have at least three hundred a year."



he agree and withdraw, chill at the heart. it seem to end his

wooing and to give he already a slight distaste for Linda. could she

really have discuss the matter so coolly with her solid mother? it

be a shock to he that woman from whom come such great ecstasy be

not themselves all compact of that fiery essence. and seven hundred a

year! that seem more present to the mind of the mother than the girl

herself. seven hundred a year be to be send to Germany until he have

grow into three hundred a year.



however, Linda immensely enjoy the process of parting. she begin it

on the Sunday, and carry it through till the Friday, when she be to

sail from Hull, and she leave she betrothed, sad, aching, but

obstinately hopeful. on the Tuesday she say:



"you have change my whole life. I be drift. I be try to take

in too many thing. you have make I see."



"what?" ask René very seriously. he be anxious to know.



"just _see,"_ she reply.



he be leave uncomfortably in his own limited world, feel that she

have shoot off into region to which he could not follow she. he ought

to have be accustom to that by now, but he could not be. she be

always hint at the wonderful thing she get out of he, but as he

be never conscious of they, he could not understand she. he use to

tell himself that it be her queer roundabout way of delight in her

love for he.



on the Thursday she say:



"you know, René, at such a distance we shall be able to get our idea

of each other clear. that be so necessary. we must make an effort to

understand each other."



"ben't it enough if we love each other?"



"oh no. that only mean make allowance. it ben't enough to do that.

I get frightened sometimes when I think of all the people who be

married, how little they understand each other."



"then they're married without love each other."



"I think I see what you mean," and she catch his hand and press it

to her bosom. she have become much more demonstrative in these day of

parting. he warm to her excitement and rush ahead:



"People who love each other be marry. I've be think about it.

if people love each other they have the wonderful mutual knowledge

which be marriage. and we have that, haven't we?"



"oh, wonderfully!"



on the Friday she weep and would not be console until he have

consent to go to Hull with she. he have an engagement for the day,

but telegraph to cancel it and go with she. she cling to he on

the boat, and cause he almost to be carry away from the pier. the

gangway have to be put out for he, and he race ashore and stand on

the quay wave a pocket-handkerchief and swallow his tear until

the boat have dip over the edge of the sea.







they write to each other, every day at first, then every other day.

her letter in their coolness often stab he, but he could not

bring his into tone with her. he pour out everything he think and

feel without calculation, and with no literary pleasure or excitement.

she be only lead into warm confession when some phrase lure she on.

her great enthusiasm be when, at the end of the academic year, he

send she the examination list with his name at the head, and also as

having win the Robert Owen prize and a studentship of eighty pound a

year for three year.



indeed his university career end in a blaze of glory. Professor

Smallman send for he and assure he that on his paper he be an

absolutely first-class man, and the university could not afford to

lose he. of course there be no vacancy as yet, and the teaching of

economic be a miserably-pay profession, but in the meanwhile he

could procure a supernumerary post on the staff of the Grammar School

which would leave he free to take up any appointment that crop up.

he could also continue his reviewing, unless he think of go on to

Oxford or Cambridge, when, of course, the school and the university

would help he. for a career, a degree at one of the major

university be almost essential.



"I don't mind tell you," say the Professor, "that it be pretty

much my own career over again, though there be thing you can do that

I never could. you've more imagination. Cambridge economic be very

much alive just now. if you would care to----"



"I must make an income," say René. he be elated, but also

disgruntle, suffer from a reaction. he have prepare his subject

for the examination, and having succeed, have lose interest in it.

vaguely he have so arrange his life that until this examination he

would do as he be tell to do, so that after it he might do thing

because he want to do they. on the whole, he rather resent the

Professor's continued interference in his affair. however, he agree

with the first plan. Cambridge mean another three year prepare for

another examination, and he be thrigsbeian enough to feel that it be

not a "man's work."



he see the Headmaster on the morning of Speech day, and be warmly

thank for the honor he have bring to the school, and be engage to

appear on the first day of the follow term. desire to see his old

form-master, Mr. Beenham, he go to his room and be surprised to

find his desk empty and the boy play cricket with a german Grammar

and a ball of paper tie with string. as he leave the school he ask

the porter after Mr. Beenham, and the porter tell he that story. it

upset he. of all human being he have regard Old Mole as the least

human, but now he be desire to exercise his release intelligence,

his power of penetration, his imagination upon the surround world.

all his faculty have be concentrate upon economic as a means to

an end, the life which lie beyond examination. Professor Smallman and

the Headmaster have make he feel that the life beyond be

distressingly like the life before, and now this disaster to Old Mole

come as some small assurance that there be adventure though they

might be never so foolish. the Professor have mildly alarm his pupil

by point out the similarity of their career. Admire Smallman as he

might, it be not _that_ to which René wish to come. it be not that

he have any excitement in contemplate the future. on the contrary:

the present be too absorbing. everybody be charming to he, seem

to be proud of he; the rich Fourmys have ask he to their

house--and he have refuse. he find himself be listen to,

respect, give the right to have view and opinion. he have neither,

and be too honest to evolve they for the occasion. and when the

future insist upon engage his attention, he fill it with Linda

and be happy.



he refuse to go to Scotland, half despise his memory of it.



he be happy, simply engross in his own comfortable sensation. he

have set out to do a thing and do it well, well even than he or

anyone else have anticipate; he be in love and engage to be marry

upon the condition of make three hundred a year. his success have

make that easily possible; his studentship, one hundred and fifty from

the school, more from the _post_, possible examination paper,

lecture; his hardly-win book knowledge have be shape by his

reputation into a marketable commodity.



but his real happiness lie apart from all these thing, from success,

from love, from the easy commerce of his ability. relieve from the

strain and obsession of his examination, he have discover the

wonderful pleasure to be get from the mere act of living, from see

the world freshly every morning, from pass through the day and

feel it slip away from he without his have to demand of it any

definite profit in knowledge or money earn. it be a new delight

with he just to watch people, a joy that have remain with he from

his outburst by the tulip, to sit and gaze at flower, tree, the

sky, water. he have time of feel wonderfully remote, when the

habit on which he win through the day seem ridiculous, though

trivially pleasurable. in this mood he would sometimes realize with a

start that it be now his father and he who be companion, his

mother who be the stranger. and he would bring himself up on that and

tell himself that his mother have his love and championship if any be

need. but he would rejoice in his father's gusto in eating,

drinking, smoking, painting, talk, all that the queer man do.

against that too he would react and tell himself that his father be

futile. but be not his mother futile also? and be not futility with

gusto the well of the two?



he be too happy for the business of weigh up between his father

and his mother, too absorb in the glowing introspection to which he

have be bring; introspection without analysis; a brooding, almost a

float over faculty in himself faintly stirring, reach out to

exercise themselves on everything within his reach. the world be very

wonderful: its possibility be endless; its treasure lay

immeasurable only for the stretching out of his hand; and it be a

delicious pleasure to he not to stretch out his hand, but to know

that one day he need but make a gesture to have all its marvel

pour in on he. that those old than himself have but a small share

of they disturb he not at all. he have no doubt but his would be the

infallible gesture, and, without conceit, during this happy time, he

cherish a firm belief in his unique quality.



all his new delight be express in his letter to Linda in

Germany. she analyze they for he, not always accurately, but the

mental process be new and exciting to he, and he begin to appreciate

her intellectual activity. they discuss his character at great

length. he say: "I suppose I be, or have be--for I often find

myself want to laugh nowadays--too serious." she reply: "not too

serious, my dear. it be impossible to be that in this heartless age.

(oh! what a lot you can learn about England by go abroad!) not too

serious. no. what you lack, I think, be power of observation. what you

must realize be that thing have a surface and a surface value. of

course _you_ cannot be content with that value, but you must not

expect surface thing to have any value in the region of profound

thing, the region in which, poor dear, you have always live."

faithfully he set about cultivate surface value, but he never could

laugh at thing that be just amusing; he never could laugh unless he

be move to laughter. he be, for instance, baffle and make sorry

by the family jest which leave George and Elsie exhaust by their

noisy mirth.







Kurt Brock persuade he to go with he for a tour in a side-car

attach to his motor-cycle. then do René become swollen and puff

up with the glory of the world. the exuberant boy be a tonic in

himself; the speed he maintain be intoxicate; and they burst out

of the long suburb of Thrigsby into the Cheshire plain, over to the

sea, the Welsh mountain, down the severn and Wye valley. to René,

whose existence for so many year have lie only in Thrigsby and the

little scot village, it be be shoot out into life. the return to

Thrigsby make he miserable. also association with Kurt have prick

the small bubble of his vanity. Kurt, so hopeless with book, be

amazingly efficient with his machine, equal to every emergency,

daring, inexhaustible, masterful. he have say many thing which René

have find disturbing and alarming. the boy have everything so cut and

dry; no room in his life, it seem, for folly, certainly none for

brooding. he confess one night, as they sit sleepily in a

public-house parlor, that he want to be an airman. René could not

applaud the ambition.



"hardly fair to your mother, or, suppose you be in love, to--well."



"People talk a lot of bally rot about love. they seem to think it

mean bag a woman like a rabbit and shut she up in a hutch to

breed."



"well," say René, "marriage do mean live together and a certain

amount of responsibility."



"I dunno. I've never be in love, but I'm not go to either, unless

I get something that go off with a bang and let I and her get on a

bit." his mania be for get on. when René want lunch, Kurt would

hold out for another place "only twenty mile on."



another night René return to the subject of woman and love, Kurt's

audacity have a horrid fascination for he, and the boy say:



"I dunno, but if a woman say she love I and wouldn't let I do what

I want to do because she say she love I, I should know she be a

liar."



René try to point out that life and love be not so simple as all

that, but there be no turn Kurt. he have the thing work out

neatly to his own satisfaction, and he be not go to bother his

head about it any more.



"bad enough," he say, "to have a legal speed limit without have a

private limit in the home."



a letter from Linda reach René at one of their stopping-place. she

declare herself terrify at the thought of his be with her

brother. "do keep he from go more than thirty mile an hour."



at once René be on her side against Kurt and exasperate he by

ask perpetually: "what be we do now?" to which Kurt invariably

reply: "damn near fifty."



the tour end in a river in Derbyshire. Kurt take a curly wooden

bridge at thirty mile an hour, carry away the railing, and plunge

rené and machine into six foot of water. Kurt could not swim, and René

haul he out and scream at he:



"you deserve to be kill! you deserve to be kill! take the bridge

like that."



Kurt grin:



"you don't know how funny you look in the bath-chair topple over.

what a smash! what idiot to have a bridge like that. it's no good for

anything except a push-bike. I'll get a car if the insurance people

stump up."



René be really shock at his callousness, and as they sit in

blanket while their clothe be be dry, he take he to task,

deliver himself of a pedagogic exhortation and end by say:



"Kurt! Kurt! I believe you have no feeling!"



"nerve! what's the good of they anyway? but I'm jolly grateful to you

for pull I out. I must learn to swim. it might be jolly awkward if

I try to fly to America. wouldn't it be grand if I be the first man

to do it?"



something in the boy's tone thrill René and he feel a pang, a

sudden, painful knowledge that he love Kurt, and, when he be leave

alone, Kurt's clothe having dry first, he be faintly uneasy, half

wonder, yet not admit the doubt to himself, whether he have

really love anybody else. then he tell himself that it be only

because Kurt have treat he with his boy's frankness, and because he

have not with anybody else be bring face to face with anything so

terrible as death. and then he find himself in a brief dream ask

if life also be not terrible, and love? and if----? but such thought

he refuse to think. into his brood happiness have come a new zest,

and he would not waste one moment of it upon doubt, philosophic or

particular.



they return to Thrigsby by train, and René find himself commit

to a lie about the accident. if the truth come out, say Kurt, his

mother would not allow he to have that car.







what be there in common, think René, between Linda and Kurt? she

have not his frankness. (he be frank even in his lying.) she be

subtle, give to theory. her brother have, cut and dry, not so much a

theory as a program. with Kurt René have have a robust pleasure which he

have never enjoy with Linda, and it be so far above all other

pleasure that he take it for the goal to aim at, the prize to be win,

when he should have break down the barrier of sex and overcome she

taste for teasing, and put an end to all those irritation which he

ascribe to their ridiculous position as engaged person, irritation

that even in her letter prick and sting he. he be slow to come by

a thought, and when he possess one always insist upon its

relevance to existence, while she seem most to revel in idea when

they be most irrelevant. in their correspondence, her letter grow

long as the month pass. (after his success she have assume

"intellect" in he.) his letter become more precise and brief. he have

no doubt of she. she have take the place of the examination as the

next stage in be, beyond which would lie, to borrow her phrase, the

"real, real life."



so eagerly do he look forward to that illumination that thing and

people have lose their interest for he. the question of income be

settle; the problem of his father and mother engage he no more.

they have suddenly become old to he, settle, leave to grope along with

their own affair and difficulty. this make life at 166 easy. he

have stand between his father and mother, and have now remove himself.

his mother be more free in her chatter, his father less strained and

more jovial in his talk. René have tell they of his engagement and of

Linda's wealth, and this, couple with his success, have make they

acquiesce in his translation to a superior sphere and even take some

pride in it. for a short while he have qualm on see his mother let

he go so lightly, but he face the fact and do not let it obtrude

upon his dream of graciousness and freedom.



all these event have deliver he for the first enjoyment of his

youth, and his thought be like bee in a flower lime-tree. they

be disturb by nothing but Linda's letter. the more she tease and

flatter his "intellect," the more he dwelt upon the future when the

teasing and the flattery would have cease, and his warm satisfaction

would be invigorate by the zestful sharing of married life. he make

no plan and hardly consider those she throw out. she have ambition

for he. they be too fantastic to be notice.



a silence of three week alarm he. she break it with the

announcement of her return, and the expression of her desire to be

marry at once, and a request that he would meet she in London, for

she be cross by flush.







it be early spring. he obtain a day's leave of absence from school,

and meet she at Fenchurch Street. he see no more of London than be to

be see as a background to her profile as they drive to Euston. she

be different from the image he have form of she during her absence,

small, even pretty, more vivacious and effective. they kiss when

they meet, rather to his astonishment, for he have not the least desire

to kiss she but only to consider she. she begin to talk at once:



"it have do wonder for you. you look so much more confident and

big. your success I mean. and you really be distinguish-look.

how do you like your work?"



"I do it without---- no, I haven't think about it."



"I want they to take you into the business--Brock and M'Elroy, you

know. but old Mr. M'Elroy wouldn't hear of it. they want I to marry

Jack M'Elroy. perhaps I should have do it if I haven't meet you."



that do not please he at all, though it be obviously intend to do

so. she go on:



"but we'll show they that we can do well on our own line, willn't we?

Father use to say that commerce be sordid however honest you try

to be, and after all, it ben't work for a first-rate man, be it?"



her insistence on his success and ability worry he. it be not

for this he have be wait. he want she to tell he what have

bring she to her abrupt decision to be marry soon than they have

plan. he try to lead she on to that but could bring she to no

other intimacy than that of little caress with her hand. he would

not admit his disappointment, and all through the four hour' journey

keep on tell himself that he be glad to see she. and indeed he be

glad. her come bring the promise future nearer.







she give he no time to ponder his disappointment or the hole it

knock in his brood pleasure. they choose a house, fifty pound a

year, with a garden, in Galt's Park. he take his mother to see it, and

she assume the manner she have have in the old day for the visit of

the "rich Fourmys."



a fortnight's shopping furnish the house, and he have the

satisfaction of supply the furniture for his study out of a check

send by his Aunt Janet. the trousseau take another three week, and

Mrs. Brock, with an eye to wedding present, would not hear of the day

be fix until after an interval of six week. a miserable time.

Linda seem to think of everything but her bridegroom.



for the honeymoon the Yorkshire coast be choose, by whom it be not

very clear. René have want derbyshire; Linda have propose the Lakes,

but, a fortnight before the marriage, Mrs. Smallman have appear on

the scene and take charge, instruct they, tactfully and almost

tacitly, in the correct deportment of those about to be marry. she

keep the couple apart, spend day and evening with Linda, and make

her keep René distract. the Smallmans have spend their honeymoon on

the Yorkshire coast; they know of a charming little private hotel

overlook Ravenscar; theirs have be the perfect honeymoon, one

which have never come to an end. so might--must--it be with René's; and

so it would be if goodwill, advice, kindly glance, friendly

instruction, could bring it about. the Professor expand:



"it be wonderful when all that you have love in a dream, as it be,

materialize and be there in your hand. only you feel so confoundedly

unworthy. and then, when you be married and settle down, you get so

abominably accustomed to it. no one could be more devoted than my wife

and I, but we find that if we do not keep ourselves alive with outside

interest, we begin to wear each other down. it ben't easy--marriage.

I can say all this now, because if I don't I never shall. and, after

all, you know, I like you, Fourmy. we shall work together and be good

friend, but we lose something, you know. a certain kind of intimacy

we can never have again."



this talk remind René of the occasion when George have take he as a

small boy to the swimming bath, make he stand on the edge practice

stroke, and then push he into the deep end.







the night before his departure, his mother come into his room and sit

on his bed and look long at he:



"I cann't bear to think of your bed empty to-morrow," she say.



"well send it to the new house," reply he.



"I can hardly realize that you be a man and go to have a wife. it

seem only the other day that you be a little boy, learn to cook

in the kitchen. do you remember? and now I suppose you'll have late

dinner. it be queer. I use to be able to think of you as a boy at

school, but I can never imagine you as a teacher, in a gown, too. and

it's even hard to think of you----"



"you shall come and stay with we."



"oh, I couldn't!" she look toward the door.



"you could come without father."



"don't be hard on your father, René."



"no. that's all over."



"I'm so glad."



she stoop over he and kiss he. then she take his head in her

hand and press her cheek against his, and on his forehead he feel

her warm tear. she murmur:



"I've always try to do my good."



then she leave he, and he feel the tear rise to his own eye, and

he lie in worship of the beautiful kindness of woman. they seem to

hold in fee so much of life's loveliness, to be able to open to a man

fair region that else be hide to he all his day. he be eager

for the morrow's adventure.







the wedding make he feel that it be not by his own will that he be

be marry, but that in some fantastic way he have be bring to

it by Mrs. Brock and the Smallmans and, incongruously, by his father

and George, and be do it to oblige they. the collective will of

several person be use he and Linda as pawn in an aimless game.



the ceremony take place in a very ugly Lutheran chapel, and the

recite word have no meaning for his bewildered mind. George and

Elsie--whom he remember in the middle of it--have have a reason for

their marriage. his own seem purposeless--no. do it not open up to

he an unending tenderness like that give he by his mother last

night? he steal a glance at Linda. she be all pride and blush,

rather breathlessly intent upon the ceremony, which seem to have

some emotional significance for she.







they have two room reserve for they in the little hotel. they avoid

they, and prefer to be out of door. they take food with they to

escape dinner before the other visitor and walk the three mile to

the top of Ravenscar. there they sit in the heather and gaze out

seaward in silence. on the way they have talk little, except to

comment on the broken sky, the color in the moor, the still shine

sea, gray and green. they sit in silence, and he feel utterly alone,

cut off from his old life with no new life begin. and almost angrily

he thrust away the idea of the woman sit there by his side. so

charming she have be in the glamour of the future, so irrelevant she

seem now that he be thrust away with she to find or fail to find in

she a life to replace that which have slip away from he. he have

prize that old life so little while it be his, but it have be

familiar, his habitual garment. it have be fashion with his growth.

she have be outside it; that have be her fascination. but he be

strip of it, and he have nothing wherewith to approach she. and

suddenly he see that he be fail she, that such thought be a

betrayal of her trust in he. after all, she too have shed her old

life. he be fearful lest she should become aware of his treachery. he

say:



"when I be away with Kurt----" and at once he know that he have make a

false move. the thought of Kurt fill he with the memory of the free

joy he have have on that excursion, and he could not but contrast it

with the mean and sickly hesitation of this. what be it? what be he

afraid of? Afraid of the woman? oh, come! do he not love she and she

he? what be there to dread in love?



she say:



"oh, René, we don't come away to talk of Kurt."



"no."



"we don't come away to talk."



"no."



she come close to his side.



"René, kiss I. say you love I."



"I love you."



but it be well to sit in silence and gaze out at the sea, gray and

green.



she clung to he, caress he, use absurd little phrase, English

and German.



"I love you," she say, "from the first moment when you come into the

Smallmans' drawing-room. I be wear green. do you remember?"



"Green. yes. I remember. I see your parasol in the hall."



"and you love I from the moment when you see my parasol."



she laugh. that be well. it break the heavy brooding in he that

have bring he to such suspense.



the evening air chill they, and they walk home under the star.

she cling to he and sing ditty of love and tryst and sentimental

disaster. when they reach their sitting-room she come to he and

place her hand under his chin, press his lip with her forefinger,

and then kiss he. then she leave he.







in the early hour of the morning he be out on the seashore,

wander aimlessly, nervously, dejectedly. every now and then he

throw up his head and take in a great draught of the keen morning air

blow in from the sea. that invigorate, cleanse he. suddenly he

crouch on the sand and hide his face in his hand, and cry within

himself:



"I cann't go on. I cann't go back. oh, Love, my love."



he have count on she to open up new wonder and sweet joy, and

together they have attain nothing but heat and hunger and distress.









XI



MATRIMONY





     hear I, auld Hangie, for a wee,

     An' let poor damned body be:

     I'm sure sma' pleasure it can gie

                 Ev'n to a deil

     to skelp and scaud poor dog like I

                 An' hear we squeal.





he return to she. she be in dressing-gown, fresh, indolent, gay.

she hold out her hand to he.



"what a strange man you be! couldn't you sleep?"



"no. I couldn't sleep.



"poor old thing. I sleep wonderfully."



have she feel nothing? have she no suspicion of the agony that have

drive he from her side? of the sick hope of comfort and reassurance

that have bring he back to she? a faint shadow of fear have cross

her face on his entrance, but it have vanish when he speak.



indeed he be reassure. her gaiety and charm disarm he. the sun

come stream through the window upon her hair; her eye dance; she

glow in her health and physical well-being. he have no other creature

to whom to turn. under the spell of her radiance he appeal to she,

who have wound he, to repair the hurt. she pet he, make much of

he, deny he the relief of activity, and have he to sit with she in

the heather with his head in her lap while she croon to he of how

happy she be, and how proud a wife, and how this honeymoon would

never come to an end. there be a drug beauty in her voice that

soothe he and have he dwell in a honeyed sleep. it be sweet to

lie in the sun and gaze through half-close lid at the pale sky and

stifle the voice of hostility that stir in he at her touch, at

the caress note in her voice, at her perpetual drone of content

triumph. she allow he silence, but then only the more keenly could

he feel her presence. she would sigh out of it:



"A--a--ah! if we could stay like this forever and ever, in this quiet,

lovely place fill with nothing but we two! if we could stay!"



he think of Kurt, and his mania for move on.



she say:



"René! what do you like well in the world? I should like to give it

you."



he answer:



"peace."



"peace? ben't this peace?"



Anger stir in he on that. how could she talk of peace when to he

every moment throb with menace? he turn over on his side away

from she.



"can there ever be peace," he ask, "between a man and a woman?"



"what do you mean?"



he make no reply.



"Ren! what do you mean? you sound almost angry. oh, I know what you

mean." and she dodge aside into phrase--the war of the sex, the

difficulty of adjustment between the masculine-feminine and the

feminine-masculine. he be think of himself and she, she of

abstract entity between whom there be an hypothetical bottomless

difference. she guess that he might be bore with love-making and

the honey-dew of desire, and set herself to be interesting to keep he

amuse. she succeed, but not without exasperate he a little.



"I mean you and I," he say, bite out his word.



"Us? oh, you dear silly! there never be anything so wonderful as we.

we couldn't be more wonderful. could we?"



"I dunno. but as I sit here, Lin, I cann't help think of those

damned Smallmans. they must have sit here and they must have say:

'how wonderful we be!'"



that seem to strike home to she, to hurt she, for she cry out and

jump to her foot.



"oh, I never thought----"



she move quickly away and stand on top of a little hill against the

sky, the wind drive back her skirt and send they balloon out

behind she. he come up to she.



"what do you never think?"



"that on our second day you would be satirical."



he do not know the exact meaning of the word, take it to mean the

saying of what you do not precisely intend. he protest:



"I say what I feel. mayn't I do that? I don't think it would hurt

you, really, I don't. Linda, I----



"oh, you have such a heavy, stodgy mind. you always mean much more

than you can say. and you don't know how uncomfortable it be."



she have always be able to make he, in flash, interested in

himself. now her word come on he in faint illumination. he stood

ponder it.



"I cann't help it," he say slowly, "I'm make like that. I cann't be

comfortable."



her answer seem to he to clinch the hostility between they, to

bring it, to his intense relief, out into the open.



"I know you cann't," she say, "but I can, and you mustn't spoil it for

I."



he be so grateful to she for this relief that he catch hold of she

and cry:



"oh, Linda, if I think I have spoil your happiness, I would----"



"what would you do?"



"I don't know. but I would move heaven and earth to give it back to

you."



"I believe you would, and that make I love you."







he weaken to her will, and not again during their honeymoon do he

let slip in expression or gesture the tiny hint of the storm let

loose in he. small period of solitude he could procure at night when

she have retire for her astonishingly lengthy toilette. then in

suppression of his fire and rebellion, in the effort to keep a tight

control on it even within himself, he become aware of a strength, a

firmness that, out of all that he have lose of youth and ease and

pleasant happiness and the charm of living, emerge as gain. yet it

be not in his nature to count it up nor to hoard. he could find much

to rejoice over, the splendor of the night, the keen wind, the huge

wave splash under the wind, and all he would take to his wife for

she to turn into charm. and she would weave her spell round he. her

tone, her eye, her warmth, that be so like tenderness as almost to

deceive he into acquiescence, all say to he: "forget! forget!" but

every fiber of his will be stretch in the effort to remember and

gain knowledge--to remember how this thing have come about, that he

should have so much and so little love for this woman, by what

blindness he have come to it, and what in all his slow growth to

manhood should have bring he to such sweet mockery of it. these

be not his word. he be grope beyond word, beyond action; his

capture force be search through his life to find force to

sustain it, to urge it on, to release that slow-move stream that have

bring he thus far to be chain and confine. he who have realize

so little be struggle to realize himself, to find within himself

the power that should break this woman in her complacent dwelling in

the pleasure of their love and set he free and she. for he have begin

dimly to perceive that she too be to be think of, and in his effort

he be gentle with she. this be hard, for against his gentleness she

chafe. she want turbulence, upheaval, suspect not the stirring in

his depth and be forever agitate the surface of his being. once or

twice she do call forth the anger, and then she revel in her

delicious fright and be so quiet as to alarm he and drive he back

into his gentleness. out of this she stir he. it be to she only

an odious sluggishness.



it be a comfort to he that he could admire she. she touch nothing

but she give it charm. she change the Mapledom of their room to an

originality of elegance. her ingenuity and adroitness with herself

be a source of amusement and amazement to he. the fun of watch a

woman in all her way! her modesty, her coquetry, her absorption

in the effect she be go to produce though it be only on an old

fisherman on the quay! her deception and comedy, her ruse, her

choice of mood, her skill in call forth the complementary mood in

her companion! with Linda René take particular delight in her wit, her

pleasantly malicious comment on the person of their world. sometimes

she would bring out in her talk of they quality and foible that he

have not remark, though on her indication he be force to admit that

they be surprisingly there. other time she seem to shape they to

fit in with a fantastic world of her own. and that would be little

less amusing than her criticism. he could admire she, but his

admiration make he feel how remote she be, how unpossessed, how

little he desire possession, and how, in all thing, she invite to

it.



perhaps she feel some of his uneasiness, for she say toward the end

of their stay:



"I suppose a honeymoon can never be the same to a man as it be to a

woman." (the hypothetical man and woman of all her argument.) "a man

must have his work."



"I've be think," say René, "that we never know what we want but

when we have it."



"how true!" she have a way of make agreement with he a sort of

flattery, than which he find little more distasteful.



and as they drive to the station she look round at the hill and the

rocky coast-line, and murmur:



"it will be something to remember. it _be_ a pretty place."



for he it have a beauty that have stir he like nothing else he have

ever know. for he also, till now, all thing have be charming, but

the desolate moor, the stubborn cliff have lead he away from charm to

beauty and the savage joy of live in resistance.







the return to their world shock he. from those week of the

profound emotion that have ever shake he to come back to amiable

superficial relationship leave he flounder, make he, when he have

collect himself, feel how utterly dependent he be upon his wife. he

be commit to she, isolate with she. the loneliness of that day

upon Ravenscar be nothing to the loneliness in the multitude.



Linda be immediately busy organize her household, buy, buy

all day long; visit, receive visitor; she have crowd of friend

and gush acquaintance, and they easily assimilate her husband,

be interested in he as they be interested in her wall-paper, her

furniture, her plan for the little garden, her gown, her china. he

use to watch eagerly, almost hungrily, for a sign that they

recognize his existence apart from her, but no sign ever come. to

the woman he be something belong to dear Linda, and therefore to

be admire since she be repute to get the good of everything; to the

man, hard-headed, commercial gentry, he seem to be baffle and

ominous, for they either fish nervously and falteringly for his

view or leave he in the silence to which their geniality reduce he.



he resume his work at the school where he have not yet learn to

disengage himself from his schoolboy's sensation--dread of the

headmaster, an inclination to run along the corridor when the bell

sound, a desire to smack cheeky little boy over the head,

reluctance to attend prayer in the morning. at the end of the year a

vacancy occur on the staff of the university and he be appoint

to fill it.



his first tussle with Linda come with his assertion of a desire to be

alone in his study when he be work. she have make a practice of

settle down with he in the evening with her sewing, or some

clerical work connect with one of the various committee to which

she have have herself appoint--social and rescue work, art and

craft, the University Musical Society, the Thrigsby Amateur dramatic

Club, the Goethe Society, etc. she have learn to be silent, but by

the plying of her needle or the scratching of her pen she disturb

and distract he. he put up with it for some time, but at last it

be too strong for he, and he protest.



"but Mrs. Smallman sit with her husband every evening."



"he may be use to it, and she have a capacity for do nothing which

you do not share."



"but it's so absurd to have two fire light in the evening."



"I'd rather not work then, and come and sit with you."



"but you must work. you never say anything."



"then I must work alone."



"why must you?"



"because I cann't work any other way."



"what be it disturb you? I willn't do it if you'll tell I."



"I cann't tell you. it's just have you there."



"then you-- then you-- oh, well! there's nothing more to say if you

feel like that about I."



"Linda, don't be silly. it ben't about you."



she have already flutter out of the room and close the door very

slowly, so that its movement be the most eloquent reproach.



follow their first period of coldness, which she end with a flood

of tear and a fierce hunger for possession and to be possess by he

compare with which that of their early day pale in his memory. this

bring he to a misery from which he could see no escape but in the

desire to appease she, and he dissemble and seem to accept his

position as a husband, one catch and bind and confine wholly to the

existence of the woman he have wed, find no pleasure but in her,

no comradeship but in her society, no warmth but in her approbation.

think to please she, he say one day when they be over a year

marry:



"the room over the study--that would be the good for the nursery when

we want one."



"but, René," she answer, after a pause, "we don't want to have

child yet, do we?"



Despair seize he. he could not look at she.



"no. no. of course, it be as you please."



she smile awry:



"oh, my dear, I don't mean you to take it like that. it sound

horrid, I know. but for modern man and woman, it ought to be

possible----"



he could not let her finish. he hate her talk of "modern man and

woman," as though some change have come over human nature.



"I sometimes think," he say, "that no single word have the same

meaning for the two of we. your love be not my love, your yes be not

my yes, your no be not mine."



"oh, René, you do say some terrible thing! sometimes you frighten I.

sometimes you be just a helpless silly baby, and sometimes you seem

to know more than anybody I ever meet. you be so strong, but you don't

seem to know what to do with your strength, and I be terrified of you

. . . oh, I don't know what to do with you! cann't we be just happy?"



"just happy! . . . I suppose we can."



"we have be . . . haven't we?"



"we have be," he say, but the word in his mind be: "no more than

happy."



to avoid hurt she he have abandon the use of even that much

introspective power that he have come by in Yorkshire by the sea. now

he work, let the day run by on the wheel of habit, and give she as

good a counterfeit as he could make of what she desire.







she decide in her own mind that he be work too hard, and must be

take out of his solitude, which she ascribe to his inability to find

his foot socially after be lift out of his own class, and dump

into her. her brother be want to get rid of his first small

two-cylinder car to buy a new 30-40 h.p. she make he an offer for the

little car, and he close with it and undertake to teach René to

drive.



that be not a very difficult matter. two lesson suffice, and René

be leave with the car on his hand and no knowledge of its mechanism.



"but what shall I do if it break down?"



"it cann't break down," say Kurt. "the magneto cann't go wrong. if she

stop, clean the spark plug or put in a new one. it must be that or

the jet."



René try to read a book about motor-car, but could not apply its

technicality to his own machine. he spend some day in and about and

under the car, trace out the principle on which it work, and

follow its transmission of energy from cylinder to clutch, from

clutch to gear, gear to back-axle. when he have do that he feel some

confidence in driving, come to know the mood of his engine, and to

take an extraordinary pleasure in handle it. every week-end he make

some excursion with Kurt or Linda, and sometimes alone. he explore

the country for fifty mile round Thrigsby, and discover to his

dismay the vastness of the network of industrial town, and, to his

delight, the loveliness of the still uncontaminated country.



at first the change produce the effect Linda have desire. he have a

new energy which enable he to take the dull work of the week

lightly. he seem to have catch some of Kurt's enthusiasm together

with a little of his good humor and tolerance. but these quality he

could not assume without the frankness that nourish they. soon he

be no long deceive by the counterfeit he have evolve for his

wife's satisfaction, and could not evade the fact that his excursion

be desire chiefly as an escape from it. their two habitual life

be organize effectively enough; it be when their life meet that

there be insufficiency, fumbling, distrust, evasion. he could not

altogether conceal from she the disgust and almost horror that he feel

on be face with the deception he have practice on himself, and

through himself on she. she see his distress, could not altogether

understand, feel that she be give he too many opportunity to

escape from she, and in her turn begin to counterfeit an interest in

his enthusiasm and to insist on occupy a seat in the car whenever

he go away, whether Kurt be with he or not. Kurt have an

affectionate pamper way with she, a mere expedient for strike

harmony between their different nature, which René as usual, take

seriously, misread as contempt. this, unknown to himself, encourage

the growth of the hatred which he have never allow to rear its head.

. . . and Linda, a little weary by now of the part of the lover, have

begin to play the part of the devoted, settle wife, to throw up round

herself as bulwark her advantage--her charming house, her ample

mean, her distinguished husband, a man of learning and culture in a

commercial atmosphere, leisure among the unleisured. it be only an

experiment on her part, but she give it a thorough trial. when it

fail she have her moment of despair. she have feel her husband's

withdrawal from she, at least the removal of the deceit which cover

it. she be enrage, determined to break he into submission, fling

the whole force of her nature into the effort and fail again. then,

to escape boredom, she begin to amuse herself with her suffering. she

would lead he on to talk in his inarticulate fashion of what he feel

and then play upon his emotion and bring he back abruptly to her own

charm, to realize her great skill and agility in life, her rightness

in the business of live and present a brave front to the world,

and sometimes he would almost admit that she be right, and that,

after all, since he could produce nothing definitely superior to her

desire, he have well yield and give she those good thing that, in

their easy circumstance, they be privileged to enjoy--charm and

excitement and pleasure. but he could not. life have always be hard

for he. he could not consent to have it easy. all that she feed on

turn to bitterness in his mouth.



he try to tell she once of the tenderness his mother have give he

on the night before he have come to she, the pure joy that, but for the

oman at his heart, he have take for a foretaste of the heaven he be

to enter. she say:



"she be a dear old woman, your mother."



in the way she say it, in the purely sentimental interest she show,

he know that all he have be talk of lay outside her world, and he

remember Kurt quote with approval a remark some man have make:



"Linda Brock have no back to her mind."



it become a desperate longing with he to make her feel, to rouse she

to a realization of the emptiness and coldness of her crowded,

brilliant life. and he long to be able to go to she and say: "see!

this be hurt I here and here, and I be ache with the pain of

it." if only she would come and show she hurt to he! his longing be

often in his eye as he look at she, never in self-pity. he be as

far from that as from judge she. she have change he so; have so far

estrange he from himself, from his little world of dream and hope,

that in his first adoration of she, his innocent appreciation of her

womanhood, he have so nearly conquer for his own.



and he begin to question his everyday life. it seem mechanical. he

have be shape for the position he fill, fit into it so tightly

that he could never move. he would be carry on forever by the

machine that have catch he up as a small boy when they have mark he

down in the Lower Third. (they have write to his mother: "he be a boy

of whom the school will one day be proud." and she have be so elated

by the word.) he have accept the force of the machine and let it

take the place of his own will. that be unpracticed. he have use it

for nothing. the machine have carry he to security and give he

thing apparently so coveted that his brother George could not now

speak to he naturally, so great be his awe of his success. it be so

easy to think the thought require by the machine. a kind of

education have be pump into he. he have now only to pump that same

kind of education into other young man. the machine be efficient,

himself efficient in it. there be satisfaction in that. but all the

other man with whom he work be elusive; so many of they, under the

pleasant manner of the common-room, conceal despondency, a mood of

resignation that be epidemic, more virulent at one time than another.

against that, too, René be in revolt. instinctively he feel that if

he surrender to it he would fall also to that other danger in his

domestic life.



he try to understand Linda. she be so successful. so many people

like she. her social progress be amazing. efficiency always give he

pleasure, and it be delightful to he, though he hate it, to feel

her skillfully consolidate their position. she be tremendously

active in all external thing. it be her inward activity that he

wish to understand. what be the thing that satisfy that clever

brain of her? what her heart? he have long ago sweep aside her

pseudo-science, sociology, physiology, psychology, as external to

herself, thing wear as she wear clothe, very well, to be become

and in the mode. it please she intellectually to talk of a

hypothetical man and woman. what do that hypothetical man and woman

become in art? he follow she in her reading, her music--so far as

one so uninstructed could follow at all. . . . german sentimental

_lieder_, color lantern over water, sweet flirtation, violin in

the distance; a sighing for the passing of youth; a linger over the

sweet of love, with ultimately a withdrawal from love; a perfume.

that be her art. in her drawing-room she have impressionist and

post-impressionist drawing; in her own room she have picture of young

man and maiden in ballroom and canoe and french boudoir.



he could see the charm of the thing she love, always melt to they,

but never without a reaction, an angry stiffening of the will.



at the same time, while his emotional interest in she fade, he find

an increase pleasure in watch she, in note her movement as one

mark a lovely animal in its cage. that, at any rate, be satisfy.

she have beautiful line, gesture that could thrill he with their

grace, and he like the skill with which she clothe herself to give

every one of her attraction free play.



it be not long before she become aware of his cold, indolent

appreciation, and resent it, and plunge he back into the

excitement which could make he writhe. it be then that they come

into direct conflict, he cling to his intellectual admiration for

she and cool appreciation of her quality, she determine to deprive

he of it.



at last she bring he to an angry, reckless violence. she chide he

for it. almost weep in his mortification and shame, he cry:



"you talk as though marriage be just a covering up, a shelter from

abomination."



"ah!" she too be angry now. "what else be it?"



"by God!" he say. "I think it lead to love."



and again he find himself in that blind fury that have seize he on

hear his father's cynicism.



for some day they avoid each other. she make some pretext--wish

to have some of the room paper--and go to stay with her mother.









XII



ESCAPE





       _Ant._   come, I'll be out of the ague,

                for to live thus be not indeed to live,

                it be a mockery and abuse of life.

                I will not henceforth serve myself by half!

                love all or nothing.

     _Delio._   your own virtue save you!





he spend hour brood, prowl in the street, in whose dull

monotony his mind have grow so undisturbedly, respond to their

small gaiety and small excitement, but move on in the even

smoothness of their life. it seem incredible to he that such

turmoil could have come out of they, and yet that turmoil have begin

even before his marriage, before he have meet his wife. be there some

strangeness in himself? of his nature he become doubtful and

suspicious. yet the habit of acceptance be too strong in he; even

his misery he could accept. very laboriously he strove to come by an

idea of himself, and be only the more confused when he arrive at

this:



"they willn't come out to meet I, and when I go out to meet they, they

run away. I cannot enjoy their pleasure, and they seem to want

nothing else. it get bad and bad. I couldn't even talk to Elsie

now. almost anyone can make I seem ridiculous."



Linda write to he:



"cann't you see, Ren dear, that there be some thing willn't bear

thinking of, and spoil with thinking. you poor, tortured thing!"

(Least of all do he want pity from she.) "I know you don't really

want to think, and you don't think easily, like most people. at least

you seem to hate think without come to a conclusion. it be

something fine than obstinacy, because it ben't at all for yourself

that you want--what you want. what do you want? ben't it enough to be

happy? oh, my dear, do let we be happy! I have be cry every

night. it ben't that I mind be apart; husband and wife must be

apart sometimes if their life be to be possible and decent, but I

cann't bear our be apart in spirit."



then she have understand! she have see the gulf between they. she would

help he to bridge it.



he hasten to she joyfully, and catch she up in a great embrace, so

that she laugh in delicious terror.



and the torment begin again. she have see, understood, nothing. she

be only for teasing, wheedle, cajole he into submission. she

tell he--carefully choose her moment--that she would bear he

child, and for a little while, a second or two, he be appease.

then his excited imagination work on that. a child would mean only

another entity in the house, the empty house, where there be no love

to absorb it and foster its growth; more antagonism; more separation;

his child or her, it would not be both. he could not see at all

clearly, but the idea of it have for he now something horrible. with

no count of his word he say:



"I do not wish for anything that you yourself do not want."



"I want it."



"then why talk of it?"



"a man and a woman----"



"talk of we, woman, talk of we. God! you don't know how you spoil

thing with your busy mind. true thing, simple thing, lovely thing,

thing that lie deep in heart and mind, there be nothing that you will

not shape and mold and knead and twist into your own image, pretty,

pretty, charming. oh, the lie of it all, the lie, the lie, the

lie! and you never know what you be do. all be for your pleasure.

nothing can lead you beyond that. and everything that menace your

pleasure you draw with your busy brain into word, word."



"you don't know what you be say."



"no."



he look up at she with his eye glaze and dull, his jaw trembling,

his finger rub over and over again upon his thumb.



"if you have say what be true, then you must hate I."



"yes."



he state it as though it be a plain fact well coat over by habit,

so that it could give no pain. she be tranquil, seem to have tight

control over herself. she walk twice up and down the room. then she

turn to he and say very quietly:



"I know a long time ago that if it ever come to a scene it would be

the end. I suppose I'm not romantic enough for you. I don't know what

it be. but I know enough to feel that a scene with you would be

serious. even little girl know that man must have scene. it's a kind

of love-making with they. you're different."



"yes."



"I cann't pretend that you haven't hurt I."



"I'm sorry."



"oh, I'd like to pretend. but I've change, too. I suppose you cann't

marry without be change. a woman who lose her husband look

silly. but she needn't if she don't feel it. you cann't pretend.

neither can I. you've teach I that. we've fail where nearly

everybody else fail, but we admit it. what's the good of pitch

good life after bad? it's no one's business but our own. they'll talk.

let they talk."



he hardly hear what she say. he be weary of her voice drone on

and on.



"if it be the end," he mutter, "then there be no more to be say."



he walk round to Professor Smallman's. he have no notion of the time.

Mrs. Smallman admit he, see that something be wrong, show he

into the study, and leave he. he stand lean against the doorpost.

the Professor be sit in his great chair with a cigar in one hand

and a glass of whisky in the other.



"good evening," say René. "I have leave my wife."



down go the Professor's leg, round come his head out of the great

chair:



"Great God!"



"I just walk round to tell you. I don't know why."



"but, my dear fellow, what on earth-- not two year."



"be it?"



"I say. be she? would you like Freda to go round?"



"no. she be quite calm. it's finish. it's she who say it. it never

begin."



"come, come. sit down. you'd well sleep here to-night."



"no, thank. I don't want to see you ever again."



"Tut, tut! my good Fourmy!"



"I mean it," say René dispassionately.



"wait a moment."



the Professor hurry out of the room, and René could hear he in the

hall talk eagerly to his wife. he be seize with a dreary

impatience of these good people, with their unfailing kindness. he

know perfectly well that in a moment they would return, husband and

wife, _the_ husband and wife, and throw he scrap of their happiness

for comfort and persuasion, while with their exchange of glance they

would bar he out. no. that be intolerable. he step to the french

window, open it, and walk out, round the house and through the

garden into the street.



another false move check; another false relationship end.







he sleep that night at the Denmark, lie and enjoy lie to Mr.

Sherman, say that his wife be away and he have lose his key and

could not wake the servant. he sit in his room at the Denmark feeling

at peace and very confident, until his father come. then he sit with

the boon company, tell they one or two story that he be able to

remember from the stock of the Common Room, tell they heavily, dully,

so that they gain in comicality and roused laughter. his father

seem to he rather contemptible. he enjoy his own old jest as

much as his audience, and that be displease to René's fastidious

mood.



he walk home with his father, who be loquacious and tiresome. at

last René interrupt he:



"Father, do you mind not talk while I tell you what I have to tell?

I have leave Linda. I cann't tell you why without be unjust to she,

because I cann't see clearly enough. she say it be finish, and so

it be. I be extraordinarily happy. I never be so happy in my life. I

have, in effect, tell Professor Smallman to go to hell, and I shall do

the same with anybody else who try to interfere. I don't know what I

be go to do, and I don't care. it be quite clear to I that there

be no room for Linda and I in the same set of people. they talk so. I

have no intention of continue the life I have be lead.

everything I have ever do, as long as I can remember, have be

because someone else want I to do it, or because someone else

think I could. it have be surprising and delightful, but never

satisfy. George have make a well thing out of his life than I. at

least he have do what he want to do, though you and I may not think

much of it. I don't think I can see my mother. I would dearly like to,

but I could not bear it. she would make I feel something, and at

present I feel nothing at all. but I can remember her face against

mine, and her voice say: 'I have always try to do my good.' good

night. give she my love."



he turn on his heel, but his father catch he by the arm:



"don't be a young lunatic," he say. "you cann't go like that."



"I can," answer René, puzzle that anybody should deny what be

actually happen. "I can. don't you see that I _be_ go?"



"look here, I'm a bit of a queer one myself, but do you know what you

be do?"



"for the first time in my life," say René, "I know what I be do.

and I like it so immensely that I be go on do it. you cann't stop

I. nothing can stop I. you say yourself that we live in a world of

woman, and I want to make the good of it."



his father let go of his arm.



"Good Lord!" he say, "I've have my day, but I never be so cracked as

that."



then he acquiesce in his son's indifference, nod his head in a

light parting, and go his way.







René's thought be reach out to Scotland, to his Aunt Janet's,

where he have know the good of his boyhood. he walk to a station and

find the London express waiting, with little knot of people stand

by the carriage door, and porter bustle with luggage and lamp and

pillow, all wear the stealthy, excited air of importance of

traveler by night. Putney be London, or near London. why Putney? he

do not know, but he want to go there. he buy a ticket, board a

train as it be move, and sit in a corner seat gaze at the light

of the town and say to himself: "that's Ockley," because when he

have take his first railway journey by night he have ask what the

light be, and his mother have say: "that's Ockley."









BOOK TWO



ANN PIDDUCK









                             . . . and make

     strange combination out of common thing

     like human babe in their brief innocence,

     and we will search with look and word of love

     for hide thought, each lovely than the last.









I



ADVENTURE in LONDON





     Et quelle est la femme qui ne chercherait pas à vous rendre

     heureux!



he awake with a parched mouth and cramp limb to find himself be

shake and to hear a voice say:



"hi, mate, time to wake up. cann't leave you no long."



"eh? be this London?"



"Aye, and London it's be these three hour past. you come in by the

five-twenty-five, and I couldn't get you to wake up, I couldn't.

you're in the siding."



René shake himself and clamber down with the red-headed railway

porter, and walk with he across the rail through several coach,

back to the station.



"be ill, mate?"



"no. why?"



"I never see such a face. got more than your fair share of bone in

it. it be that make I leave you."



"I'm much oblige."



the big clock announce five minute past eight.



"no luggage?" ask the porter.



"no. no luggage."



"go to see friend?"



"no."



"you'll excuse I ask, but I don't like let you go alone with a

face like that. D'you know London?"



"no."



"you'll want breakfast."



René realize that he be hungry. the porter take he to a pull-up in

a noisy street, fill with the clang of tramcar and the roar and

rattle of heavy dray come from the good yard. they have coffee and

ham and great hunk of bread.



"I never see such a sleeper," say the porter.



"I be tired, I think."



that strike the porter as a good joke. he keep on chuckle to himself

and say:



"Tired? I should think you be. tired! he say he be tired!"



presently he become solemn and lean across the deal-top table.



"I cann't make you out, mate. I don't know if you're a gent or what.

you're from the North. it's easy to see that. what be it? trouble?"



"not exactly trouble. nothing unusual, I mean. it's be go on for

a long time."



"they're not after you, then?"



"oh, no. no one's after I."



the porter's expression show both disappointment and relief.



"be it far to Putney?" ask René.



"it's where the boat-race be," say the porter. "I been there. an hour

in a bus or train."



"I mean--to walk. I'd like to walk. to see London. I've never see it,

you know."



"it'd be Fulham Road, I fancy, though I don't know those part well.

friend at Putney?"



"someone I know there."



"I see. you'll be go home soon. return ticket?"



"no. I just want to see London. at least, there be a train go to

London."



"ain't lose your memory, have you, mate?"



"no," say René. "no. I've lose interest in it, that's all."



"money? get any money?"



René thrust his hand into his pocket and produce three pound and a

few shilling.



"and no friend," say the porter to himself. "well, you be a corker,

and no mistake! Set on go to Putney, be you?" René nod. "well,

if you want a friend, come to I." and he write down an address in

Kentish Town which René pocket without look at it.



"but if I be you," say the little man, "I should go back home, I

should, really. see your friend and go back home. I have a brother

once who get cross in love. take it something crool, he do, and

walk out of the house one day after breakfast and go to Canada. we

send he the money to come home, and now he's do well in the

drysalting. good-by, mate, and good luck."



he hold out a grimy paw, and René clasp it warmly. it be, he feel,

a good beginning.



for some time he sit in the pull-up watch the busy trade in

victual, the burly carter, weedy clerk and boy come in and gulp

down their food and drink as though the beginning of the day's work

hardly leave they time for their natural necessity. it be all oddly

familiar and like enough to the life he have be accustom to in the

school and university among factory and warehouse. only, as he

look out of the window, the light be different, soft and more

generous. it be exciting and invite he out.



he pay the bill, return to the station, and wash and have himself

shave. as he leave the barber's shop he see a train loading up for its

journey to Thrigsby, and he stay and watch it go out for the

pleasure of feeling that he be not in it. then he turn briskly away

for the adventure of the plunge into London.



a foreign city! he could hardly understand the language speak by the

people in the street. within a quarter of a mile he come on a great

garden with tree and grass, and down a street he could see more

tree. a keen air be blow. it be invigorate and whip up his

blood. in Thrigsby, when the air be keen it be unpleasant and

devastating. the boarding-house and private hotel in the region of

the station seem to he very lordly house. they have wide, handsome

door that be in themselves a welcome--a welcoming and no

indifferent city. it seem to he that the people in the street be

aware of each other. at least he be aware of they, and please with

every kind of person. so many of they be amuse, so many find it

good to be walk the street, and they have some mind and energy to

spare from the business of the moment. even the people in the sordid

street through which he pass have the air of bear their squalor

good-humoredly. no one be moody or grimly silent. and there be

color. he know the color of many country-side, but always on enter

the city he have feel as though a dirty sponge have be pass over

his vision. certain street seem to be fill with a dancing,

colored light. he be lure on from one to another, with no thought of

time or direction. some of the great thoroughfare be so familiar

from picture that he feel at home in they, and be queerly put out

when they lead on to place and view of which he have no recollection.

find himself approach a church as well know to he as the

Collegiate Church in Thrigsby, he say to himself with a sudden thrill

of almost awe: "this be the Strand!" and then down a street he catch

sight of water. the river! he almost run down toward it.



the tide be up, the river at its broad. on the other side be

great platform surmount with tall crane that seem high than

the high steeple. beyond be tower, chimney, dome, stand out

against the sky that so delighted and refresh he. that sky and the

water in the wide sweep of the river! friendliness and power! the

river seem to bear on its broad back the bridge, the tall

building, the bustling energy about they, the twin masse of the city

build up on its flank. and along the river with the tide come a

lovely air, sweeten and restore. that be indeed a welcome, and

he feel that he have pass into another world and become its citizen.

he feel no more the strain of the crisis through which he have pass.

the year of uncease labor that lie between his boyhood and this

moment be wipe out. the current of his be flow again. he be

as eager as a boy, as ripe for adventure, weigh down only by the

memory of the dark little house that have be his home, and that other

house so full of gracious thing, so empty of all that could justify

their graciousness. and, like a boy, he lack purpose. he have nothing

but his fantastic desire to go to Putney, and he be reluctant to tear

himself away from the fascination of the river. but the porter have

say the boat-race be row at Putney and the river must be there

also.



so he walk along the river past the Houses of Parliament. he have

once make a cardboard replica of it as a child, and, remember that,

his mind be fill with other childish memory--illness, book,

fight with George, game and exploit with other boy, next-door

neighbor, the small girl at his first school who have cast a blight

over his life by announce that she be in love with him-- past the

tall chimney at Chelsea; and then, take a wrong turning, he find

himself in a desolate region, almost as desolate as any in Thrigsby

but for the generous sky above it. and the two side of little house

do not so dreadfully close in upon the street as they do in the mean

quarter of the northern city. nothing here be so cramping and

destroy as there.



at length he come to Putney Bridge and cross it into what look

like a holiday town, Southport, or Buxton, or Matlock. he ask a

policeman the way to Putney.



"this be Putney."



"I want Mr. Bentley's house. it be call Roseneath."



"Mr. Bentley. he's dead. six month ago."



René ask to be direct to his house. the tiding he have receive

have make his memory of Mr. Bentley very clear--gruff, kindly,

patronizing, a little pompous, conscious of be a success and

"somebody." he have his name print very large on luggage label, and

the note-paper on which Cathleen use to write be crest, with

something about _judex_ on the scroll beneath the crest. and Mrs.

Bentley be always tired, and her husband use to keep everybody

fly round to fetch and carry for she. but they have very nice way,

and their house in Scotland be always open, even if it be overfull

of athletic young man, highly polished and oppressively clean.



when he come to the house, René find it empty. he be disappoint

with its aspect. it be very like the Brocks' house in Galt's Park,

must have be build about the same time; stucco with absurd Gothic

window; a square porch, room on either side of it. he be

disappointed, for he have think of the Bentleys live in a region

remote and inaccessible, beyond anything he have ever know or could

know. he remember the agent's description of his own house--"an

eminently desirable family residence." this house bear almost the same

recommendation. the fantastic London that he have shape in his mind

begin to fall away. it have something in common with Thrigsby, be

connect with it by something more than the deep sleep in which he

have be bear hither. he feel rather foolish standing there by the

empty house, and see with dismay how much more foolish he would have

be if the house have be occupy and the Bentleys accessible. he

have a sick fear as he see how irresponsibly he have act, and how

separate his impulse have be from his will.



"all the same," he say, "it be do. it be do. I think I should

always know what would happen to I, but this I do not know. it make

it easy for Linda. the Smallmans will help she to see how badly I have

behave. they will like say it and explain to all their friend.

they will talk about all they do for I. I never want they to do

anything. I never wanted-- if I have be like George and go into

business? but I could not have stand that, either. it would have be

over soon. other people stand thing, bad thing, too. oh, well--I

cann't."



it give he no pleasure to think that he be different from other

people. rather the reverse; it bring an acute pang of something like

shame. he move on. he lose himself in the polite street of Putney

with their little garden, but come at last to another bridge. the sun

be set, and he stand and watch it weave a change tapestry on

the sky.



"so the day go," he say. "I think I never notice a day go before.

there must have be something very wrong with I."



that lighten his heart. to have confess his failure be already in

some sort to justify it, and though the cloud upon his mind have grow

darker, he be sensible of a release of feeling. he could breathe

again. he be no long the cramp, huddle creature that he have be

all day. he could rejoice as the sky grow dark and the star come out

and the glow of the great city go up into the sky. there be

patch in the sky so lurid that they fill he with alarm that they

must mean fire. he move toward one of those lurid patch and find

himself presently in a narrow thoroughfare crowd with man and woman,

youth and maiden. the street be streak with light and darkness.

cheap bazaar be throng; shop fill with automatic machine of

entertainment be garishly light; there be butcher' and

greengrocer' shop open to the air, blaze with color under electric

and naphtha lamp; there be stall in the road, barrow of

artificial flower; white kinematograph house; terra-cotta

music-hall and theater; crimson-tile and green-brick public-house;

swarm of human being, talk, laughing, singing, the laughter of

excited girl. he shrink within himself from the harsh vitality of it

all. he be fill with a dread of call down some of the laughter

upon himself. the road grow narrower, the wheel traffic more

congest; the yellow and red tram seem to fill the street.

motor-car, tram, cart, all move slowly and cautiously. a little

girl start to move across the road, her eye fix on someone or

something she have see on the other side. another step and she would

be under a motor-car. René move to save she. at the same moment, from

the other side, he see a young woman dart out, catch the child up,

fle she back, and rush on in her own impetus. she slip in the

tramline, and almost fall just within his reach. he catch her arm,

pull she up, and drag both she and the child back to his own side

of the road. the traffic move on and no one seem to have see what

have happen. the child see her opportunity and dash over in safety,

leave René and the young woman together.



"a near thing that," say he.



"I think I've hurt my foot. I slip on the tramline. they do stick

up just here."



"can you walk?"



she try, but twist up her face with the pain of it.



"o-o-oh! crime! let I hold on to you."



he support she, and she find that she could just hobble.



"rotten luck!" she say. "I be go to a dance. don't you love

dancing? just like I, though; if there's ever any trouble go, I

get it. I shall have to go home now."



"be it far?"



"not far. the bus go by. any old bus from that corner." they have

come to a circus where many road meet. "Mitcham Mews. number six.

don't you trouble. you just put I into the bus."



"but I must see you home."



"I 'spect you get someone wait for you. 'Tain't fair to spoil your

fun."



"this be much well fun than anything I can imagine do!"



"'Tain't my idea of fun, help a lame duck over a stile. it's good

of you, anyway. penny fare."



they board a bus and she lean down and prod at her ankle to

discover where and how much it hurt.



"it's only rick, I think," she say. "it feel like your neck when

your head go gammy. I don't think it's a sprain."



René be fill with admiration of her vivacious prettiness. she have

an oval face; a dark complexion beautifully color, ivory most

delicately color with crimson; wide-set eye that be still merry

in spite of the pain smolder in they; a pouting mouth that, as she

talk, show perfect tooth, small and even brilliant, strong as an

animal's dark hair neatly arrange under a rather common hat. she have

a necklet of imitation pearl round her soft throat. her dress be

neat, but just a little shabby. she laugh lightly, and her laughter

light up her face with a radiant happiness.



"what you might call be throw together," she say.



he could not but smile with she.



"I'm rather glad," he answer. "do you know that I haven't speak to a

soul but a railway porter and a policeman since early morning?"



"reely," say she. "I think I'd die if I couldn't talk. here's where

we get off. O-o-oh!"



she hang more heavily on his arm as they descend. they stand for a

moment to watch the bus jolt back into its top gear and go roar up

the wide and almost empty street.



"it's not far."



they move slowly for some fifty yard, past empty shop, until they

come to an archway plaster on either side with the bill of local

music-hall, and light with an old gas-jet. through the archway they

turn and come to a dark place, very quiet, with long low building

on either side of it, and a great litter of paper and refuse on the

pavement, and handcart and van uptilte. the ground floor of the

building be all take up with door, the first floor with little

window, in some of which be flower-box and bird-cage and hang

fern. one or two of the window be light up. from the other end, far

up, come the glare light of a motor-car. it stop, and they could

hear the purr of its sweetly run engine.



"that's Mr. Ripley," say the young woman. "he's often out at night.

he's a oner, he be. down to Brighton and back and all that, you know."



René do not know, but he be pleased and excited. London have cease

to be a spectacle to he. he have be draw into an adventure, take

to a place where people live--and a very strange place--the

friendly of hand be on his arm, the cheery of voice ring

in his ear.









II



MITCHAM mews





     do not her dark eye tell thee thou art not despise? the

     Heaven's messenger! all Heaven's blessing be her.





"I'M sorry," she say, "but you'll have to help I upstairs. ben't I a

fool to go and get trip up like that?--O-o-h! Hercules!"



René take she in his arm and carry she up the narrow little stair.

she open the door and ask he to come in and have a cup of tea.

after she have put the kettle on and light the gas she sit and take a

long look at he.



"I like you," she say. "and I suppose I shalln't see you again. that's

always the way. the people you like well you see only once, or in the

train, or go by in a bus. be it far where you live?"



"I don't know where I live."



"go on. I'm not that sort."



"it's true. I've only just come to London. this morning."



"leave your thing at the station?"



"thing? no, I don't bring any."



"well! I never!"



she shrug her amazement away, his adventure be no business of

her.



after she have make the tea she remove her shoe and stocking and

examine her ankle. it be inflame and slightly swollen. she make he

rub it, give little gasp as he touch or wrench the soreness.



"'Tisn't a sprain? you don't think it's a sprain? I don't care as long

as it ben't a sprain."



"no, I shouldn't think it's a sprain; but you'd well ask someone

else."



"be you Scotch?"



"no. why do you ask?"



"you talk funny. I say arsk."



"my home's up north."



"Home. Father and mother?"



"well--no. a wife and all that."



"o-o-h! marry?"



she look unhappy and uncomfortable for a moment. then she say:



"I shouldn't have think it. you look so young. what do you do?"



"lecture and take pupil at the university."



"College? I know. there's a big school just round here. I suppose it's

something like that. I see the teacher. half-baked they look, some

of they. be that it?"



"I don't know what it be. thing come to a head suddenly. I be take

by surprise. I think it will take I some time to realize quite what

have happen."



she ask his name. he give it and she her, Ann Pidduck, and she

work in a factory, pickle and condiment, at the packing, put

wooden box together with a machine that drive in four nail at a

time. once she have be ill and send away and teach the artificial

flower, and she do that too, in her spare time, for some hat-shop

in the High Street, and for one or two lady she know. she use to

live at home with her mother, who have turn religious and couldn't

put up with a bit of fun. and she have a friend who live in these

room when there be still horse in the mew, but the friend have

go out to Canada on a farm, "where you get marry at once if you're

anything like." she break off her story:



"what be you go to do?"



"I don't know."



"well, you cann't just sit and look at London till it begin to look at

you."



"no."



"you look as if you'd like to sit there forever and ever. oh, you do

look tired, poor thing! but keep awake a little, there's a dear. I

must know what I'm go to do with you."



he could hardly keep his attention fix on what she be say, but

he fasten his eye on she to make she understand that he be

listen.



"you don't want to go home? no?"



he shake his head.



"pop the lid on it, have you?"



he nod.



"get any money?"



"in a bank."



"all right. you'll want clothe and thing. you can write. only I want

to know; it's nothing I shouldn't like? be it?"



"no."



"I don't want you to tell I, but I wouldn't like to think you'd do

something you'd be sorry for. . . . you haven't drunk your tea. I say,

you haven't drink your tea. asleep. I'm off. good night."



and she limp away into the inner room.







when he awake the next day he remember that she have come to he in

the morning, shake he out of his deep sleep, and make he understand

that he could have her bed, send he staggering toward it, and then,

as he sink back into unconsciousness, he remember hear the door

slam.



she have lay breakfast for he, tea, bread and butter, and an egg

lie ready to be boil in a saucepan. he be at first petulant at

her absence, but shake himself up enough to see that he be not in a

position to feel any such thing, and to be amazed at his own

acquiescence in the unexpected. it be somehow disreputable, this

discovery of himself in a strange room after two night spend in his

clothe. he have not even remove his boot. his gratitude to Ann

Pidduck be appreciably lessen as he remember that she have not

think to take they off for he. to put a man in her bed with his

boot on! that be, to say the least of it, distasteful. it be

sufficiently against the grain of his physical and mental habit to

send his thought fly back to the life he have leave, but they be

catch in the mist of the excitement and pain through which he have

pass, and he relapse into an insensate pondering, forget his

breakfast, his surrounding, and sit unheede through the day, until

Ann return in the evening. she bring flower.



"well, of all the----" she cry. "I do think you'd have clear

away. why, you haven't touch your breakfast. haven't you be out?"



he have not exactly forget she. indeed, he have be await she

come, but now he be puzzle because her return be so expect, and

it ought to have be unexpected. he feel injure, that he have be

cheat, that thing on this side of his crisis be too much like

thing on the other side: a woman, habit, meal, interest in his

appetite.



"wake up, stoopid," say Ann. "you'll be waste off like the nigger

in Africa if you don't wake up. you cann't go sleep on forever."



"cann't I?"



"well, you can, of course, but if you do, I'll be think you're a

case. you're not a case, be you? you ben't last night."



she speak as though to be call a case be the horridest of insult,

and he take it as such and rouse himself not to deserve it.



"that's well," she say. "nothing to eat all day."



"no. nothing."



she ponder that.



"I expect your stomach know well. now, then, stir yourself. you get

to write home."



she give he write material and he draw up to the table and sit

stare at the blank sheet of paper. he take pen in hand, but could

not write, could not concentrate his will even that much.



"what be I to say?" he ask.



"don't you know?"



"no."



"well, I'm blow! if you ben't the funniest. . . . it's to your

wife! don't you know what to say to your wife?"



he write:



"dear Linda----"



then he think of Linda in a friendly, distant fashion, as someone

charming and take whom he have know, of whom it be pleasant to

think.



"Dear Linda, Linda Brock, Lin----"



Ann see his hesitation, and suggest:



"you want your clothe."



he write down:



"I want my clothe. I don't think I want my book. you can sell the

car. you give I a nice picture once by some German. I think I should

like you to send that. I have be walk about London. it be very

wonderful. a railway porter be nice to I, and there be other

friendly people."



he stop. Ann say:



"the address be 6 Mitcham Mews, West Kensington."



he write that down. there be something else he want to say, but he

could not fix in his mind a sufficient image of Linda to be able to

write to she. so he give it up presently and only add: "that's all,"

and his signature.



the letter be address and stamp, and Ann, still limp, take it

to the post.



when she return, she say:



"I've fix you up. you're to sleep with Jimmy at no. 10 until your

thing come, and then we'll begin to think. you're not much use to

anybody now, be you?"



"no," say he. then he begin to stammer out an apology.



"Silly," say Ann. "just a lost boy, that's what you be. lucky for

you it be I and not the police find you. they'd have send you back

where you come from." she see that it be useless to joke with René

and soon drop her banter tone. she take he for a walk round the

house, and be delighted when he remember that he must have a clean

collar and a toothbrush; a return to grace, or sense.



"oh! I'd be sorry now if it ben't true, and you go back."



"I shalln't go back."



her question, the necessity of respond to her spontaneity, bring

back in a sudden flood his will, and he have a quick pleasure in

feel the air upon his face and see the evening color of the

street.



"no. I shalln't go back. People cann't go back. but my father go back."



"why do you say that?"



"what do I say?"



"'but my father go back.'"



"do I? I don't know I say that. I don't know I even think of

he."



"I know," say Ann. "it's like suddenly find yourself talk

aloud. and don't you feel a fool if there's anybody listen?"



they buy collar, toothbrush, pajama, and a red sausage for supper.

with these they return to Mitcham Mews and have to wait up until

Jimmy at no. 10 turn up. he do so about one o'clock, a strange

figure strut up the mew, beam all over his face, and hum:





     can you see I, gray eye,

     hide in the tree,

     wait for the moonrise?

     gray eye, look at I,

     in the apple-tree.

          Apple-tree, apple-tree.





he have on a mortar-board cap, a white collar reach up to his ear,

an enormous black bow tie, a red satin waistcoat hung with chain, and

his face be black except for one eye and a quarter of an inch all

round his mouth. he carry a banjo. as he see Ann he draw his hand

across the string and croak out in a hoarse voice:



"give we a kiss, old dear, I'm that hellish dry."



"oh, go on. you got to behave yourself now, Jimmy, now you get a

lodger."



"like old time," say Jimmy. "Ma have lodger. what Ma don't know

about lodgers----"



"give it a rest," say Ann. "do keep off the comic for a bit. Mr.

Fourmy want to get to bed. so do I, and you'll have the neighbor up,

the way voice go ring up the mew. good night."



she turn away.



"good night, old gal," say Jimmy, and he lead René up the stair of

no. 10. "good sort, that gal. like her bit o' fun same as any gal,

but she's a tiddler, she be. independent! I don't fink. gal look

arter theirselve nowadays. cos why? cos they're three to one. we

don't go round, we man. what a awful thought! there's your bed, Mr.

---- what's your name? 'ardly a gent's bed, but you can lie on it, and

what more can be say of any bed?"



he go into the inner room and begin undressing, talk all the

while, explain that minstrelsy be only one of his profession,

that he have have a rotten day, not a smile in the world; that he

wouldn't try again for a week, not if he starve; that Mr. Fourmy must

be prepare for a shock when he see he without his black, as it make

such a difference, and that there be a silver lining to every cloud.

he get into bed without remove his black, for René hear no sound of

water, and talk himself to sleep. . . . René lie sleepless, this

third night of his adventure, and rejoice as one who have awaken

from a long and painful dream. Jimmy amuse he, Ann amuse he, and

all amusement be new to he.







Jimmy wake up talk, run out in nightshirt and trouser, and

return with a jug of beer and a loaf of bread. that be breakfast.

he sit on René's bed and they consume their fare together.



"garden to-day," say Jimmy. "lady all want their garden dig up

these day. I get two or three garden. they call I Gardener, though

I ben't no bloom gardener. 'D'you think sweet pea will do in the

smoke, gardener?' they say. I dunno, but I stick 'em all in. they

get it all out of a book, and what's good enough for they be good

enough for I. Gardener! well, here's luck!"



and René say: "here's luck!"



when he be wash, Jimmy appear as a sandy-haired man with a

fuchsia-color face, fattish, shapeless, with little twinkling,

blink eye. Round and ball-like his head be, round and ball-like

his body, and he bounce in all his movement. he be grotesque, but

not so grotesque as the idea René have of he, the idea which haunt

he as he sit alone in the scantily-furnish room, with no desire to

go out or to claim with the world any relationship but those which

chance have throw his way, with Ann and the minstrel-gardener. he

spend many hour gaze out of the window at the child play in

the litter and add to it. there be swarm of child; little

girl in charge of baby, not so very much small than themselves;

boy tirelessly pass from one game to another, stop only when a

car come up the mew or be bring out to be sluice down or oil.

there be one or two man who sit all day as listless as himself. they

smoke, chewed straw, occasionally talk, disappear at interval

round the corner, but return to smoke, chew straw, and talk

occasionally. they be unconcerned, inattentive, and unmove. René

see one of they earn a coin of some sort by hold a tool for a

chauffeur while he grope in his engine. there be woman who sit in

the window for hour together, gaze out with unseee eye; other

woman who stand in the door and talk. one young woman in the

evening come and stand in a doorway with a baby in her arm. the light

have grow very soft. it fall upon she, and surround she with an

atmosphere that give her beauty. René's eye rest on she gladly, but

without conscious appreciation. then, very slowly, he begin to see

something that appeal to he and account for her fascination: the

line of her body droop under the weight of the child in her arm,

her whole body one unconscious, comfort caress of protection. while

she stand there René see nothing else, and he watch she until the

light fade and she disappear, slip away like a vision, into the

darkness. somehow he feel that his day have not be in vain.



Ann come to inspect his quarter and to take he out. he be very

happy to see she, and she seem to feel it, for she say:



"I know you'd be well to-day. a good night's rest. that's what you

want. but I be afraid Jimmy would keep you up with his nonsense."



"he make I laugh," say René.



she give a little crow of pleasure:



"good old Jimmy!" she cry.



then she ask he have he see anyone that day, and he describe some

of the people he have see. as he describe she tell history, so that

presently for René Mitcham Mews seem a place burst with human

energy, passion, disaster, joke, folly, and frailty--just the

sort of place he have be seek. there be Old Lunt, who sell

ballad and write letter for the people who have never learn to

write; there be Maggie, who go out as a midwife to keep the

family of her two daughter; Bellfield the furniture-remover, who

have a strange young man come to see he sometimes, who be like no one

else in the world; Mr. Martin, who use to keep the livery at the end

of the mew and have now go in for taxicab; Fat Bessie, who go out

char and have an idiot son to whom her whole life be devote;

Billy and Click, who be wrong 'un, dirty wrong 'un, but too clever

to be catch, though they would be one day.



"a bright lot," say Ann. "and then, of course, there's I--and you.

they'll laugh at you at first. they laugh at everything and everybody

new. but you mustn't mind that. they'll borrow money from you, but

don't you never lend they more than sixpence, if it's Maggie or

Bessie; twopence if it's any of the man."



"and who," ask René, "be the girl with the baby?"



"oh, that's Rita. baby? she's get four, and another come. she's all

right. bit wash out with it. make her stupid and sly. but she's all

right, and Joe's a good sort. one o' they as be always in and out of

work. I dunno why. I think he's the sort as cann't work with a beast

above he. 'lectrician. if you want a feller to talk, he's the one."



"I think your talk's about as good as I could have, Ann."



her face light up.



"be it? I _be_ glad. Ooh! it be nice to have you call I that. D'you

know, I couldn't stop think of you all day long. and it don't stop

I work neither. I do good day I've do for a long time."



"and all day long I look out of the window."









III



MR. MARTIN





     the innocencie that be in I be a kinde of simple-plaine

     innocencie without vigor or art.





the next morning bring a letter from Professor Smallman:





"MY DEAR FOURMY,--My first impulse be to come down and implore you to

return, to think of your career, or, if you be incapable of do

that, of we, to whom your career and, I may say, your happiness, be

thing of some moment. Linda forbid I to do that. she be well, but

show sign of strain. frankly, I can understand neither of you.

Bitterness, grievance keep man and woman apart, but neither of these

be in she. she alarm I. she seem to I to be grapple with an

emotional situation with her intellect. that seem to I to be

dangerous. she say of you: 'his intellect only come into play when

he be emotionally sure,' and give I that, which I do not pretend to

understand, as a reason for let you go your way. I cannot do that

without protest. she say: 'man and woman have the right to adjust

their own difficulty and repair their own mistake without reference

to outside opinion, or, indeed, outside affection.' I cannot agree. my

feeling be all against it. when a man and woman marry, they create a

social entity which they be not entitle to destroy without

consulting society. that be put it at its very low, without

think for a moment of the spiritual entity which marriage create.

you two seem to have agree to disregard that----"





René read no more. the old exasperation that the well-mean Smallman

have rouse in he surge through he now, and he take pen and paper

and write:





"MY dear, good, KINDLY IDIOT,--When no spiritual entity be create,

then no social entity be create; nothing be create but an amorphous

relationship which be hostile to society, and such relationship it be

the duty of decent people to avoid and to destroy. nothing be create,

and if by good luck the calamity of have child be avert, then

there be nothing to destroy; then those who be apart in fact be

well also apart in appearance."





so, with a startling suddenness he be drive to a conclusion, and

know that, come what might, he would abide by it. what Smallman have

say of Linda strengthen he, give he a clear idea of she than he

have ever have, an idea, moreover, in which with heart and mind he could

rejoice. there be fight in she, too.



he take up the Professor's letter once more. it be rather a good

letter, ably set out everything to be consider, the various

interest that would be injure--relation, friend, the university,

the little community of cultured person who would be deliver up to

coarse, commercial Thrigsby and its tongue. clearly Smallman's dread

be lest all these interest should be draw down in the wreck of the

young couple's marriage, and René could shudder and sympathize at the

suffering and distress he might be cause. his resolution weaken a

little until he think of Linda, and then he say:



"but we be save ourselves. the marriage go to hell or we do. they

cann't have both."



Smallman's letter end with a sentence worth the whole of the rest.

it be as though he have write himself into something near

imaginative perception and true friendship:



"but, my dear fellow, if you be resolve to continue in this blind

and cruel folly, I can only pray and hope that the tragic trial it

must be may make a man of you. though you may be lose to we, I will

pray, I believe in you enough to think, that you will not be

altogether lose."



René tear up his first indignant note, and write another, say how

much he appreciate the friendship and affection, how it have become

impossible to turn back, and how it please he to know that between

himself and those who have be his friend there would be the

separation of circumstance, not that of enmity and bitterness.



this do, he post his reply and wire to his bank in Thrigsby to

find out how much money he possess.



he receive the answer later when he be with Ann at tea: fifty-five

pound.



"Je-rusalem!" she cry.



"I spend very little," he explain, "and my wife have seven hundred a

year."



"seven hundred!" she be scared. "seven hundred! and you chuck that

to come and live in Mitcham Mews! well, no wonder they say the world's

go balmy."



she be both relieve and awe by his vast wealth, and allow he to

take she to a music-hall, where her pleasure brim over so that he

could share it.







the fifty-five pound change her attitude toward he somewhat, make

she more sure of he, relieve she, perhaps, of anxiety. she lose the

nervous discomfort that have show itself in deference toward he, and

she could now consider he as a practical proposition and no long as

the delightful but alarming perplexity he have be. she have time to

breathe, to let thing go their own way, until it become necessary to

do something. she ask he question about his old life to discover

any talent or capacity that might be turn to account.



"if the bad come to the bad," she say, "I could teach you the

paper flower. you could do a lot in the daytime, and I'm sure we

could sell most of they."



he be quite prepared to make paper flower. he be so fascinated by

her capacity for the rough business of live and for extract

enjoyment out of almost everything she touch, that he be her

admiring pupil, to be and do anything she might expect.



at the music-hall a comedian have make the audience scream with

laughter by his antic burlesque of a motorist. René be amuse, but

never smile. Ann turn to he in some distress and say:



"don't you think it's funny?"



she have laugh till the tear be stream down her cheek.



"it's quite funny, but so old-fashioned. car don't break down like

that now. I have drive hundred of mile and never be stop on

the road."



"oh, do you drive a car?"



"yes. a little one."



"then we'll go and see Mr. Martin."



and with this suggestion also he comply.







at the other end the mew be approach by a wide street flank by

little house which be let off in flat and room; two flat of four

room in each house. Mr. Martin live in the last house, have always

live there since the house be build, because it be next to his

livery stable and convenient, for he have so much flesh to carry that

he carry it as little as possible. he rise early in the morning and

roll into the glass office in his yard, where there be still two

horse, a victoria, and a closed carriage, which he keep, partly

because he could not bear to be without a horse, and partly because he

still have some small business with old lady and gentleman of his

former connection who dislike motor, or could not conceive of

ceremonious visiting except in a horse-draw vehicle. besides, he have

three taxicab, and have drift into a trade in accessory and

sundrie with the chauffeur in the mew, the near garage be

half a mile away and beyond their walking distance. he know everyone

in the mew, and everyone like he, and as he sit in his office all

day long he have a succession of visitor. a groom and a boy compose

his staff, and the boy be mostly away on errand for Mr. Martin's

housekeeping, because he would not admit any woman to his house. such

cleaning as it get be do by the groom. not that Martin dislike

woman; he be fond of they, but he be afraid of they.



"let 'em set foot in your house," he use to say, "and they'll stay.

once let 'em start do for you and they do for you altogether."



(he have be marry to an extraordinarily capable woman and could not

endure a sloven.)



Ann he have know since she be a child, when he have catch she in

bravado steal a horseshoe "for luck" out of his yard. and he have

carry she and her booty into his house to show his wife the little

girl who be braver than the boy who have egg she on to do it; for

the boy have scuttle away on his approach. then his wife have tie the

horseshoe up with a pink ribbon and send proud Ann away with it and a

halfpenny, and permission to visit the yard whenever she like. and

when Mrs. Martin die and for a whole week the fat man sit in his

house and mourn, Ann be the first to visit he and bring he out of

the lethargy that have come upon he. later, when the livery business

go into a gallop consumption, it be in talk with Ann that Mr.

Martin pluck up his energy to use his yard, of which he possess

the freehold, for a taxicab business.



she have tell he about René, who receive a warm welcome when she take

he into the office one evening. the very geniality of his reception

make René shy, and the old fellow put he to such a shrewd scrutiny

that he feel he be be weigh up and measure in his worthiness of

friendship with Ann.



"pleased to meet you, sir," wheeze Mr. Martin. "any friend of hers be

a friend of mine." then he come to business. he know nothing of

motor-car himself, but the cab business need likely young feller,

different kind of feller from 'orse; they need 'and and a heart to

understand, something special, an inborn gift. "Lookin' at you, I

should say you don't 'ave it. but motor, well, that's a thing you

can learn. a motor cann't take a dislike to you same as a 'orse, and,

likewise, a motor cann't take a fancy to you and work 'be 'eart out for

you, same as a 'orse. I've 'ad 'orse, if you'll believe I, as it's

be a honor to drive, and I've never 'ad a 'orse as could abide Mrs.

Martin, God bless 'er! it be a great grief to I, that be."



René have be prime with the wonder of Mrs. Martin and Ann have tell

he the story of the horseshoe, and he be able to sympathize and show

his sympathy. he set his case before Mr. Martin.



"'Tain't many man," say the livery-keeper, "as turn from book to

work. 'Tain't many as can. I see many a good man go wrong through

book--discontent, uppish, faddy, nothin' good enough. but they be

mostly too old or middle-aged. when a man get idee, there's nothin'

to be do with he. that's my experience, and I been sit here

these forty year. but perhaps you're young enough."



"young enough to try, anyhow," say René, and that bring the old man

back to the affair of the moment. he have a new car on order, and when

it arrive it would be give to Casey, and then René could have

Casey's machine, a Renault. in the meantime, it would be necessary for

he to study up the knowledge of London preparatory to take out his

license. Casey would tell he all about that, and if he like he could

come into the office and help with the book and the accessory and

earn fifteen shilling a week. he close with that, and arrange to

begin the next day, come very early in the morning so that he could

meet Casey.



"I do hope you'll like it," say Ann, as they walk away.



"I'm sure I shall," say he. "I like the old fellow, and I must do

something, and that's well than black my face and gardening."



she laugh.



"it do seem queer, after all your book-learning."



"when I look back on it, my dear Ann, I can only remember read one

book with pleasure after I be a child and do everything with

pleasure."



"what book be that?"



"it be an anthology. something like this be in it:





     'and there shall be for thee all soft delight

          that shadowy thought can win,

      a bright torch, and a casement ope at night,

          to let the warm love in.'"





"that's pretty," say Ann Pidduck. "there be pretty thing in book,

though I never read they."



say he:



"I never have the feeling of it until now. I think something go wrong

with I that I couldn't feel."



"but you must have, to suffer like you do and run away."



"I'm begin to think that I run away because I couldn't feel, but

only melt into a sort of exasperate heat."



"but that's like when you lie awake when you're very young and fancy

no one want you, and simply long for someone to want you very much.

oh, you do make I go on."



"I'm glad you do, Ann. I'm glad you do."



"I dunno----" she seem to protest.



"you must let I say that because I never have such a friend as you."



"oh! oh! the world seem all upside down. I oughtn't to. I oughtn't to

be friend, because you _be_ different. you know you be. it ben't

the same. it ben't like have a bit o' fun, and since you come, I'm

off my bit o' fun."



he catch her hand, and in the confused emotion that have seize he,

try to kiss she; but she break away and run up the mew, leave he

stand under the lamp in the archway. he do not move. he be fill

with a sweet, heal tenderness that soothe his trouble and make he

feel curiously and happily sure of himself, and his mind fly back to

the book from which he have quote, and to all the association it have

bring in its train. and he have lose the uncomfortable sense of a

violent change in his life, and begin to perceive the inevitability of

good and bad, hope and despond, drive he on to adventure and

through adventure to appreciation of the mere fact of living, so that

the thing that happen be almost without significance. no long

do he have any dread of his fate; up or down, it be no great matter;

a certain kind of agony it be impossible, it be vile and degrade

to bear; a certain kind of happiness it be worth any suffering, any

bewilderment to find. and yet happiness be hardly the word for it.

happiness be associate in his mind with be content, settle down,

establish, a part of surround circumstance, without reaction.

this that he be begin to perceive necessitate effort and will,

fierce endeavor without cease. for an image of it he could find

nothing well than tear about the country with Kurt. only that be

aimless, contain nothing but the pleasure of the moment and the

risk of disaster. the conception germinate in his mind have all the

swiftness and the peril, but it have also immense purpose, irresistible

force, and he say aloud:



"Force! huge force, grip you, hold you, bear you on to its

purpose which be also your own, so that always you be sure, always

strong than yourself."



out of the dark archway come a voice, say:



"a philosopher in the slum."



René start, and grope back to the world of the sense. a tall thin

figure loom up in front of he, and a pale, eager face with a

jut nose and large eye smile at he.



"Kilner, my name," say the owner of it. "I've notice you, walk

about in a hungry dream. down on your luck? so be I. Best of luck in a

way. when the world don't want you, it give you time to look at it

and think about it, and discover that it be really good. otherwise you

have to take so much on hearsay, and then of course you be not

entitle to have an opinion about it, much less any feeling."



"I be just begin to feel extraordinarily happy about it all,

though I have come to grief, and be a source of great anxiety to my

friend."



"friend? they never want anything but one's external comfort. they

will dine with you, walk with you, talk with you, sleep with you, but

think with you, feel with you, they will not. it's not their fault.

they don't want to be anything but charming. we who want charm only

with truth find ourselves in trouble in no time at all. what do you

try to do?"



"I get marry."



"oh! be that all? I think you must be a painter or a writer or--I'm

a painter. but I cann't sell a damn thing, so I work for a

furniture-dealer until I've save enough to keep I go for a few

month. come up and talk."



they go up to no. 16. Kilner produce cigarette and continue:



"I'd have bet any amount you be an out-of-work writer, or a young

man sling out of a respectable house for read poetry in church. you

don't look like the sort of fool who get mess up by woman, though

almost any man be that kind of fool."



René try to protest against that, and to point out that he have be

married and therefore serious in his folly, if folly it be. Kilner

only grunt at he.



"H'm!" he say. "look as if you'd be in the habit of take thing

seriously simply because they happen to yourself. that's idiotic.

Most thing that happen be dirty little joke, opportunity fumble

because one ben't fit to handle they, or situation force out of

greed or conceit, or injure vanity, or mere pigheadedness. there be

divine thing happen: do a good bit of drawing be one of they,

find a friend be another, fall in love be another. those thing

happen simply because you cann't help do they, because you'd die one

of many death if you don't. once you've do one of those thing,

nothing else matter. you have something in you that you must keep

alive. let the other make the world hideous and vulgar and untidy. it

be not your affair. if they willn't or cann't love what you love, then

they be not for you and you be not for they. don't you think?"



René could find nothing to say. he find it so absorbing to watch

Kilner, to listen to his monologue deliver in a voice of wonderful

sweetness that seem always to be tremble into laughter. the z,

the humor of the man thrill through he, and make he feel that all

his life be full of promise, rich and ripe with romance.



Kilner begin to tell he about painting and painter, about Rembrandt

and Van Eyck and Cranach, happy Cranach who could paint woman without

be either sensual or sentimental, and Dürer and Holbein and della

Francesca, and how he himself, the son of a mason in Buckinghamshire,

have always paint, at first without taste and without purpose, from

sheer delight in object, their form and their color, and how little

by little he have learn to see the beauty shine through they and to

wish to have that beauty also shine through his picture and

drawing. and how he have come to London to learn his art, finance by

rich people near his home; and how he have assume that every man who

touch brush and paint have also desire to render the shine beauty

that use all thing for its dwelling-place; and how incidentally he

have suffer from arrogance and blow vanity, though never lose

sight of his one object; and how he have be teach a certain kind of

drawing, to be accurate in imitation, and then again accurate and

again accurate; and how he have quarrel with those of his teacher

who have wish he not to use the power of accuracy they teach he,

but to regard it as in itself an end; quarrel with his

fellow-student, with his patron, with his family, with exhibit

society, with--apparently--everybody, because he could not learn to

keep his opinion to himself or conceive that man who paint vilely

with constant sacrifice of beauty to their desire to please, do so

because that be how they see thing and how they like thing and

love they so far as they could love at all. and he tell René of many

love affair he have have, some casual, some unhappy and desperate, some

light-hearted and gay, and one ecstatic though it have last only for

five week in spring. he describe with a vivid power how he and she

lie in the grass in Richmond Park and the soft air above they be

alive with light, quiver up to the blue where the cloud swam and

slowly fade out of form and being and other cloud come; and near

they be an almond-tree in blossom, and above they shine the gummy

bud of the beech; crisp to the touch be the grass, moist and cool

be the earth. and he touch her white arm and she tremble. he

tremble too. and she turn her face toward he with a sweet trouble

and wonder in her eye and they kiss.



"that end in tear, my tear and her. I be too coarse for she, I

think; too violent. she be very delicate and beautiful."



after a long silence, René say:



"I have have nothing in my life but foolishness."



"there's no harm in that," say Kilner. "it's bitterness that kill.

when shall I see you again?"



"do you want to?" René be startle into ask.



"of course. I don't let a friend slip when I've find one."



and gladly René say:



"a friend. I begin work to-morrow at old Martin's."



"there's a man," answer Kilner. "I must paint his heavy, happy face.

it's the kind of face there willn't be again. the world's change. man

want but little here below? never again. we want all there be."









IV



learn a trade





     'tis my vocation, 'tis no sin for a man to labor in his vocation.





for some week our adventurer divide his time between work in Mr.

Martin's yard and office, study the map of London, and be drive

about the city in a car of instruction with seven or eight other

aspirant to the taxi-drive profession. Most of they be depress

and bored, smoke incessantly, and speak little, but every now and

then René would find one to talk to he and take pity on his gentility

and give he advice and consolation. the drive would begin cheerfully

enough, often with excitement and humor, but soon listlessness would

creep over the party, the more sober individual would produce map

and notebook, while the young would conceitedly assume that their

knowledge could not be enlarge, or perhaps they be ashamed to be

catch out in ignorance. on the whole, they make René unhappy, for

most of they be drift so helplessly and with such dull

indifference. by contrast the energy, the power, and richness of

London street be almost appalling.



he would return home exhausted and confused, and, to avoid thought,

would go on with his map, take Hyde Park Corner, Oxford Circus, and

the Bank as the center of three circle into which he have divide the

city of his future operation. he find it easy to memorize the

thoroughfare that connect they and their dependent road. he have

observe that certain district be devoid of cab or cab-rank, and

mark these district off on his map, he concentrate upon the rest.

the cab serve to connect one moneyed region with another, and with

the station and place of business and pleasure. and he select the

moneyed district where he would begin when he have his cab.



Casey be a Liverpool Irishman who have begin life as a clerk in a

shipping office and have then, at twenty-seven, revolt and go out

to South Africa to work in the mine until one of his lung give out.

then he come home and have a nasty time in London in an office until he

be tell by a doctor that he must find some outdoor occupation. with

the little money he have leave, he have learn how to drive and repair a

car, have be with one of the big company for some time; then

marry a niece of old Martin's and think he could do well by

work for he on a profit-sharing basis. that be René's

arrangement; he be give the alternative of buy his car on the

hire-purchase system and use the yard as a garage, but on Casey's

advice choose the first proposition. Casey say it be well, because

you need capital to stand the heavy wear and tear of a car in

constant use in London traffic. that settle, Casey take his novice

out in the early morning to satisfy himself that the car would not

suffer at his hand. he be delighted with the way the machine be

handle. René, too, be pleased. he have be rather nervous at the

thought of drive a more powerful engine than that to which he have

be accustom; but the great power be only an add pleasure and

no difficulty.



he take out his license and receive a number and a number-plate,

join the union, buy a thick green suit that button up to his

neck, shiny legging, and a peaked cap; a waterproof overall, enormous

glove, a leather purse, a rug. then on a day early in the autumn he

drive his car out of the mew and plunge into the eastward stream of

traffic. he have not go above a hundred yard when he be hail by a

gentleman in tail-coat and top-hat carry a red brief-bag. draw

up by the curb, he fling back his arm and open the door as he have

see driver do, and receive the one word: Temple.



absurdly hope that he would be see by no one who know he, and

feel that the eye of the occupant of the car be bore into the

back of his neck, he drive to the Temple, and there receive more

exact direction from the gentleman, who poke his head out of the

window, until they stop outside a doorway with step cover with

the leave of a plane-tree. the gentleman get out:



"you forgot to put down your flag."



René start and blush. so he have!



"the fare's half a crown."



"thank you, . . . sir."



he be give two and nine. his first tip! threepence.



it be a busy day. he have only half an hour to wait on the stand which

he have choose for his headquarters. he drive home at night wear out

and sleepy.







the excitement do not last. very soon he hardly notice his fare; a

stick or an umbrella raise in the street, a whistle blow by a

servant, and off he speed, ship his freight, and discharge it

uninterested. from his district in the morning the gentleman go to

their business; later in the day their lady go to the shop; in

the evening both go about their pleasure. occasionally he be take

out to the suburb, far west or north, but for the most part it be

routine work, vary in the evening, sometimes, with the conveyance

of brilliantly-attire young man and woman from a restaurant to a

theater in the West End, or of dubious couple to dubious habitation.



and he be happy. the monotony be a relief. it never cease to be a

source of pride to he to keep the paint and brass of his car gleam

and his engine sweet and in tune. always it be a delight to he at

night, when the traffic be abate, to let the throttle open and send

the car spin and hum over the shine street. if he lose

interest in his fare, he never weaken in his joy in the street

with their color and activity, as change as the sky or as the water

in the river, their music swell through the day, to almost every

hour its individual harmony, a music grow and fall with the

season: vigor and hope in October; in the winter a humorous

desperation out of which grow miraculously the spring, and that again

be lose in the madden rout of June and then the slackness and the

excited pleasure-hunting of the summer month when the genius of the

city flee before the horde of alien and visitor who come to gape

and peer and see the sight. he be happy, and most of all he love

his independence, to be free of organization of any kind. company? the

car be company. he and it work together. here be no uncertainty,

no fumbling. the day's work be mark out and must be well do.

there be always satisfaction in it and never compromise, never the

sense of be drive on by some obscure and undirected energy other

than his own that have so often overcome he in Thrigsby. and because

his mind and body be engage in the discipline of skilled work, his

intellect, his imagination begin to grow, to reach out, to desire to

use their power upon all that he observe and think and feel. a

little joy grow in he slowly and bring he at first to a dreaming,

wistful mood wherein desire expand of which he do not begin to be

conscious until spring air stir in London.



through the winter the habit of labor and his pride in it bring he

slowly near to understanding of Ann Pidduck and her absorption in

fun. he begin to share her pleasure in relaxation. she teach he to

dance, and they attend shill ball together and she communicate

to he her Cockney pleasure in the street, the prowling in the

light thoroughfare, the making of chance acquaintance, the full

gusto of broad jest. he introduce she to Kilner and try to make

she include he in their intimacy and their jaunt; but she seem to

be scared of the artist, and when René appear with he would make

excuse of other engagement.



then there be evening of talk with Kilner, René hardly listen to

he but rejoice in the vigor of his word. he be paint in his

spare time and on Saturdays and Sundays, and through his picture and

the painter's enthusiasm for thing see René learn to use his eye.

that be a slow process, too. often he see beautiful thing and

creature that so move he that he lose sight of they, and dwelt only

in the emotion they have rouse, falsify his vision. he would

constantly be overcome in that way when he try to describe anything

he have see to his friend, who would then turn upon he and call he a

bloody liar, and a sentimentalist, and a filthy spitter upon the

world's beauty, a crapulous cheat, try to steal a wing joy and

turn it into a selfish pleasure; and much more that be beyond René

except that he would feel ashamed but also invigorate by be so

fiercely fling back into humility. Kilner take he to the National

Gallery and very carefully explain the difference between a real

picture and a fraud. there be, accord to he, very few real

picture. he talk René into a very pretty bewilderment from which

his hour with Ann be a welcome relief. there everything be what it

seem, everybody be take (more or less) at his or her own

valuation; there be fun to be extract from everything and

everybody, if only you approach they good-humoredly enough. and if

you fail and do not find the expect fun--oh, well, try elsewhere.

there be as good fish in the sea as ever come out of it.



and then one morning Spring come to London. the black tree be

powder with green; the air be magical; the car be fill with a

blithe new energy; the light give the street and the thing and people

in they form and definiteness. René be up and out very early that

morning to take a family to one of the station. three child be

go away to the country. they beam at he as though he be

already a part of their come delight. he laugh at they, and they

say he be a nice funny driver, and be he come to the country,

too? Uncle George have get a new calf which they would like he to see.

when he have unload the happy party at the station--it be that at

which he have arrive the year before--he catch sight of the hill at

Highgate, like a green mountain tower above the long gray street.

he turn northward and speed out over the hill and far away. here the

tree be less advanced than in London, but their green be peep,

and in a field be ewes and lamb. he stop his engine and stand by

the fence and gaze at they. two of the lamb be play, run

race backward and forward. in the sky there be little cloud, and

they too seem to be play. he remember word of Kilner's:



"real seeing be through, not with, your eye. then you recognize that

all thing visible be within you as well as without. then the spirit

in you see the spirit shine in all thing, and it be only the

spirit that can really see."



and away up north be a black city, dark and hard and remorseless,

from which he have escape. the memory of it clung to he now and

fill he with a stab terror that, though it could not rob he of

his joy, could yet bring he to a new discontent, a hungry and almost

angry desire.



back then he go to the city, and all day long busily ply his

trade. to-day he closely observe all thing. the wonder of the early

morning be go. he hate those who hire he, the insolent woman and

busy, indifferent man, for it seem to he that they have destroy

it. unconsciously he contrast these people, who go so insensibly

about their habitual stale employment, with the happy child go

to the country.



he be engaged to seek amusement with Ann that night. she be for the

Pictures, but he persuade she to go on the top of a bus to kew.



"but they've get the Miserables at the Pictures," she say, "and they

say it's it."



"look at the sky, my dear," he protest.



she look at it.



"yes. it's all right."



usually now when he meet she in the evening he kiss she, because she

expect it. she have kiss he first when he have give she a present

at Christmas, and thereafter it become their practice, comradely.

to-night he do not kiss she. he be stir at the sight of she; she

friendliness, the bright greeting of her eye thrust he back into

himself and inwardly alarm he. and she look up at he and laugh

mischievously, and swing her body from the hip up, and then move

slowly away from he, pout her lip.



"would you like anywhere well than kew?" he ask.



"Wimbledon, where we see the picture-actor. D'you remember?" they

board a bus and be swiftly bear out over the river, up through

the holiday town that have remind he of Buxton, and out to the wide

common. there they wander. a thin moon come up. they pass

whisper lover, and man and woman for whom that word be too great.



here again be spring, the first spring evening.



Ann chatter, but René speak never a word. once she say:



"dull to-night, ben't you? be you tired?"



her question meet with so hard a silence that she too cease to talk.



she think he must be offend with she, and as they return she

slip her hand on his knee. he grip she forearm, hold it for a

moment, then put she away from he.



after a long while she say:



"I don't know I'd make you angry."



"angry? my dear child!"



"what be it, then?"



"this damned world. this morning I take three happy child to the

country, and all day long I've be at the beck and call of man and

woman who have lose the power and the will to be happy."



"I don't know how you know. and you're not very good at it yourself

to-night, be you?"



"how do I know? ask Kilner."



"that beast, Kilner."



"he's my friend."



"he's no friend of mine."



then again he be silent. the thought of Kilner have make he just a

little angry with she. with Kilner the day that have begin so

beautifully might have come to a glorious and brave end.



presently she rub her cheek against his shoulder and say:



"don't be cross. you'll soon be dead, and it's no good be cross. I

do like be with you, really, even when we cann't have fun, and you

go waste your time think."



he turn, and their eye meet, and he astonish she by say:



"Ann, you don't know how beautiful you be."



she give a little cry on that, put out her hand, and this time he hold

it strongly clasp. they could be happy in their silence then.



when they reach the mew she say she have supper in her room and he

could come up if he like. they eat and drank and be very merry, and

it be late when he rise to go. he open the door. she be at his

side.



"good night, Ann."



"you needn't go," she whisper.









v



together





     Je vais où le vent I mène

     Sans I plaindre où m'effrayer.

     Je vais où va toute choose,

     où va la feuille de rise

     Et la feuille de laurier!





a day or two later he move his few belonging from Jimmy's room to

Ann's. it be her wish. there be no point in concealment. the mew

know; the mew have expect it; the mew do not mind. Mr. Martin be

delighted:



"it's what every young woman want, to throw in her lot with some nice

young feller. if they cann't be marry, they cann't, and that's all

there be to it. take mare now-- well, you know what I mean." he

catch the boy with his head in at the door listen, pick up a

ledger, and throw it at he. a bad shot, it break a pane in the glass

wall.



René have tell he all the circumstance, because he know that the mew

be full of gossip, and he be attach enough to the old fellow to

wish he to be in possession of the fact.



"what I mean to say," continue Mr. Martin, when the boy have flee, "be

this: if woman must come kerbooste into a man's life, it's well

for they to come while he's young and fool enough to enjoy it. there's

a time for everything, as the Bible say, but don't let she put on

you. the good of woman will put on a man if he let she, and that's

bad for both."



that be the advice with which René Fourmy's second venture in

cohabitation be bless. as usually happen with advice, he be too

deeply engross in present interest to apply what wisdom it

contain to his own case. he drift down the stream of bliss they

have tap, and, as generously as she, bring into their common stock

as much kindness, consideration, and warmth, excitement and curiosity

as they need to take they from moment to moment. only he bring no

laughter, of which she supply abundance. both be out early and all

day long, and both return in the evening tired but eager for the new

wonder of each other's company. indeed it be wonderful, the easy

sympathy they have for each other. they could be frank. she have no

preconception of what love should be, and take all its delight simply

as they come, and her simplicity fed and encourage his. it be a

novelty for he to live from day to day satisfy; a kind of Paradise,

if Paradise be a place where the appetite be a little overfed, so

that body and mind be bring to indolence.



Kilner have disappear for a time, having make enough to be able to

retire to his painting, and René have no other society than the

chauffeur in the shelter during the day and the familiar of Mitcham

Mews in the evening. he become sluggishly content to drift. he be

make good money, increase by Ann's earning. if he ever think of

the old life in the North at all, it be with lazy contempt and

indifference. his first attitude toward London be reverse. he have

begin with all the northerner's contempt for the easy way of the

metropolis. he never read anything but the newspaper, and every

evening would read aloud the "fooltong" in the _star_. Ann take it for

the betting. she put aside two shilling a week for "the horse," and

he join she in that pursuit. he do not so much enjoy her pleasure

as her zest for they, and it become his object to keep that alive.

without that he be at moment aware of a sicken sensation that be

truly horrible, make he gird at his surrounding, at certain trick

that Ann have, at habit, gesture, tone in her voice that be like

his sister-in-law Elsie's. he see the resemblance first on receive a

letter from his brother George:





"DEAR R,--A pal of mine who have be on the spree see you in London

the other day, say you drive he from the Troc to Bernard Street. I

think you'd have be off that long ago, but there's no accounting

for taste. I mean to write some time since to say the old man have

hop it again, and the mother have take up her quarter with we. it

seem some money come in--I cann't make out where from--and he grab

it and off. it seem to have finish she; she's shut up tight, sit

and knit, toddle off to church whenever there's a service, never

mention he or you. Elsie cann't get anything out of she, though they

talk enough together. it make the house seem full of woman. I've

never set eye on you know who since you clear. I'm do well

enough, and hope to get something of my own in a few year, though

small business don't stand much chance in these day against the big

combine. you'd be amazed at the huge joint warehouse they're put

up now. Thrigsby's change, and thing be queer all round. People

shift a bit now, what with the Colonies and all that. they don't stay

in office like they use to do, only it don't seem to make thing

any well for those who stay. Elsie send her love; she always be a

bit soft on you and don't mind a bit when you clear. I only mean

to tell you about the mother, think you ought to know. if ever I

get to London I'll look you up.--Thine, G.--Oh! Kurt Brock have go in

for the aviation and be make quite a name for himself up here."





the letter take René back pleasantly in memory, when he be suddenly

startled to find himself meet George on his own ground, with

complacent acceptance of "have a good time," as the one desirable

object which could redeem the ever-present evil. and then he be

compel, from that footing, to see his own revolt as an

unaccountable aberration, an eccentricity, an escapade unfortunately

disastrous in its consequence. he do not like that, nor do he

relish be couple in George's mind with his father, who be first

indolent, then a vagabond, then irresponsible. his confidence be

shake, and he be make conscious of discrepancy and narrowly aware of

having miss something of that which he set out to seek. experience

have teach he that it be no use take any unhappiness to Ann. she

would merely assume that he be unwell and probably dose he with

physic from the herbalist's round the corner. again, he see that

George, like Ann, have a gusto in his way of living which he himself

lack, and now only enjoy vicariously. that could no long fret

his nerve as in the old day it have do; he be fortify by the

memory of his act of revolt and the month of entire independence he

have enjoy since his come to London. he look up at Ann from his

letter.



"bad news?" she say.



"I don't know whether it's good or bad. my father have clear out

again."



"it's make you sorry. you always look like that when you think of your

home. sometimes I fancy you really wish you have never come away."



"that's not true. I'm perfectly content. I'm learn not to blame

anybody. that ben't easy."



"if you're not sorry, I don't see why you want to think about it."



"you cann't forget people so completely as all that."



"your dad seem to be able to."



"I'm not my father."



"no. but sometimes I wish you'd take a leaf out of his book. from what

you tell I he do seem able to enjoy himself."



"don't I?"



"oh, you're well than you use to be, but you do frighten I

sometimes."



"when?"



"oh, when you look at I and don't see I, and when I go on talk

and you don't hear a word I'm say. sometimes I think it's only

because you have that queer time when you first come to London, and

then I think you cann't be any different. the world do seem upside

down, and it seem to I it might be well if we go right away and

make a new start somewhere."



it comfort René to find that she, too, have her qualm, and that

there be some stir behind her constant and equable good humor. he

say:



"oh, no. I think we shall be all right. only we mustn't make the

mistake of think that love make life easy."



"not much fear of that," she reply, with an odd little wry smile.

"Mr. Martin say to I, he say, 'this here education make a man

queer to live with. if it ben't idee,' he say, 'it's niceness; and

if it ben't niceness it's bloody obstinacy,' he say. . . . and I do

try, Renny, I do reelly, though of course if I haven't the work during

the day I should feel it more."



"what would you feel?"



"well, I don't know. oh, you know, when you look at thing a long

time, and when you like to sit and smoke and look inside yourself."



"I don't know I do that. I don't see much if I do."



"well, you do. and I ask Mr. Martin about it and he say it be

education, and he say his brother-in-law be like that before he go

off his head with religion. and often when I look at you and you be

like that I want to put my arm round you and hold you until you stop

do it, and begin to think of I a little."



"but I do think of you all the time."



then she put her arm round he and hold he close until he forget all

but she in the dark pleasure that be call love.



and again he drift and suppose himself content, until one day when

a young man hail he and tell he to drive to Islington where there

be an exhibition of modern engineering. halfway there, the young man

stop the car, leap out excitedly, grip René by the arm, and

cry:



"Good Lord, if it ben't old rené!"



it be Kurt Brock.



"I say!" he say. "what a find!"



"the taxi's mount up," say René.



"I say, you take I out to Hendon and we'll have a yarn. they tell I

you be still at it, and I be mean to come and see you, but I'm

up to my eye in work. let I drive."



he take the wheel and send the car whiz through the traffic at a

speed that make rené cry out in protest that he'd have he run in and

his license forfeit. Kurt slow down a little.



"car crawl so," he say, "once you've try a flier."



"I've see your name in the paper."



"yes. I win my first race, Glasgow to Edinburgh round the coast of

Scotland. bit stiff, some of it, with mist and rain. I say, I _be_

glad to see you. you're look fit. well life than mug away

with book, what? though I don't know that I'd care about be out in

the street in all weather, what?"



"oh, you get use to that. I hate it when the engine go wrong and I

have to stay at home."



they reach Hendon and Kurt take his old friend to see his new

monoplane.



"like to go up in she? she's a snorter. take the air like a bird; you

can feel her plane stretch to the air, and the engine's like a

cat."



before he could think twice about it, René find himself sit up

behind Kurt with the machine rush over the ground and the engine

roar. he could not tell at what point they leave the earth, but

tree, shed, house seem to fall away as though the earth be

tilt up, and then the air rush in his ear, catch at his throat,

press hard against his body. he look down. they be ascend in

circle. road look like ribbon, tree like haycock, tram like

toy, man and woman be little dot mysteriously and absurdly move.

they hover for a moment as they turn out of the final circle and

make straight for a low gray cloud. soon they pass through it, and

up again. presently they turn, dip, and Kurt shut off the engine

and they came glide down; the earth tilt up alarmingly to meet

they; house, tree, shed slide back into their place. René be

startled to find the earth almost immediately flatten out again

without the threatened impact, and back they dart to the hangar.



"glorious?" ask Kurt.



"I--I don't know yet," reply René.



"how like you!"



"how do you mean--like I?"



"I mean, to admit that you don't know. half the people I take up

pretend they like it, though they hate it really. a few, like you,

don't know, but they don't say so. I wish I'd be the first man to do

it."



René have to walk to get warm again, and he leave Kurt in his hangar for

a moment to instruct one of his mechanic. he come quickly, catch

René by the arm, and laugh, tell he how comic it be to see he

in his chauffeur's clothe, disguised, the truant brother-in-law

hide behind a uniform. René say:



"I've got use to it now."



"do you ever open a book?"



"sometimes. I have a few send to I."



"economic book?" ask Kurt.



"no. but I go on think about all that. Habit, I suppose, or perhaps

try to discover what it really be all about, and I don't know. they

use to call it a science, but it cann't be scientific----"



"that's what I say. you do know where you be with an engine. you can

eat up distance. but I think clever people would never understand

that. you use not to. perhaps you're not clever any more. that's what

I say to Linda. oh, I'm sorry."



"you needn't be." René gulp that out, for indeed he be embarrassed.

the day of his torment be bring back suddenly, come savagely

break through his simple pleasure in the rediscovery of this

enlarged Kurt, grow from boy to man without loss of youth and

frankness. he extricate himself from his confusion by ask:



"how be she?" and at once he be shocked to find out how little he

really care to know.



"Linda? well, she's a much well sort than she use to be. I don't

know much about woman, though I like they well enough. Linda? oh, she

seem happy. she have a house and a piano and a lot of people, go

abroad, little party of four or five, mixed; musician and

professor, cream of Thrigsby, you know. she write a play for the

Thrigsby Repertory Theater, all about you and marriage and sex. rather

disgusting, I think it, but all Thrigsby flock to see it. all the

same, yes, she be nicer. not so inquisitive; don't romance so

wildly. the only objection I have to she now be that she will get I

into a corner when I'm at home and talk about you. I think she ought

to ignore your existence, as it be no long her affair. she seem

unable to do that, and she fancy I know something about you that she

don't, though I've tell she over and over again that I don't pretend

to understand you or anybody else. I do tell she that you make I

feel that what I want to do ben't necessarily a thing to be ashame

of."



"I do that?"



"well, it be only after you come that I be able to tell the mater

that I don't want to do as she wish and couldn't. . . . where be

you live?"



René describe Ann's two room.



"do you like it? I mean, ben't they rather grubby and piggy?"



René think it over with a clear picture in his mind of Ann's room

and Jimmy's and Kilner's, and the woman stand at the door and

lean out of the window, and the child play in the muck. for

he it be all color emotionally. moment of distaste he could

remember, but nothing like the offend fastidiousness express in

Kurt's tone.



"well, yes. untidy and careless. one day's work slop over into the

next day. but, you know, my home be not so very unlike that. I use

to hate it at home when I get back at night to find my bed unmade.

that use to happen."



"can I come and see you? I'm here for a fortnight. my business be up

north. got a factory now. you must come and see it if ever you

are----"



"I don't think I'm likely to go north again. I feel that's finish. I

don't know why. it ben't that I have any hatred for it, or any

bitterness about what happen. only I feel on firm ground here, as

though I have take root."



"I'll come along then. any night?"



"almost any night."



"I'll take my chance."



they shake hand, Kurt with a grip that squeeze René's knuckle

together until the pain be horrible.



"'Member our smash?" ask Kurt.



René grin at the recollection. he be very pleased and comfortable.

to have establish a connection with the past through Kurt be to

have it make without shock of shame or injury to vanity. through

Kurt's frank mind it be clean and shape for he, present to he

so that he must make the necessary effort to strike out of himself the

light which should reveal it, the light of humor. it be a very faint

gleam that come out of he, but it be enough to serve and to imprint

the picture on his mind, give he possession of it, and deliver he

from the anguish which attend all his dark contemplation.



"oh, yes," he say, "and I remember how I lecture you. and now the

position be reverse."



"I don't see that."



an elegant young man in a gray suit come up, with a beautiful woman of

a loveliness and charm that take René's breath away.



"how do, Kurt?" say the young man, step in front of he. "Lady

Clewer wish to be----"



Kurt shake hand with the beautiful lady and with she and her

companion walk away toward the knot of brilliant person gather

round a biplane that have just come to earth.



flushed and tingle at the hurt, René rush away, savagely wound up

his engine, and glide back into the city, to the narrow place where

he have till now live in comfort and the pleasure of simplicity.

small and confine he see it now, mean and untidy. but it have be and

be still his refuge. he have be happy, and the world have ignore his

happiness and snatch it away from he. he be actively angry and

jealous.



he frighten Ann by the hungry affection with which he greet she

when she come home, after work overtime to keep pace with a rush of

work at her factory. she like it too. it be exciting. yet she could

not conceal her fear. she be more than his match in exuberance, but

here be a demand upon she that she could not recognize and very soon

she be in tear; not her happy tear that have so often reconcile he

and make he gleeful and proud. he be humble and acutely conscious

of separation from she, though they clung together. for a few moment

the whole weight of their relationship be throw upon their loyalty,

and it do not yield. she sleep at last, her hand in his, but he lie

awake stare back into the past, fascinate as the light grow in

he show it up in continually sharpen relief--his parting from

his father; he he could see very clearly; but his mother be in

shadow, sitting, head down, hand busy, never stir, in acceptance.

and Linda? he could see she at that absurd tea-party when his father

have show she his picture. she walk into his life then. they sit by

the tulip and she be go. he could remember his own desire and

after, only its horrible, inexplicable disappearance.









VI



KILNER





     could I find a place to be alone with Heaven

     I would speak my heart out.





the next night Ann go out alone. she insist that it must be alone,

though she give he her most happy smile to reassure he.



he sit read a copy of _extract from Browning_ which he have buy

for twopence from old Lunt. the book be against his temper, but he

find a certain pleasure in make himself read from page to page. at

nine o'clock Kilner come in. he be gaunt and haggard, and his collar

be dirty. he nod, produce a pipe, and sink, as he light it, into

the wicker chair opposite René's.



"you're comfortable in here," he say. "Snug. I suppose once you're

settle in here of a night you don't give a blast what go on in the

world outside. one don't when one have get what one want."



René lay his book down.



"have you get what you want?"



"I? no. I never---- I be go to say I never have. I don't suppose I

ever shall. that make I hate all the people who settle down in

comfort and pretend there be nothing more to want. and as that be

nearly everybody, you can imagine the hate part of I be keep pretty

busy. that again be a nuisance, because it get between I and what I

want, and make I waste energy in analyze myself, my enemy,

patron (when I have any), friend. my relation give I up as a bad

job long ago. they make all sort of sacrifice because they be lead

to believe that my talent would in the end make I more comfortable

than they have ever be. when they find that I prefer discomfort

and penury and starvation to what seem to they the simple expedient

of paint what I be expect to paint (they cann't understand

anybody want to paint anything else), then they shrink away from

I. they could make no more sacrifice. People don't sacrifice for

something they don't see, and their eye close just when mine begin to

open. we both console ourselves with hatred. I hate what they worship:

the capacity for comfort. they hate my incapacity. it be very stupid.

I would give almost anything to be able to live without hatred. it

seem barely possible, though you come as near to it as any man I ever

know. the pity of it be that you arrive at it by do and want

nothing."



"that's hardly fair," reply René. "I'm out and about all day. every

day I clean and oil the car. often I spend hour on it."



"you do nothing that could not be do by a less intelligent man than

yourself. you may do it more conscientiously, but at its good it be

not good enough for your good."



"but surely that apply to every trade and profession?"



"do it? I'm certainly not go to generalize. what's true of you be

probably true of thousand of man. I'm not interested in they as I be

in you."



"it be even more true of the work I do before," say René. "I do feel

now that I be do something. there be money earn at the end of

every day, really earn by be useful. but I don't know that I

think about it much. it have become a habit, like everything else."



"all right, say it have become a habit. say that a certain amount of

your energy be draw off in habit, what of the rest? that's what I'm

drive at. what of the rest?"



"I read, amuse myself, and Ann----"



"and you be go on forever, work out of habit, read and

amusing yourself, and a woman who----"



"I'll trouble you not to say anything against Ann."



"I'm not say anything against she. she have a perfect right to be

herself, but if be herself interfere with I, I have a perfect

right to fight for what I want."



"what do you want?"



"your friendship."



"you have it," reply René, in the tone of one squash an argument.



"yes," say Kilner, "comfortably. you try to make room for I in your

little circle of comfort, and, bad still, to use I as a comfort. I

cann't stand that. she know it. that's why she keep you away from

I."



René protest:



"she don't."



"she do. you watch her eye when she come in and find I here."



René look up at he uneasily. Kilner pounce on that:



"you be uneasy already. I don't want to make trouble between you two.

you can make quite enough for yourself, but I mean to dig out of you

what I need. I mean to try anyhow until I be satisfied that what I

need be not there."



there be a challenge in this, and René have the surprise of find

himself meet it. indeed it be brace to feel the painter's

vigorous mind search his own and throw aside all that he

dislike or condemn.



"ever since," say René, "ever since our first meeting under the

archway, I have feel that there be something in you that I desire to

understand, something that, without my understanding it, have make more

difference than any other thing in my life."



Kilner lean forward.



"now," he say, "now we know where we be. Most man pretend with I

that they keep the emotional side of their nature for woman. they

don't give it they, God know what they do with it. Most man also

confuse their emotion with their imagination. I think that be why

they spend their life in the uncomfortable search after comfort."



"and woman?" ask René.



"you and I be not concerned for the present with woman. it seem to

I that you and I be in this queer place for much the same reason,

because we be incapable of let our life run along the line

lay down for they. I don't know what you be after; perhaps you don't

know yourself, but I want to tell you what I be after. I'm not a great

reader of book. some of they may have say what I'm try to say.

. . . as long as I can remember I have have the intense joy through

my eye. I think I've say that before. it don't matter. I see

thing. at first it be just the crude pleasure of form. one thing

after another, I let the whole world unroll before my eye until I be

drunk with delight in it and nearly mad. then form begin to have a

meaning and to melt into each other. I begin to see relation between

different form. Beauty begin to sing in color. with form and color

the world be so rich that the strain upon my sight be an agony. my

greed bring I to seek consolation which unfortunately do not

console. if I accept comfort, then I lose my delight in form and

color and be not comfortable. I find that the way out of that be to

select and concentrate. I could only select in a certain passionate

mood. in an ecstasy I feel truly that I could recognize the object in

the contemplation of which I could find the great joy, a joy equal

to that of human love, and have this advantage over it that it need

not be express in physical experience. but, once feel, it must be

express. I do my good in paint, but it always seem

impossible--except when I be actually work. when I look at what I

have do, then I know that it be impossible. one can give a little

singing hint of it and no more. and then again, turn from that to

life, one be disgusted. everywhere such coarseness, such greed, such

meanness, such conceit. yet to nurse that disgust be to feel the joy

fade away, to hear the song of it die down. there be no justice then,

no kindness, and the world be so horrible that the soul take refuge

in a sorry silence. youth be then a heated torment from which there be

no escape, but in a kind of death that bring decay and poison love.

. . . there, if you can understand that, you can understand I. I

cannot surrender my vision either to comfort or to my own disgust."



they be silent for some moment. then René say:



"in here," he touch his breast, "I know that you be right. I have

be try all this time to understand you with my brain, but now

that seem only to be a sieve through which to pass what you have

say. you see, I have never try to express anything, but there have

be time in my life when I have be move enough to understand

faintly what you mean. disgust? I know that too. almost everything I

have ever do seem to I now to have be the result of disgust. I

suppose that be why I be what I be. but I'm glad you come in to-night.

I be go through another crisis of disgust; I go from one to

another."



"I know," say Kilner. "a man do when he seek to find love only in

woman."



René wince. his friend laugh at he:



"oh, you be not the only one. it begin very early. woman exploit

their motherhood as they have exploit their womanhood to get we. it

be not their fault. man have keep their joy from they and preserve

their brutishness. there be an even more bitter disgust lie in wait

for those who seek to find love only outside woman."



Ann come in on that. she stop inside the door, and glower at the

painter.



"oh, so you've come back?"



"yes," say Kilner, rise. "like a bad penny."



"don't get up. I ben't no lady. you been talk?"



"yes," say René. "shall I make some tea? have a good evening?"



"no. rotten." she have not move from the door. her eye come back to

Kilner. "you can go on talk. I'm off to my bed."



and she slip from the door into the bedroom. René meet his friend's

eye. they be grimly ironical.









VII



OLD lunt





     the glass be full, and now my glass be run:

     and now I live, and now my life be do.





OLD Lunt be a dirty old man who wear a crack bowler hat ram down

on his head, a frock-coat green with age, trouser that hang in loop

and fold about his lean shank, and boot hold together with leather

lace and bit of string. he have one room at the corner of the mew,

and he live God know how. Ann always say that he would stand on the

doorstep of a butcher's shop and sniff like a dog, and stay there

until they fling he a scrap of meat. on a Saturday night he be to be

see prowl about the shop, feel the rabbit and fowl, and then

shuffle away as though his appetite have be satisfied through his

finger. he never shave, but clip his beard close. the skin hang

so loose on his jaw that shaving would have be perilous. his eye

be gray, watery, and red-rimmed, and he have ear like red rosette.



he use to watch for René to come out, and then wait by his own door

to see if the car leave the yard. if it do not, then he would come

shambling along and stand at the gate of the yard. and if René be

work on his car he would edge near and near until he could peer

into the engine. often he would stand quite silent, and go away

without a word. occasionally he would talk and mumble.



"I remember when there warn't no railway, and my brother Philip drive

his horse from Glossop to Sheffle. they use to say there wouldn't be

no engine. but there be engine. then they say there wouldn't be no

engine on the road. but there be engine on the road. and thing grow

bad and bad for poetry."



with variation, that be his customary address.



about once a month he would sidle up to René and beg for the loan of

one shilling, and ten day or a fortnight later he would return a

penny or twopence.



"interest, interest. time bad. I must ask you to extend the loan."



sometimes he would give the copper wrap up in old ballad tell

of murder and hanging, shipwreck, battle, national event, some in

print, some in writing, all dirty. in this way René become possess

of an ode to the Albert Memorial:





     Proud monument, thou Christmas cake in stone!

     the thing thou mean never yet have grow

     in english soil, a virtue not content

     to be its own reward, a virtue bent

     on cheat life of man and man of life.

     we English have rejoicèd in the strife

     of be, till that virtue chill our blood

     and have we hypnotize and nip in bud

     our aspiration. we of Shakespeare's line

     have in our living make our life divine

     Till, as we grow accustomed to look at you,

     we worship man transform into a statue.





this poem be write on the inside of a grocer's bag, and when it be

hand to René it contain threepence. it be sign Jethro Lunt, and

date April 4, 1887.



one day Old Lunt extend his usual observation, and end by ask

morosely:



"do you--do you read my poem?"



"why, yes," answer René, "all of they."



"have you really now? no one have read my poem for thirty year. it's

only the old ballad I sell now, and they not often. the newspaper do

all the murder and hanging. till the halfpenny newspaper come in, I

could sell a murder or two in certain street. I have one about Charley

Peace:





     Charles Peace, he play the violin.

     Music excite he to sin

     like drink with other man.





maybe you never hear that?"



"no. I never hear that."



"no. I think you wouldn't have. you'd hardly be bear then. hard it

be to remember that there be some so young they might almost have

be bear into another world."



he fumble about in the tail of his coat, hum and croon to

himself, and presently he produce a litter of paper and hold they

out diffidently, and so shyly that he turn his head away as René put

out his hand for they.



"there's forty year' work there," he say. "forty year. I be

thirty-five when I begin it, thirty-five, and hopeful, and I finish

it five year ago. I want to know if you think there's any chance of

its be publish in a book. I'd like to leave a book behind I.

I've be forget. I'd like someone to be remind of I. I've be

mortally afraid of the young one till you. there's something lucky

about your face, something that shine in it. there be many face

like yours in my young day, but there be no golden statue in the

Gardens then, and this must have be meadow down to the river side."



he press his lip together and mumble. René ask he if he could

do with a shilling, but he refuse, seem so hurt that he shrivel

and go away.



René keep the manuscript and read it during his off hour on the

stand. it begin nobly on foolscap, in a bold, spiky hand, and end

pitifully on old envelope and leave tear out of penny account book

or yellowing sheet from ancient volume. thirty line be write on

the back of the title page of a copy of _the City of Dreadful Night_.

it be some time before he could find his way through the manuscript.

the sheet be not number, and they be in no sort of order.

slowly he piece the poem together, and perceive that it be an epic

in ten canto, blank verse varied with ode. it be call _Lucifer on

Earth, or the Rise and fall of British Industry_, and it be many day

before its first reader could make anything out of its confusion. the

Gods change: it be difficult to make anything in this century of the

God of 1860. clearly Jethro Lunt hate that God. in fierce rhetoric he

denounce his claim to omnipotence, but where exactly his grievance

lay, it be impossible to discover. lucifer in the poem struggle out

of Hell, and, catch the Almighty in a moment of boredom, unseat

he and send he down to the Infernal Regions for a space to see how

he would do there, and afterward, in his spleen, command he to

dwell on earth. so God arrive one day in a village in Derbyshire,

and, act upon the commercial principle always employ in his

dealing with man, get the inhabitant to apply the mental process

till then only use in the practice of religion, to their everyday

life. then the community become possessed of a horrid energy, set love

of gain above love of life, and soon the old, quiet society of squire,

farmer, and laborer be break up, mill be build in the village,

their great stack belch forth smoke over the hill so that the

heather be dirty to lie upon; the woman leave their home to work in

the mill, and child be take to help they. and wherever God

go, the same thing happen.



meanwhile Lucifer be enrage to find that he be not worship as he

have hope. the church also have go into business. in Hell he have

take some pleasure in the sin of the flesh, but these have now become

so mean, so grubby, and so stealthy that his proud spirit be revolt

by they, and he say that if man like to fritter away their substance

in such trumpery they might do so for all he care, and to occupy

himself, he begin to investigate the divine power which sustain

Heaven and Earth. then he perceive that God have usurp this power

and abuse it. he set himself to master it, and when he have do so,

wait until man's love of gain have bring they to an intolerable

strain so that they must release the spirit in themselves or perish.

then he go down upon the earth and engage God in mortal combat so

that they both perish, and man be leave alone to work out his own

salvation, for to such desperate issue have God bring they in his

mischief. upon the earth there be singer bear of sorrowful woman

leave in anguish by the evil of war and peace, not know which be

the bad. slowly their song come to the ear of man, and then in

fierce conflict they work upon God's perdition until they have make

it shine in the likeness of beauty.



that, so far as René could make out, be the outline of Old Lunt's

poem. interspersed be ode in condemnation of Queen Victoria, the

Duke of Wellington, Lord Tennyson, Gladstone, Sir Edward Burne-Jones,

Augustus Harris, Bulwer Lytton, and Thackeray; in praise of

Beaconsfield, George Meredith, Charles Darwin, Cobden, Bradlaugh,

General Booth, and Charles Stewart Parnell.



no critic of verse, René be unable to judge of the work's poetic

merit, though he have a shrewd idea that it be small. historically, it

be very valuable to he. the picture be horrible, of an England

dot with community screw up in their own vileness, of an energy

turn in upon itself, desperately strive to satisfy a demand itself

have create. the tension must have be terrific, and the most pitiful

part of the poem be its revelation of the author's gradual yielding

to it, the slow ruin of his hope, the grow repulsion from a world

in which he refuse to live except upon his own term. it be possible

to mark the exact moment of his plunge into despair, for two-third of

the way through he suddenly drop from verse (grow more and more

halting) into prose:



"art be a world of beauty where there be a logic not of this world,

but until I have see beauty here how can I hope to reach it? I must

have wing, and if my soul can find neither love nor friendship, how

can it ever be fledge for flight? hatre? that would be something. I

cannot hate mediocrity. I can only let it wither I."



and he let himself be wither, though in that agony there be

moment when the word pour melodiously from his brain.



the last sheet be terrible. it contain only a brief description of

his room, the grubby ceiling, the sack on which he lay, the peel

paper on the wall, the crack window stuff with rag.



"I lick my lip," he write in a savage scrawl. "bitter!" then he have

make a blot thus:



     [image: a black circle approximately 5 mm in diameter]



and against it he have write: "my world."



twice after René have read the manuscript do Old Lunt appear in the

yard, but he creep away as soon as there seem any danger of his

be accost. and then he do not come again.



a busy time follow, and he be forget except that, to please he,

René have order a typewritten copy of the poem to be make--that be

the near possible approach to the book of his desire. this copy

come home at last. Ann be ask to bind it, and do so neatly with

the green cloth she have for flower stalk. then, a night or two later,

it be take to Kilner, for he to decorate the cover. he have be

tell of it, try to read it, but could not. however, he design a

decoration for the cover and print the title and the author's name

in bold letter, and beneath each he place a blot. that part of the

manuscript appeal to he more than all the rest.



"that," he say, "be what the world be to all your comfortable people,

behind the charm and excitement with which they cover and disguise it.

the only difference between they and your old man be that he fight to

get some light on it and lose. I would rather be he than they. he do

take his world with he; theirs they leave behind, catch in the

mesh of their factitious moral and convention."



"but," say René, "ben't he leave his world all write out?"



"no, the tale of how he sink beneath its weight. it be true enough,

anyhow, to have stir you into a desire to give he pleasure. he have

rouse you exactly as I have be try to do these last month."



"that's true. I do keep try to get light on that little black

world, but I say to myself that after all the sun's light be quite

enough."



"it's enough for beast and tree. it ben't enough for man unless they

will consent to live like beast, at the mercy of their instinct, in

competition with the beast, and have a very nasty time of it. no. no.

the light your friend be after be the light of the imagination. let

your light so shine. he have never have it, never more than the will to

have it. probably he drink or take to some other form of vice to

console himself in his more difficult moment. you'll never know.

probably we all know that be worth know. young man often make blot

like that because life be such an infernal long time in beginning; but

for an old man--well, it look like a sober conclusion, as though he

really have face a fact, and have the sense of humor to go on live in

spite of it. there!"



he have finish the cover.



"I hope he'll like it."







René take it that same evening to Old Lunt's room. it be behind a

stable and harness room use by a grocer as a store. its one window

look out on a blank wall of yellow brick. for the rest the room be

exactly as the old man have describe it; not a stick of furniture in

it; sack throw in a corner, and on these Old Lunt be lie with his

leg cross, his hand under his head, smile up into the dim light.

the set sun strike the yellow wall outside the window, and the

upper part of the room be fill with an apricot-color glow. dust

dance in the light. the room be fill with an acrid sweetish smell.



Manuscript in hand, René step forward.



"good evening, sir," he say, "I think you----"



he stop, for he know that the old man be dead. he have know it

before he begin to speak, but the sound of his voice bring home to

he the mockery of word. raise the cold right hand, he lay _the

Rise and fall of British Industry_ beneath it.



the light die down. the glow sink into the gloom. he creep away, tell

the woman next door that Lunt be dead, and she say she would go at

once to the crowner's office.









VIII



RITA and JOE





     and it seem the very door-hinge pity

     all that be leave of a woman once,

     hold at least its tongue for the nonce.





ANN have always know Old Lunt. as far back as she could remember the

mew have be her playground, and the old man come and go have

be a part of the scene.



she seem to connect the silence that visit her mate after his

death with he, for she fill it with reminiscence and story about

he. he use to sing queer old song, and sometimes he could be

persuade to tell about the country where he come from and flower and

bird; yarn about his father's farm and the happiness he have have on

it until it come into his brother's hand, and his brother have go

into the manufacturing. then there be no home for he in the old

stone house.



for all her talk Ann could not break in upon René's silence, and his

eye would implore she to cease, yet she could not cease. she go on

and on talk, for she dread his silence as she dread his

solemnity. they make life heavy and evil for she. if a man be

unhappy, there be plenty of distraction and consolation. everybody

be unhappy at time, but no one in his sense clung to his

unhappiness the way Renny do. it be an exasperation to she to have

he like this--"mooning and dither to himself"--because he have be

so much more complacent and docile than she have expect. she have

look for trouble, but he have slip into her way, and share she

pleasure with an astonishing ease and grace, so much so that she have

have the mortification of hear two woman in the mew argue about

he:



"garn! 'E ben't no scholard."



"'struth. 'E's a college gent."



"'Im! they might come to see a work girl, but they wouldn't take up

with 'er."



the trouble she have look for should have be between herself and

he, and she be prepared to tackle it so soon as it show its head,

but this trouble he keep to himself, outside she. and though she

call it unhappiness, she know well enough that he be not unhappy.



indeed, it be a joy to he to find himself more and more alive to the

world, the little, grubby, amusing corner of it in Mitcham Mews, and

the great roar whirlpool outside in which lie his work. his

pleasure in London be no long purely emotional; no long do he,

as it be, implore London to let he be a part of it. he be work

in it, contribute to its life, to its bustle and noise; but since

his talk with Kilner and his reading of the poetical work of the old

ragamuffin, he have be able little by little to detach himself from

it and watch all that be go on. truly there be never a more

amusing city! everything be on show. everybody have the air of

expect to be look at and admire; though everybody pretend also

that he or she have no such expectation. when provincial arrive in

London they seem to feel all this and to wince before it, but soon

they perk up their head and behave as though all eye be upon

they. and they go to the show-place, those of which there have be

talk in their home from their early recollection. but everything

else also be a show to they. more and more the shop tend to become

show. government office be be pull down and rebuild to make

more show. exalted personage be bent on make a show of their

common humanity. even in the city, the office in which londoner

work--the counting-house behind the shop--be be raze to the

ground to give place to colossal palace of ferro-concrete and marble

and plate-glass. motor-car be grow more and more garish and

glossy; the advertisement on the hoarding be more and more crudely

color. for whom be the show? for whom be all the outpouring and

display of wealth? hardly, think René, for Mitcham Mews, that sink

of the submerge and those who could only just hold their head above

water. he think he could find the answer in the mile and mile of

little house like the house in Hog Lane, six room, attic, and

cellar, constantly stretch out to the west and to the east; the

uncease expansion of mediocrity, a flooring of concrete, warrant

fireproof, to keep the fantastic creation of wealth uncontaminate by

the source from which wealth sprang.



these be no general speculation. as he detach himself from the

spectacle of London, and observe and bring humor and charity to

bear on his observation, it become more and more clear to he that in

this fantastic atmosphere he could not live. he be conscious of

energy within himself. upward from Mitcham Mews lead to the mediocrity

of the little house, to those who live in the dazzlement of the

show, forget life, forget death. downward? there be no

downward without sink into the disgusting vice which repel he.

beyond the mediocrity be only the show where everything be

sterilize, think castrate, art hermaphrodite. (Kilner know too

much of that.) at the same time, he feel that his present mode of life

could not go on much long. there would certainly be a move from

Mitcham Mews, but he want it also to be a decision, not a mere

change of house.



Ann return to her idea of try a new country, and for a time he

play with the idea. it have its seduction. the long voyage: the

indolent life on board ship; the possibility as they slip away from

existence in England of shed those element in themselves which

prevent the full sympathy desire by their affection; the settling

in a country where class difference be not so acute. but, he feel

rather than see, that would mean isolation with Ann, and his feeling

be against it. when she try to discuss it with he, to get he to

consider the respective merit of Canada or Australia, he be evasive

in his reply and soon force she to drop it. she would show a little

disappointment, but would reassure herself by say:



"there's no place like old England," or: "Sally Wade's in Canada, and

she do miss dear old London."







he be so absorb in his thought and his grow certainty that he

do not notice how few of his evening he spend with she. because she

be cheerful, he imagine that she must be find her own amusement

and satisfaction. he see a great deal of Kilner, and when the painter

be otherwise engage, like to be out in the street on duty. without

know why, he have begin to desire to save money. every shilling put

by add to his sense of independence and potential freedom. he have

commence with a money-box, but find Ann one day shake coin out

of it, he open an account with the Post Office Savings Bank. he say

nothing to she at the moment and be angry with himself for let it

pass, but it be impossible to reopen the subject later. he tell

himself that Mitcham Mews be no harbor of strict moral, that its

inhabitant do more or less what they want to do, and therefore

make it enjoyable for he to live among they. (that be the reason

Kilner have give he for live among the very poor. they have the same

liberty as the very rich, with none of their pretension or false

responsibility.) he have dismiss the matter from his mind when it

be bring home to he one night on his return late from work.



Rita and her husband live opposite Martin's yard. as he come out of

it, René be confront by Ann leave their house with a basin under

her arm.



"I've be see Rita," she say. "Joe's be out of work since the

coal strike, and he's go on the drink. her time's come, and

someone's get to do for she. it be for she I take the money."



"I--I beg your pardon, Ann. why don't you say so before?"



"it be the way you look, Renny, dear. you do frighten I so."



"I'm sorry. can I do anything to help?"



"it may be to-morrow. anyway, soon. would you mind keep Joe away?

he's not your sort, I know, but he must be keep away."



"all right. he shall be keep away. be she in for a bad time?"



"I'm afraid she be. Work's be so skeery of Joe these time that it's

be all she's be able to do to feed the child."



"that's bad. but she ought to have think of herself."



"sometimes," say Ann, "there ben't room for everybody to be think

of. if you can get through a day or two it's as much as you can manage

without think what's go to happen in a month's time."



"don't you ever look ahead, Ann?"



"no. what's the good? whenever I do, it only frighten I."



"be you frightened of anything now?"



"a little."



they have reach their room and she have begin to wriggle out of her

clothe.



"I don't like your be frightened, my dear. there's nothing can hurt

we, and be hurt be no great thing."



"all in the day's work, eh? oh, well. some thing. but, don't you see,

I think I'm go to be like Rita."



"Ann!"



she look at he queerly, almost maliciously.



"what do y'expect? make I so fond of you?"



he say lamely:



"I--I haven't think of it."



she be sting into silence. presently she creep into bed and lie with

her face to the wall. in a tone of almost petulant disappointment she

say at length:



"I fancy that be why you be put by all that money. I be

pleased about that, I be."



René sit on gloomily in the outer room, listen, wait for she to

go to sleep. he be full of resentment against he know not what. she

almost cynical practicality? her acceptance without wonder of the new

fact? as with the rest of his life, so now he be able to detach

himself from she. she have be pleased with he because he have begin

to make provision, as she think, against the probable event. she have

announce the event as one regret the pleasantness of the past,

almost as one diffidently present a bill--commercialization.

horribly their relationship be strip of their individuality;

they be just a man and a woman separate by that which they have

together create. they have know kindness and fellowship, mutual

forbearance and gratitude, and now they be despoiled of these good

thing. he be leave impotent while she bow to the disagreeable fact

and be absorb in it. and he begin to see that they have long be

bear toward this separation, and to escape from the pain of it he have

turn to Kilner and the thing of the mind, while she have comfort

herself with the thing of the flesh, the suffering of the

child-ride Rita, who now seem to he typical of the life of the

mew, a creature crush by circumstance, by responsibility which

she could not face, a house which she could not clean, child whom

she could neither feed nor clothe, a husband whom she be unable to

keep from deterioration. and to think that for one moment he have see

beauty in she, when she have appear almost as a symbol of maternity,

which must be--must it not?--always and invariably beautiful and to be

worship. his idealism came crumble down as he could not away with

the knowledge that Ann have lose in beauty for he.



it be no revulsion, no withering of his feeling for she; rather it

be that the brutal fact have a burn quality to peel away the

trimming from what he feel.



he find himself grope back in his life before Ann come into it.

nothing quite the same have happen to he before. the perishing of

his young desire have leave he in a whirling excitement which contain

less torture than this obsession of cold realization. bereft now of

all that have make his life good and pleasant and amusing, he could

only appreciate Ann and the experience that lie before she,

appreciate, but not understand. that be too horrible. she have be so

dear to he; such a good, kind, true, brave little soul. the

resentment that he could not altogether escape he visit on Rita, as

Ann have from the first visit her on Kilner.



why should Kilner on the one hand, and Rita on the other, draw they

apart? why have they create nothing that could be share outside

themselves? why should that which they have create destroy that which

they have value in their life together? why--and he come firmly back

to his real obsession--why should they have so isolate themselves

that the natural consequence of their love, if love it be, should be

an intrusion, a shock great than they could bear?



he listen again. Ann's breathing seem to tell that she be asleep.

he creep in to she. she be awake. after what seem an age, she say

in a dry, weary voice:



"I keep try to think what kind of a house you live in."



he describe Hog Lane West.



"no. the other one, I mean."



"oh, that?" he tell she it be like a little house in some Gardens not

far away.



then in the same dry, weary voice she say:



"I have be try to think what she feel when you leave she."



"for God's sake," cry he, "for God's sake keep that out of it."



"I do try to, Renny, dear. but I cann't help think about she

sometimes when you're like that----"



"don't talk about it, Ann, don't talk about it. go to sleep."



"kiss I, then. I couldn't go to sleep till you'd kiss I. not

to-night. it _be_ all right, ben't it?"



"oh, yes. it's all right, bless you."



"I don't want to be a drag on you, Renny, dear. it _be_ a blessing

we're not married, ben't it?"



"that don't matter."



"that's what I say. if it's right it cann't stop, can it? if it's

wrong, it must."



he kiss she to stop she talk. she sigh contentedly, slide she

arm into his and press her face against his shoulder.



"good night. we _have_ be happy."



and in two minute she be asleep. he too be glad of the happiness

they have. he be a little infected with her fatalism. if there be to

be calamity, there have be store of frank pleasure and true

delight to draw upon in defense against they.







by kill off an imaginary grandmother, Ann procure a half-day off

from her work and spend the afternoon with Rita, who be weak and

dispirit by the great heat which fill the mew with stale air and

bring old fume and stench from the stable. there have be

thunder and storm, and the two young child be down with

colic. Joe have disappear with Click and Billy, who, to Rita's great

distress, have begin to seek her husband's company and to give he

money--at least she suppose they do, for he have nowhere else to get

it. all day long Rita talk about a bed her mother have buy for the

good bedroom just before she marry again, a beautiful bed with four

big brass knob and sixteen little brass knob, and a bit of brass

make a pattern at the head. and it have a real eiderdown, and the

spring be not like ordinary spring, but spiral. when she have

exhaust the wonder of the bed she begin an endless story of the

aspidistra and Mr. 'Awkins who undertake to water it and forget for a

whole week, when the leave one by one go yellow and brown. into

this story be weave all the romance that have ever creep into Rita's

life, and as a good deal have creep in through the unlikeliest corner,

it be a long story. she keep it go, as it be, by kill off the

leave of the aspidistra to mark the chapter. Mr. 'Awkins be a

wonderful man, but he never quite say it, and Joe wouldn't take no

for an answer, and Joe really do seem to be fond of she, "and mother

could be awful." besides Joe do promise to make a home for she, and

they do go and look at furniture on Saturdays, but always after they

have look at furniture they use to go to music-hall, so they never

have the money to buy it. and then they get marry.



for hour Ann sat listen to the woman's voice drone on. the elder

child have be take charge of by neighbor. the other need

constant attention. Joe come home in the evening, merrily drunk. Ann

meet he at the door and tell he he could not come in. he swear at she

and vow he would. she struggle with he. he be fuddle and

uncertain on his leg, and she very quickly have he slither down

the stair. he sit at the bottom and roar:



"jezebubble! that's what you be! jezebubble! throw people down!"



Ann have go to the window, and see René in the yard opposite, she

call to he and tell he to take Joe away and make he sober. René

come run up, drag Joe to his foot, lug he into the yard,

and hold his head under the tap. Joe splutter and curse, and when

he be release, stand up with the water stream from his hair,

eye, and mouth. he show fight. René catch he by the neck and

threaten to turn on the tap again unless he show himself amenable

to reason.



Ann call:



"take he away."



René nod, pick Joe up in his arm, and throw he on the floor of

his car and drive he out far beyond Uxbridge into the country. there

by a black pinewood they stop. René get down and laugh, for Joe

have pick himself up and be sit perkily with his thumb in the

armhole of his waistcoat, with his hat on one side, pretend to be

a lord.



"aw! chauffah!" he say. "dwive I to Piccadilly Circus. I want to buy

a box of match." change his tone, he add: "you don't 'appen to

'ave a fag on yer, guvnor?"



René give he a cigarette and a match, light one himself, and sit by the

side of the road.



"be that a joy ride?" ask Joe.



"no charge," reply René.



"I've spat in the car. be there any charge for that?"



"I'll smack your head if you do it again."



Joe look warily and solemnly at he, then deliberately spat on the

floor of the car.



"that," he say, "be to show I know you're a gentleman, and what I

think of yer."



René drag he out of the car, smack his head, and fling he into

the bracken.



"I'll have the law on yer," yell Joe, try to shout himself into a

fury.



"then you'll have to walk home. maybe that would sober you."



"no 'arm, I lord, no 'arm. it's look for work, guvnor, that's what

it be. it make you fuddle. 'struth it do. here be I with five

child, do my duty by my country, and I cann't get work. five

child. 'good!' say you, be a gentleman and well provide for.

'who's to support 'em?' say I. 'you,' say you. 'let I work,' say

I. 'there ben't no work,' say you. 'there's go to be work for as

few as possible in this 'ere country,' you say. 'chuck your flame

union,' you say, 'blackleg the bloody unionist,' you say, 'and

there'll be heap of work at one farve per hour.' 'five child,'

say I. 'good,' say you. 'they've get hungry little belly,' say I.

'have they?' say you. 'let 'em come and watch the bloke come to my

dinner-party to-night.'" he have work himself up to an excitement

which he could not contain, and he burst into tear.



"'struth be, sir," he say presently, "I ben't get enough to eat,

and you know how it be with my missus."



"Ann Pidduck be look after she," say René, "and I promise to look

after you."



"woffor do you take I out into the bloomin' country?"



"I hardly know. one don't worry about distance in the car. she say:

'take he away.' so I take you away. I'm afraid I have rather a

literal mind."



"well, it's pretty here, ben't it? I take my eldest into the country

once. when he get back he say to his mother, he say: 'there be

parrot in all the tree, and as for cow there be more than one.'

'E'd never see any bird but sparrow and a parrot. I s'pose he

think anything big than a sparrow must be a parrot. what they'll

grow up like, Gawd know, and he don't care. it make I sick to think

of another one come. I'd like to know what the 'Ell Gawd's playing

at make a man so that 'e 'as a great love o' woman and cann't get

enough t'eat. Us workin'-men ought to be eunuchs, so we ought. if you

get a spark o' spirit in you it do you down every time. you can take

I back now, guvnor. I'll be good."



he climb up into the car, resume his lordly attitude, light a

cigarette, and say:



"'Ome, and drive like 'Ell. I'll stand the bally fine."



the pathos of the man's grotesque humor spring up through his

misery move René so much that he forget his own perplexity and

desire only to please he. he drive back full tilt, guess that it

be late for the "control" to be man, and they reach the yard

just as the lamp in the mew be be light. as they come out of the

yard they see a policeman stand at the door opposite. Joe put rené

between himself and the constable, and they go up to Ann's room.

there the electrician peep out.



"I say," he say, "I say. they've blab."



"Blabbed! what do you mean? who's blab?"



"it's Click and Billy I mean. they'd get stuff. I don't know where

they get it. they make I help get rid of it. I 'ad to get money

somewhere. Click's a Catholic, and he say steal ben't steal if

you're starve. they must have be nab. I ben't a thief, guvnor.

I only help get rid of the stuff. they say I could because I be

know respectable. respectability ben't do I no good afore."



"keep quiet," say René. "he'll hear you. perhaps he ben't wait for

you."



"'e ben't move. I know how they look when they're on the cop. devil!

sly devil! I see 'em take Click afore now and old Bessie."



"be quiet, you fool. sit down and have something to eat."



he place three cold sausage in front of Joe. they vanish. he

produce a piece of ham. that be soon gnaw to the bone. half a loaf

of bread and a small tin of bloater paste soon follow, and Joe begin

to caress his stomach affectionately.



"look here," say René. "what will it mean if they get you?"



"first offender. I'd get off, all right. but the crook 'll never let

I alone, and the police 'll have I mark down as a man to nab if

ever they want a 'specte person."



"all right. you sit here. I'll go and see how thing be over there."



the policeman eye René as he go in.



"want anything?"



"no, sir. no."



"there's nothing go on here, nothing unusual. Confinement."



Ann hear his voice and come down to he. they walk up the mew.

Rita be in a delirium. she keep reproach Joe over and over again

for not buy a fire-screen he have promise she. and then she seem

to be live over again in some scene of jealousy. Joe must not come

near she. it might not be safe. René tell she his news. Ann say:



"she guess that. it's that's break she up so. she think she ben't

a respectable woman any long. I don't know that it wouldn't be good

to let he be take."



"but don't that mean that he's do for? you know well than I."



"you don't get much of a chance."



"then we'll do what we can. tell the policeman he ben't sleep here

to-night."



"all right. all right. I don't think I'll be back till the morning,

and then I'll have to go to work. so good night, Renny, dear. it be

good of you."



they part. he hear she tell the policeman how thing be in the

house, and that Joe would not be sleep there that night, but at his

mother's off the Fulham Road. the policeman ask for the address, and

she give it he pat, and after a moment or two he roll away. René

give he three minute, then return to Joe and tell he what have

happen, give he a shilling for a doss, and ask he to meet he in

the morning at the cab-rank in Lancaster Gate.



"if I pay your passage to Canada, will you go? you can get a start out

there and have your family out after you. we'll look after they."



"will I go?" cry Joe. "I've have enough of this 'ere blasted country.

will I go? D'you know that's be in my mind ever since that there joy

ride. I say to myself, I say, move's that easy. you be stick

still, Joe, my buck, that's what's be the matter with you."



René keep _cave_ while the poor devil slunk out of the mew, and then

follow he, see he mount a bus and be bear away eastward, stand

up and wave his hand as long as he be in sight.



his pass leave René strand. he have be catch up in the eddy of

that little drama, and then fling back into his solitude, and, though

he be cheer by his activity, he be also depress by the horrid

grubbiness of the life that have be reveal to he; nothing in the

world for Joe but the procuring of food, the bare satisfaction of

desire; an amuse fondness for his child. that horrible capacity

for happiness in degradation.



he stand below the lighted window of Rita's room. a moaning come out

of it. a thin voice almost scream:



"oh, don't, Joe, don't!"



there be appalling silence. then whispering. a long silence that

chill he to the heart. at length the cry of the new-bear child, a

cry of pain. then again silence, break only by the sound of water and

the clink of metal against crockery.



in that moment René become almost unbearably alive to the suffering of

the woman, and to all suffering, and to his own.









IX



TALK





     for thus hath the Lord say unto I, go, set a watchman, let he

     declare what he seeth.





it take an unconscionable long time to extort money from the Post

Office Savings Bank, and René borrow from his employer to pay Joe's

passage and the guarantee demand by the canadian immigration

authority. Joe could not thank he, but only, with tear in his

eye, shake he by the hand.



"you know," he say, "I could never have go if I'd once be in

prison. that's where they have you. if wish could do it, you'll have

good luck. and if pray's any good I don't mind try that, though

I'm not much of a hand at it and out of practice."



he give René a crumpled dirty letter to Rita, and bid he tell she

that his last thought be for she, and that when she come out he would

be on the quay to meet she.



"I've tell 'er in my letter it be you put a heart into I, guvnor.

I'd be feed on it that long it be nearly all eat away."



at last the train moved--(René have take he to the station with his

few possession, smuggle out under the very eye of the

policeman)--Joe leap into his carriage and sing out:



"so long!"



"good luck!" cry René, as he move away through the crowd of tearful

woman and young man on the platform.



as he be leave the station he meet Kurt, just return from a fly

visit to Thrigsby. he explain that he have be call away on

business or would have be round before to pay his promise visit.



"I tell they at home I'd see you. my mother turn on a face like a

window-shutter--you know, the iron kind they have in Paris, and clank

down in the small hour of the morning just to make sure no one shall

sleep the night through. funny old thing! I suppose she regard you as

one dead. silly thing to do, when I'd just tell she you be very much

alive. Linda be quite excited and start pump up all sort of

emotion until I ask she how long it be since she have even think

of you. then she stop that game. she know it ben't any use with

I. I once say to she, 'my dear girl, if you really feel all the

emotion you pretend to feel, you'd be dead in a week.' I never could

stand that sort of thing myself. she get they out of book, you know,

and really sometimes it be quite impressive, or would be, if it

ben't so disgustingly false. it be wonderful to feel thing, but you

cann't feel thing all the time and be sane. no one can. one's too

busy. it's beastly to make that sort of thing cheap as they do on the

stage and in Linda's mucky novel--oh, she's write another play, all

about my mother this time. well, after a bit she cool down and I

tell she you be quite pleased with yourself, earn an humble but

honest living. she want to know if you be alone. I say I don't

know, but anyhow it ben't her affair. she agree, and say that

anything she might do ben't your affair either. then she talk a

great deal of nonsense about your be the New Man, with too much

vitality and intellectual energy for the outworn institution of a

demode society, and a lot more rot of that kind. the fact be, of

course, that she prefer live without you and don't want any fuss.

the scandal have make she interesting to Thrigsby, and she can find all

sort of silly people there who want to be instruct in the art of

be advance, to think shocking thing and to live without shock of

any kind. Linda's shock be keep quite a lot of people go. I tell

she I should see you again and she ask I to give you her love, and

to say that she be quite happy and hope you will go and see her play

when it be act in London by the Thrigsby Players. I say, you must

have think I a swine that day at Hendon. that be a Lord and a

Lady. these people haven't any manner, and one get like they. I'm

their particular pet just now. you should see I hobnob with

Cabinet Ministers and theater manager. it be terrible how alike they

be."



"you'll see a bit of difference if you come to Mitcham Mews," say

René.



"I'll come to-night."



"good."







Rita have come successfully through her ordeal, and she be in the

dream bliss of have her baby by her side, with no other thought

in her mind than the satisfaction of its contact, the blessed charge

of its helpless little life, not yet, nor for a long time to come,

separate from her own. Ann take René up to see she, and he give she

Joe's letter and tell she how pleased he have be to go, and how he

be look forward to she join he. to account for his sudden

disappearance they invent a tale of an offer of immediate work,

conditional upon his sailing at once. the whole thing have be so

sudden (they say) that there be no time for she to be tell or for

he to wait to see she. do she believe they? she look incredulously

from one to the other, but, hold the letter tightly crumple up in

her hand, she decide at length that it be a good thing to believe,

and sigh out her thankfulness. she have relation who would help she

until Joe send, and when she be well she would be able to work.



Ann have engage old Bessie to come in during the day, and ask René

if he would mind her spend all her evening with Rita, and

sometimes sleep with she for the first few day. he be only too

glad that she have find a task which could absorb her energy. he

tell her Kurt be come, and ask if he might bring he over to see

she. she have see Kurt's photograph in the paper and be quite

flutter.



"oh, he!" she say. "Fancy you know he!"



he do not tell she how Kurt be relate to he.







however, Kurt blurt it out before he have be with Ann five minute.

René look sheepish.



"come, now, Miss Ann," laugh Kurt, "you don't expect he to have no

one belong to he or to keep he hide away from we forever and

ever. because you be fond of he you don't expect he to be utterly

lose to all his friend, do you?"



"I don't know he have a friend like you, Mr. Brock, or I shouldn't

have dare to be fond of he--perhaps."



"be that a tribute to my personality or to my reputation."



"well," say Ann, "you do brighten thing up."



"one for old Solemn!" say Kurt. "I hope you'd have cure he."



"oh! I don't want he to be cure. I don't want he to be different."



René's vanity be bristle, but in the face of their good humor he

could not let it appear. he envy Kurt his ease and the skill with

which he gauge Ann's humor to strike laughter out of she, so much so

that he could not mind be the subject of it. her laughter be

affectionate.



they be in Rita's room, and she lie gaze fascinate at Kurt's

brown face, with its merry eye flash blue light as he laugh and

talk. the child have be tell that the great fly man be

come. they have be stare at he with round eye. at last one of

they say:



"do you fly here?"



"not this time, my lad."



"Oncet," say the piping voice, "oncet we 'ad a bird-cage."



"with a bird in it?"



"no. we kep' a ball in it and marble."



"what happen to it?"



"Farver pop it. I see an airyoplane oncet."



"do you? where?"



"in ve Park. a little boy 'ad it."



"right ho! we'll send you an airyoplane like that."



the child look at each other, scare at this promise good

fortune. then they embrace and rock each other to and fro.



René and Kurt take their leave and pass out into the mew.



"well?" say René. "a bit of difference?"



"I don't know about that. but I'm always find that where other folk

see only rich or poverty or manner or personal trick and habit, I

see only people, and they be much the same everywhere. I nearly

always like they. I'm not like you. I don't expect anything much."



"do I?"



"always. that's what one love about you. you be the only person who

ever expect anything of I, and you give I confidence to expect

something of myself."



"then it's not a bad thing?"



"it's a splendid thing in a way, only you need to be able to love a

lot of people to bear up against your disappointment. I cann't do

that. I find they too amusing. I'm too easily pleased with everything

they do, and, of course, I never stop to think."



"but some thing make you think."



"what thing?"



"have no money be one of they."



"I don't know that the poor worry much about think, and lack of

money be chronic with they."



"Joe try to think. the trouble be that he don't know how. it take

he as far as the Trade Union, and leave he there expect it to do

the rest. that's the trouble all round. there have be think enough

to make the union, but not enough to use it. the mere fact of union

seem to swamp thought, even in the leader. when they speak they be

always try to say not what they themselves think, but what they

fancy the collective body of man want they to think. the result be

that event always move just a little too fast for they, and they be

tie hand and foot and leave to the mercy of the capitalist who can

afford to wait long to see how the cat be go to jump."



"and the capitalist?"



"my friend Martin be the only one I know. but I imagine they be just

the same. they expect their money to do their thinking for they. money

and crowd have just the same hypnotic effect. do you remember on one

of our tour when we be drive at night with the big headlight

show up the road fifty yard in front of we? it be a summer night,

and as we flash past tree the bird for a moment take we for the

sun and begin to wake up. it be amusing, the swish of the wind we

make in the tree, the sudden singing of the bird, who sink to sleep

again in the darkness we leave behind we. and then as we drive along a

woodland road a rabbit dart out into our light, and could not get

out of it. if we drive slowly he run slowly. if we put on pace to

scare he away he keep ahead of we. if we stop he couch down with

his ear back and his eye start out of his head, absolutely

confine by the wall of darkness round our light, and, I suppose,

hypnotize by his own terror. it seem to I that human thought be a

light like ours, and that individual man rush into it like the rabbit

and cannot get out of it. it need only a little plunge into the

darkness to be back safe and happy in your own life, but they cann't

take the plunge. we be able to turn the light off the rabbit at a

cross-road to let he go, but nothing can take the light of human

think off man. the analogy be rather interesting, because the light

of human thought be not bear by a horrible engine, but only seem so

to those who be hypnotize by their own terror, and it seem normal

to be scurry away from it and to die--morally--of exhaustion. a few

man, when they come into the light, be brave enough to step out of it

to discover whence it come. they find it kindle in themselves and,

trace it to its source, they find it in the will to live, and they

reach the determination to carry it far over the world they live

in, in order to break down the wall of darkness."



"that be rather beyond I," say Kurt. "I'm no good at idea. if you

let I keep to people I'm all right. some people do I good; other

people make I feel cramped and choke. I'm not clever enough to know

why. and there be lot of nice people with whom it be quite enough if

one can make they laugh. they don't seem to matter either way."



"you see," say René, "human thought don't shine until it be

energize with feeling and bring into contact with the divine power

that keep thing go. that be what the scared people take for a

remorseless, swift, destroy engine."



"I remember now," say Kurt, "that Linda say you be a mystic. that

be when you be an economist, and I tell she it be nonsense,

because no mystic could read a page of Marshall--wasn't that your fat

book?"



"I don't know whether it's mysticism or not, but I cann't accept

experience without sift it. I suppose if I could do that I should

still be in Thrigsby keep up appearance."



"and Linda would never have write her play. that would have be a

pity."



"how absurd you be, Kurt. but you seem able to sift experience before

it come to you. you seem to be able to do the right thing at the

right time."



"I never worry about it. life seem so simple to I. directly it look

like be complicate, I switch off and try again. the only thing

that worry I be that it look horribly as though I should never

marry. I fall in love all right and somehow that always complicate

thing, so then I fall out of love. I cann't love a complicated woman,

and I haven't meet an uncomplicated one. they all want to feel more

than they do. play-acting, I call it."



Kilner come in then. he greet Kurt morosely, for his clothe show

that he come from the brilliant world, the object of the painter's

particular detestation, and Kurt's manner might easily be take for

that affability which put you at your ease and so disconcertingly

leave you there.



René produce beer and tobacco, make room for Kilner by the fireplace,

and carry on the discussion:



"Kurt say woman want to feel more than they do."



"I don't know about that," reply Kilner, "but my experience be that

they generally feel more than the occasion demand. they willn't leave

anything to the future. I don't think it mean anything except that

they be not particular. they get so precious little out of man that

they grab what they can and let consequence take their chance. I

don't blame they either. they begin by take love seriously, so

seriously that they frighten man and make they run away. I keep clear

of that, not because I'm frightened, but because I cann't find a woman

who haven't be unbalanced by having have some idiot run away from

she."



"that's like Kurt," René throw in. "I expect it be because you both

have a passion for what you be do. it give you a standard. now I

don't pretend to have a passion for taxi-driving, and I suppose that

be why I take seriously thing that you two be able to ignore."



"H'm," growl Kilner, stretch his long leg. "not much in that.

we're both keen on something which demand health and nerve and

self-confidence, a steady hand and a clear head. we cann't afford to

throw our mind and passion into the common stock. I starve. your

friend have the world at his foot. but we're both outside the world,

and have as little truck with it as possible."



"both," say René, "outside the hypnotic circle." he have to explain

that to Kilner, who be excite by the idea.



"I never think of that," he say. "yes, by Jove, it's true. they be

hypnotize, every man Jack of they, rich and poor alike. nothing can

shake it off except the individual will. every artist have to go

through that. and your light, my friend, be nothing but the vision of

the artist. only hypnotism, the absolute surrender of the will, could

account for the horrible distortion that appear in what they call

art, what they call morality, the organization of what they call

society. I know what Fourmy mean. the infernal thing be always

crop up in my work. when an artist have see what he want to

paint, there be always the danger of his be hypnotize by it, and

if he don't shake free of that, he be almost bind to paint it

badly, however skillful he may be. he may paint a picture that people

will like, but he willn't create a work of art."



"ben't it possible for a man to be hypnotize by art?" ask René.



"if he be, he willn't be an artist. I've see student surrender their

will one after the other to Raphael, Rembrandt, Manet, Cezanne, not to

their love of truth and beauty, but to the masterful skill which their

love give they. if they have surrender to their love their own will

would have be strengthen, not destroy. that be always happen:

a manner be imitate, mimic over and over again until at last it be

so vilely do, so remote from the original as to have no charm to

lead even the stupid little draughtsman to make a copy. be it so in

life? I don't know. much the same, perhaps. ben't there imitation

of Byron for generation after he? something vile the brute could

imitate. no one imitate Shelley."



"who be he?" ask Kurt.



Kilner stare at he aghast.



"a poet. _the_ poet."



"I suppose I ought to have know," reply Kurt, chuckle at Kilner's

annoyance, "but you see I be bring up in a german household. there

be a fellow call schiller they use to talk about, and they name a

club after he where they use to eat and drink."



"and what," ask Kilner, "make you take to fly?"



"oh, I don't know. I always love engine and speed. and after all,

you know, it be the only thing to do."



"Kilner think painting be the only thing to do," interject René.



"I mean for I," answer Kurt. "that may be all right for he. I

hate use my brain. thing get muddle at once if I do. I love use

my body so that every muscle be call into play, and I loathe

illness. it's torture to I to be just a little unwell. I get moment

out of my work that make everything else seem nothing at all, just

something to laugh at and be merry over."



"something like that be my life," say Kilner. "a few moment, only

they be not enough in themselves. I have to follow they up in spirit

and express they."



"and I," say René, "be always hunt about for those moment in life

and not find they."



"ever know one?"



"no, but I'm absolutely certain they be there. I never know what I

be after until I meet Kilner. I'm not certain that I know now. but

I've escape social hypnotism so far, and from what you tell I I seem

to be less in danger of hypnotism by my own will than either of you."



"I deny that," cry Kilner angrily. "you be deny the supremacy of

the artist. just because you have dodge a few of the conventional

social obligation, you think----"



"I'm not deny anything of the kind. I grant you the artist be

supreme and his vision the most potent force in human thought, but the

artist also must be a man and must live, or there's an end of his

vision. he must be prepare if necessary to live in the hypnotic

circle, and he must be strong enough to assert his will in it."



"that's stupid," say Kilner. "as if any of we could escape, as if

that ben't precisely what the artist do. your friend here be the

lucky one. he be do a new thing, exercise a new faculty which be

imperfectly develop, so that it be not yet prostitute and abuse,

as art, science, and love have be. he be still a wonder, even to

fool. I who aspire to art, you who aspire to love, be to the world

nothing but idiot who have not the _nous_ to help themselves to the

plunder and comfort ready to their hand. but you and I be braver

than he, for we seek great thing. he be content with physical

health and adventure. that be something. it be a high aim than money

and money's worth. but you and I be definitely pledge to accept only

the happiness we know to be true, and the sorrow to which our will

can consent."



"I dunno," say Kurt, rise, "but I daresay there's a good deal to be

say on the other side. I'm not so sure, though. I know lot of the

other people, and they've never give I such an amusing evening. I

haven't have such a good time since I come to London, where everybody

think of nothing but have a good time. I'll come again. anyhow,

you're not worry about what other folk be think of you, and

that's the only thing I cann't stand. good night."



Kilner be too excited to go to bed, and he keep René up till three

o'clock in the morning talk about a picture he be paint of God

create Eve out of Adam, who be to be show in an attitude of

surrender, though his body give sign of a fearful agony. yet be it

Adam's will to submit to any torture to attain the knowledge of the

almighty joy of creation.



René be curious about the woman's share in the operation, and be

vaguely distressed to find that in Kilner's intention Eve be to be no

more than beautiful.



"but be she to have no share in creation and the joy of it?"



Kilner be pace round the room. he wave his fist in the air.



"don't you see? don't you see?" he shout. "don't you see that we

have create she? even if you drop the myth and take to evolution,

don't you see that woman have be nothing but the creature, the

instrument of reproduction? don't you see that man fall in love with

she, and with his love slowly humanize she, give her intelligence,

humor, charm?"



"might it not be," say René, "that woman be first, and evolve man

to do the work so that she might reserve more energy for conception?

and again, there seem no reason for imagine that either come first.

the difference in sex be a great deal more superficial than be

generally suppose. it must be. it be aggravate by environment and

habit, training and physical process, but it be not a fundamental

difference."



Kilner say:



"you may be right. you sometimes be. but for the purpose of my

picture Eve must be stupidly beautiful, just beauty and nothing else.

if you like I'll paint another Adam and Eve when he have begin to love

she, and through love have come to the desire of knowledge. but I'm

afraid her eye will still be stupid, and she will still think he

rather a fool for desire anything but she."









x



an ENCOUNTER





     Nous ne dépendon point des constitutions ni des chartes, mais

     des instinct et des moeurs.





INTELLECTUAL conversation be a very common vice among man who have

be subject to what be call education. the wage of it be

commonly a brutal onslaught by the body upon the mind. the

intellectual be subject to access of bestiality unknown to the

manual laborer, who for that reason regard the cultured man with more

amusement and contempt than respect and envy.



it be impossible for René to surrender to his exasperated sense. he

be too certain of his goal for that, though he could not on any side

perceive a way that should lead he to it.



Ann be devote herself entirely to Rita and her family. she would

emerge now and then to inspect he, and to make sure that he be not

stray from the path of good sense. she scold he roundly for his

all-night sit with Kilner--(she have see the light window at two

o'clock)--much as the other woman in the mew rate their man for

drinking or bet. having deliver herself, she return to her

usual attitude of indulgence and affection, kiss he, tidy his

hair and go back to her charge. that might have satisfy a navvy,

but it do not satisfy René. he be still mentally inflame with

Kilner's talk, and he want very much to know if Ann think he a

fool for desire anything but she. he be fairly sure she do, but he

want to be thoroughly, painfully sure. the old reaction, you

perceive, from visionary enthusiasm to disgust.



his mood make he thoroughly, savagely approve of Mitcham Mews. it have

character; not a nice character, still an appreciable individual

quality. almost all the other habitation he know of in London be

uniform, disguise. even the delicious little house in Westminster

be consciously georgian or Queen Anne, part of an attitude. . . . he

be weary of it all. he have catch something of Kurt's healthiness

and desire to do something that contain adventure and risk, and the

exercise of more than habitual skill. he hate be at the beck and

call of any man or woman who sign to he, and sometimes he give

himself the pleasure of ignore they if he do not like their look.

once when he have be summon by whistle to a house in bayswater, and

its door be open to emit a large Jew and an expansive Gentile lady

of pleasure bent on an evening's snouting in the trough of the West

End, he put his finger to his nose, and drive off as hard as he

could. that help to put he on well term with his rebellious

physical existence. he have insult it. that be something.



but he could not subdue his excitement. he find two poor little

lover in the Park one night, and take they out into the country free

of charge. that square the outrage on the Jew. it be an active step

toward pure romance. the little lover have occupy less and less

space in the car as he bring they home under the moon, and his

engine sing a droning bass to the song they be live.



and when he reach home he be bring hard up against the fact that

he be Ann's acknowledge lover, and that she be go to have a

child by he. it have, he know, nothing in common with the Jew, but

also, he could not help feel, it have lamentably little in common

with the young lover. it be a fact like the nose on his face, a part

of himself, no get away from it; a fact, however, that bring no

illumination. the nose on his face, he think, must have be once a

brilliant discovery. it must have mean a revelation of nose that,

among other marvel, there be such thing.



there be some z in the fantastic agility of his intelligence, and

this keep he go.







one night as he be pass a glare public-house in Chelsea, he

think he see his father go in by the door of the bar parlor. he draw

up, stop his engine, and follow. sure enough it be his father,

age a little, grayer, but more sprucely clad. Mr. Fourmy be already

the center of a little group stand by the counter--painter,

model, and man who look like actor. he be talk away, exactly

as he use to do in the Denmark, with the same result in laughter and

free drink. René order a Bass and take it to a table at the side,

remove his peaked cap, and wait for his father to recognize he.

this Mr. Fourmy do in a few minute, nod with perfect coolness,

and go on with his talk. he keep it up for a few moment long,

"touch" one of his hearer for half-a-crown, and, that do, let the

conversation flag, the group dissolve, and come over to his son.



they shake hand. René grin as he see his father's amazement at his

clothe.



"well, I'm jiggere," say Mr. Fourmy, "I be fair flummoxed when I

see your face. I don't notice your tog. I never think you would

come to this."



"I shouldn't have do any good in your profession, father."



"so you've learn some sauce. that's new."



"I've learn a good many thing, father, and unlearn more."



"have you learn what a rotten hole the world be?"



"no. I like it too much to think ill of it."



"then you haven't have a really bad time. I hope you'd have a filthy

time. you need it badly, to let some of the gas out of you."



"it's be bad enough," say René. "and there's bad ahead. be you

live in London?"



"I've be here some time. it's a dung-heap. I shall go over to Paris.

I'd rather die there than anywhere. there be french blood in we, I

believe, and I never could stomach the English and their hypocritical

way. what do they say of Gladstone? 'play with the ace up his

sleeve, and pretend God put it there.' that's the english way. I like

blackguard. I'm a blackguard myself, but I think God ought to be keep

out of it. . . . you're look fit."



"I'm fit enough. George tell I you'd leave. I'd like to know why. I

don't want to open old score or inquire into your private affair,

but it seem to I that my mother be very good to you when you come

back."



"Well---- it be the same old trouble. religion. marriage be none too

easy, as you seem to have find. you can worry through if you play

fair and fight through the emotional storm that threaten to drown

you. now it ben't fair for a man to draw off his emotional

disturbance in drink or money-making or gambling or flirtation; and

it ben't fair for a woman to draw off her in religion. woman be

devil at that. they go off to church and come back as cold as ice,

with their hand full of little parcel of principle and precept,

all forgiveness and humility and submission and iron virtue. some man

can live with it. I cann't. that's the whole story."



"thank you," say René.



"now, don't think hardly of your mother. she be bring up to think

all man horrible, and she never get over it. I be wild and

idiotically affectionate, and couldn't understand why she hold back

so. when I do understand, the mischief be do; she be hurt and

scare, and keep you boy from I. don't want you ever to be man--as

if she could prevent it! she do try with I when I come back. perhaps

she'd see and feel more than I think. it ben't all church nonsense

about accept your husband, however loathsome he may be to you. your

go off like that set she back again, and back she go to her

church. she think it be all my doing, and perhaps it be."



"no, no," say René.



"I think it be. I ought to have see that I ben't fit company for

anyone I love. too far go, I suppose, too far go."



"I'd like you to know that I'm glad it happen. it have save I from

go through life with my eye shut. I've meet good people and

understand their goodness. and I've meet miserable failure and see

how even they have some sweetness in their life. and I owe it to you,

father, that I have see the wildness of life beneath the trumpery

policing we call civilization, and now I feel that I shall never be

blind to it."



"that's all right," say his father, "if you don't let the wildness

break up your own self-control. that's what happen to I. Queer how

clever two man can be when they understand each other. can you lend I

half-a-sovereign, and then I'll have enough to take I over to Paris?"



René give his father ten shilling in silver, they shake hand, the

old man pat the young's shoulder, and they quit the bar

parlor together.







as René be start his engine, a lady come up and ask he to take

she to an address in Holland Park. he do so. the lady look at he

curiously as she pay the fare, walk to the gate of the house,

turn, hesitate, then come back.



"excuse I," she say, "you be so like someone I use to know. ben't

you Mr. Fourmy?"



he look at she, seem to remember she, but could not place she,

though he think dimly of Scotland.



"yes," he say, "that's my name."



"mine," she say, "be Rachel Bentley. I'm married now. I recognize

you at once. I be so interested come along. I hope nothing has----"



"oh, no," say he, smile, "I never have any money, you know. I

drift into this. I like it."



"I only think," she say vaguely. "I mean-- oh, it don't matter.

I'm glad it ben't that. good-by."



she seem embarrassed by her own generous impulse, and it be a

relief to he when she turn away. he wait for a moment to see if

it be her own house. she open the door with a key. he take note of

the number, and, as he pass, of the cab-rank at the end of the road.



it be some time before he know why he have do this, many hour

before he be confront with the image of Cathleen Bentley, in the

wood of Scotland; Cathleen shake the bracken from her hair, smile

up at he in the musing, perplexed happiness of her youth.









XI



VISION





     pollá d'odous èlthonta phrontido planois [transliterate from

     the Greek]





there come a letter from Joe to say that he have obtain work with a

good firm within a week of landing, and would soon be able to save or

borrow enough to pay for his wife and child to join he. Rita, who

have sink into a despondent lethargy, be rouse to excitement and

begin to thrill the child with tale of the adventure before they.

she quickly recover her health and energy, and wrest the control

of her affair from Ann, who do not like it. feel run high, and

thing come to such a pass that the two woman quarrel, and Rita so

far forget herself as to fle a sneer about marriage-line at her

friend. Ann come run to René for comfort, and try to enrage he

at the tale of such base ingratitude. he be not to be enrage,

however, for he have be ponder the subject of gratitude and come

to the conclusion that he who lay claim to it forfeit it. he try

to explain to Ann that she have overdo her kindness and should have

know the moment to withdraw. she be dismayed.



"of course," she cry, "you would take her side against mine."



"it ben't a question of side. you couldn't expect she to let you go

on run her house forever."



"a shiftless little fool like that! I wouldn't have minded if she'd

only say 'thank you.' not a word do she say, but just fling you in

my face. and now you say she's right! I wish you'd never come, I do."



"Ann, dear, don't be silly."



"I do wish it with all my heart and soul. you've make I be different.

you've make I want to do good thing, and then you're nothing but a

shadow slip away. and, oh! it do hurt so."



"dear, dear Ann, don't you see that Rita want to get rid of you and

don't know how to without a quarrel?"



"why should she want to get rid of I? nice mess she'd have be in

without you and I."



"you go and see she to-morrow, and you'll find she all right."



"I don't want to see she ever again, nasty ungrateful rubbish!"



"then I'll go and see she."



"you willn't see I again if you do. I can up and off when I like. we're

not married, remember."



"you leave I nothing to say. I've learn a good deal from the people

in the mew, but not their way of quarrel."



he have be irritate into the reproof and be sorry as soon as it be

utter. she be furious. never before have she lose her temper with

he, though they have have wordy passage. now she turn and rent he:



"I don't believe you're a man at all, and I don't believe you've get a

heart. squabble, you call it? I wish you would. you sit there with

your fishy eye stare at nothing, thinking, thinking, think.

what's the good of it all? who's right and who's wrong? what's it

matter? if you love I I'd be right whatever I do. go on! look at

I! you don't know I, don't you? I'm the woman you've be live

with these last two year. that's who I be. if you're sick of I, why

don't you say so? I'm no lady, thank God. I do know when I'm not

want. I'm not go to stay with any man on God's earth when he

don't want I. I've nearly leave you time and time again, when you've

look at I like that."



he brush his hand across his eye. he be feel sick and daze.

she look so ugly.



she go on:



"I've put up with thing because of you, I have. you don't know what

people say, or care. you willn't never know what they say, you're that

bloom innocent, think everybody mean well. I've put up with

thing, and be glad of 'em, and I've put up with thing from you

that I couldn't have believe any woman would ever have to put up

with----"



he say quietly:



"have you do?"



she gasp at he, try to stop, but because she have begin to enjoy

her fury, she force the note and scream at he:



"you want a virgin saint to live with you, not a woman."



now she stop, aghast at herself, horrify by the pain and disgust

she have bring into his eye. he could hardly speak, and jerk out:



"I don't know. . . . I don't know I'd do all that to you, Ann. I'm

so terribly sorry. I seem to make a mess of thing always."



she have turn she back on he, and he know that she be weep. he

have no desire to console she. he wish only to get away. neither

could break the heavy silence that follow the storm. he leave she,

though he could hardly move, so acute be his physical exhaustion.

grope his way along the wall of the mew, he count the door until

he come to Kilner's. the room be empty. he fling himself on the bed

and lie chilled and rack, think only of Ann weeping, unmoved,

detach, feel neither sorrow nor hate. she have rob he of all

capacity of emotion, all power of thought. the storm have be so

unlocked for. Rita be so remote from they. why should Rita and

anything she say or do have let loose upon they so violent a

convulsion?



Ann weeping, Ann silent, so appallingly silent. her silence weigh on

he more than her word. Desire grow in he slowly and painfully, a

desire to understand. he remember exactly what he have say to she,

and the word seem meaningless. her silence have kill they. they

be genuine as he speak they. speak they, he have surmount his

disgust and horror at her rage. yet there be an even more burning

fury in her silence. she be weep; Ann, the gay little comrade, be

weep, and her tear have move he not at all.



he begin to think again, and to think with a new power. his body be

cold and aching. his mind seem to leave it. his mind play about

Ann, the figure of Ann, weep in silence. it play maliciously

about she, strip she, let down her hair, reveal she nakedly as

woman, short-legged, wide-hippe, small-breast, not so unlike a boy

save for the excrescence and distortion create by her physical

function. that be too horrible. with an effort of will he brush it

aside, wrench away from its fascination. her individuality be

restore to she and a little warmth creep into his vision of she. he

be not sensible of her charm, and he be free of all lover's memory

of her attraction. his mind go probe into her, see how it

delight in impression, but could make no store of they; how she

delight have be increase by love and how she have use her love to

aggravate her sensibility to the point of intoxication; how the fierce

hunger for intoxication have desire to feed on he, and how her love

for he have make her desire to bring he to the same condition. he see

her innocence; how free she be of deliberate purpose and set greed;

how animal and yet how little sensual; and how she be snare in her

own ignorance of love and its way. trap she be and baffle. she

could have be so happy with a mate as ignorant as herself, as

willing to be snare. they could so easily have perish together, and

sink into resignation, she and such a mate. and inexorable nature have

make she fruitful, to bring forth in her rage, when she would be spend

with tear at the mesh that have catch she. she would go on

tearing, tear, and he could spare her nothing. his strength could

not sustain she. she desire only his weakness, to have he with she,

catch and struggle; to have he by her side, spend and break, to

take comfort in the child.



he seem to himself to be so near this fate, so nearly catch, that

he cry out:



"I will not! I will not!"



for a moment the word startle he and shake he out of his stupor.

then his agony come back with a redoubled fury, and in the desperate

hope of fight it back he let word come tumble out, hurl they

from he:



"I will not be use for a creation in which I know no joy. I will not

cloak brute creation with a seem joy distil by mind and time and

custom. I will not be use up and break and cover indecency with

false decency, nor be comfort with the life that have steal my own.

my life shall give life, and for the giving have only the more to

give. that which I have do with the spirit not awaken in I be

do and no long a part of I. that which the spirit do in I

live on forever and ever."







Kilner find he lie in the darkness, stare with vacant eye. he

be terrify. René look so deathly. he sit by his side and chafe

his hand, and caress he tenderly, soothe he, speak to he in

little staccato phrase, and go on with they until he seem to

listen:



"the lamp ben't light to-night. it's very dark. do you hear? star

shine. wonderful star. well than lamp. I say, star be well

than lamp."



at length René say:



"yes. star be much well than lamp. lamp be only to prevent

people commit a nuisance. star don't give a damn if they do."



"I quite agree," say Kilner. "drink this brandy."



when he have drink, René say:



"woman ought to be like star."



"Rubbish!" grunt Kilner. "woman ought to be like woman."



"I've be try to understand thing."



"awful mistake. a fellow like you cann't understand thing. he can only

live they. that's why you have such a rotten time. no power of

expression. if only you could write or draw, or play some

instrument--though I hate music. but if you could, you wouldn't be

you."



"you're a clever fellow, Kilner. I wish you'd tell I what's the

matter with I."



"too much vitality for a society which dislike it, as it always will

as long as it prefer the shadow to the substance, bad art to good,

and imitation of thing to the thing themselves."



René look disappointed. Kilner pat his hand.



"too intellectual! personal, then. what's wrong with you, my friend,

be that you be out for the grand passion. it don't happen more than

about once in two hundred year. why? I don't know. it depend on two

people, you see, and I suppose two first-rate people don't often meet.

the rest of we lie about our love affair to make they tolerable. I

lie that night when I first meet you. I want to make an impression.

the only reason for lie I ever know. I tell you my one decent love

affair last for five week. it don't. it last for exactly five

second, the time of the kiss under the almond-tree in which it be

bear and die. nothing more be possible, she be she and I be I.

it be a decent business because we don't try to pretend it be

anything else. so far as it go, it be so true as to make falseness

impossible. we shall both live on that for the rest of our life. just

enough to make marriage impossible for we. we shall both marry someone

else for company, and as a defense against a grow tendency to

promiscuity. you don't seem to have that tendency. life's too serious

for you. you be incapable of a love affair without an attempt to make

it a spiritual thing. where we get excited, you get exalt, which be

infernally bad luck on the average woman. Feelin' well?"



"yes," say René, "but you do talk a lot of drivel."



"Hurray!" cry Kilner. "he's begin to find himself. I wonder if

you'll ever see how funny you be?"



"I wonder?" say René, and he turn over, and in one moment be fast

asleep.









XII



SETTLEMENT





     our conscious action be as a drop in the sea as compare with

     our unconscious one.





ANN come round in the morning, very petulant and angry because she have

lose half-a-sovereign. this have so upset she that, once she be

satisfied that René be not so ill as he look, she have no other

interest, and could only give vent to her annoyance in little

splutter of irritation. she sit by René and talk about it until he

have to ask she to go away.



"all right," she say, "I know when I'm not want. but I do hate

do a thing like that. I cann't think how I do it."



"there be once," say Kilner, see how she be fret his friend,

"a crooked woman who live in a crooked house, and she lose a crooked

sixpence."



"I know that story. only it ben't a crooked woman. it be Mrs.

Vinegar, and she live in a bottle, and she lose a sixpence and break

the bottle sweep for it. oh, Renny, he think I'm like Mrs.

Vinegar! I be awful, I know."



René smile at Kilner. Ann say:



"if there's any overtime to-day, I'll take it. will you--be back

to-night?"



"I think I'll stay here if you don't mind."



"Will you-- you'll let I come and see you?" she seem to appeal to

Kilner. he nod. his consent comfort she, and she rise to go. René

take her hand and say:



"Ann, dear, I want you to believe that whatever happen I be always

your friend."



she answer:



"I see Rita this morning. she's all right."



"that's good."



"I be awful, ben't I? something seem to come over I. I don't

want to be a beast, really I don't. only I do hate it when you can

say what you mean and I cann't. I do want to make it up, Renny. only it

don't seem like ordinary row, do it?"



"come and see I to-night, Ann. you might tell old Martin I cann't take

the car out to-day."



"you're not ill, be you?"



"no. only what you'd call queer."



Kilner follow she out.



"what's the matter with he?" she ask.



"you."



"oh!" she be dismayed.



"I don't mean it in any insulting sense. his affection and your

don't work in the same way."



"I don't understand."



"that's it."



"I do understand more than you think, Mr. Kilner. if a feller want to

leave a girl, I say she's a fool to try and keep he. I don't believe

Renny's that sort. I don't believe he'd see a girl leave."



"he's do it once."



"oh! she! that's different. she ben't fond of he like I be."



"you don't know."



"don't I? besides, she be one of your lady. I'm sorry for they,

always keep one eye lifting on what other lady be go to

think."



"suppose he do leave you."



"that's not your business, Mr. Kilner. if he do, I'd know you'd be

make he upset with your talk."



"it ben't all talk."



"what be it, then?"



"something just as deep as what you call love; probably deep."



they have walk down the street lead to the mew, and now come to

the corner. Ann stop and stand hesitate. her hand go up, and

she pull at her low lip and shift her foot uneasily.



"I know girl be leave," she mutter, "girl like I. they pull

through somehow. but I don't think they be fond of the man like I be

of he. and you say he's fond of I. I know there ben't anybody else."



"be that all you care about?"



"he's never look at anybody else. I'd feel well if he do. what

call have he to go and make trouble if there ben't anybody else? lot

of girl would have chuck work when they'd find a man like that to

live on. they get sick of be on their own. I've be on my own

since I be sixteen, and I couldn't give it up for anybody."



"and yet you expect he to give it up?"



"no, I don't. I expect he to stand by I, that's all. I have my

feeling too. he's not the only person in the world with feeling. I'm

very fond of he, Mr. Kilner, but sometimes I think he's a bit soft,

and I do hate a softy. Ooh! I'll be late."



she walk swiftly away. very young she look. she move not

gracefully, but with a birdlike energy that be pleasing. Kilner,

survey her figure, approve of it, until he come to her shoulder.

they be slightly stoop and rounded, and she swing they awkwardly

as she walk.



"ugly and weak," say Kilner to himself. "stoop over an infernal

machine. take something out of she. not her spirit. give she a

cramp habit of body. nonsense. no good try to account for it. he

be simply not in love with she, never have be, nor she with he."







he go up to his room and find it empty. no René. no sign of he at

Ann's. he have not be see at the yard. his car be out with a

temporary driver. a child in the mew have see he in the main road.

he have go into a tobacconist's and then climb on a bus. the

tobacconist remember his come in to get change for a sovereign. he

look rather strange and excited. "it's a fine day," say the

tobacconist. "fine, be blow," reply René. "it's as empty as hell."

"I wouldn't say that," say the tobacconist, "with the sun shine."

"but I do say it," insist René. "you couldn't call that shine."

and then another customer come in.



Kilner have some knowledge of his friend's way and haunt, but he

seek in vain.







he meet Ann in the evening with his news. she look scared and

protest:



"he's go to his home. he must have go to his home. you could tell

he be always fond of his mother."



"what make you think that?"



"he wouldn't go anywhere else."



"do he talk about his home?"



"hardly a word. but he tell I he'd meet his father. he's go to his

home. he'll be back."



"I don't feel so sure about that."



"well, I know he'd never go back to the old life, book and all that.

he say he never would. he say he'd learn more about econ-- what

d'you call it?"



"Economics."



"that's it. he say he'd learn more through be with I than in

four year' work at book and lecture."



"I should call that an exaggerated statement."



"he'll come back. I know he wouldn't see I left."



they meet Martin roll to his home. when they tell he, he screw a

chuckle out of himself and squeeze his eye up tight.



"onsettle," he say, "onsettle. I see it a-come on. think I to

myself, I think, when I see he come in in the morning: 'brewing

up for trouble, you be, young man; but whether it'll be glory to God

or down with they as pay wage, or what, I don't know.' I be go

to say he'd well have a holiday, and now he's snoofe it."



"he'll come back," say Ann.



"don't you go count on that, my pretty. he ben't our class, and

never could be. you've only to see he drink to know that. if he be

our class he'd be worse'n the rest of we. don't you go count on

that."



"he'll come back. he ben't a sneak."



"when it come to woman," say Martin, "any man's neither more nor

less than what he can be. but if you find it lonely wait you can

come and sit with I. I ben't a-go to see you let down, my pretty,

not for want of money or a help hand. if your heart's set on he, I

cann't do nothing there; but, Lor' bless you, heart ben't everything."



"good for you, Mr. Martin," say Kilner.



"oh, I know a thing or two." the fat man wink. "you don't have to do

with 'orse for nothing. I have a 'orse once take a uncommon fancy to a

goat there be in the mew. have to see it every day. the goat be

sell, and that there 'orse pine away. I keep on a-telling of he that

no goat in the world be worth lose a feed of oats for, and at last

he get so precious hungry he believe it, and I never do see a 'orse

so glad to eat. fancy come and go, but your belly let you know it's

there till you die. will you come in, too, Mr. Kilner?"



"no, thank. I must get to bed early. work in the morning."



when Kilner have go, old Martin say to Ann with an affectionate

touch on her arm:



"that young man have a 'ead screw on his shoulder."



"he's all head," say Ann, "and I hate he."



"Lor'! there's talk. how woman do like to make a man wriggle. I

never be much in the wriggling line myself, not be the build for

it. but a 'ead's worth have, too. I never have much 'ead myself. too

affectionate myself. what a pretty little thing you be, to be sure.

feel it bad, my pretty?"



"hellish bad," reply Ann.



"there, there."



"I never think I'd feel anything so bad. I want to hate he, but I

cann't. I do hate that Kilner. I'd like to see he dead."



"there, there. 'orse have wunnerful strong dislike, too."



Ann say:



"it's enough to make a woman scream, the way man talk."



Old Martin's huge face expand in astonishment. he reach out his

hand for a pipe, fill it, convey it to his mouth, and sink into a

brooding silence. he break it at length to say:



"woman have a great scorn o' man, and I don't know but what they

deserve it."



"if there's one thing I hate," say Ann, "it's be dish. I suppose

I always know it couldn't last. it be too wonderful. you don't know

how kind he be in his way, never want anything you don't want

yourself. and that be awful, too, because it make you afraid to want

anything. it seem to shame you. he be always shame I, and I do

feel awful sometimes. but it be lovely when we go for ride on top

of bus."



this appreciation of René's quality as a housemate seem to bore

old Martin, for he take up a newspaper and begin make note and

calculation from the bet column.



"Hullo!" he say. "this must be some connection of his. 'Miss Janet

Fourmy of Elgin, N.B.' 'Miss Fourmy,' it say, 'be a distinguished

german and italian scholar, a Goethe translator, a contributor to the

scottish Encyclo--' what you may call it. 'in her youth she be

familiar with the famous Edinburgh circle which gather round _maga_

and do much valuable philological work, and be for a time governess

to the late Archbishop of Canterbury who never cease to express his

admiration for her intellect and gift. she have many friendship with

the interesting figure of her day, and it be believe that she have

leave some record of they.'"



"he tell I about she," say Ann. "he use to go and stay with she,

and she use to read an italian book call Dante, with the page

upside down. she be very old, but good to he, and she think Lord

John Russell be in love with she."



"Lord who?"



"I don't know who he be, but that's the name. Renny say it be her

weakness. she live all alone, and it's very dreary in the winter in

Scotland. she have meet a lot of lord in her time, and she like to

remember more than she'd meet. and she'd never marry, and Renny say

she think it sound well to account for it by say that Lord John

Russell be in love with she. it ben't always him----"



"well! the thing woman do think of. I shall say I remain a widower

because of Madame Tussaud."



"she be fond of Renny," say Ann, and that seem on her lip the

noble possible epitaph for old Janet. she add:



"perhaps that's where he's go."



"I shouldn't think so. it cost a pile o' money to go to Elgin, N.B.

it's a good deal north o' Bedford, which be the farth I ever go

with the 'orse. that be in eighteen-eighty-four."



he settle down for a story. fortunately for Ann, he be allow to

get no far than clear his throat, when he be cut short by the

entry of Casey.



"evening, miss," say he. "I see your young man in the neighborhood

of Holland Park, stand on a street corner. I nod to he, but he

look clean through I. very queer, I think. we've be good pal.

when I come back an hour later he be still there. I be empty that

time. so I stop. 'keep the pavement warm,' I say, cheerful

like. 'try to warm myself,' say he. 'draughty weather to be do

that in the street,' I say. 'you go home, Casey,' he say. 'oh,

well,' I think, 'we're all fool, and every fool to his own folly.'

so I leave he. I come home that way just now and he'd go."



"we been talk about he all evening," say Martin, "I and Annie

here."



"he's one of the good hand at an engine that ever I see. and that

bring I to what I want to talk to you about, guvnor. I be to see

the doctor again, and he say London's do I a bit of no good, and

if I go on with it, it'll do I in. now I've get an idea. leastway it

ben't all my idea but mostly hisn, young Fourmy's."



"if you know about 'orse, there's a good livery at Barnet."



Casey persist:



"my idea be this: there's just a few want motor in London.

something's happen in the place. well, one night in the cab-rank

young Fourmy, Young Earnest, as we call he, take out the map of fifty

mile round, and he point out how the railway go out of London like

spoke of a wheel. between the spoke, he say, be where London be

go to live if it be make possible, and motor ought to make it

possible. he say if you choose your place properly, so as to link up

the main road and two railway, you'd be bind to make a living.

there's enough house already. soon there'll be factory and work

out there. then there'll be more house. I don't believe it at first.

I say: 'but if all the people live out there, what's to become of

dear old London?' 'London,' he say, 'will be a clearing-house and

capital, a real center.' I don't understand altogether what he be

talk about, but I've be out to see for myself, and what he say

be happen. all the little country town have cinema and new shop,

and in the suburb there be whole street of house empty. I'm no

good for the West End traffic, and I want to try my luck at the other,

if I can get hold of any capital."



"ah! Capital!" say Martin. "that want a bit of get, capital

do."



clearly he have not understand a word of what Casey be talk about.

he have his own idea of London, and be not go to change it or admit

the possibility of change. from one year's end to the other he never

leave the mew. his yard might actually be fill with motor-car, but

for he it be really a sanctuary of the 'orse. their smell still

clung about it. the one horse he have leave have little else to do but

provide the smell.



however, he like Casey, and be distressed to find he take to

idea:



"don't you go worry your head about what be and be not, Casey.

head ben't make for that. head be make to have eye in, and

mouth, the same as 'orse. all you get to do, all any man's get to

do, be to earn his keep and pay his shot, same as a 'orse. when he's

do that, 'e's get to behave nice to they as be in stable with he.

and every now and then he get his little canter and may be turn out

to grass."



"I'm no Nebuchadnezzar," retort Casey, "and I want to be on my own."



"no man can be on his own if he ben't get no capital."



"that's what I've be say."



"ah!" say Martin mysteriously, to baffle Casey's obstinacy. "ah! that

want get, that do. if it be 'orse now----"



Casey see that it be hopeless. nothing would budge the fat man from

his yard. car! they be a necessary evil, not to be encourage

beyond the limit of necessity.



Ann want to know more about René, but Casey could tell she nothing.

he repeat his eulogy of young Fourmy's skill as a driver, and add:



"we've get have-be gentleman on the rank, score of they. but

they're not like he. it's a treat to hear he talk, it be. they

want he, a lot of they do, to pitch into the union, but he don't

seem to think much of trade-union. he say they cann't do anything

yet, in the way of fight I mean, because they want to make we all

middle-class, and that ben't good enough. if I could get he to go

along with I!"



Ann say:



"he haven't be home all day. don't he say anything to you?"



"he do say one day: 'I'm get sick of this, cart man and woman

like cattle.' it seem to have get on his nerve a bit. too good for

it, I suppose."



"it would be a good thing," say she, "if we go into the country,

though I don't know what I'd do. I do love London and all the light

and that, and the shop."



say casey:



"you should see the night in Africa. some part you can walk a

hundred mile and never see a light. nothing but star, and few of

they than we have here. flat and empty as the sea some of the country,

go on forever and ever in the darkness."



Ann shiver:



"Ugh!" she say. "it make I think of Renny. I don't know why. he'd

like it, I think."



"yes. I think he like big thing."



it be late. near twelve o'clock. the lamp in the mew flicker as

Ann return to her room. the post have bring a note from René,

post in the north of London. he say: "please tell old Martin I

shall be away three day. I will come back then. I think I have it all

settle in my mind. I want to get it clear for you, too. you have be

so good to I, my dear, and I owe you so much.--R."



there be also a letter for he. she struggle against the desire to

open it, and conquer it for that night. the next morning, however,

the temptation be too strong for she, and she steam it open. it be

from a writer to the Signet in Edinburgh to say that the late Miss

Janet Fourmy have leave René the residue of her estate, which, after

certain small legacy have be pay, would amount to nearly four

thousand pound. the house in Scotland would also be his, and all the

deceased lady's personal effect.



Ann go to her work that day shiver with excitement. René's

enormous wealth frighten she. she could put up a fight against his

intelligence, his brooding, his silence; but against this she feel

powerless, and know within her heart that her battle be already lose.



she be a forewoman now, and she give the girl under her the bad

day they ever remember.









BOOK three



CATHLEEN BENTLEY









     so between they love do shine

       that the truth see his right

       flaming in the phoenix' sight,

     either be the other's mine.



     property be thus appal

       that the self be not the same;

       single nature's double name

     neither two nor one be call.









I



meeting



     he trieth the sea after many shipwreck; and beat still on that

     door which he never saw open.



when Ann and Kilner leave René, he be fill with anger against they,

first of all, fleetingly, with the petulance of a sick man at be

leave alone without his having express a wish for it, and then at

their treat he as a sick man when he be nothing of the kind, but

only pass through a crisis in which not even sympathy could help

he much. Kilner be so cocksure just because he have a peculiar

delight in put paint on canvas; and Ann--poor dear little

Ann!--she love to have thing and people at her mercy and to keep

they there. and she could make no attempt to understand they, because

if she do so, that would be to believe in they and let they be free

to work out their own destiny. he know how little freedom she would

even grant himself, and his mind, spur by revolt into high

activity, go straight to its mark, the place where freedom most

clearly promise--absurdly, the door through which he have see Rachel

Bentley pass. that lead to his clear and most beautiful memory, the

day in Scotland, the happy boyhood when delight have grow from year

to year, to flower at last in the coming of Cathleen. very vivid be

his recollection of their first meeting in his aunt's house: himself

very coltish and shy, she charmingly self-conscious and alert. it be

the first year the Bentleys have take the big house, and she have come

round by the road. his aunt have ask he to show Cathleen the short

cut through the wood. she chatter until his shyness overcome he,

and then they walk in a miserable silence. he comfort himself by

regard she as a little girl, which to his young prudishness make

his involuntary adoration of her beauty legitimate. he could never

take his eye off she, and she begin to amuse herself with he and try

her coquetry upon his oversensitiveness. he suffer terribly. she

be catch in her own wile, and she too suffer. it be a relief to

both when, the first year, they part.



the next year she be not so lovely, and have lose or disguise she

wildness. it be not long before he discover that he could rouse it

in she. then begin their meeting in the wood.



at the thought of she now his affection for Ann, his warm regard for

Kilner fade away. they be meaningless without she. he know not

where she be. his only clue be Rachel. Cathleen, too, might go to

that house. he would wait until she come. if the bad come to the

bad, he would ask Rachel. he must satisfy himself that he be not

cover that sweet past with illusion. the meeting with Rachel have

bring it all flood back to bring he to acute discontent with the

present. it be one thing to sigh sentimentally over happy day. to do

that be to obscure they. it be quite another thing to have happy

day demand egress through his life, grow through the thick-set

year like a tree through a wall.



he steal away directly Kilner and Ann be out of sight, find he have

only a sovereign, and turn into the tobacconist's round the corner

for change. it be also a news-agent's, and he buy a newspaper and,

as he be bear along by the bus, read of his aunt's death. strange,

he think, that all his thought should be cluster round her house

just then. the wise old woman, with her dear foible: what have she

long life be? the end of it be sweet and true and full of grace.

not only his mother have be help in her trouble. that he know. the

old lady's meager income become supple and elastic under the touch of

generous charity that never spoil its gift with the demand for

gratitude. she once say to rené: "well be ungrateful than cramp

with gratitude." Read Dante upside down she might in her old age, but

she could quote he from her heart:





     Ed io a lui: Io mi son un che, quando

     Amor mi spira, noto, ed a quel modo

     che ditta dentro, vo significando.





she have make René learn a little italian and get that by heart. it

begin now to have a meaning for he, and he repeat it to himself as

he come near the road in which stand Rachel's house.



he take up his stand at the corner and wait. he have be there

nearly an hour when a car drive up and a spruce, middle-aged gentleman

get out, walk up the path, and admit himself with a key. Rachel's

husband? far too old for she.



another hour's waiting. a young woman come along the road. René

think for a moment it be she, and his heart leap. she do not see

he. she turn in at the gate, knock at the door, and be admit.

no, he decide, that be not Cathleen.



then he tell himself he be a fool, that only by the unlikeliest

chance would she be there to-day. he walk away, but be back again

in ten minute. in another twenty the door open and the young woman

come out. she stand for a moment at the gate. it could not be

Cathleen, she be too tall and slender. in his eager hope and

curiosity he move toward she. he be not a yard away from she when

she turn and their eye meet. neither stir. they be still by

the wonder of it. a spell be on they, and slowly in both grow the

dreadful knowledge that a word or a gesture would break it. in his

heart René pray: "oh! let it break into happiness," and his will

leap into be and decide that it must be so and he laugh. she

say:



"oh! rené!"



it be no echo of the old cry, but the same fill with a new music.



their hand meet in the conventional salute. she say:



"I have be think of you so much."



"much?" say he. "I have be think of nothing else. and I be not

sure that it be you when you go in just now."



"I see you, but I don't recognize you. Rachel tell I she have meet

you."



"do she tell you where?"



"I have to dig it out of she. she be very hushed and secret. Rachel be

funny. I've be look at taxi-driver ever since. they be a very

plain lot of man."



"where do you live now?"



"in Bloomsbury. I be work for my living, you know."



"I'm glad of that, but I shouldn't have think it necessary."



"my father die."



"I hear that."



"he leave nearly all his money to another woman: another family. I

suppose he like they well than we. I have a row with my mother over

it. it appear she know all about it and never minded. only when it

come to she have less money than she think, she develop a horrid

conscience and denounce my father to we. I haven't think about such

thing, but I be fond of my father, and it ben't fair to vilify he

after his death. I don't understand it in the very least, but I stand

up for he, and of course I say a lot of stupid, cruel thing. I go

to see the other woman. she be quite old, old than mother, rather

vulgar, but jolly and warm-hearted and kind, and, from the way she

talk, I could see she really do love my father and be very proud

of he. you know, he make his own way. his father be a barber in

Rickham, in Hertfordshire. she come from there, too. I tell mother I

have see she, and she be furious, and say I be too young to know

anything about such thing. I point out that she have tell I, and

she declare she never imagine that I would understand. then she put

it all down to my taste for low company, mean you. that annoy I,

and I tell she you be a very learned and brilliant person. she say

Thrigsby ben't a real university, and its degree do not count. you

ben't a gentleman, and it be terrible how all the profession be

be invade by little whipper-snapper with a thin coating of book

knowledge. so I ask her point-blank why she marry my father, and

she say he be extremely successful. Father have leave we each two

hundred pound. I ask for that, and say I would earn my own living.

I should have a year in which to look round. she say no one would

ever marry I if I work. I tell she that the little I have learn of

her life don't make I anxious to be marry. she become very solemn

on that, and tell I I couldn't possibly remain unmarried, because I

be too pretty. I say I think woman could look after themselves,

and obviously other arrangement be possible, and sometimes more

profitable. that be an odious thing to say, but we have irritate each

other out of all decency, and for vulgarity the other woman be an

angel to we. I couldn't stay with my mother; I have say too much. she

know if I stay it would make it hard for she to play the devoted

widow; and also, if she could be the break-hearted parent, it would

give she a good start. she pounce on that, and let I go with she

most lugubrious blessing and most ghoulish doubt. she prophesy

almost gleefully that I would go to the bad, and help I along by

treat I as if I have already do so. then I plunge into the

wicked world. it be very disappointing. I have be lead to suppose

that no woman be safe alone. the wicked world have absolutely

disregard I. occasionally some miserable little man or pale-face

boy have sidle up to I in the street and say, 'excuse I, miss'--or

'haven't we meet before?' they don't alarm I. I say I willn't excuse

they or that I haven't meet they, and they look very comically cast

down, and say 'Beg pardon' and shuffle off. sometimes I be so sorry

for they that I feel inclined to run after they and tell they to cheer

up, because it's quite easy to find affection if you only set about it

the right way. they think it's adventure they want, but it ben't. it's

only affection, some sort of human contact. I understand that, because

I too be lonely. but those poor little man be so dull. I cann't bear

be dull, and I hate to see it in other; I hate to see they

settle down to it. that's what mother want I to do. I might have

do it, too, if father haven't die. you know it seem quite pleasant

to flirt and spend money, and find a husband and go on flirt and

spend money. I'd never see anyone die before, and it do make I

feel ashamed. all of we be change by it for a little. we become

very shy of each other, and want to be nice, and begin to talk about

the thing we really think and feel inside ourselves. then all that

slip away, and we be just the same as before until we talk

about father's money, and then we be all angry. I suppose I haven't

quite recover from the strain of his death, because all that hurt

I, and I could only think that I have really love he, and might have

love he much more if thing have be somehow different. and then

when I see that kind, common woman it open up another kind of life

go on apart from money and position and amusement, all the thing

we be so proud of. it horrify I at first, of course. it be

dreadful because it be secret. in itself-- well, anyhow, the only

other thing in my life that be the least bit like it and could stand

against it be my absurd little affair with you in Scotland. so you

see, I have begin to think of you even before Rachel meet you."



"Absurd!" René wince at the word.



"ben't it? I couldn't have go on with it, you know. it make I feel

so helpless, and I feel so mean, let you care so much. your

letter use to frighten I."



"but you care for I?"



"yes, yes; with one eye on you and the other on my mother."



René think that over uneasily. he be disconcert by this cool

young woman. the enchantment of their meeting have rouse and

invigorate he, and, as usual, he have surrender to the emotional

flux of the encounter and be prepare for wonder, which, as usual,

do not come, or, at least, be not palpable. his eye never leave she

face. it be light with a smile of happiness, an incommunicable joy.



Unconscious of their surrounding they have reach Kensington Gardens,

and stand by the railing outside the Palace look over the Round

Pond. a gray October day: the tree gaunt and shabby; the heavy cloud

tumble and rag. a cold northw wind be blow. René's ungloved

hand be blue.



he grip Cathleen's arm, and she turn her happy eye on he.



"that's good," she say. "you be so strong then."



"Cathleen, I mustn't lose sight of you again. you make I forget

everything that have be, though that ben't quite what I want to

say."



"I shalln't lose sight of you, my dear. it don't matter what happen

to either of we."



René say:



"a good deal have happen to I."



"tell I."



he tell she. she receive his story in silence. at last she say:



"if you have a friend, it don't matter what he do. all the same,

it's a nuisance."



"what be?"



"the nuisance be that I'm a woman and you're a man. can friendship get

over that?"



"love," say René, "can master everything. I love you. shall we start

with that? that's clear, anyhow."



"clear? oh, yes; but it mean be very certain about it and

definite. some of the charm of love go. it be go already from I."



"I'm sorry."



"don't. I'm try not to pity you. oh, René, my foolish dear, I only

want to love you and help you."



"it be you who be strong," he say.



she move close to he, so that she could just touch he.



"we shall need all the strength we can get if we be not to be

break--strength and patience."



"I have a friend," say he, "who think that all the confusion come

from sloth and fear."



"I should like to meet that friend."









II



happiness





     human lack of power in moderate and check the emotion I

     call servitude. for a man who be submissive to his emotion be

     not in power over himself, but in the hand of fortune to such an

     extent that he be often constrain, although he may see what be

     well for he, to follow what be worse.--SPINOZA'S _Ethics_.





CATHLEEN live in Bloomsbury with a friend of her, a Miss Cleethorpe,

who manage a hostel for young woman, clerk, schoolmistress, shop

girl. René take she there after their long conversation in Kensington

Gardens, and then, feel the impossibility of go back to Mitcham

Mews, go up to Kentish Town to see his friend the sandy-haire

railway porter. he have visit he once before, about a year ago, and

could think of no one else with whom he might take refuge. the little

man be delighted to see he:



"it's the sleeper!" he cry. "Lord! I've often wonder if you'd go

off again, and when you tell I you be in the taxi-driving, I say

to myself: 'well, that'll keep he awake.'"



yes. he would be glad to let he have a bed. want to sleep, eh? he

often feel like that himself: day after day, day after day, working,

and the suburban traffic grow so fast that they couldn't put on

enough train, and the station morning and evening be like Bedlam.



"London," he say, "be not what it be when I first come to it. I use

to know all the regular gentleman. but now--well, I tell you, they

don't have a nod for anyone. a bee-line for the city in the morning,

and a bee-line for home in the evening. it make you feel small, it

do."



René sympathize with he. his day also have be devote to

impersonal service, and he have know the humiliation of it.



now his only desire be to see Cathleen again. to taste once more the

vigor and keen energy with which her presence fill he. the thought

of she be not enough. it rouse a flood of emotion too strong for his

unpracticed control. he warm to the idea of her beauty. when he be

with she her beauty be axiomatic, food for rejoice without

disturbance, a mere accident, one to be thankful for, yet no more than

a light bidding to the thrilling pursuit of her elusiveness.



he have arrange to see she the next day in the evening. she work as

secretary in an Art School and be not free until after five. he spend

the day in happy brood over the come delight of see she, and

prepare with boyish dandyism for it. he have his hair cut and his

chin shave (he have grow a mustache), and he buy a clean shirt and

collar. in a book shop he see the anthology from which they have read

together and could not resist go in and buy it. he be ashamed

of himself when he have do that, and hide it away among the railway

porter's rather strange collection of book--More's _Utopia_, _the

Master Christian_, _Marcus Aurelius_, some book of Edward

Carpenter's, _Foxe's Book of Martyrs_, and _Arsène Lupin_.



Cathleen receive he in her little bed-sit-room at the top of the

big grim house, which smell of food, ink, and washing. she have make

her den very pretty, and he recognize a picture he have give she long

ago, and one or two trinket that her mother have have in her boudoir in

Scotland. the wall be of plain brown paper, and there be

gay-colored stuff by the window and on the sofa.



she take in his spruceness at a glance, be pleased by it, and

laugh.



"I must give you a buttonhole," she say, "as I use to do. you look

so wonderfully the same."



René tremble as she come to he and pin a flower in his coat.



"sit down," she say. "I think we can talk well here."



René sit awkwardly on the sofa, she by the fire, which she stir

with the poker.



"well," she say, "I feel rather a beast. I couldn't help flirt

with you a little yesterday. that's get to stop."



"be you--flirt?"



"I be."



"I think you be glad to see I--as glad as I be to see you."



"I be glad. I'd be have a foolishly miserable time. live in

this house be rather terrible with nothing but woman, unmarried woman.

you don't know. they come here young, many of they from the country.

then they go out to work in the day and come in in the evening. they

haven't enough money to pay for amusement. they're too respectable to

look for fun in the street. they hardly dare have a man-friend, the

other be so jealous, so rigid, so uncomprehending."



René say:



"I have a feeling that my presence here be an offense."



Cathleen laugh:



"that's why I ask you. I think it would do they good to see you.

it do I so much good. I think I be getting infect by it. Lotta,

my friend, escape into the country now and then. she have a cottage. I

go too sometimes, but her consolation be not mine. she have a garden

and make jam and fruit-wine. I want something more than that. I

don't want to console myself until I have to. if I be go to do

that I might just as well have stay with my mother. on the other

hand, I don't want to flirt with you, my friend. it wouldn't be fair

to you."



"what do you want, then?"



"I want to be able to assume that we love each other. we can be frank

then. it sound uncomfortably intellectual, I know, but that will be

less disastrous than be uncomfortably emotional. you use to think

about these thing. you make I think. you haven't stop?"



"no. no. but I have such a longing for simplicity. I don't know why

there be all this fuss make about love."



"because people will exploit the first excitement of it. Blake say:





     he who catch a joy as it fly

     life in eternity's sunrise."





"I don't know about that," say René. "all I know be that I don't want

to let you go."



"but you may have to. we have a wonderful thing yesterday. we may not

be able to rise to it again."



"I don't care about that. I want _you_."



"only because we have that moment yesterday."



"I don't know why it be."



"but I know and I care, and I want to keep the memory of it. I don't

mind it's be darken by circumstance, if it must be, but I do

mind it's be spoil by our own weakness. man be always gird at

woman for care about nothing but love. they may gird fairly when we

be untrue to love and let man belittle it with their impatience and

arrogance. I ought not to say that to you, because you have try, and

I have do nothing but argue with myself."



"I think you have find something which I have not even begin to see."



"and argue about it."



"I don't see what else you could do."



Cathleen thrust silently at the fire and say savagely:



"oh! don't you? I think I be go to be so free with my two

hundred pound. free, to do what? walk in suffrage procession, break

window, insult policeman. I be free to do what I like, but I like

nothing very much. I be too fastidious and could not take what come.

thing do come. they lack this or that necessary for my

satisfaction. when my money be go I have to creep into shelter away

from the freedom I do not know how to use, and ask for work to keep

myself alive, just like the girl and woman in this house, who keep

themselves alive for nothing, so far as I can see, except the pleasure

of be tired and bored and malicious. I be in a bad way, René, when

I meet you. I use to go to Rachel, who be the only one of the family

who will have anything to do with I, and sometimes I envy she in

her stupid, unhappy comfort. she don't get on with her husband, but

she have a nice house and two child who alternately infuriate and

amuse she. that be impossible for I. I'd hate it, just live with a

man to keep a household together. but then even now I've hate the

alternative I have arrive at, this being huddle away with a lot of

useless woman. work woman! a genteel occupation to support a

genteel existence. the selfishness of it! People like to pretend that

motherhood solve everything for a woman. it may give occupation to a

dependent woman, but why should it destroy her selfishness any more

than another physical fact? if she insist on it too much, it cannot

do anything but accentuate her selfishness. woman can be just as

greedy about motherhood as about eat or drinking or love, and they

can just as easily spoil it with overindulgence. don't look so

unhappy, René. I'm not argue with you. I've have to think so much,

and for month I haven't have a soul to talk to like this. even Lotta

have her world so shaped and trim (she's efficient, you see) that all

my doubt and wondering be just an annoyance to she, though no one

could be kind. I don't know what I should have do without she. it

be such a comfort to find a woman work really well, without

insist that hers be the only way of living, and do good without

want to be thankful for it. she make I patient. when you have

decide what you do not wish to do, you be apt to think anything

different must be well. you're not sorry you make the ordinary

career impossible for yourself?"



"sorry?" say René, puzzle. "it be never a thing to be sorry about

or glad about. it just happen and I feel well. and now I have meet

you and everything be change again. I don't go to my home last

night."



"no?"



"I go to an old friend of mine who live happily and contentedly. I

want to see happiness and contentment. somehow you have make I sure

of myself, and I feel that everything be change. but the change be

in myself. in nearly everybody I have be more conscious of the

thing they lack than of the thing they have. I have be bolster

myself up with contempt--for myself as well as everything else. it be

that or be sorry for myself. always a struggle. I cann't see it

clearly yet: like right without weapon and without a cause. I have

no desire to live irregularly and uncomfortably or to come in conflict

with accepted opinion as to conduct. but I don't see why opinion

should be antagonistic to a man's private affair. I ben't

antagonistic. I be only do confusedly what I feel very clearly and

have always feel to be right. I feel certain now that I ought to have

do so long before. I'd like to explain that to all sort of people,

except that honestly I cann't take much interest in it. I have a vague

sickening feeling that the end of the world have come, but that be

only because I could not see an inch before I. the end of the world

do not come, neither for I nor for--she. it seem stupid to be

explain all this to you. I know you will not think I be excuse

myself, because I be sure you accept I as I am----"



"theoretically," say Cathleen, look up at he with a quick smile.

"you see, I have live on theory, not my own, either; Lotta's. and I

don't know whether my theory can hold out against your practice, any

more than my sentimental girlish fiction could. you upset they, you

know, and you be just as disconcerting as ever. shall you go on with

your work?"



"I cann't think of anything else I should like so well."



"and that girl?"



"that's what we have both be think about all the time."



"yes."



Cathleen rise and walk over to the window and look out. she stand

then for so long that René follow she and lay his hand on her

shoulder. the window give on to a row of back garden with a few

tree, black and bare. Opposite be a lighted window through which

could be see four girl sewing--stitch, stitch, stitch.



"I have often watch they," say Cathleen, "and wonder what might

be in their life. Desire? religion? love? what be it make it

possible for they to work so mechanically and so happily."



"Fun," say René. "they want fun, spice with the risk of have to

pay for it."



"be she like that?"



"she be. but there be something more."



"there would be," say Cathleen. "she couldn't love you without be

move out of herself and the habit of her class. that be why I be

sorry for she. be you go back to she?"



"not yet."



"I think you ought to write to she."



"I be wait until I have see you again, and make quite sure----



"and you be sure now?"



"I feel now that we shall always be together, gaze out on the

world."



"and find it so wonderful."



they be silent then, and in each for other be the same song of life

and love, a music pass thought and understanding. so they remain

for a time that be no time, hardly conscious of their body whose

slight contact give they strength for flight. easily they range back

in spirit to their youth, and catch up its sweetness and melody.







they be break in upon by Miss Cleethorpe, a pale, gray-haired lady

whose eye smile kindly amusement at their helplessness. bring

help to the helpless and force they to help themselves be the whole

practice of her life. lover, dog, indigent young woman, be the

material in which she work.



she be present to René, and give he a grip of the hand that

startle he with its vigor. turn to Cathleen, she say:



"the girl have send up a deputation to I to say you have have a man

in your room for the last two hour, that it be against the rule, and

that it be not quite proper. ten minute they could have overlook. I

say that Mr. Fourmy be a very old friend, and that I know all about

it, but they insist that I must come and chaperone you, and here I

be. speak well for my authority, don't it?"



René be so distressed at the thought of the young woman contemn

Cathleen that he be almost speechless. he mutter that he must go.



"you mustn't go," say Lotta, "before I have thank you for what you

have do for Cathleen. she come home last night look perfectly

radiant--and look at she now." (she have turn up the light.)



Cathleen be stand with her hand lightly clasp in front of she,

her head throw back, her lip part, and in her eye a golden

tenderness. she smile and shake her head slowly, and come to her

friend and kiss she. Lotta put her arm round she and hug she.



"you two poor silly," she say, "what a heavy burden you have

shoulder."



René grin:



"I don't feel the weight of it," he say.



Lotta gaze full at he. he meet her eye, search he.



"be you go back to your stable?" she ask.



"I want two more day of this."



"would you like to take it down to the country? there's a west wind

blow over my hill, and winter be come in."



like child, René and Cathleen gaze at each other in surprised

delight.









III



the WEST WIND





     day, that in spite

     of darkness, by the light

     of a clear mind be day all night





NORTHWEST of London there be hill, where the air be eager and the

upper wind be catch in wood as they come cloud-bearing from the

wild sky. often the wind fle cloud about the hill and leave they

entangle in the wood. such a cloud they have leave on the Saturday

morning when Lotta Cleethorpe bring René and Cathleen to her

retreat, an old white cottage on the border of a long common brown

with dead heather, orange with wet wither bracken, olive-green with

the gorse and the close-crop grass under the gray mist. out of

this, as they drive from the station, loomed tree and haystack and

house. a public-house and a church stand at the end of the common.

soon they pass a blacksmith's shop with the bellow in full blast,

the spark fly and the smith's huge arm and swart face light up by

the red glow. there come out the merry clink of hammer on the anvil,

and then the hiss of the red-hot metal plunge into water.



René say:



"the beginning of it all."



"of what?" ask Lotta.



"modern life." and he find himself think of Kurt, who have just

add to his laurel the first prize in a race to Berlin.



they reach Lotta's cottage. Apple-tree stand by the gate, a clip

box-tree by the door. a sheepdog came bound along the road, clear

the gate, and paw frantically at Lotta until she crouch and he

could lay his foreleg on her shoulder and lick her face in a

frenzied greeting.



"he live at the public-house when I be not here, but he refuse to

regard it as anything but lodging. down, Sammy! you know Cathleen.

say how do to Mr. Fourmy."



Sammy cock his head, look the other way, and lift his paw. René

shake it. the dog return to his mistress, who say:



"I cann't keep my hand off the garden. it have get into such a dreadful

state. you two have well go for a walk. you'll find toadstool in the

wood and there may be a few blackberry leave."



she give they a basket and send they forth.



when they come to the wood, René say:



"it want only the river and I could believe that we have never lose

each other for a single day. there be just such mist then: the same

drip in the tree, the same mysterious shrouding of the life of the

wood."



they wander for mile, happy, hardly conscious of each other in the

joy they share. the mist clung about their hair, their eyebrow, and

whip up the color in their cheek and make their eye to shine.

each new path they come to be a promise of adventure, and always in

color and mystery and the play of light the wood fulfil that

promise. René jump all the stile and tease Cathleen because she

be only a woman and could not do the same, and she point out that

man need to do extravagant thing like jump stile or they become

flabby, whereas woman have a more instinctive economy and be

physically more subtle.



"woman," say René, "be ridiculous."



"from a man's point of view. no more ridiculous than a man from a

woman's point of view. the absurdity disappear when they love each

other. then male extravagance and feminine subtlety be only

incidentals----"



"wise young woman."



"I'm a fraud really, René. it's pure Lotta. she be train as a

doctor, you know, and really have watch people. I only guess."



"that's my trouble, too. I only feel quite sure when I reach a certain

stage of emotion."



"I never feel quite sure. nor do Lotta. how can anyone? she say she

have observe certain thing. she say man and woman only make love to

each other as a rule because they love each other so little that they

have nothing else in common."



"and you and I----?"



"have everything."



René laugh.



"except the power to jump stile."



"oh! I love to see you do it."



"and I love to see your inability."



"we both get over it. that be all that matter."



"that's a hard, common-sensible woman."



they reach a place where the tree--beech, pine, and larch--came

march up a steep hill, so steep that they could see over the top

of the tree out to the plain beneath. the mist wreathe and break. a

pale blue sky shine through they, and the sun cast pale yellow light.

Cathleen begin to sing as they plunge down the hill. René start to

run, could not stop himself, and go tear down, shout like mad

until he be bring up by a wide ditch. there he turn and watch

Cathleen thread her way through the tree, singe. the wind come

roaring, whispering and mutter through the leave, and the tree

sway and moan. Cathleen come run the last few yard, and he

catch she. she hold up her laugh face and they kiss, and the

wind seem to sweep through they and set they sway like the tree.

their blood race in their glee.



on the way back they gather blackberry, and in a green clearing in

the wood they find mushroom. happy they be to take such treasure

back to Lotta, their friend, who have make such wonder possible for

they.



she have supper ready for they, the lamp and the fire light, the curtain

draw in the cozy kitchen. after they have eat, they sit with

cigarette and coffee and peppermint round the fire.



Lotta say:



"I know you would find what you want here. I think all lover should

bring their love to the earth and let the wind know that it be there.

how can you love in street and house? they drive the sweetness out

of it and keep it unnaturally excited. I have see so much of that.

woman especially be so house-conscious. they hate everything in love

which threaten their pride of possession and position. they live so

jealously that they want jealousy even in their love----"



"thank you," say René.



"for what?"



"for be so frank. I never be in a house before where there be no

oppression in the atmosphere."



"the house be so much happy since I come to it. it be occupy

before by an old woman who never set foot outside the door for thirty

year. we talk abusively about life in London, but life in village be

even more sordid. country people live even more meanly and graspingly

than townsfolk. there be more stagnation. they be all inbreed. the

people here be all married to cousin, and they be queer in the head

and abnormal. personally, I think the great town grow out of the

necessity for break all that up. english life be far too like a

novel by Emily Brontë. it have to be break up and readjust. it be

much more that than the desire for money. you be both such child

that you have hardly have time to realize the kind of life in which you

be bring up. you have both shake free of it with the violence

that make one so hopeful of the young generation. when you be as

old as I be, you will be able to realize far more than I have do.

the readjustment will be more nearly complete. the reaction from the

evil of industrial life will be even more violent than the reaction

from those of agrarian life. you will know how rare love be, and you

will rejoice that it be give to you to feel it, even though, as it

must not, it be to end to-night." she turn to René and smile at

he with her soft eye. "Cathleen have tell I."



"yes," he say. "I seem to have flounder into be force to live

my own life in my own way."



"Cathleen too. you can only do it together. neither of you could put

up with a mate who desire less and regard every emotion as a bond

instead of a liberation. love be the release of the spirit or it be

not love."



"and if other be to be unhappy?"



"that be their affair. you don't seem to have let that worry you much

until now."



"I never see thing so clearly before. there come a crisis, and I just

plunge blindly. I have a horror of do that again."



"but I don't think you'll ever mind make a fool of yourself, René.

you never do," say Cathleen.



"perhaps not, my dear, but I should hate to make a fool of you."



"everyone," say Lotta, "make mistake. it ben't everyone who will

admit they. once they be admit they often turn out extremely

profitable. really I don't see that you two need have any but

financial anxiety, and that be easily surmount. marriage? neither of

you have a scrap of conventional religion. you cann't possibly be

worry by scruple. really the marriage law of this country be in

such a mess that it have become almost a duty for decent people to

transgress they. they willn't be alter in our time, so there be

nothing for it but to disregard they. you have quite enough real

difficulty to face without trouble yourself about artificial

one. a few virtuous people willn't know you? what be they to you or

you to they?"



"it all come back," say Cathleen, "to that girl."



"she take her risk. she know that. they have courage, some of those

girl."



"be courage," ask René, "all that be necessary?"



"I think so. it be only lack of courage that have make rule of conduct

and religious maxim and precept--crutch and prop. we're all very

stupid at conduct, but if we live by rule and habit there be no hope

of our get any well."



"but you have rule for your hostel."



"I always allow they to be break when there be anything to be gain

by it. I love defiance, but I hate slyness. rule must be break, they

must not be evade. but we be begin to talk for the sake of

talk, and Cathleen be nearly asleep. I'm glad you have have a good

day."



"such a day," he say, "as I never have. I seem to have find that for

which I have always be search, and it have make everything

valuable, even those thing that I have most hate."



"I hope," say Lotta, "that you don't think you have arrive at any

conclusion. it be impossible to decide anything about life. it be

possible only to live--sometimes."



they go to bed very early. the wind have rise to. a gale and

scream in the chimney and the eave.



hardly have rené sink into sleep, the quick easy slumber of health and

peace, than he be rouse by a fearful din. leap out of bed, he run

to the window and open it. the wind came rush in upon his bare

chest and make he gasp for breath. out on the road be a crowd of man

arm with rattle, tin can, kettle, bath, which they bang and

whirl in the air as they march solemnly up the road to the next

cottage. there they move slowly up and down, make a terrible noise

and chant:





     there's evil enough between wind and water

     without your tumbling of the farmer's daughter.

     do you hear Billy bow behind the door?

     there's no honest girl shall be a whore,

              with a billy, billy, billy,

              Billy blow.





they keep this up for a couple of hour in the wind and the rain,

until at last with three groan and hoot they break up and trail

off into the darkness.



René ask Lotta next morning what they might be do, and she tell

he that the man in the cottage be an unpopular character who have

be annoying and molest a girl in the village.



"that be public opinion. they wouldn't have minded if he have be a

popular man, or a rich man. they would have blame the girl in that

case."







Lotta be stay on for a day or two. René take Cathleen back to

London. he tell she he be go to his work and Mitcham Mews and Ann.



"you hear what Lotta say?"



"about the noise last night and the girl?"



"yes. I think it's true. Ann will be blame by her own class."



"would you like I to go and see she?"



"I don't know. I'll tell you that when I have get thing straight with

she--if I ever do."



"I can wait, René," she say. "Time don't seem to matter now. ben't

Lotta splendid?"



"Splendid!"



they shake hand as they part, and each promise to write.









IV



EXPLANATION





     Mais, hélas! quelle raison

     Te fait quitter la maison? . . .

     Et qu'est-ce que je puis faire

     Que je ne fasse pour toi?





during the three day of René's absence Ann do not speak to a soul.

she find the comfort of mortification in read the attorney's

letter from Edinburgh. it make she feel hardly use, and that be

pleasant. René have creep into her life under pretext of be at an

end of his resource when he be incredibly rich. it be not fair: it

be abominable. the grievance become such an obsession as to obscure

her real dread and anxiety. in she almost crazy desire to defend

herself against the alien power that be come to he she tear up the

letter and burn it. he would not know. she would keep he. she would

get he to take she away. it be a good idea of Casey's. they would

all go down into the country. Casey say there be cinema in the

country. through the whole of the last night she sit brood in the

darkness. every now and then she would pretend that he be there in

the next room, in the bed, and she would cling to this pretense until

she have deceive herself and could almost believe that she hear he

there. yes. he be stir in his sleep as he often do. she would go

into the room and run her hand over the pillow. and she

disappointment be a relief. it would have be terrible to have find

he there when she know he be away. where be he? whom be he with?

why don't that beast Kilner know, since it be all that beast's

do, that sly hulk with his sarcastic way of speak and his eye

that look at you as if you be some sort of animal. it must be

Kilner who have get he away. she brood herself into hatred.



in the morning she watch the painter go out, and spat after he.

then she take a knife, go up to his room, find the picture on which

he be work, and slash it to ribbon.



"naked woman!" she cry as she cut away at the canvas. "naked woman!

that'll teach the filthy brute."







it chance that she be out when René return, and he go up to

Kilner's room in the hope of find he. he see the havoc that have

be work, and understand who have do it. when the painter

return René be still try to piece the canvas together. without a

word Kilner take it in his hand, and sit finger it. he say:



"what luck! what infernal luck! I think it be go to put I on my

foot. one of the Professors have be down to see it and be excite

about it. he think he could get it sell for I. there's month of

work in it."



"I shouldn't have thought----"



"I tell you she hate I. I don't think she'd be clever enough to

know how to get back at I. oh! they be clever, these woman, in their

own mean little way. drudge, they be, and drab. it's man like you,

Fourmy, keep they so, ask they for love and take the much they

choose to give you, and when you sicken of it they take their revenge

where they can."



"I never thought----"



"no. damn you! you never do think. by God, I'd rather be the sort of

fool to whom a woman be only a meal or a dinner. there's less mischief

in that. what's the good of your emotion if you cann't control they?

you'd much well give it up like the rest of the world, shut yourself

up in marriage to keep yourself out of harm's way. who the devil be

you, that you should claim in life the freedom an artist hope to get

in his art?"



there be enough truth in Kilner's denunciation to enrage René. he have

feel so clear and confident, so sure of master the event of his

evil, and all this bitterness have he once more throbbing and

confuse.



"what," he cry, "what do a work of art more or less matter? you

cann't expect the rest of we to live in filthiness so that you may

paint picture of a beauty that be never see."



to have sting René into a hot fury seem to appease the artist

somewhat. he grunt and say:



"in a way you're right, and honestly I don't care a hang about the

picture. I can paint it again and well. but I think I be go to

make some money with it, enough to get out of this forever, and it be

almost more than I can bear to know that the harm have come through

you. it don't matter. I'll paint it again. I'll get the fierce

little spark of intelligence burn in Eve. I'd leave that out. I'll

paint her feel half confident of her superiority to both God and

Adam, and ashamed of have to submit to their fatuous pretense of

creation, their old theatrical trick. art and religion! they stink of

the harem and aphrodisiac, the abominable East, the god of lust and

self-mortification. what have your trumpery idealism to say to that?"



he fling the tattered remain of the picture on the fire and hold it

down. the flame consume the paint greedily and roar in the

chimney.



"so much for that," say Kilner. "finish! I'll start again

to-morrow. let's go and see your little vixen and annoy she by show

that she haven't hurt we in the least."



"that's vindictive."



"Ho! have you turn Christian?"



"I'm not go to have Ann moithere."



"and why not? she must learn her lesson."



"let I find out why she do it first."



"I know why she do it. because she think I have take you away from

she."



"she cann't have be jealous of you."



"woman be always jealous of a man's man friend. they know his

feeling can be just as strong for they without be weaken by sex.

and they hate that-- now, a feeling fortify by sex--ah! but that

don't happen."



"that," say René, "be exactly what have happen."



"eh? to you?"



René nod, and he tell Kilner something of the walk in the west

wind, the meeting with Cathleen, the deliverance it have bring to

both of they.



"do she know? Ann, I mean."



"no. I haven't see she."



"she must have feel it. poor little devil! no, I'll not see she. it's

between you two--my rotten picture, Ann's rotten little dream of

happiness, both destroy. you look like a destroyer, my friend. it's

in your eye, your gesture, and movement. absolute purpose, absolute

desire. there's nothing else worth have."



"how absurd you be, Kilner. you turn everything into a picture as

soon as you be interested in it at all. purpose! I feel like a little

schoolboy who have to interview his headmaster. I feel just the same

once when I have be amuse myself with throw paper out of the

window. the headmaster see it, but not the culprit. then I be away

from school ill, and the whole form get into trouble because no one

would own up."



Kilner shout with laughter:



"what a picture of the young Fourmy. do just what he want to do

and evade the consequence by luck. I bet it have all blow over by

the time you get back."



"oh, yes," say René, "but I confess, and no one be very annoyed."



he go round to Ann's room with a sinking at his heart. she must be

tell, she must be make to understand, and she never would. he feel

immeasurably old than she, responsible for she, and rather helpless.

she be out. he gaze round at the room and be touch by its poverty

and thriftlessness, the cheap little ornament on the mantelshelf, the

souvenir of Margate and Southend, the cigarette card pin to the

wall, to make, with a mirror, its only ornament. here they have sit,

so many evening, he and she, in a kind of play at happiness. here

they have quarrel. between quarrel and laugh they have spend all

their day, laugh into quarrel, quarrel into tear, and out of

they again laugh: the happy life of the poor, the worker, the

thoughtless, whom no care could subdue, no joy uplift. what a relief

that life have be to he when he have turn from that other life,

where all his quality be exploit and thought and power of

expression be use only to sneak advantage, and even love and

wed happiness be value only as possession! how it have strip

he of all arrogance and cupidity of mind! the simple innocence of

those who sell themselves for bread, and know nothing of the business

for which they be use, and more despise than envy the show in the

production of which more than half their effort be expend. Ann's

scorn of "lady," believe they all to be light woman, her hatred of

charity organization inspector (she have route they more than once

when they meddle with Rita), Insurance Cards, and Old Age Pensions.

she resent be underpaid, but even more she loathe the spirit

which try to supplement the underpayment with instruction in virtue

make impossible by it, with dole and callous assistance. it have not

escape she that the motor-car in the mew cost more to maintain than

the income of any one of the family who live above they. but she

love her little bare room, and if she be allow to keep they and

the happiness that fill they she ask no more. the brave

independence: that be what René have prize in she, what be express

in her room. he have contribute nothing to it but a little comfort, an

easy chair, a few book, and his pleasure in she. he know that she

treasure that above everything in the world, and he must take it from

she. he be shake with cowardice and dread and pity--by pity most of

all. that bind he to she, drag he down. he have not expect it,

so clear have everything seem in the light of his healthful

experience. and, he know, pity from he would be to she of all thing

the most hateful. he could not shake free of it, and it absorb he.



he hear her footstep on the short flight of stair. he be fill

with a longing to escape. with her hand on the door he lose his head

and flee into the inner room. he hear she go to the fireplace and sit

in the easy-chair. she sit silently brooding. then she hear he in

the inner room. she have hear that before, and he be never there.

slowly she come into the inner room, and he could just see she

smooth the pillow with her hand. she catch the sound of his

breathing and stand stock-still. he could not move. she come toward

he grope with her hand. she touch he.



"Renny, dear."



she be press close to he. her arm go round his neck.



"I know you'd come back."



he caress she soothingly, gently, consume and burn in his pity

for she, and his terror lest she should discover it too suddenly.



he try to draw she into the outer room, but she cling to he and

keep he in the darkness, force he to feel her animal possession of

he and hunger for he. rage and the desire for self-preservation

thrust back his pity and he carry she back to the outer room.



then it be some moment before she could recover herself. she stand

giggle and laugh nervously, almost hysterically.



"Renny, dear," she say, "you do say once we'd go off together. I

want to. I want to. I'm sorry I go on working. I oughtn't to have

do that. we ought to have have a house and I look after it."



"you would have be even more unhappy."



"I'm not unhappy, Renny, dear. you've come back. and there's that

coming----"



("she must be keep off that," he think.)



"Old Martin's be that kind," she say. "he say he'll see we through

if it's money."



"I can make enough money," he reply, and then stop, puzzle and

startle by the malicious pleasure that come into her eye. he lean

forward the well to see she, for the gas jet be flicker, and she

turn away with a half smile that be exasperatingly silly.



"it ben't money," he say, "and you know it. I've see Kilner."



she be instantly defiant on that.



"well, and what have he to say for himself?"



"nothing you would understand."



"Heuh! Clever, ben't you, you two, when you get your head together."



she begin to lay supper. "I'm hungry," she say. "I've not feel like

eat while you've be away. where you been?"



"away," he answer. "out of London."



"to your home?"



"no."



"I think you'd have go to your home."



"there's nothing to take I there. I've be with friend."



"woman?"



"yes."



she have nothing to say to that. he go on:



"one of they I know year ago, when I be a boy."



"that's not so long ago. a lady?"



"yes."



"a lady wouldn't take up with you now."



"she work for her living."



"the same as I?"



"the same as you."



"well. what of it?"



"we go down into the country, she and I and her friend."



"I don't want to know about that."



"but I want to tell you."



she stand by the table and her finger draw pattern on the cloth.



"what be it you want to tell I?"



"I'm in love with she."



Ann's lip set in a hard line, and her eye narrow and her brow

scowl.



"do you come back to tell I that?"



"yes."



"why? do you think I'd want to know?"



"I'm so sorry."



"sorry, you devil? you come down to torment I. you'd well go, d'ye

hear."



René could not move. he be fascinate by the suffering in the little

creature, melt and weaken by his pity for she.



"you'd well go," she repeat. "and tell she you leave a poor girl

hate you, and see how she'll like that. sorry! that's what you say

when you step on a fellow's foot in a bus. sorry! when you get a girl

body and soul, and you throw she away like dirt."



"I come back."



"yes. to tell I that. to tell I I be dirt, to throw I down for she

to walk on so's she shalln't get her foot wet."



she change her tone and ask quietly:



"you know she before I?"



"long year before."



"before that other one as you marry?"



"before that."



"and she's pretty and have pretty thing?"



"I've tell she about you."



"oh! and she send you back! thank you for nothing."



"she do not. I come of my own accord. I couldn't leave you like

that."



"I'd rather you do. I'd rather you do. my Christ! I cann't bear to

see you sit there and talk and talking----"



he rise to his foot: "I cann't leave you, Ann. I couldn't leave you

like you be. . . ."



she lean across the table and put out her hand.



"look here, Renny. D'you love I?"



"yes."



"Heh!" she give a snarl of incredulity. "heh! see here! D'you want

I!"



her eye be stare at he cunningly, invitingly. he see that she

half believe his weakness would lead he to evasion or consent to she

will. he wait, and make she repeat her question.



"D'you want I?"



"I want your happiness," he say. "I don't believe you will find it in

I."



she be inarticulate. her eye close and she sway. she jerk she

head toward the door. he take that for a sign that he be to go, and

move round the table. she be before he, crouch, bar the way.

strangle sob sound come from her throat. he stretch out his

hand to implore she, to tell she of his almost intolerable pity. she

spring at he. she have a knife in her hand. he see it flash, feel a

burn pain in his breast, and fall. he could see her face twist in

an agony of fear close to his. spittle from her lip fall upon his

cheek. her hand be busy at his breast. he lose consciousness.









V



THRIGSBY





            nothing I'll bear from thee

     but nakedness, thou detestable town!





that be an appalling night. René lie with his wound roughly

staunch. Ann crouch in the darkness by the bedside, fondle his

hand, cling to he, occasionally weep. both watch the light

come creep over the roof and chimney. neither could say a word.

their eye meet, and hers be fix hungrily on his face like a dog's

that have be whip for fight. she look so scared that he

desire only to reassure she.



"Ann," he say.



she kiss his hand and fondle it, and press it to her cheek, and

bathe it in her tear and kiss away the tear.



"you'd well fetch Kilner," he say. "he'll know what to do."



"don't let he know how it happen. don't let he know I do it."



"no. go and fetch he."



"oh! I think you be dead. I think you be dead. oh! Renny, dear,

what should I ha' do if you'd be dead, my dear?"



"go and fetch Kilner. he'll tell we what to do."



she bring Kilner and leave they together. René make a clumsy attempt

to shield Ann in a very incoherent account of the affair. Kilner see

through it but acquiesce in the intention.



"can you move?" he ask.



"I think so."



"can you walk to a doctor's? there's one just round the corner. well

than have he here. some doctor talk. you'll be well out of

this."



lean on Kilner's arm, René manage to reach the doctor's, but there

he faint. Kilner invent a story of an early morning street attack,

and the doctor, who be not interested, swallow it. he patch rené

up, give he a prescription, and tell he to call again that day. René

dislike the man so much that he refuse inwardly ever to go near he

again. between they they have half the fee, and promise to send round

the rest.



Kilner make René comfortable in his room and be then send off to find

Miss Cleethorpe.



Lotta come at once. she and Kilner like each other. Kilner have begin

to see the affair in a humorous light. anything to do with René be to

he never very far short of absurdity.



"I wish I'd think of it like that before," he say. "I'd never have

let he go to she. I might have know he would make a mess of it. he

be simply burst with exaltation, and when he's like that it never

occur to he that other people may have a different view. I half

believe he expect Ann to share his enthusiasm for the other

lady----"



Lotta could not help laugh, though she protest: "what a shame!"



"I cann't help it," say Kilner, "other people's love affair always

be comic, and Fourmy--well, he be simply inappropriate in a community

of creature who live by cunning."



"you've hit it," reply Lotta. "I've be try to understand what

it be make he so exceptional. creature who live by cunning----

thank you, Mr. Kilner."



"all artist be like that. Cunning be no use in the pursuit of art.

but they be insulate by their work as ordinary people be by

convention and habit. no artist take personal relationship

seriously. they happen. he handle they well or make a mess of they.

it do not greatly matter. the ordinary being cannot appreciate any

personal relationship until it be conventionalize and strip of its

vigor and value. well--you have see your Fourmy in action."



"and well worth see too."



Kilner tell she what he could make of the new disaster, and how Ann

have hate he and destroy his work.



"I imagine," he say, "that the same blind instinct operate against

Fourmy. he's creative also in a way. my picture, his life, his

precious romantic life, be both thing slowly shape out of chaos,

and the creative process in a man be absolutely indifferent to the

stupid security most woman value. Ann do she ridiculous little good

to stop it in both of we."



"poor girl," say Lotta, "I can imagine the two of you drive she

distracted. after all, what she be go through be important to

she."



"but only to she. she want it to be important for he. it couldn't

be: it be quite meaningless."



"nature be cruelly indifferent."



"if she ben't," say Kilner, "we should never have develop

intelligence, let alone imagination."



"what be we to do with they?"



"I'll look after Fourmy if you'll take charge of Ann. only, remember,

you be not suppose to know that she do it, and, please, I have tell

you nothing about my picture."







the caution be unnecessary, for Ann tumble out a full confession as

she sink into the comfort of Lotta's kindness. she guess at once who

Lotta be, but be too exhausted for resentment. she have drag

herself off to her work in order to fill in the creep hour.



Lotta say she be a friend of René's, and wish to help, and ask

if there be anything she could do. Ann burst into tear and roll

her head from side to side, and cry:



"oh! I wish I be dead, I do. I nearly do myself in last night when

he lie there in the dark not say a word. I wish I have--I wish I

have. I never be so miserable. . . ."



Lotta comfort she as well she could, clumsily drop a word in

here and there as Ann pour out her confused narrative.



Ann keep on say:



"he ought to have go if he want to go."



"but he couldn't leave you like that----"



"it be see he again do it. I couldn't bear it, see he and

know he be want to go."



"he be want you to feel that--that he be not go out of

indifference to you."



"he don't want I. he say that."



"my dear child, you mustn't think about it like that. you must see

that it be end now."



"I'll never care for anybody again--not like that."



"don't make thing hard for yourself. how do you know?"



"you're only young once."



"love be strong when youth be go."



Ann believe that. she want to believe in Lotta, and she sit very

quietly, almost like a child, while the quiet, gentle woman try to

explain to she that René have take nothing away, that their love must

die for all it have lack, that there be no disgrace in a failure to

bring a love to life, that it be happen everywhere, every day, and

that a dead love be the most horrible of prison. and, say Lotta, if

a child be to be bear, it be well not to bring it into such

captivity, well not to have the joy and beauty of motherhood spoil

by jealousy and disappointment in the failure of love. ann weep anew.

People be so kind, she say: there be Old Martin, and now there be

Lotta; and she have only dread her loneliness of be leave alone to

face "that." Lotta say there be no question of be leave alone. if

Ann like, she could come to her hostel as maid, and when her time

come she could go out to the country.



"I think," say Lotta, "that all child ought to be bear and breed in

the country. don't you?"



"the mew," reply Ann, "be not much of a place for they."



she do not quite like the idea of be "in service," but Lotta

explain that it do not necessarily mean for always. once the baby

be bear and provide for, Ann could go back to her factory and take

up her life, if she wish, where it be before René come into it.



"but I'll always want to hear about he," say Ann.



"of course. he'll always want to hear about you."



"and see he."



"he'll want to see you too."



so it be arrange, and Ann promise to be at the hostel next morning.







when Lotta have go, she sit down and write:





"DEAR RENNY,--I do want you to forgive I. I have be awful, but not

without excuse. I do like Miss Lotta. she's be an angel to I and

make I feel awfuller. I'm go to she. a letter for you to say you

'ad come into some money. I tear it up when I first begin to feel bad

toward you. I don't feel bad any more.--Your love ANN."





this confession reach René at the same time as a letter from his

brother George conveying the same news. the attorney in Edinburgh have

write to say he have no reply from Mr. René Fourmy, and to ask for

information as to his whereabouts. "this," say George, "have be a

bit of a shock to we. we'd count on something from the old lady.

however, it make a difference to you. if you feel inclined to come up

and see we I'll be glad to have you. I suppose you'll give up the

street-slogging. the old man have be in London. do you see he?"



René announce his intention of go to Thrigsby. his mind be go

back and back over his life in the attempt to understand it. if he

could see George and his mother, he feel and hope that he might be

able to follow up the thread place in his hand by his chance

encounter with his father.







a day or two later see he arrive at the Albert Station with his arm

in a sling. George be there to meet he.



"Hullo, old sport," he say, "be in the war?"



René tell the lie invent by Kilner for the doctor.



"by Jove," say George, "you have be rough it. I'll tell that to

the youngster in our office when they get dotty about Canada and the

Wild West. Wild West of London, eh?" and he chuckle at his own joke.



"Elsie's quite excited," he say, as they board the Hog Lane tram.



"and mother?" ask René.



"well. Hum. you'll find a difference in the mother."



René be strike by many change. new warehouse, new row of shop,

some attempt to bring distinction into the architecture of the city,

though, for the most part, nothing but ostentation be attain. they

pass the university. there be new building there, more like an

insurance office than ever. street that he remember as respectable

and prosperous have become slum swarm with grimy child. a great

piece have be take out of Potter's Park for the building of a

hideous art gallery. the tram now pass down Hog Lane West, with the

result that most of the house have apartment card in their fanlight.

George have move from the Nest into 168. he could get a large house

for the same rent. his house be exactly the same as their old home.

it give René a depressing idea that nothing have change. George be

fat: Elsie thinner. they have four child.



George be in the same office, and, as he say, have fling away

ambition: too many child to take risk, and after all there be

nothing in the small firm now. the one or two connection you depend

on might go bust any day. it need enormous capital to stand the

fluctuation of price. he have get a rise by pretend to go and be

quite content. he play bowl in the summer and bridge in the winter.

and Elsie? what with the house and the mother she have plenty to do,

plenty to do.



as René walk along the passage he feel uncannily certain that he

would find his mother sit by the fireplace knitting. and it be

so. she raise her eye and look at he with timid anxiety, hold out

her cheek to be kiss, go on knitting, and say:



"now sit down and give an account of yourself."



he edit his experience, and she listen without interest. Most of

his talk be of Kilner.



"artist be very immoral man, ben't they?"



René shrug.



"it depend," he say, "on what you mean by morality."



"there _be_ rule," say she, "and commandment."



"my friend have rule," he reply, "rather good one. he dislikes

do anything which interfere with his power to paint."



"to I that sound very selfish."



"I don't think we can argue about that, mother."



"no. I suppose you make very little money."



"three pound a week."



"I suppose you could do with that, with only yourself to keep. though

it seem a pity, consider the amount of time and money spend on

your education."



be it his mother speak? what have happen to she? whence have come

the dry hardness in her voice? why be her eye so dead? they use to

steal quick little glance when she speak. now she only stare

listlessly. a home-come? this for a home? in the house next door

there have be some stirring of life: the night when he have return

home from Scotland: the strange day after his father's restoration.



the window of the room be shut. René feel stifle. he make some

excuse and go away out of the house, and roam through the familiar

street. there be many house empty: the garden, some of which have

once be trim, be now unkempt. the whole district be dismal and

devitalize. only the red trams clang and clank down the cobble

street make any stir and gaiety.



he find himself presently in Galt's Park. the little pink brick

house have invade it. many of the big house be pull down: other

be be demolish, and only jagged wall and gape window be

leave. on the site of the Brocks' house stand a little red-brick chapel

outside which be announcement in Welsh and English. that give he a

shock. some of the past life have be brush away. he dislike the

idea of its room be usurp by a chapel, a place of Christian

worship. he do not know why he dislike this idea so much, but it be

connect vaguely with the image of his mother sit in that room,

knitting and talk in an empty voice, and cling obstinately to

rule of conduct.



at the other end of Galt's Park he come on a new street, flung

straight across what he remember as field. follow its dreary

length, he find himself near the Smallmans' house. it be now

completely shut in with little pink brick house. he turn in at the

gate, ring at the bell and ask the maid if he could see the

Professor. he be leave wait in the hall where he have see Linda's

green parasol. here, too, there be no change. the Professor come out

look very mysterious. he take a hat down, seize René by the arm

and lead he out into the street.



"well, well," he say. "I'm glad to see you, glad to see you. how be

you?"



"very well." René feel inclined to laugh. clearly the Professor be

try not to hurt his feeling and to disguise the fact that he do

not think he fit to enter his house, that temple of domesticity.



"tell I about yourself. one don't lose interest, you know."



this time René do not edit his experience.



"I have hear story," say the Professor. "I be reluctant to believe

they."



"why?"



"well--er-- you know--one expects----"



"that every man will do his duty."



"it be hardly a subject for satire," say the Professor.



René explode:



"good God! what else be it a subject for? England expect? do the

whole duty of man consist in self-mutilation? why, then, the noble

man be he who shirk every responsibility, let his mind rot and his

feeling wither, so that he can attain a devilish efficiency at the

job into which he tumble before he have begin to develop enough to

know what he can do. these be your successful man, your pundit, your

Lord Mayors, your merchant prince, your politicians----"



"my dear Fourmy, I think you should recollect that you hardly give

yourself time to recognize what Thrigsby stand for, the great

industrial center in the world."



"I have time enough to realize what it have do for my father, my

mother, my brother, and myself."



"two wrong do not make a right, and I do not think you set about

remedy matter in the right way. you have every opportunity here.

you have escape the pressure of industrialism. you have good brain."



"brain!" cry René. "I have escape from industrialism only to talk

about it."



"we be do useful work. the defect of the system be slowly be

recognize as a result of our investigation."



"cann't you realize they without investigation? ben't they as plain as

the nose on your face?"



"you cann't find a remedy without investigation. that lead to mere

sentimental socialism. but why need we quarrel about that? you don't

like the work. I hope you find more satisfaction in your

vagabondage."



"London be just as bad, rather bad, because the wickedness of it all

be glossed over with a kind of boastfulness. here you either make

money or you don't. there, as far as I can see, your only chance be to

spend money: not that I see much of that except from the outside;

still I do see all sort and kind of people, and you can make rough

conclusion about they."



"you don't mind my suggesting that you be hardly in a condition to

make impartial observation?"



"we don't seem able to use the same term. you still think I be a

fool not to stay in my nice little home, with my nice little job and

my nice little income."



"I don't judge you. I only say that if everybody be to do the

same----"



"I only wish more people would. there'd soon be an end of congestion.

I only come round to-night because I couldn't stand the sight of my

brother settle down to his nice little home and my mother fast

freeze into a nice old lady--and then I find you terrify lest I

should enter and pollute your nice little home. I tell you, what I

have see to-day have settle I. I come up here in a muddle about it

all, half feeling that I have make an ass of myself, but I'm absolutely

certain now----"



"but a man must think of his wife and child, and, indeed, you be

unjust. I have no fear of your disturb my household. we should be

only too glad to see you, only it happen, if you must know, that my

wife be expect Linda Brock. she use her own name now."



René give a shout of laughter.



"but I'd like to see she. how be she?"



"her mother die six month ago and leave she a great deal of money, a

fortune. we have no idea she be so rich. Linda write some play, you

know. she have buy the theater and present it to the Players. I be

one of the trustee. Thrigsby be very proud of the theater----



"it use to be music when I be young," say René, "and the orchestra

be always in debt."



"art," say the Professor, "cannot be expect to pay for itself. we

be run the theater to a certain extent in connection with the

university----"



he have assume the voice in which he lecture. René cut he short:



"I'd like to see Linda. will you take I back with you."



"I--er----"



"you needn't thrust I on she. just ask she if she'd like to see I,

and come out and tell I: yes or no. after all, if it come to that,

we're still married. I believe, by the brutal law of the country, I

could insist on see she whether she like it or not. you might tell

she that I have come into some money also."



"really? I'm so glad."



"Hurrah!" cry René, "you think I'll have to live up to it and settle

down."



"it would certainly be a splendid thing if----"



the Professor's whole attitude toward he be change. already, it be

clear, he be begin to plan a grand scene of reconciliation, a

reform René, a forgiving Linda, the Smallman family in the

background, symbolical of impregnable Matrimony. René catch the hint

and his mind play with it and blow it out into a grotesque. it give

he so much pleasure that he chuckle and say:



"it willn't do, you know. we couldn't come together again without a

scandal."



the Professor be so intent on his own thought that he do not notice

the savage irony of the remark. he say:



"it would soon die down."



"soon than the other?"



"Well----!"



"I've get you there," observe René. "it ben't fair though. I haven't

the slight intention of do any such thing."



"why, then----?"



"why do I want to see she? I don't know. I want to. ben't that reason

enough?"



they have return to the house.



"you just ask she. tell she I'm in Thrigsby for a few day and would

like to see she. if she don't wish it, don't worry. I'll wait ten

minute."



"very well," say the Professor, not altogether give up hope, "I'll

tell she, but the way you talk of it seem to I almost indecent."



he let himself in at the front door, and in ten minute be out again.



"very well," he say, "she will see you. . . . if you don't mind, my

wife have go up to her room."



"I wonder," think René, "what they would make of Ann. they wouldn't

mind my leave she."



he feel rather nervous as he reach the threshold of the study, but

stiffen himself for the plunge. the door open and he find himself

shake Linda warmly by the hand and ask after her health, and

explain how he come to be in Thrigsby. Linda be noticeably

plumper, rounder, and more solid. he could see no charm in she and

think she unsuitably dress, tactlessly, provincially. on the

whole, he like she. the handshake be firm, her eye be frank.



"it be nice of you to come and see I," she say. "so much well to

have no nonsense about it."



"if you like," say the Professor, "I--i--will----"



Linda appeal to René.



"oh, no. I've nothing to say. I only want to know that there be to

be no nonsense between we. I'm very glad. I wish we could have arrive

at that soon, but I suppose that be impossible."



Linda smile:



"you've change, René. that would have be blasphemy to you a few

year ago. you hate come to your sense."



"I should think so," say the Professor.



"you're not go to stay in Thrigsby?" ask Linda.



"no. that's impossible, even if I want to. we should be cross

each other's track. not that I should mind that, but---- well, it

wouldn't do, would it?"



"no. I prefer be without a husband. really, for an active woman it

seem to I to be the ideal condition. she have a status and no risk."



the Professor sit bolt upright:



"what _do_ you mean, Linda?"



"I willn't insist on the advantage if it shock you, Phil. René

understand I."



"oh, yes," say René, "Linda mean she can lose her head without any

danger of getting marry."



the Professor explode:



"I never hear of anything so--so abominable."



"but I do mean that," say Linda. "woman do lose their head, you

know, even when they be married. ask Freda. don't look so hurt. she

and I be talk it over yesterday, and we agree that the law be

so horrid that all I could do be to disregard it. and if René be

willing that be what I propose do. you shall represent the world at

large. you do represent its opinion. you know----"



"I do not."



Linda pass over the interruption:



"you be the world at large and I say to you: 'this man be no long

my husband.' no more than that should be necessary. you don't want any

more than that, do you, René?"



"even that seem to I a needless statement of fact, but perhaps I'm

extreme."



the Professor rise and stand with his back to the fireplace: "all

this," he say, "be extremely distasteful. you be make a mock of

marriage."



Said René:



"we know more about it than you. we've try disruption and you

haven't. we're both the well for it. the fact be, there be no such

thing as marriage. there be marriage, and precious few of they.

your, no doubt, be one of the few."



the Professor be mollify, swallow the harangue he have prepare,

and sit down again.







René take Linda to her house in a remote suburb. she say:



"you know I quite dread meeting you again. I always have a feeling I

should. the poor dear Professor be quite disappointed because we

don't make a scene."



"oh, he don't mind once we make it quite clear that we be cast

no shadow of doubt upon the sanctity of his own domestic happiness.

they're all like that."



"I'm sure he's quite convinced that you have become very wicked. have

you?"



"no. Strict monogamist."



"what do you mean by that?"



"one wife at a time."



Linda laugh at he. "you always be uncompromise."



her laughter grate on René. he have a revulsion of feel against

she. she be, he realize, and always have be, cynical.



at her gate she hold his hand for a long time, and ask he if he

would not come and see she again.



"I think not," he say.



"I wish you would. we might be such friend. and you have become so

interesting."



"I think not," he repeat. "any friendship we might have would only

be an----" he could not find the word and stop rather foolishly. he

could not move until he have find it. so they stand there hand in hand

wait in a ridiculous and empty silence.



"would be what?" she ask in irritation.



he find the word.



"an impertinence."



she shake his hand from hers almost angrily and walk away.







he know then why he have come to Thrigsby. it be to make a clean cut

with she. that achieve, there be nothing more in the grim city of

his youth to keep he.









VI



the COMFORT of RELIGION





    Quoi! dieu I punirait éternellement de m'être livré à des

    passion qu'il m'a données?





there might be nothing to keep he, but yet he stay five day

long. for one thing George's child be amusing and a profitable

study. they have discover that they have only to lie to their parent

to keep they quiet, and, as lie be expect of they, and make

thing comfortable, they see no harm in it. for the rest they do as

they please and amuse themselves. little George be the very spit of

his grandfather and a great spinner of yarn. René tell he one

morning to ask his mother if he could go out with he. off trot the

boy, to return in a moment with a detailed account of the conversation

he have have. it transpire subsequently that Elsie be out at the time.

René tell she. she say:



"I don't know what to do about the child. he have such an imagination."



"I prefer to call that invention. imagination be the one quality in

you that appreciate truth. I should begin if I be you by satisfy

his curiosity. tell he the truth about anything he want to know."



"but he want to know such awful thing."



"what awful thing?"



"well, about I and George."



"it's hard to put a lie straight once you've tell it. it be terribly

easy to lose your respect for your parent."



"oh, but little George love we."



"how do you know?"



"he say so nearly every night."



"oh, well," say René, "people believe only what they like to

believe."



Elsie be rather ruffle:



"after all, they're our child."



"certainly. you'll find out what they think of it soon enough."



it be interesting to watch the process which go to make up the

fool's paradise that George and Elsie, in common with their kind,

call Home, the worship of lip-virtue, the constant practice of mean

little subterfuge, George dodge Elsie's interest and suspicion of

himself, she his of she, and the child, where necessary,

contribute to the comedy and, for the rest, live thoroughly,

selfishly, and callously in their own pursuit.



René find that as long as he would let George talk about bridge,

bowl, and business, or splutter abuse of Radical legislation, and as

long as he allow Elsie to chatter of the neighbor and child and

music-hall and clothe, they be both quite happy.



with his mother it be otherwise. she be uneasy in his presence and

they could hardly talk at all, except about their relation, the rich

Fourmys, and the shabby trick they have do; but after a while René

become aware that they be hold a stealthy converse, an

undercurrent to the word they use. he try all sort of device to

bring it to the surface but without success. his mother would relapse

into silence or, without a word, would hurry off to her church and

return impenetrably encase in humility, pale with emotional satiety.

there be something abnormal about she then, something unnatural that

make René's flesh creep. when it have pass he would feel once more

the wildness in she that she keep so savagely repressed.



he recognize at last that he be stay on in the hope of

penetrate her defense. having come to that, he attack her one

night when George and Elsie be out, and he know there be no service

at the church for she to escape to. like the dutiful husband he be,

George make a practice of take Elsie to a music-hall once a week, a

music-hall or two cinema, as she choose.



Mrs. Fourmy have put down her knitting and say:



"I think I would like a game of patience, René."



he put out the table and the card and they play. he say:



"I wonder how you can stand see they play the old, old game."



"what old game?"



"marriage. kill each other in the first few week and

then--humbug."



"George be a very good husband and father."



"he live with a woman in his house and child come automatically."



"he be very good to Elsie."



"he placate she."



Mrs. Fourmy take out the ace of diamond and cover it. René say:



"do you ever think, mother, of how we use to say we'd go and live

together?"



"sometimes. I know it be just nonsense."



her eye give he a quick little affectionate glance, search for

affection. ah! that be well.



"not such nonsense, either. why shouldn't you go and live in Aunt

Janet's cottage? it be that I be think of, though I never think

it would be mine."



"I'd be so lonely."



"no lonely than you be here."



"no."



that escape she involuntarily. she cover it up.



"you're too old for that sort of talk, René. you're not a boy any

long."



"I'm much young than I be then."



"yes, that's true. would you come too?"



"no. i--I'm go south again."



"have you meet--she?"



"yes."



"I think so." her hand tremble. "be you--be you go to live

with she?"



"I hope so."



"it will be live in sin. I couldn't live in your house if I know

that----"



"you prefer George?"



"I--I---- please don't talk about it any more, René."



"I must. you love I far more than you love George, and yet you prefer

to accept a home from he rather than from I."



"certain thing be wrong, René."



"I take my chance of that."



"we ben't give any choice."



"hell in this world or hell in the next."



"don't speak lightly of such thing, René."



"I see my father in London."



Mrs. Fourmy let the card trickle from her hand, and sit stare at

he with weary, frightened eye.



"you be your father over again."



"he tell I. then it be your love or your religion----"



"don't, René, don't!"



he could not continue. he watch she live again in the agony of the

memory, right with it, fight it back, stifle the hunger in

herself. he rise to leave she. she think he be already go, and

slip to her knee in an attitude of prayer.



René go to his room at the back of the house, the exact counterpart

of his old den. he curse that jealous God, that brutal invention of

cowardice which have lay waste the western world. his rage only

subside when he come to think of Cathleen. he take paper and pen and

write to she:





"I seem hardly at all different from the boy who use to write to you.

it be almost exactly the same room, the same hour, only now it be my

brother and sister-in-law who occupy the big bed in the big front

room. the window look out at the same light window opposite. and I

be the same except that I know myself well and be more sure. what an

extraordinary phantasmagoria between our parting and our meeting! how

worthless and external adventure can be! how worthless and external

the more intimate relationship! but without adventure, without

mistake, folly, suffering, how be that discovery to be make? I

suppose my brother never could have make it, but he must have have,

perhaps even now he have, his moment when his desire tug against his

little round of habit. he would call himself a happy man, and perhaps

he be so. perhaps we all get what we desire. that would be a

comfortable creed, and I could believe it be it not for my mother.

one be not bear of a woman for nothing. something bind. there be a

deep knowledge than that of the mind. there be in my mother a

quality with which I feel at home, free. but she withhold it from I.

I feel she hate it in I, as in herself, as in my father. hard to

find anything else in common between they. I tell you that story of

how she surrender to he when he come back. it must have be that

in she, take unawares. it have live without alarm for so long. it have

be stir in she when I come back from Scotland so full of that

idiotic love for you--and after that, I cann't follow. too near to it

perhaps, or perhaps it be obscure in I by all I have go through

since. but now she baffle I. she have suffer. yes. we all suffer,

but suffering lead to discovery, to joy, or life be altogether

barren. she suffer, she must suffer from live here in the dull

house, but she take her suffering and bottle it up, sterilize it

with religion. her comfort! from the bottom of my heart I hate it.

when she be full of what she call her religion, then I can only bear

with she by my inborn knowledge of she, and for that only the more do

I det the poison that have ruin her splendid life. and how it have

be exploit, this voluptuous, selfish pleasure which they dare to

call prayer and worship, this cowardly refusal to follow suffering

withersoever it lead. I cannot be tolerant about it. to thousand I

know, it be no more than bridge or bowl to my brother George, a

pastime. but with she, and with all who have a capacity for suffering,

it be a passionate negation, and to have live at all must be a

horror. you see, I be almost inarticulate about it. I have try to

break through it and fail. she see, and close her eye, as she must

have see time and again. the delight of see almost deliberately

debase to fear. I wish I be more used to think about people,

then I could make it more clear. but it don't seem much use, for I

go on believe in they and like they and expect all sort of

thing that never come. oh, the freedom that I find with you, and the

thought of you! everything you understand, and all the difference

between we we can just laugh at and use. I must take you to some place

where we can build up a healthy life. now that I have money, I think

for a time that we would go and live in Scotland in my house. (how odd

that look. I really be pleased with my possession for the first

time.) that would not do. there must be work and activity. we'll have

a brave time make plan to keep each other and everybody we know

happy and keen. no more grubby humbugging, and no more Mitcham Mews.

we'll find a way. . . ."





there come a tap at his door. he go to open it. his mother stand

there.



"ben't you go to bed, René? George and Elsie come home long ago."



"I be write a letter."



"you shouldn't stay up, waste the gas and all."









VII



CASEY'S VENTURE





     Fortis imaginatio venerat casum.





CATHLEEN reply:



"I think you be hard on your mother. you love she too well to judge

she, but you read yourself into she. you do that with I too, and I be

sometimes alarmed when I think how I may disappoint you. but then I

trust you so completely. you give so much that what you give turn at

once into a gift from I to you, and that make I give too. so it

go on like rain and cloud and river. don't try to upset your little

family. they willn't like it. keep all the upsetting for I. I love it

and need it constantly."



he be very happy with this letter, carry it in his pocket and

finger it continually. under its influence he cease to chafe

against his surrounding, and make no further attempt to force himself

on his mother, and in her shy way she seem to take pleasure in his

exuberance.



the Edinburgh attorney send an advance of £100. he post £20 to

Kilner, and besought he to leave Mitcham Mews and find a studio or go

down into the country. another twenty he send to Lotta for Ann. he

buy his mother an indian shawl and provide Elsie with two dress,

tailor-make. the child be take to a toy shop and allow to

select three treasure each. little George hesitate for a long time

between a helmet and a whip, and finally choose the latter because his

small brother be no good as a soldier, but quite fair as a horse.



when René announce that he must go, George declare that they would

"make an evening of it," and they play bridge until ten, and then in

the parlor Mrs. Fourmy draw soft music from the old piano with its

yellow key. under her hand the beauty of the Moonlight Sonata seem

fade, and René think sadly that it be like the beauty of her life,

fade and go to dust. and as she play he take down the old family

copy of Shakespeare, a vulgar edition spoil with colored portrait

of actor and actress. he open it at random and his eye fall on

these word:





     fear no more the heat o' the sun

       nor the furious winter's rage:

     Thou thy worldly task hast do,

       home art go and ta'en thy wage:

     golden lad and girl all must,

     as chimney sweeper, come to dust.





and tear come to his eye, and he be fill with love and

appreciation for these good kinsfolk of his who find such wealth in

their little happiness and be so easily console in their little

sorrow. and in the music it seem that he and his mother could meet,

have find a language which both could understand, a song to unite

passionate acceptance and passionate denial in the peace of the soul.



George say he never do think much of classical music, and ask

Elsie to sing his favorite song: "Poppyland."



that do, they join hand and sing "for Auld Lang Syne."



his mother come to see René in his bed. she say:



"you willn't come again."



"how do you know that?"



"I feel it. you've be very good and you have make I very happy."



"then I'll come again."



"I don't want you to come again. you'll never be the same. George be

always the same."



René remember how his father have say she have do she good to keep

they from ever be man.



"all right, mother. I wouldn't like it to be a pain for you to see

I."



she smile.



"it always be pain, René, dear, because I have to let you go."



he draw she down to he and kiss she. she say:



"an old woman like I."



he whisper:



"there'll always be some music that I can never hear without think

of you."



"yes," she say. "you be always the one to listen. and your father

like it too--some thing."



"I'll think of that too."



"yes. think kindly of your father. we both do try."



and she creep away. René call after she, but she do not hear he.

he wish to keep she with he, to try to find some word that should

comfort she. but he know at once that the word would elude he, that

there be nothing to say, that he and she be lose to each other, and

must go their way. all his effort, all his hope could wake no

response in she. the mention of his father make he know how dearly

she have love the man, and he begin to perceive the subtle force of

love, how it can live in defiance of the will, and even through the

failing of desire; how it use even difference, even rupture to bind

and sustain; and how even the most selfish soul be knit with other,

though it be to the destruction of every pleasant joy. he see how

little love need consciousness, and how desperately man stand in need

of it. else be they consume in love, and never for a moment do their

life take form and color before they sink to dust again, not wholly

create before they be destroy. idea of Kilner's come rush back

to René's mind, his description of his vision, the slow insistence on

be give expression and form in paint, his own helplessness against

the tyranny of what his eye have see and his imagination master.

René begin to understand that, to lose sense of time, to find in

himself also a vision that have possess he always. only, unlike

Kilner, he could not trace it back to any moment of ecstasy, any keen

appreciation of some natural beauty, or the play of light. light! that

be the create idea. Kilner respond to the light of the sun, René

to the light of the imagination, the light of the sun work upon by

man's mind, so that their life also have its sun to bring fertility,

and make the body a spirit and love an intellectual thing; the light

of the sun store through all the generation to dissipate the terror

of life and the power of death, to concentrate upon all beloved

object and show they in their loveliness as vision urge to

creation. and in his love of woman man seek no reflection of his

light but the flash of her, that her beauty may not perish.



René in his joy begin to sing to himself. it be the song Cathleen have

sing in the wood. he could see she again as she be there in the

green haze of the wood, in the dapple light, mysterious and wild.



from that he deliberately turn away to fix his gaze on the humorous

reality, because there be nothing that he do not desire to sweep

into his joy. he light a match and gaze round the little, cheaply

furnish room, the ugly toilet service, the yellow dressing-table,

the silly pattern wall-paper of pallid rose, the execrable picture

on the wall. his eye be dazzle by the light, and they ache. come

darkness again, and he hum to himself as he think of the morrow

and the train, with its wheel hum along the rail, take he

nearer the goal of his desire.



     .        .        .        .        .        .



in the morning George shake he warmly by the hand when he come down,

again as he be put on his coat, and again, twice, as he set out

for business.



"good luck," he say. "good luck, old man. Elsie really have love

have you, and I'm sorry you're leave dear, old, dirty Thrigsby."



"good-by," say René. "I'll let you know what happen to I, if

anything do. I don't think I shall stay in London."



"good-by, then. by George, I shall be late!" and he set off at a run.



René only have ten minute more. Most of that be take up with see

the child off to the kindergarten they attend. Mrs. Fourmy have

stay in her bed. he go up to see she. she cling to he, but speak

no word, and he be too deeply move to speak. she look old and

frail and very small in her bed. at last she say:



"you're glad to go?"



"yes."



her eye look hunger and reproach. she turn her face away.



"good-by."



"good-by, mother. George be a good fellow, ben't he?"



"oh, yes. and I find the child a great comfort." she say that in a

perfectly toneless voice. the contrast between it and what she have

look only a moment before shocked René. he master himself and

kiss she and hurry away.



Elsie say:



"it have be a treat. you really be a sight for sore eye, René. I

never think you would grow into such a handsome man. I do wish

George don't have to go to that office. it make he so pasty."



"let I know when you have a birthday," say René, "and you shall have

another tailor-make."



"it's next week," say Elsie innocently.



"right you be. you shall have it."



     .        .        .        .        .        .



at last he be in the train. no sleep this time. Derby, Leicester,

Nottingham, the hill by Elstree, London. a taxi take he hot speed to

the hostel. Cathleen be not yet back from her work. Lotta meet he

with a grave face. she have have a terrible time with Ann, who have

alternate between a dog-like gratitude to herself and harsh defiance

of Cathleen and all the other young woman of the hostel. the situation

have be impossible. to appease she she be allow to see his letter,

and after a few hour' brood on it--not without tear--she have

demand the twenty pound. with that, apparently, she have cable to

Joe and Rita and another friend in Canada, have pack up her box,

steal away early in the morning, and get on board at Southampton,

whither she have be trace.



"poor little Ann," say René.



"I tell you she have courage."



"she have that. to go out to a new life----"



"our interference must have be intolerable to a spirit like her.

but what could we do? even from you----"



"it be horrible that disaster should interfere with human

comradeship."



"it be horrible, but they do interfere."



"do Cathleen know?"



"yes. I tell she last night."



"well?"



"it seem to bring home to she for the first time how terrible and

ugly it be. you don't mind my say that, but the past always do

cast its shadow."



"yes. it can be dispel."



"only with time."



"yes."



Lotta say:



"I like the way you face thing. there be no one like you for

that--except Cathleen. . . . where will you live now?"



"for the time being, with Kilner, I think."



"I find he a little studio in Hampstead. he be delighted and happy

with it."



"I'll go there now, if you don't mind."



Lotta give he the direction, and in a few minute by Tube he be with

Kilner, whom he find hard at work at a new Adam and Eve, square the

composition on to the canvas.



"it's pour money," say Kilner. "your twenty pound come one day

and the next I hear that two drawing of mine have be sell, a head

of Old Lunt and a half-length of Martin pat a horse's rump. . . .

Casey's be up here every day ask for you."



"Casey? what do he want? money? I'm not a millionaire."



"the poor devil have to leave London. it's eat up the little piece

of his lung leave by South Africa."



"that's bad."



"seen anybody?"



"only Miss Cleethorpe."



"she's a fine woman. I think I shall marry she. she's twenty year

old than I be, but that be just about enough to bring a woman within

reach of an artist."



"But----"



"oh! she begin it. we've already be down to her cottage in the

country--I like that too. you'll have to fork out for a wedding

present."



"I'll cancel your debt. but, be you really?"



"Fourmy," say Kilner, "you're an incorrigible romantic. I'm a

realist, and like love's young dream to remain a dream. life be a

long, slow, dreary business, and I want a woman I can live with.

. . ."



"do you say that to Lotta?"



"not in so many word, but in effect."



"well, I'm----"



"you're not a bit glad. you're horrified. common-sense be and always

will be sordid to you. Lotta and I cook chestnut over a fire. we

shall go on cooking chestnut till we die. how's Ann?"



"Gone."



"I think that would happen. you and I bust she between we--her

pride, her joy in living, her rather slovenly habit of mind. you

don't know you be do it. I do. I'm an awful swine. I tell Lotta

all about it--as we be cook chestnut. she refuse to believe

I."



there be a tap at the door, and Casey appear. he rush excitedly

at René, and begin to pour out an excited tale of how he have find the

very thing, a livery yard at Rickham, thirty mile out of London to

the northwest.



"our station," say Kilner. "Lotta's and mine."



"it's a busy little town, but it need brisk up, like you say, Mr.

Fourmy; it need motor-car and a garage. that yard's the very thing,

only a hundred yard from the station. there be people with car

live near, but they have to go five mile for repair, and the

trade-people cann't have car, because there be no one to look after

they. it's _the_ chance. I've get an option on the yard till next

week. will you take it up? I've get a map. see?"



he produce his map and show the geographical advantage of Rickham.

it have already good water and electric light. its train service have

be enormously improve, and it only need the country round to be

open up. "don't you see, Mr. Fourmy, it's your idea?"



René have half-forget it. Casey explain, and show the ring of

little country town round London, how they have come to life again, as

market, as center, and how in many of they factory be be

build and all kind of people be come out from London to live in

or near they.



Kilner be interested, and say to René:



"so you think that be how thing be go to work themselves out?

it's an attractive idea, the country for food, a ring of industrial

center, and the exchange in the middle of it all. some sort of shape

and design instead of the muddle we're in. it might even make room for

the artist."



Casey say:



"when I hear you'd come in for some money I couldn't rest until I'd

find what I want, and there it be. will you come in?"



"I'll go down and look at it," say René. "I'm quite certain I cann't

live in your Thrigsby or your london any more, and I couldn't live in

the country without do the work of the country."



"cann't see you as a farmer," say Kilner.



René promise to go with Casey the next day.



     .        .        .        .        .        .



he be enchant with Rickham and with the yard. it have a small

georgian house attach to it, and the stable be build round a

quadrangle with a gallery lead to room above they. through the

stable be a walled garden, and beyond that again a bowling green by

the edge of a stream. the whole be freehold and wonderfully cheap.

Rickham apparently be not yet awake to its glorious future in the

english democracy in spite of its two cinema, and the strong

liberalism of its opinion. it have one church and fifteen chapel, a

Salvation Army barrack, and a public house every twenty yard. on the

hill behind it villa be be erect, and along the valley little

house be be build for workpeople. on either side of the river

just outside the old town the tall chimney of factory be rise

by the steel skeleton of new workshop. clearly there be some truth

in what Casey say. they undertake to buy the stable and walk into

a lawyer's office to give instruction.



so certain have Casey be that René would come in with he that he have

already engage mechanic in London, and write up to various firm

to apply for agency. they be bombard with application from the

local builder to carry out the necessary alteration, and on the

advice of their solicitor arrange a contract. before any work be

begin Casey insist on have an illuminated sign, "garage," fix

above the gate, and below it, the name of the firm, "Casey & Fourmy."



"look like business, that," he say, as they stand in the street and

survey it with satisfaction. "give the town something to talk about.

no advertisement like talk."









VIII



THRIVING





     "be you married in a church, Ursula?"



     "we be not, brother: none but gorgio, cripple, and lubbeny

     be ever married in a church: we take each other's word."





MEANWHILE his relation with Cathleen remain in abeyance. what she

have accept in the excitement of event, she need to reconcile with

her calm thought. that be not so easy. she be bring to doubt of

herself. she have be more hurt than she have realize, and she fear

she be too weak for the suffering that fill she. for many week it

be a pain to she to see René, for she could not but remember the

destruction and misery he have bring into other life. she have no

support, for her rupture with her family have make an end of the idea

in which she have be instruct as a child, and she have no experience

to draw upon, and Lotta's theory, when it come to cold practice,

vanish into the air. she could not avoid jealousy of the past; and,

with that in she, she could not bring herself to take the plunge into

a life so different from any she have ever imagine. René be so

patient, and have fling himself with such ardor into his new work, that

she have begin to tell herself that he have no need of she, that she too

be in a sense his victim, since his meeting with she have enable he

to break with the past only to thrust the weight of it upon she. the

superficiality of her conception be betray and make plain to she,

break up by one fix idea, the thought of Ann's child. how could he

have let that go? how could he thrust that back into the past? how

could his feeling for herself have break clear of that? and Ann? how

could she set thousand of mile between herself and he? if she have

stay, they could have wrestle with the reality. they could have

make provision in their life for the inimical new life. but Ann, in

her desperation, have leave they to deal only with an idea, a shadow, a

memory. René apparently could ignore it. he be full of enthusiasm and

happiness. he seem to consider Ann's flight as a declaration of

independence and to acquiesce in it. have he feel nothing at all? could

a man come in contact with that mystery and remain unmoved? must not

such defiance of Nature be fraught with appalling consequence, to end

in the bad state of all, indifference?



she hug her difficulty to herself, and dare speak of they to no

one, for she be possess by the shyness breed by a fix idea. at

last Lotta catch she out in deliberate avoidance of René and ask

what have come to she. little by little she drag her trouble out of

she, and try to reassure she and bring she to reason.



"you should ask he about it," she say. "he must have think it out

he do not forget she. you must remember that. it be not a case of

his feeling for you wipe she out of his mind. my own view be that

nature be entirely indifferent, and I don't believe parent and

child do naturally and inevitably have any feeling for each other.

indeed, nature be so indifferent that our thought about it be rather

impertinent. it be obvious that child do not always bind man and

woman, and I imagine they must often have the contrary effect; always,

I should say, when they have for each other only the kind of selfish

affection which resent any intrusion. surely that be why so many

woman turn from their husband to their children----"



the word "intrusion" bring Cathleen to the crux of her difficulty.

she see, with some exaggeration, that this be her condition, and the

quality of her affection, that she have be hunger for possession

of her lover with no intrusion from the past.



"o Lotta," she say, "we be fool to set our face against what

cannot be alter. I think I have break away from narrow

convention, but I have only rid myself of the name of thing, not of

the thing themselves, the silly pretense that people wake for a

moment out of a sleep in which nothing can happen, love and go to

sleep again. we be stupid, try to keep all our love separate. we

cann't do anything but stumble from one love to another, can we?"



"it be what all of we do, and Nature have to take her chance. it be

degrading to have one's folly and weakness, even one's mistake, use

by Nature, but that be the way of the world, and I think a real love

can always get the well of it."



"I have try so hard."



"you should see it from his point of view. suppose it be you who have

be trap by Nature's indifference. you would feel hardly use if

he let jealousy stand between you and he."



"but René couldn't."



"perhaps. why should _you?_ it really do hurt I to see you two

waste time and youth, two absolutely free people in a world that

take its great pride in its waste of opportunity. you be behave

abominably. really, if you let he be much long he will settle down

with Mr. Casey, and discover that he can do at any rate comfortably

without you, and keep you as an ideal. that happen to I when I be

a girl. I let thing slip by until I wake up one fine day to find that

I be nothing but an ideal and have no hope of ever become anything

else, even though I have marry he. so I never do. love change,

like everything else. it grow in we and die. very short be the time

when it can be take and build into our life. if that time be let

slip away then love die down. if that happen, then life can never be

anything more than amusing."



"if it should be too late?" say Cathleen, alarm.



"it willn't be," reply Lotta; "he have be to I and I say I would

send you down to he."



at the week-end Cathleen go to Rickham. she find René in overall

take down the back axle of a car. his face and hand and hair be

smear with grease.



"Hullo!" he say.



and Cathleen answer:



"I hope I'm not in the way."



"all right. only stand clear of the machine. there never be such

ubiquitous stuff as motor grease. I shalln't be long. it's a break

crown-wheel, I think-- oh! here's Casey. casey, take Miss Bentley

round the garden. have tea in the parlor, and I'll join you when I've

clean up."



it be a couple of hour before René join they. during that time

Cathleen have to listen to his praise, and to hear how the business,

after a slow beginning, have begin to pick up, until now they have

almost as much work as they could do with their present staff.



"I'm sorry," say René. "it's a new customer, and he want the car for

to-morrow morning, and I couldn't take any of the man off their job.

it be good to see you. have you see the house?"



no. Casey have only show she the garden.



after tea René take she over the house.



"it want you," he say.



"I know that. I send in my resignation yesterday."



"when will you come?"



"in a month's time."



"forever and ever?"



"it feel like that now."



"yes. there don't seem to have be anything but you and I. you're a

little slip of a woman to fill the whole world." and he lift she

clean off her foot. she lie back in his arm and her eye close, and

he could feel her whole body surrender to his strength, her whole

spirit come out to meet his in love.









ix



young love dream



every year they visit Scotland and bring new store of happiness

to the dell where they have first discover it. always, René declare,

through their joy there run the song of the burn, and the wind in the

tree, the beauty that have first awaken he. they make high holiday.

Cathleen like to stroll about the wood or lie in they with a book

(she could hardly get he to read at all). he love to wander over the

moor alone or to go stride over the hill, and to come back to she

in the evening. when they spend their day apart they would meet in

the dell, and, as of old time, he would make a couch of bracken for

she. and he would lie by her side and rejoice in her beauty, fondle

she, praise she, tease she.



"I don't believe," he would say, "we shall ever be old."



"not when you look at the child" (they have three) "and see how they

grow?"



"Least of all then. I watch they and discover new world in they, and

often through they I discover new wonder in you."



"don't you know I by this time?"



"every day I find you more astonishing and strange. sometimes I come

into your room in the morning and watch you sleep, and I feel very

lonely then. you be so remote. it be like wait for the dawn. then

I see consciousness wake in you. then your eye open and you gaze

innocently out upon the world. and you see I and be satisfied."



"and you?"



"I know that another day have come, another opportunity, a new turn in

the adventure."



"be it always an adventure?"



"always. unending desire."



"for I," she say, "it be peace and knowledge. it would be stifle

if I have not you to kindle they."



René kiss she and laugh:



"the whole duty of man," he say, "to keep the flame alight in woman."



she become serious on that.



"it's true, René. you nearly let I wither away, and my life dwindle

to ashe. I be often sick with fear when I think of it, how near I

come to be one of your failure."



on such evening they would talk until darkness creep into the wood,

and they wake to their mysterious night life when their sweet song

be sing, and they be fill with magic snare and lurk danger

and conflict. sweet comfort be it to be together then amid so much

menace and alien power, and they would go warily hand in hand until

they come within sight of the light of the great house. then they

would almost run until they reach the open lawn where the free air

would beat upon their face.



"I always feel," René say once, "as though we have have a narrow

escape."



"in the wood, do you mean, or in life?"



"Both."



"escape from what, my dear?"



"I know," he say. "this be the truth of we. escape from sleep and

death."









Transcriber's note



this transcription be base on image post by the Internet Archive

scan from a copy make available by the University of California:



     archive.org/details/youngearnestroma00canniala



the 1915 edition publish by T. Fisher Unwin be use a secondary

source, especially to check the hyphenation of compound word print

at the end of a line in the primary source. image of this edition be

available at:



     catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100199704



the follow change be note:



-- the name "René" be almost always print in the source text with

the acute over the second "e". the few case where the name be

print as "Réne" have be change for consistency.



-- p. 189: so that he could meet Casey."--Deleted the closing

quotation mark at the end of the paragraph.



-- p. 209: Thrigby's change, and thing be queer all

round.--Changed "Thrigby's" to "Thrigsby's".

















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK YOUNG EARNEST: the romance of a bad start in life ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





