The project Gutenberg eBook of Round the Corner

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: round the Corner



author: Gilbert Cannan



Release date: August 5, 2016 [ebook #52729]



language: English



credit: produce by Paul Haxo with special thank to Cornell

        University, Princeton University, the Internet Archive,

        and Google.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ROUND the CORNER ***









produce by Paul Haxo with special thank to Cornell

University, Princeton University, the Internet Archive,

and Google.











ROUND the CORNER







_on veut essayer de peindre à la postérité, non les action d'un seul

homme, mais l'esprit des homme dans le siècle le plus éclairé qui fut

jamais._--SIÈCLE DE LOUIS XIV.





_by the same AUTHOR_

PETER HOMUNCULUS

LITTLE BROTHER







ROUND the CORNER



be the life and death of FRANCIS CHRISTOPHER FOLYAT, BACHELOR of

divinity and FATHER of a large family



BY GILBERT CANNAN





NEW YORK

D. APPLETON and COMPANY

MCMXIII







_to MY MOTHER_



_we be happy, you and I,

 in the day so long go by,

 when you give I of the store

 of rich legendary lore,

 part saga, and part truth,

 of the day of your own youth.

 ah! the world be golden then!

 how we scorn the world of man

 in the day so long go by!

 we be happy, you and I._





_first publish_ 1913







content



                                             PAGE



a LITTLE PREFACE                              vii



I. FRANCIS oblige                              1



II. the CURATE marrie                          9



III. ST. withan                               19



IV. FERN SQUARE                                29



V. hostility                                 40



VI. FREDERIC'S FRIENDS                         50



VII. young WOMEN                               58



VIII. serge                                    71



IX. INTERIOR                                   83



X. SUNDAY supper                               95



XI. art and DRAMA                             107



XII. ANNETTE                                  119



xiii. imbroglio                               131



XIV. WHITE BEARD and GREY                     143



XV. walk HOME                              156



XVI. MRS. FOLYAT dissect                    170



XVII. FREDERIC snare                         177



xviii. EXCURSION                              186



XIX. GERTRUDE                                 200



XX. EDUCATION                                 210



XXI. MRS. ENTWISTLE'S HEART                   218



XXII. LOVE                                    227



XXIII. BENNETT tell his MOTHER               241



XXIV. ANNETTE tell her FATHER                247



XXV. LAWRIEAN philosophy                      260



XXVI. MINNA'S CHOICE                          266



XXVII. GERTRUDE make the best of it          274



xxviii. MOTHER and DAUGHTER                   280



XXIX. DISCUSSION                              288



XXX. FREDERIC in the toils                    295



xxxi. news from MINNA                         309



XXXII. the cutting of a KNOT                  323



XXXIII. the conclusion of the matter          334



XXXIV. NUNC DIMITTIS                          341







a LITTLE PREFACE



Care I for the limb, the thews, the stature, bulk and big assemblance

of a man? give I the spirit.

     HENRY IV, Part II.



_be of such a strange temper and vision that when I aim my pen at a

man I be as likely as not to hit his grandfather, I have in this

instance endeavour to forestall the treachery of my faculty and to

go straight for the grandfather, though my interest be centre in the

man. in a sense I have write his life as it be long before he be

bear, when he be nothing more than a grow presentiment. I have

find it instructive and entertaining to observe and follow the

evolution of the material, moral, and intellectual atmosphere which

be to bear on he first of all through his mother's mind, and then

through his own sense as soon as his life be separate from her._



_I launch my hero upon the world and leave it to anybody who like to

kill he, and I pray that those who be in process of morally

slaughter their own innocent may take my imaginary child instead,

for there be no remedy for the murder of a live soul, but, should it

ever happen that my bantling demand the right to continue his

existence and in his turn to become a father, I have only to revive

he, give he another name, and let he do his bad._



_my conscience have be greatly exercise for some time now over the

many error and literary sin I have commit in the past--sin not

against the rule (there be none) but against the person whom I have

force to live in a mutilate, limited sort of life in the print

page, and those other excellent person whom I have invite to

collaborate in the fun of watch they. upon these two set of

person I have too often force my belief without make it clear to

they what my belief be. and here again I shall often seem to offend,

because, honestly, I can neither codify my belief nor force they into

any exist code. I can, however, give a hint at they by say that,

in my view, we can only accept life with dignity and without injury to

our self-respect in perfect freedom--by which I shall be take to mean

licence. freedom be a much-abuse word, and when you use it to seven

man and woman out of ten they at once think of a world full of satyr.

when I use the word Freedom, I think of a world full of what Walt

Whitman, who have no sense of humour when he take pen in hand, call

"superb person," that be, man and woman who be not imprison in

their own thought. only a man's own mind can make he a slave, and

every healthy human being from first to last of conscious life

struggle for the freedom of his own mind. we set about it often in

strange way and make dreadful muddle, but the fight itself render

life enjoyable, even if the aim be never attain. Freedom, of course,

like everything else, be subject to the limitation of this existence.

a man's thought, like his life, be bound by birth and death. when

he try to cast they beyond death they fall cold and lifeless, as

will be see in much imaginative poetry, many spiritualistic theory,

and all presentation of Heaven. for reason quite explicable when we

consider the die belief in a sort of straight-line human progress,

man have never be interested in event antecedent to birth. I look

forward to the day when they will be as little interested in event

after death. a man's father and his son (mother and daughter include)

be all the past and future vouchsafe to he, and if he will take the

trouble to understand they he will find satisfaction and to spare for

what be at present call his thirst for immortality._



_I find immortality an admirable word upon which to end my preface,

but, in face of the grey tint of this composition, I must protest my

optimism, believe human life to be like a river, that, if it be

fouled, will run itself clear in time. only, you must trace the poison

to its source and stop it._







I



francis oblige



_one be one and all alone

and ever more shall be so._

     OLD SONG.



there be once a time, and not so long ago either, when gentle people

be so gentle that the male could not (with the countenance of their

family) enter upon any profession other than the Army, the Navy, or

the Church.



Francis Christopher Folyat be a male member of a gentle family that

have do no work for two generation and, unfortunately, have not be

clever enough to keep its revenue from dwindle. he be the eld

son and he have two brother, so that there be one Folyat for each of

the three profession, if enough patronage could be collect from

their various title and more or less influential connection. Francis

have a snub nose, William have an aquiline nose which his mother adore,

and Peter have a nose which betray a very remote jewish infection of

the blood of the race.



parenthetically let it be observe that the name Folyat should be

write with two little _f_s--ffolyat, for so the name be spell by

the only really distinguished Folyat, Henry, who have be mix up in

the Gunpowder Plot, so that his name be print to this day in more

than one history of England, and to this day, in spite of its

deep-root conservatism, the family be proud of that insurgent son.

he mark its descent for all to see, and, as it be all so long ago, it

be easy to forget that he fail to do that for which certain

politician have become infamous, namely, to blow up the House of

Lords and, with it, his cousin, the Baron Folyat and the Viscount

Bampfield of his day. he escape from England, and the French

Feuillats, of whom the present representative keep a newspaper kiosk

on the Rue de Rivoli, just outside the Métro station by the Louvre,

be his direct descendant. english interest in that branch of the

family cease with the conspirator Henry.



the grandfather of Francis Folyat have a seat in the country and a

mansion in London, also a coach and a barouche, an advowson or two,

and a vast number of servant; also a large collection of portrait,

include a Van Dyck, a Holbein, and a Sir Peter Lely. the father of

Francis Folyat leave the seat in the country in a dilapidate

condition, and only so much else as he could not possibly avoid

leaving. however, Baron Folyat and Viscount Bampfield behave very

handsomely and agree to assist the widow with their patronage. Baron

Folyat's magnanimity stop short at his promise, but Viscount

Bampfield be as good as his word, and when the time come for Francis

to enter upon a career he procure he a commission in his Majesty's

Army. Francis be highly delighted at this, and see himself step

into the Duke of Wellington's shoe when that illustrious man should

be gather to that fold where the most illustrious be even as the

mean of God's creature. he spend a glorious day in the top of his

favourite oak-tree in the park plan heroic war for England and

tell the bird that at last they have something to sing about. he

have never think of it before, but, as it have be decide that he

be to be a soldier, he flare to the project, see himself in a red

coat charge like Marmion, or dance at a ball like that describe

so melodramatically by the wicked poet, Lord Byron, when Belgium's

capital have "gather there her beauty and her chivalry"; more, since

it might be his duty to die for England, he fetch up an England

worth die for, a heroic, majestic king, a cause, and a God curse

England's enemy. he thoroughly enjoy himself and prepare a

martial oration in good ciceronic period for his mother's benefit,

when, as he know she would, she give he her blessing and deliver

herself of a homily over her soldier-son.



"I will be," he say, "a true Folyat, worthy of the name I bear."



as he enter the house he meet his brother William, whom he have always

dislike more than any one in the world--he have often pray to God to

make he like William well--and he think there be a curious look

in his eye. he put it down to envy and like William less than ever.

William sidle up to he and say:



"mother wish to see you."



a wish from their mother be a command, always obey, as he obey it

now. she be a very handsome woman. she have be the celebrate Miss

Cresitter and she never forget it. she have be a toast, and queen

it accordingly. her portrait have be paint by an extremely

fashionable and very indifferent painter and it hang in her room, the

good in the house. she wear a beautiful lace fichu and black lace

mitten, and the line of her face be hard. her hair be do in

ringlet on either side of her face and draw up into a knot at the

back of her head. in front it be part in the middle and plentifully

oil. the furniture in the room be handsome and ponderous, and there

be nowhere an indication of any sort of recognition of the loveliness

of the view from the window.



Francis stand, as he have be train to do in his mother's presence,

and wait for she to speak. she be in no hurry and keep he

stand, and when she speak he be startle, as he never fail to

be, by the rich tone of her voice. it be a magnificent voice, and

she know it and use it caressingly, linger on her favourite note,

which she throw cunningly upon the open vowel. Francis be a fine

word for her purpose. she might have put a world of affection into

her intonation of it, but that seem never to have occur to she. it

never occur to Francis either.



"Francis," she say, "I have be think."



this call for no reply and Francis make none.



"I do not think," she go on, "that you be altogether suitable for

the army. you be too gentle. you cannot say 'no.' you be--how shall

I say it?--too emotional, too much give to dream. the life of a

soldier be stern and call for resolution. the Folyats be, and always

have be, weak. there have be exception it be true, but I have

never see any indication that you be one of they."



Francis be cut to the quick, but he have never in his life doubt the

truth of anything his mother say, and, when she point out the

temptation of a soldier's life, he begin to see himself as a feeble

will-less wastrel utterly unfit to wear the king's uniform. well

never to wear it than to disgrace it! it be quite as easy for he to

see himself in this light as to dream heroically of warlike deed and

successful prowess. his mother play upon his foible and strip he

mercilessly of red coat, sword, epaulet, cocked hat, and glorious

future. he capitulate and agree that he be incapable of say

"no," and be therefore unfit to take up the commission so kindly

obtain for he by his cousin Bampfield.



having be rob of his dream, he do not very much care what the

future hold for he. his mother explain to he that she have very

little money and could leave he less, and that if he would go into

the Church his Cousin Bampfield could provide he with a living as

soon as he have be ordain. she could not send he to Oxford or

Cambridge, since the estate of a gentleman in those university be

costly, but she have make inquiry and find that the University of

Dublin, the irish be notoriously poor, could equip a divinity

student with Latin, greek, Hebrew, theology, and a degree for a modest

annual sum.



Francis embrace this plan miserably enough, and begin to study the

Greek Testament with the vicar. the subject of the commission be

never reopen, and his mother be more amiable to he than she have

ever be.



a few month later it be announce that William be to stay with

Cousin Bampfield, and Francis learn that the commission have be

transfer to his detest young brother. he lose his temper, waylay

William, drag he behind the stable, and thump his aquiline nose

until it swell and assume a red and purple hue, and William howl

and vow that if ever he could do his brother a mischief he would. no

hint of the combat ever reach their mother, in spite of her distress

at the damage to her William's beautiful nose, and the brother go

their way--William abroad, to stay with his aunt by marriage, the

Comtessa di Sangiorgi, and Francis to Dublin, where he lodge with a

slatternly Irishwoman, who corrupt his habit and encourage he in

his natural indolence of mind and excessive good-nature.



of his university life nothing very definite be know. he be in every

way unremarkable. he be too simple and direct to achieve notoriety by

conflict with his fellow-undergraduate. he recognise that he be in

Dublin to procure a degree, and set himself to achieve that purpose

with the minimum of trouble. he acquire a taste for the latin poet,

especially Juvenal, Horace, and Lucretius, and he be never weary of

read the fragmentary novel of Petronius Arbiter. he have many

acquaintance and few friend, and he devote much time to the growth

and cultivation of a long golden beard, which, together with his snub

nose, earn he the nickname of Socrates, or Old Soc. in Ireland he

be happy than he ever be again in all his long life, though, with

his large capacity for enjoyment, it cannot be say that he be ever

genuinely unhappy. in Ireland he find an atmosphere altogether

congenial to his temperament, which find its food in Rabelais,

Montaigne (voltaire he would not read as he be go to be a

clergyman), and so lead he to the conviction that english literature

be divert from its true channel after the death of Henry Fielding.

(he once take a chaplaincy in Lisbon because he wish to see and to

honour the novelist's grave.) he make friend enough to be ask to

spend his vacation away from home, and be glad to have excuse to

give to his mother--excuse which he convey to she in letter

begin "Dear Madam" and subscribe "your obedient son."



nothing occur to disturb his equable determination to enter the

Church, and after he have take the degree of Bachelor of Divinity he

swallow the thirty-nine Articles without blink and proceed to

ordination at the hand of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, shortly after

the marriage of Queen Victoria with her cousin Prince Albert, not yet

either great or good, and almost within a week of his brother

William's departure with his regiment for India.



for a few month he act as chaplain in his cousin Lord Folyat's

household, and be amuse to find his position as spiritual adviser

and curate of soul give he a status slightly above that of the

butler and, so far as cordiality go, distinctly below that of the

huntsman who feed and train the hound. he comfort himself with the

reflection that his condition be at any rate well than that of

Parson Adams, though his desert be less, and take step to obtain

work independently of his family. this greatly upset madam, his

mother, who warn he that he might be jeopardise his chance of

the next family live. within himself he argue that, be by

profession a shepherd of soul, he must not waste time in place where

there be not one to be find. he do not, however, lie this argument

before his mother, but accept a curacy at one hundred and ten pound

in South Devon, on a pleasant estuary, in a little town that have be

a seaport in old day, trade busily with France and the Netherlands,

and once familiar ground to Francis Drake and many another Elizabethan

adventurer. here there might or might not be soul for his charge, but

there be the sea, and romance, and a heronry, and wood that be a

perfect paradise for bird. he go down to the place and write his

mother a very fine literary description of its natural beauty, which

he send to she by the new penny post and promise that he would stay

with she for six day before he enter upon his new life.



he arrive to find she in her great four-poster bed, shrivel and

very little, and look very old in the shadow of its massive

hanging. her appearance shock he. he have never see anybody die,

and he have a strange feeling that he be be very unfairly treat,

and he realise painfully that in honour his father's memory and

his mother he have enjoy only a very unsatisfactory relationship. his

brother William be in India; Peter be on the high sea, and no word

be to be expect from he for three year or more. he be alone, and

he feel ashamed of his incapacity to grapple with the situation. his

mother, perhaps as a tactful tribute to the profession into which she

have force he, ask he to read the Bible, and automatically he

turn to the Book of Ecclesiastes and read she the passage in the

last chapter which contain some of the sound and most neglect

advice ever give to mankind. he make no attempt to reconcile it with

christian teaching and his work, but find himself delight in the

spiritual health of the word. his mother say:



"Francis, you must read well than that."



this rather irritate he, though he know it be selfish and

inappropriate at such a time. he reply:



"Mother, I could have wish to come to see you in a red coat. it have

be order that I should wear a black. I do not think I shall ever

be a bishop, but I will do my good to remain a gentleman and to be

worthy of the name I bear."



his mother turn the subject and talk to he of material matter,

and make he promise to preserve intact the family portrait--twelve

in all. certain article of furniture and plate he be to keep in

trust for his brother when they should return to England. William,

she say, be certain to be a general, and Peter could hardly fail,

with so much influence, to become an admiral.



"and I," think Francis, "be a stranger to ambition."



suddenly tear come to his eye and he have a feeling of immense pity,

and it be so queer to he that he should have an overflowing emotion

in his mother's presence that he be relieve when this colloquy be

break off by the entry of Dr. Fish, the physician from the town five

mile away, who still wear a wig and knee-breech and look like a

sparrow after a dust-bath.



Francis leave he with his patient and go into the fruit-garden to

enjoy a pipe of tobacco, a luxury which have master he in Dublin. he

learn there to smoke a clay pipe and bird's-eye tobacco and never

change they for sixty year.



Dr. Fish be rather a long time closet in the dark room with the

great bed, and when he come down Francis meet he with an anxious face.



"die?" say Dr. Fish. "not a bit of it. she'll live to be a hundred."



but to Francis she be already dead, and in his life thereafter she

be a ghost whom he regard with a friendly eye. never again do he

allow she to meddle in his affair.







II



the CURATE marrie



_she's extremely pretty and love thee entirely. I have hear she

breathe such rapture about thee._--THE OLD BACHELOR.



POTSHAM then be very much what it be now. it be doubtful if fifty

house be build in it in as many year. it have then a repair dock

which provide work for the poor. it have now a jam factory. then its

postmistress, with the aid of a kettle, open all letter that look

interesting. only the other day a new resident discover that his

private affair be common property, and the postmistress be

depose. then, as now, the church, stand high above the river, be

the centre of the somnolent life of the place, and Francis Folyat

live upon an eminence. he like it.



the little society of the place warm to the curate when it be find

that he be welcome in the house of one or two of the county

family. when it be discover that Viscount Bampfield be his first

cousin once remove, and that Baron Folyat be half a degree nearer in

kinship, he become a romantic figure. when a small girl read in her

history book that Henry Folyat be associate with Guy Fawkes, she run

with her thumb between the leave and show the passage to her

governess, who show it to her mother, who give a dinner-party to

announce the discovery. Thenceforth the curate be bathe in a golden

light.



he become the object of the most flattering attention. every woman in

the town show herself a mother to he, and Miss Martha Brett win

from he the confession that his full name be Francis ffolyat

Christopher ffolyat-Folyat. she hug this information to her bosom,

and gloat over the thought that it be hers and hers alone. she

devour romance, though, be not yet seventeen, she be suppose

to confine her attention to "the Fairchild Family" and Miss Maria

Edgeworth. in all innocence Francis lend she the poem of a young man

name Shelley who be still regard as a blasphemous and immoral

writer. she could not read they, but do not tell he so, though she

distress he by invite he to read Mrs. Inchbald aloud to she in

the gazebo at the end of the garden, above the wall that be wash by

the river when the tide be up and slime with mud when it be out.



the curate's mind be at that time divide into two compartment, one

for literature and the other for religion. he see no necessity for

reconcile the two thing and make no attempt to do so. he regard

religion as his work, and literature as an escape from it. life be

extremely pleasant: lazy day succeed lazy day. the obedient flock

be round into the church on Sunday and quite often on weekday, for

there be no other place in which two or three could gather together.

the only tiny cloud in a fair blue sky be drink and dissent, and in

the low class an occasional outburst of immorality. Dissent be

ignore; drink be attack by prayer; and immorality be defeat by

a hurried marriage where possible, and when that be out of the

question it be scarify by threat--sure promise even--of eternal

punishment. it be all a matter of routine, and so extremely pleasant

that Francis soon cease to regret that he have stifle ambition with a

black coat. his vicar be a man who have take a small active part in

the tractarian movement, without in the least understand its

spiritual significance. he have be attract by the notion that the

Church exist in spite of Henry VIII, and not because of he, and

when his leader tell he to adopt the idea of the Real Presence in

the Sacrament and the sacrificial priesthood of the clergy, he do so

without make any attempt to bring they into agreement with the fact

of his life or the practice of his profession. he institute ritual in

his service, thus make they more entertaining to his flock, and, as

he have never look for any rejuvenation of the spiritual life of his

parish, he be not disappoint by the result. he think he be a

good man: everybody say he be a good man, and perhaps he be.



Francis swallow both his idea and his goodness without difficulty,

examine the ritual of the service with interest and some enthusiasm,

correct it in one or two point, and as he take nearly all the work

of the parish off the vicar's shoulder, there could not possibly be

any friction between they. the vicar congratulate himself on having

find a jewel of curate, and his wife begin to dream dream of vast

preferment obtain through the Folyat influence--a rural deanery, a

stall, a bishopric, and--why not?--Canterbury or York.



Francis, on the other hand, give no thought to the future and drift

drowsily, most keenly enjoy himself in the summer day when he

could take a boat, a book, an old long-shoreman and fishing tackle,

and go down to the sand-bank at the mouth of the estuary and bathe

and fish and lie in the sun with his clay pipe between his tooth, and

his golden beard glistening and his blue eye shine as he think

that the world be very good and the sea almost the good of good

thing in it. it be not his way to compare his lot with other, and

it have never occur to he, except in his official capacity, to

criticise life. in that capacity he criticise not so much life as a

traditional concept of it.



he be rudely awaken from this drowsy golden age by an event which

keep Potsham talk for a generation and a half.



one night when he have be dine at Crabtrees, the house of Miss

Martha Brett's aunt, where there have be music and cribbage and a

walk down the garden to look at the moonlight on the sea, he return

to his room to find they occupy by a man with a white face and

quivering lip and leg that would not be still. he be a poor man and

a sort of seafare man, and he look up and in a rustle voice he

say:



"Parson, what sort of man would that man be. . . ?"



then he stop and rattle in his throat, and Francis feel a curious

nausea as he look at the man and see how frightened he be.



"what sort of man?" ask Francis, feel that the question be

almost as meaningless as the man's word.



"she's get a cut in her throat and a lot of blood. . . . I say."



"I say," echo Francis.



"we'd well go," say the man.



"yes," say Francis. "do anybody know?"



"no," reply the man, "I been look at her three hour."



with that he seem to gain control of himself, and his leg do not

shake any more and his lip set in a thin straight line. he stand up

and go to the door and Francis follow he. very cunningly the man

look at he and say: "you do know how a man could do it?"



"no," say Francis, "unless----"



however, the man seem to be satisfied and lead the way, and they

walk down the little crooked street call the Strand and come to a

little tumble-down house by the dock, and there they find the woman

even as the man have tell. to Francis the adventure seem to be

complete and fantastic, and he feel that he be outside it, that the

world have stop and that it be very cold. then he feel that it be

horrible and intolerable, simply because nothing could happen unless

he make it happen, and action have never be ask of he before.



there be a tallow candle in a bottle, but it give very little light.

the moon shine through the window, and its light be very pitiless and

grim.



the man fold his arm and say with a sort of insistence: "you do

know how a man could do it!"



the cold dead harshness of his voice bring Francis out of his

fantasy, and at last he find the word that have be buzz in his

brain ever since he see the man sit in his chair: murder.



"no," he say, and he be astonish at the hardness of his own voice.



he turn heavily, but the man be quick than he. he see he dart

through the door, run a little way up the street, go into a house, and

in an instant there spring up a crowd of people whispering, murmuring,

buzzing, huddling, and crush round the door of the little dark

house. they be a little awed when they see the curate, but the crowd

hum as new people come run up and the tale be tell again.

suddenly Francis feel a hand on his arm, and there be the man

cling to he while the beadle and the policeman be tug at he

to take he away. the man would not let go, but he be very strong,

and for some way Francis have to move with he through the crowd. then

at last he wrench free and watch the three figure cleave into the

crowd, part it, and then be swallow up.



he find himself stand at a place where, between two house, he

could see the water swell with the tide and a black boat rock,

and over all the light of the moon.



the machinery of the law pass over the murderer and he be hang,

but Francis never tell a soul how he have be draw into the eddy of

the crime. his experience produce in he a feeling of profound

depression, from which he recover slowly and painfully to find that

human being have emerge from the landscape as they have never do

before. they demand, a different sort of attention from that which

he have always give they, and at first he dislike they heartily. he

see they in their habit, sadly, as they be--eat, drinking,

sleep, gossip, with very little to vary the monotony save

foolish love affair and mean jealousy and petty quarrel. nothing

that they do, not even their sin, seem to be worth while. what

bother he most be that he find himself sympathise with the

criminal and curiously desirous of defend he against the society

which have answer ferocity with ferocity.



that do not last long. he be soon bring up against his ignorance

of the world outside and his entire lack of comparative standard,

and, as young man will, he think that at all cost he must

escape--that is, move from the circumference of a dizzily spin

world to the centre of it.



first of all he come to the conclusion that he have religious doubt

and consult his vicar, who bowl he over with professional

argument. against they he could only set his vivid sensation on that

strange night and his keen recollection of the tallow candle in the

bottle and the moon shine through the window; and of these he dared

not speak. he agree perfectly that he have set his hand to the noble

service in the world and have no right to look back. but look

forward avail he nothing; the present be bewilder and the past

have suddenly become empty. the bung have be remove from the tight

barrel of his existence and all the good liquor have leak away.



however, he do his work neither well nor bad than he have do it

before. he christen child and church woman and married couple

and read solemn and beautiful word over the dead, and for the first

time begin to ponder the meaning of these ceremony. the Church, he

say, sanctify birth and death and what lie between they, and he

try to persuade himself that it raise they from brutality,

spiritualise they, and make they holy; but then he could not help

feel that there be some discrepancy. the fact remain the same,

therefore if they be sacred at all they must be sacred in

themselves. all that could be do by mind and Holy Writ, the product

of inspire mind, be nobly to interpret the fact, to see to it that

man live nobly--live nobly and nobly die. he have see several

person die, have give they the comfort of religion, and now, when he

remember, he be strike principally by the dignity with which death

be accept. it seem to he that man have religion in themselves,

that it be not, could not be graft on they from without.



"life," he say to himself, "be a religious thing, or it be something

less than life."



he feel that he be move from the circumference to the centre, and

then he realise that he be reach only the centre of his own

thought, not the heart of the world. he have advance in theory but in

practice be just as far out of his bearing as ever. he have feed

himself chiefly with the writing of ironist and he be hungry for

belief--in the nobility of life and death and the unity of all thing.

the life of bird he know and the life of beast, but of the life

of man he know nothing at all. never have he be to a great city, but

he conceive that there also the life of man must be very much what

they be in the somnolent little town on the Devon estuary--they be

bear, they suffer, and they die. that be all. surely that be all.



he would not have that. the ironist leave it at that. he become

positive that the manner of it matter--to Nature, perhaps, not at

all, but to man, and to God through man, vitally. to that end the Holy

Bible have be write and the Church found, and to that end Keble

and Pusey have seek to rouse the Church from its indolence and

indifference. his vicar be right: he could not turn back, but he must

know wherein his work as a priest consist. if it serve any purpose

at all, it must be for the sanctification of life by endow it with

a noble interpretation.



Francis have no large conception of the universe. at this young period

of his life his notion be still mediæval. he believe the earth to

be stationary, Hell to be under his foot, and the Heavenly region to

be beyond the blue vault of the sky, and that human life lead

infallibly to one or the other. a noble life, therefore, be that

which lead to Heaven, and to this idea, and to the cosmogony it

imply, he shape his ethic and his ideal, never suspect that he

be sacrifice the great to the less.



when man sit down and think out scheme of life they nearly always

make the mistake of leave woman out of they. this be easily

understand in the case of young man for whom woman hardly exist except

as an emotion, a fire that may at any moment flame into their

existence and lie it waste like the little fox in the Bible. our

curate make that mistake. naturally he have be in love--never out of

it; but always he have worship from afar, and have think the

object of his adoration as insensible to it as the star in the sky

to his wonder and delight. he be in love now, but could attach his

emotion to no particular young woman. there be at least four, and he

never credit they with any design when he meet they out walk, or

they come to he on parish business or demand his escort or

display their garden to he. he enjoy his emotion while he be

ashamed of they. they be not "noble."



when next he sit--at her suggestion--with Miss Martha Brett in the

gazebo, he find himself think that she be very charming and

pretty with her brown ringlet on either side of her face and her

plump little shoulder peep out of her gown, a modification of the

style make popular by the young Queen. she be so demure, so quiet,

and her manner of listen to he give he such a sense of authority.

he feel it could never leave he, that he would never again have those

appalling moment in church when a gulf open wide in front of he

and he feel that any one of his listener have more right than he to be

talk and call this black and that white.



she sit by a little table and he sit on the other side of it with a

book in his hand, and she let her hand fall on the table so that it

lie flat, very white and soft and pink at the finger-tip, and in her

wrist be the most delicious little bone. he could see nothing else.

he gaze and gaze at it, then with a wrench turn to his book, but

his eye be swim so that the word swallow each other up.



rose nod in at the window, and the smell of the salt water come up

and mingle with the garden scent.



"it be most move," say Miss Martha.



"Most," stutter the Curate, and he look up and see warmth and

mischief in her eye, and almost imperceptibly she edge her hand a

little nearer to he.



her aunt come in on that, and Francis heave an immense sigh of relief

and go splutter on with his reading as though he have be catch

out in some shameful act.



when he leave the house later in the evening he admit to himself

that he be in love, and that Miss Martha be the most beautiful, the

most peerless, the most chaste, the most innocent of woman, and he

call his emotion "gross desire" and try to strangle it, and

suffer horribly. the more he wrestle with it, the more powerful it

grow.



he be in love, and love swamp all his thought. he take long

solitary walk, and he hate all the couple whom he marry and

envy they. they have pass through torment--oh! who be the fool who

say that love be sweet? the old fleeting devotion have be

delicious--if shameful; but this, this be fire in the vein, scald

thought, an obsession, a fix idea.



More to be rid of it than with any hope of success, he call upon

Miss Martha's aunt, and, come straight to the point, blurt out

that he hope she could regard he favourably as a suitor and would

grant he permission to ask for her niece's hand in marriage--exactly

as Miss Martha's aunt have plan that he should when he first come to

Potsham and she have satisfy herself as to his antecedent. he

explain that he be not rich but have every hope of be give a

family live as soon as one should fall vacant. to his amazement he

be inform that Miss Martha be something of an heiress, and would

own, when she come of age, thirteen house in Potsham, subject to

lease, and one mortgage, a farm on Dartmoor, and fifty acre in

Cornwall. her niece, the aunt add, have often express her great

admiration for Mr. Folyat, and, with her eye gleam exultation and

beatitude, she confess that she could desire no well thing than to

see such coincidence between her own wish and her niece's

affection.



Francis take his leave pray devoutly that he might not meet his

Martha, but no soon have he set foot outside the parlour door than

there she stand before he, and he could say nothing and she could say

nothing, until suddenly he catch she up in his arm and hug she

and kiss she, set she down on her foot gasp, beg her pardon,

and blunder out of the house blushing furiously.



Cousin Bampfield warmly congratulate his kinsman on his betrothal,

and, two adjacent living in Cornwall presently fall vacant, give

he both of they.



there be a splendid wedding and the young couple spend their

honeymoon in London, for neither have ever before visit the capital.

they see the Tower of London and Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's

Cathedral, but Martha be impress by nothing so much as her

husband's grandfather's town house in Curzon Street. she think it

grand, and be never tired of hear her husband tell of his gentle

family, the Folyats.







III



ST. withan



_not know how to find the open air,

but toil desperately to find it out._

     HENRY VI, Part III.



if Potsham be somnolent, St. Withans, our parson's cornish living,

might well have be the home of the Sleeping Beauty. for a time it

be a place of enchantment while the charm and novelty of wed love

be upon Francis and his Martha. they be blissfully happy: the

county welcome they, they have a charming house and garden, a

carriage, money in plenty, child, and when they be bore with the

country they could escape to the gaiety of Plymouth. after they have

be marry for five year they exchange duty for a year with the

english chaplain at Hâvre-de-grace in Normandy, and their fourth

child, a daughter, be bear there. after that it become a habit with

they to go over to the continent every year for a couple of month.



their sixth child die in infancy, their seventh only live to be

three year old, but the eighth, ninth, and tenth be as healthy and

comely as the first five.



it be a year or so after the birth of the tenth, in 1867, that they

begin to discover that while their family have grow their income have

remain stationary. it be at that moment that for the first time

they begin to think of what they have do and count up the number of

their offspring, and realise that they have bring nine good life

into the world and have to face the responsibility and, somehow or

other, establish they.



these be the name of the young Folyats: Serge, Gertrude, Frederic,

Mary, Leedham, Minna, Annette, and James.



Serge have early pass out of his parent' control, though not without

expense, for he have be send into the Navy, from which, at the age of

fifteen, he desert in Labrador and be only save from court-martial

by be buy out of the service, to which end the farm on Dartmoor

and a house in Potsham be sell. he be not allow to come home and,

since he refuse to stay in America, a situation be find for he in

a bank in Kimberley, in South Africa, and his correspondence dwindle

and then cease altogether.



Frederic be at a Lycée in France, and the question of his career be

be indefinitely postpone.



the girl be the problem. Gertrude and Mary have suddenly become

woman and there be no man to ask they in marriage. an occasional

Folyat be send to the vicarage to be coach for some examination,

but they either only flirt or they fall desperately in love with

Minna, the beauty of the family, who be only fourteen.



after Serge's escapade the carriage have to be give up, and since Mrs.

Folyat could not pay call or visit at a distance, the county soon

forget she and few and few distinguished lady drive up to the

Vicarage. on the other hand, Mrs. Folyat's aspiration have offend

the lady on whom the county do not call, and when the carriage be

dispose of and replace by a little wicker donkey-cart they do not

conceal their rejoicing, and their tattle do not fail to reach Mrs.

Folyat's ear. she be confirm in her conviction of the vulgarity of

trade, and she brood over the situation without say anything to

Francis. he say nothing to she and they skirt the problem. his

anxiety be entirely to make expenditure and income meet, and he

rather welcome than deplore the defection of the county. it mean a

garden party the less and two of the servant could be dismiss.



the crisis seem to be tide over and the financial problem adjust

when they be face with the fact that Frederic be nineteen, of an

age to leave the Lycée, and that a profession must be find for he.

Mrs. Folyat decide on the Army, but Francis at once squashed that

and, all unconsciously, reproduce his mother's argument. Frederic

be a Folyat and weak. regimental life would be too dangerous for he.

the Church? Frederic, who be not a little frenchified and rather

dreadfully freeminde, scornfully reject the suggestion. . . the

Bar? Mrs. Folyat be sure Frederic would look well in a wig and gown,

and besides, judge and the law officer of the Crown be always

knight. Frederic see that this plan would take he to London, and he

jump at it greedily.



Francis go to Plymouth and see his solicitor, who point out that

it be a matter of great expense and mean support the boy until he

be over thirty. Francis feel that the problem be insoluble, give it

up for the time being, and console himself with buy a parrot from

a drunken sailor and a dog in a fancier's shop by the dock because it

be impossible to tell which be its head and which be its tail. he

call the dog "Muff" and the parrot "Sailor."



Frederic sulk when he learn that he be not to go to the Bar and

go down to the village inn and come home very drunk. when he be

reprove, he ask what else there be to do in such a dead-alive

hole, and his father find it very difficult to reply. it be

painfully force upon his attention that Frederic also have a mind, and

that it work in a way entirely different from his own. this be

distressing, because for many year Francis have do all the thinking

necessary for his family, and that no great amount. he have an

intolerable sense of be coope up with an enemy, and what

bewilder he most of all be to think that the enemy should be his

own son. he could not explain it to his wife, or to himself, for that

matter, but there it be, and he be thankful when Frederic choose to

absent himself from meal.



at last, after much cogitation, he approach his wife with the

suggestion that they should make Frederic a solicitor.



"an attorney!" say Martha, and Francis know that she be think of

the common, dusty little man in Plymouth.



parent who have aspire to make their son physician and be force

to stop short at dentistry will understand what torture it be to

Martha Folyat, and, in a less degree, to her husband, to descend from

the high to the low branch of the legal profession--no wig, no

gown, no access to the Bench, no prospective knighthood. it be a pill

and they swallow it, put as brave a face on it as possible, and

they be somewhat comfort when they find, upon inquiry, that a

family of undoubted gentility in the county have send their son into a

solicitor's office in Lincoln's Inn Fields in London.



Martha's ambition leap within she, and she suggest that Frederic

also should be send to London where he be more likely, if not to

meet, at least to handle the affair of, the aristocracy. who know?

even the Royal Family have legal business, and there be a great case

come on to decide the succession of the collateral Folyats, somewhat

complicated by a bigamous old clergyman who for his third wife have

take a negress in Africa. the case would be ripe just about the time

Frederic be qualified, and Willie Folyat, a possible heir, be one of

Minna's most devoted admirer.



Martha only speak about a hundredth of her musing, but Francis,

mindful of Frederic's recent behaviour and his plentiful lack of

character, decide for Plymouth, as be more accessible in case of

disaster. (he be surprised to find himself take account of the

difference in expense of the two journey, having always hitherto have

a lordly disregard of money.)



it be settle; the dusty little man in Plymouth accept Frederic as

an articled clerk, and, when he have receive his premium, go into

the affair of the family, and present the horrible truth that such

inroad have be make upon capital that the income be reduce by

one-third from its original dimension.



Francis be so relieved at have dispose of Frederic that at first

he make light of it and say nothing to his wife. he suppose his

difficulty would solve themselves, and this to all appearance they

do.



Willie Folyat, the possible heir afore-mention, an undergraduate at

Oxford, a very worthy and high-souled son of a pious and very poor

father, spend two long vacation at the St. Withans Vicarage. Gertrude

fall in love with he first, as by prescriptive right, and then, as

she seem to make no progress, Mary consider herself free to lose

her heart. to their amazement and dismay, Willie seek an interview

with their father and propose for the hand of the chit, Minna, not

yet out of short frock. he be besottedly in love and prepare for

all sacrifice; however, he be refuse on the score of Minna's youth,

but give to understand that in two year or three he might return

with every hope of success. meanwhile there could be no objection to

his writing to Minna if he be discreet.



he vow eternal constancy with all youth's fervent and curious belief

in its possibility, and, by way of prove the breach of his heart,

accept an appointment in a school in Bombay. then by every mail he

address the most excellently turn love-letter to Minna, who

skim through they--be already engage upon another conquest--and

hand they over to her mother, who weep over they, read they to

father, and see herself as the beloved mother-in-law of the Earl of

Leedham--the title to which Willie have the remotest possible claim.



all this be very exciting and disturbing, and it set the thought of

Gertrude and Mary in that direction from which there be no turning

back. Gertrude, then Mary, make a long stay in Plymouth, and they

return with new costume, new accent, new thought, and all their

talk be of the superiority of town-life over the country. they spend

a great deal of money, and the problem of income and expenditure

occupy their father's mind to the exclusion of everything else. in

Plymouth Gertrude and Mary have meet the most delightful young man, a

friend of Frederic's, name Herbert Fry. on their entreaty he be

invite to stay for a holiday. he come and see and be conquer--by

Minna. he be catch kiss she in the shrubbery, his stay come to an

end, and the name give he by the nurse--"a reg'lar Apollyon, my

dear"--was find to be appropriate. Minna be furious, and in a gust

of spite write a most offensive letter to Willie Folyat in Bombay. she

tell her mother what she have do and rob she of her most cherish

dream. she be find to be conduct a clandestine correspondence

with "Apollyon," and Martha let loose the thought which for some time

have be lurk at the back of her head, namely, that they must make

a change and, if possible, seek life in some city. she skirmish

about with it, never suspect that much the same thought might be in

her husband's mind also, and she lead he to it by easy stage. really

the girl be get beyond she; they have say thing to she which

she would never have dare to say to her aunt when _she_ be a girl;

and the country certainly be dull for young people, and they have the

child to think of, and, of course, parent must make some

sacrifice.



Francis look at she with anxious eye and mutter something about

his duty to his parishioner. he be popular with they, and he like

the peace of the country and the simplicity (also the low cunning) of

country people. he like the figure he cut, with his knee-breech and

black shoe with silver buckle, and silk stocking and tall hat. he

have grow use to himself in a back-water and shrink from the prospect

of city life. even Plymouth he find bewilder on his rare visit.

on the other hand, there be the perpetual leakage in his

finance--Frederic in no way to earn his living for at least four

year, and his daughter, like the horse-leech's, cry "Give! give!"

and no man apparently desirous of marry they; and beyond they the

long tail of his family, all of whom might grow up and develop mind

which think along line different from his own. he be not in the

least resentful about it, that be not in his nature; but he hate his

own helplessness, the impossibility of do anything to relieve the

grow strain. he loathe quarrelling, and his daughter be always

quarrel with each other and their mother, and that, in a house

which should have be a model to the country-side, make he

profoundly ashamed. he have begin once more to think in an

extra-professional way, to see thing in a humorous light which by all

tradition be sacred. a curious desire to tease have take possession

of he, and he fight it with all his might. far, if he be to

continue the war with circumstance in this place he must admit his

wife to his inmost thought. he try, but his new failure be the

most bitter of all to bear; but yet he would not admit that she be

stupid. still he cling to old memory, and he tell himself that he

love she. he do love she--he love everything and everybody; but he

be not and have not be for many year in love with she. she have

never understand love, and she have bully he. when he argue with

she she weep; when he agree with she she weep also, and protest

that he be an angel and far, far too good for she.



he come as directly to the point as she would let he, and one night,

after a protract curtain lecture, he propose that he should consult

his bishop and negotiate an exchange of living with some clergyman

desirous of a country life. his only stipulation be that the new

parish should be among the poor, and this, unhappily, break in upon

Martha's dream of a brilliant social life among rich and more or less

"gentle" parishioner. she have map out marriage for all her

daughter and career for all her son, and be drowse off into a

golden slumber when the word "poor" punch into her pillow.



"my dear Frank!" she say.



"I must work," say Francis.



"but, my dear Frank, the poor!"



"it be easy for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven than for a

camel to pass through . . ."



"I be not talk about that."



"if I go to a town, I must go to the poor," say Francis, his old

ideal stir in he.



"but think of the girl."



"I be think of the girl. I shall make they work among the poor. it

will do they good. it will keep their mind healthy and clear of

amorous thought."



"how can you be so coarse?"



this come with almost a scream, and Francis smother what he be

go to add and turn over and pretend to be asleep. his wife go

on talk indignantly to herself. about five o'clock she wake he up

and tell he that she have be dream of water, which she think

mean rich, and also in her dream she have see her son Leedham

cross the sea, and Mary have make a great match of it with a tall

man who look like a lord, but Minna have appear very unhappy.



"I do believe," Martha go on, "that in her heart of heart Minna

really love Willie Folyat."



"nonsense," reply Francis, "she be much too young to love anything

but herself."



Martha be enrage at this, and harp on the string of her husband's

crazy notion of live among the poor. on that point he be immovable,

and Martha's light skirmishing be fruitless. Francis turn and

look at she, tell she that she want a clean night-cap, and go

off to sleep.



they have many unhappy day, and it be some week before they find an

incumbent willing to exchange his living for the two in distant

Cornwall. this be the rector of St. Paul's Church, Bide Street, in

the dark half of our town on the north bank of the poison river,

about which we have no pride at all.



neither Francis nor any member of his family have ever be north of

Bristol, and the north of England be to they a place where

millionaire grow and factory ground out wealth and a set of idea

associate with the name of Richard Cobden, a Liberal of whom no

Churchman could entirely approve. there be a bishop in our town, and

he be a person of some celebrity. also there be two church which

have a certain fame or notoriety for their extreme ritual. welsh

nonconformist teem in the town, and the Roman Catholics have a

cathedral thirty year old.



Francis visit the place and stay there two day, during which it

rain except for half an hour just before he leave. he refuse to be

depress by the slum in which his church be situate--a black,

stunt Gothic building with a ridiculous little steeple, and a sordid

school next door to it--and tell himself that it be just what he

want. there be a fry-fish shop directly opposite the church, a

dirty greengrocer's shop next to that, and next again three

public-house. another row of little shop follow on the other side

of a bye-street, and for the rest, there be nothing but squat

terrace of blacken red-brick cottage, two story high, with blue

slate roof. in the street be an incredible number of child in

curious nondescript garment, and some of they in rag. many of the

woman wear clog and all of they be sallow. the man be pale and

ill-nourished and they walk slouchingly. the street be muddy and

litter with refuse, and the air be thick and full of smell.



Francis stay with the rector and meet the caretaker of the school and

church, the rector's and the people's warden, and a few earnest man

who examine he with hard, curious eye. they ask after his family

and how many child he have, and one of they whistle when he say he

have eight. Francis want to like they, but he feel a stranger amongst

they and could not be at his ease. they ask how he like the church,

and he tell they very well, and the rector's warden, Mr. Parsons,

say: "ah! you should see it at 'Arvest Festival."



their speech sound uncouth and harsh after the soft drawl of his

cornish peasant, and it be this that Francis feel as the strong

barrier between they.



the living be worth three hundred and fifty pound a year, and there

be pew-rent, which would bring the stipend up to within a hundred

pound of the joint income of his two living. Francis ignore that,

and calculate that as he would have only one curate, the exchange

would be equal, and no doubt his daughter would soon marry, and his

son would quickly earn their living in this money-make town. he be

tell that there be excellent school for "they as could afford 'em,"

and that settle the matter. everything be as far as possible

arrange and he return to St. Withans, tussle with himself during

the long journey and tell himself that he be not sorry to renounce

his old life, and that at last he be go to enter upon work, real

work.



he have arrange to take on the former rector's old house in Fern

Square (there be not so much as a blade of grass grow in it), and

when Martha ask he about the town he concentrate on a description

of the house in one of the large and most impose terrace in the

district.



it be arrange that Frederic should finish his article in Plymouth;

and then, on a brilliant spring day, all the furniture, heirloom,

family portrait, and the valuable china inherit at interval by

Mrs. Folyat as her few aged relation one by one depart this life,

having go before, the Folyats set out at seven o'clock in the

morning, and at half-past ten the same night reach our town where,

at last, their history become interesting.







IV



FERN SQUARE



_Sir,--I pray you take heed how you put a beast, tired with the heat

of the sun and with long travel, among other, which, as I hear say,

have diver malady and diseases._--A PETTY THEFT.



henceforth we see Francis Folyat in trouser, and his broad-brim

silk hat, like a bishop's without cord, have be exchange for the

soft round black feel which take so many inch from a man's stature.

black trouser, elastic-sided boot, a black silk waistcoat on which

hang an amethyst cross, a clerical frock-coat, and a round white-linen

collar be the daily attire of the new Rector of St. Paul's, Bide

Street. on great occasion the black-silk waistcoat be renounce in

favour of one of violet silk. all day on Sundays he wear his cassock

with a black silk sash round his full stomach, and when he walk to

church he wear a biretta, to the solemn awe of the street urchin, who

confound he with the Greek _papa_, a strange figure that haunt

the child of the northern district of our town and be repute to

be a wizard.



Francis be in fine middle age. his head be begin to be bald and

his golden beard be rapidly turn white. there be red vein on

his round cheek, but his eye be those of a boy, bright and blue

and merry, and when he laugh they use to close up into little slit

and all his bulk would shake until tear be squeeze out of they. he

have a great capacity for laughter, but always it seem that he could

not shake it out. it possess he and set he quiver like a jelly,

and there be nothing to be hear but a hoarse chuckle deep down in

his chest.



there have be time of great difficulty in the beginning. Martha have

come to our town with glow dream, and when she see Fern Square and

the house she be to live in they came tumble down on her romantic

head, and she weep many tear and declare that she could not bear the

house or the people or the town, and she demand to be take away--to

Potsham, to Plymouth, anywhere out of the smoke and the rain and the

filth and the noise and away from the common, common people. she vow

that she would never attend service in the hideous, squalid little

church, and could never have anything to do with the nasty, dirty

school. it be impossible. she could not let her child mix with the

child of these barbarian. they must find another living or give up

the Church altogether. Francis could retire, and devote himself to

theological literature.



Francis bear it all with excellent good-humour, and point out that

he could not even write his own sermon (he have amass a collection

of one hundred and fifty, which he deliver in rotation). by sheer

amiability he win his wife over to a more sweet and reasonable temper,

and help she to set her house in order.



when he come to tackle his work he find that his predecessor have be

a lazy and unpopular man and that his congregation be never more than

a hundred and twenty person, while the Sunday-school be very

meagrely attend. he begin by have the church and school clean

and decorate, and it be quickly noise abroad that the new rector

have private mean. far, it soon become clear that a new church be

to be add to the little ring of church which uphold the High

Church cause in our town. after much cogitation Francis decide to

abolish the pew-rent and to open his church free to all and sundry.

he buy new surplice and cassock for his choir, and new vestment

for the clergy and the acolyte whom he intend to appoint. very soon

he find adherent and be give present of new altar-cloth and

sacramental vessel. altogether his prospect be admirably fair.



Fern Square be a wedge-shape piece of ground enclose on one side by

six old red-brick house four story high, build in an imitation of

the georgian style, with three room on each floor except the top,

which have four and an attic. the dining-room and the study be on the

ground floor, the drawing-room on the first. they be fine room, and

the Folyats' old furniture make a brave show in it. the house be light

by gas, and the drawing-room window look across the square upon the

deliberate ugliness of a Wesleyan chapel. the parrot have his cage in

the dining-room among the family portrait, and the dog live where he

like. he grow very fat and lose what little intelligence he have ever

have, so that it cease to matter even to himself which be his head

and which be his tail.



the Clibran-Bells from next door but one be the first to call. Mr.

Clibran-Bell be the borough treasurer, a man with a huge red beak of

a nose, a little white moustache, and a tremendous manner. he have an

unfailing source of pride in his wife, who be really beautiful and

have frequently be liken to the Marquise in _Caste_, a play which

his daughter be always perform in the cause of charity. Mrs.

Folyat flourish the Folyats and the Bampfields at Mrs. Clibran-Bell,

who counter with the Staffordshire Bentleys, her cousin. the

Clibran-Bells all talk mincingly, as though they have eat olive

and could find no polite method of getting rid of the stone. Young

George Clibran-Bell be in the head office of the Thomson-Beaton Bank,

but, let it be add, the Clibran-Bells know the manager. there be

four girl and young George, and they soon become on term of great

intimacy with Gertrude and Mary Folyat, and they fall into the habit

of run in and out of each other' house.



the bishop's wife call.



very soon St. Paul's by its ritual attract a number of

extra-parishioner who have previously have to go two or three mile to

the other end of our town for their religious satisfaction on a Sunday

morning. Francis be encourage and work very hard, find some

excellent people among his poor, and really try to make his church a

centre for they and a source of help in their all-too-frequent time

of trouble. Mrs. Folyat, by dint of custom, overcome her dislike of

the common people with their coarse accent and rather uncouth manner,

and go so far in her compromise with native custom as to renounce

dinner in the evening and take to a heavy mid-day meal, a solid tea,

and a betwixt-and-between sort of supper about nine in the evening. on

Sunday she keep open house. acquaintance and personage be feed at

half-past one, and the familiar of the house at nine, after evening

service.



at first she keep three servant, but when one of they give notice she

do not replace she and be content with two. even that be find to

be over-expensive, and she come down to one and a charwoman, and then,

on Sunday evening, Gertrude and Mary be force to cook the supper

and to wash up the dinner afterwards. they be very disagreeable

about it until they find that most of the young woman they know,

include the Clibran-Bells, do far more housework and do it as a

matter of course. then it become part of the routine of their

existence and they raise no further objection, but Sunday supper

become a cold feast, and they never cook anything but potato and

perhaps a Welsh rarebit for their father, whom they call "Pa."



soon everybody, include the parrot, call Francis "Pa," and he

sun himself in his new popularity and have no further misgiving as

to the wisdom of the step he have take. certainly he seem to have

dispose of the strained relation that have exist in his family in

the country. the girl be busy and occupy all day long and every

day. the boy seem to have many friend, desirable and otherwise.

Martha have take to knitting and crochet-work, and she have Mrs.

Clibran-Bell and Mrs. Starkey, the solicitor's wife, and Mrs. Tuke,

the widow of the man who build the Albert Bridge and be kill on the

day it open, all ready and pleased to listen to her tattle of her

husband's ancestry and her own property and her hope for her

child. she have take to lace cap and have settle down to a style

in dress and a general appearance which should last to the Judgment

Day. she read _the Family Herald_ every week, and every month

purchase the threepenny novel publish by the same firm. she have and

be allow a feeling of superiority, and enjoy herself immensely.

when Francis come to she with misgiving as to their capacity to live

within their income she refuse to listen to he, observe that they

know all the good people in the place--and what more could they want?

every Sunday they have a splendid congregation, and if the bad come

to the bad they could restore the pew-rent. Francis have a vague,

uneasy feeling that the bad have come to the bad, but nothing would

induce he to do that. he let the subject drop.



Leedham have be send to the grammar school, and James attend a

dame's school round the corner in the Bury Road. Annette at first

accompany he, but her godmother have step in and send she to a

school in Edinburgh. Minna, who all her life have do exactly what she

want, refuse to be educate any more, put up her hair and let down

her frock, and claim equal right with her two elder sister. she

enjoy their privilege and avoid their duty.



after the family have be a year in Fern Square Frederic return a

full-blown solicitor, and after a few week' idleness be take into

the office of Mr. Starkey at a nominal salary. he have grow a little

moustache, which make the weakness of his chin even more pronounced,

and, for some reason well know to himself, he wear a monocle. in

Plymouth he have discover a light tenor voice, and he become very

useful to the Clibran-Bells in their amateur theatrical. he join

force with young George, and together they indulge in all those

folly with which young man fortify their uneasy sense of manhood. he

have pale straw-colour hair and a very pale complexion. he have a

ready wit and a quick tongue, and soon win a reputation for

cleverness. his brother Leedham hate he but always shrink away from

Frederic's irony. Leedham have a great respect and admiration for his

father, while Frederic regard he with a contempt which originate,

perhaps, in the episode of his intoxication at St. Withans. Mrs.

Folyat dote on Frederic, and he never have the slight difficulty in

obtain money from she. he use to play the buffoon to she, set she

laugh until the tear run, and then, with a sudden turn of

sentiment, he would make her cry until she laugh. when he could do

neither of these thing he would shock she with an audacious jest.

always he would contrive to keep she entertain.



Francis, then, have no anxiety about his family. there be always

plenty of fun and merriment in his house, and a constant stream of

young people enjoy themselves as though the world have only just

come into be and be to go on for ever and ever. if the atmosphere

be not altogether pious, they be none the bad for that. they

attend church regularly, work in the Sunday-school, and in many

other direction for the parish, and their happiness win the

confidence of the poor, who make surprising effort to please the

rector and his family. good of all, from Francis's point of view,

number of young man be attract to the house and from there be

draw off into various activity. enthusiasm for the High Church

cause run high.



our town be compose of a number of small town and borough, all

now under one city council, but at that time many of the borough and

urban district maintain their separate entity and have their own

council and their own newspaper. the district in which St. Paul's

be situate be still a separate borough, and it have a newspaper

call _the Pendle Times and Lower Brighton Gazette_, which publish

local news and copious police report. the editor of this sheet be a

fanatical Low Churchman whose whole religious force have go into

worship of a certain calvinistic divine, the Reverend Humphrey Clay, a

rigid temperance reformer, Puritan and moralist, who, perceive the

grow laxness of the new industrial population, fling himself with

fierce zeal into the task of castigate their immorality and whip

they up into a state of religious fervour. he have picture their

life--ugly and stunt as they be in fact--as a gay rout of sin,

and he strove to counteract this peculiar fiction of his own mind by a

religion of appal dulness. he have a command spirit and find

many disciple. he substitute the intoxication of conversion for that

of alcohol, and draw hundred to the corrugate-iron church he have

build on a piece of waste land opposite a public-house and a theatre.

his sermon be print week by week in _the Pendle News_--half a

page of fierce exhortation, while the other half be fill with

racing result and advertisement of rat-pit and course. when he

die twenty thousand man and woman follow he to the grim cemetery

overlook the canal, and the street be line for two mile. in

his obituary, Flynn, the editor, call he "the Sainted Humphrey

Clay," and the name stick. a movement be set on foot to replace his

iron church with a stone building to be call the "Humphrey Clay

Memorial Church"--none of your old romish saint be to give his name

to it--and a house-to-house canvas be institute. the factory hand

give their pence, the well class their shilling and pound, and

after many year of uncease work the fund be complete. the

building be erect and consecrate by the bishop just six month

after Francis Folyat come to St. Paul's.



Flynn, the editor, scent the presence of the enemy, and begin the

attack by the publication of the "literary remain of Humphrey Clay,"

contain stern denunciation of popish mummery and mediæval

witchcraft. the wild story fly, and very soon Francis be

credit with worship the Virgin Mary and maintain a secret

shrine in his vestry. Flynn write two denunciatory article, blindly

prejudiced and pitifully ignorant. Francis read they and write to the

editor to invite he to attend service in St. Paul's and see for

himself.



Flynn wait for some week until Easter Sunday, when he fully

expect to see a statue of the Virgin carry round the church. there

be, in fact, a procession, and there be incense which stank in the

editor's nostril. his first impression as he enter have be one of

disgust, for the whole place be fill with flower, in the window,

on the pulpit, on the altar, twine about the lectern--daffodil and

tulip and hyacinth and violet and lily. he sit in his pew at the

back of the church and see man and woman enter, cross themselves, and

curtsey and bow to the East in the central aisle, and his gorge rise

at it all. when the organ begin to boom and send music whir up to

the roof and flood the nave and the chancel, and a young man in a

purple cassock and a lace surplice appear bear the Cross, and

behind he two cens-bearer, and behind they again the choir, the

curate, the special preacher, and Francis Folyat, in robe, cope and

stole, carry his biretta, he be fain to scream out upon the

blasphemy of it all--blasphemy upon the memory of Humphrey Clay. he

watch the procession wind round the church, singe the gladdest of

Easter hymn, and move up into the chancel, where the choir, still

singe in their harsh, untrained voice, file into their place, and

the three priest stand solemnly upon the altar step and wait for

the last note of the organ to die away. two acolyte appear in

purple cassock and little lace surplice and stand below the priest,

and the solemn service begin.



Flynn rush away and walk for mile until he be dog-weary. he take

his class in Sunday-school in the afternoon in a sort of dream, and in

the evening with wide-stare eye he sit unheedingly through the

sombre evening service in the Humphrey Clay Memorial. he see the whole

town, the whole world, imperille. he see in Francis an emissary of

the great whore of Babylon that sitteth upon many water, a man bent

upon seducing soul from salvation, the very devil quote scripture

to his end.



Flynn's sensation be those of a pious young man who for the first

time in his life enter a music-hall, with this difference, that for

Flynn the abhor thing have no charm nor peril for himself, only for

other--those other whom his hero's life have be give to save.



on the Easter Monday his wife discover that their charwoman have

decamp with a sheet and two blanket, and he lay that sin at the

door of the new source of corruption he have discover, call for

strong tea, wrap a wet towel round his ache head, and write the

first of his famous series of article. the following be an abstract

under the heading:



    "_Non Angli se Romani:

      the Enemy within our Gates._



there be a church in this town, for so long devote under the

leadership of our great and saint Humphrey Clay, a church where

Sunday after Sunday, and on week-day also, blasphemy be commit,

blasphemy and a paint mummery. I have be to this church. with my

own eye I have see the finger-mark of the paint, scented hand of

Rome. in this church I see three priests--_priests_, not

_ministers_--clothed like actor in a theatre. they wear purple and

fine linen and they carry funny little hat in their hand. they have

deck up two young layman in purple and silk and fine embroidery, and

their foot trod upon rich carpet, with gleam brass stair-rod. the

very air be thick and oppressive with the smell of flower, and to

this be add the fulsome stench of incense, carry by conceited,

mince little boy. no pen, least of all mine, could describe the

impiousness of the procession, the bowing, the scraping, the

befouling and vulgarisation of thing sacred that happen in this

church, this so-call church, which be in reality a booth, a theatre.

why, the very costume be indecent. the choir-boy do not wear

surplice, but little laced shirt or shift which do not even cover

their spinal bulb. their behaviour, their demeanour, be an affront to

all truly religious-minded person. have I not remember that I be in

the House of God I should have spat in the face of the arch-mummer as

he pass I and bade he begone to Babylon whence he come. who be

this man? why should he be suffer to defile the religion which he be

suppose to practise? why should this play-actor be permit to strut

and mow and paw the air in the Holy of Holies? three time at least I

see he change his costume--in public! and each time he be assist

with a mock solemnity by the valet whom he be pleased to call an

acolyte. they say this man be a gentleman, the kinsman of a noble

family, a rich man, one who have keep his carriage. let he not play

the priest. Humphrey Clay, of blessed memory, be the son of a

carpenter, a work carpenter in this town, but before his maker he

be a gentleman indeed. it be but twelve month since our bishop

consecrate the memorial which be the crowning edifice that pinnacle

the glorious career of Humphrey Clay. can that same bishop within his

diocese tolerate the splendid memorial to the one and the impious

practice of the other man? I say he cannot. such church as this

have not hitherto be tolerate in our part of the town. citizen,

shall we endure it now?



_N.B._--Further article on the subject will appear until something be

do. if those in authority will not move, we shall take the matter

into our own hand."



Francis read this effusion and be hurt by it. since he have thump

his brother William on the nose he have quarrel with no man and

deliberately hurt none. behind the wild writing he could feel the

torment, and he be sorry. he feel that he be to a certain extent to

blame because he have invite the man to his church in a challenging

spirit, and so have perhaps increase prejudice in he. he try to

write to Flynn but could find nothing to say. as he sift his

thought he could only discover that he wish his church to be free.

all sort and condition of man be free to come and free to stay

away. he have once find one of his sidesman turn a ragged old

beggar-woman out, and have reprove he and lead the old woman to a pew.

she spit on the floor and sit finger an old clay-pipe, but, to

Francis's way of thinking, these thing might not be unacceptable to

the God he honour, however distasteful they might be to human

creature. the church, then, be free, and Francis desire only to

make it pleasing and attractive to those who come to it, to have it a

place of beauty amid so much ugliness. the Saturday before Easter have

be one of the happy he ever remember--a day of hard work in the

church, surround with young people all gay and blithe and busy with

the flower and drapery and vestment. one such day, he feel, could

do much to redeem the waste and folly of year.



however, it be all odious and disgusting to Flynn, and Francis sigh

as he reach out for his tin of bird's-eye and fill his pipe. the

parrot scramble out of its cage, shuffle along the floor and climb

up the back of his chair, perch on his shoulder, and stand comb

its beak through his beard.







v



hostility



_Thou lift I up above those that rise up against I; thou hast

deliver I from the violent man._

     PSALM xviii. 48.



the dead play a not altogether disproportionate part in the affair of

the living. there be so many more of they. the thought would be

desperate but for the reflection that in all probability the most

numerous of all be the unborn. the Creator may at any moment get

tired of the eternal monotonous repetition of birth and death, but no

man or woman will ever believe that. we get joy out of it, and his be

the sum of all our joy--the dead, the living, and the unborn.



Humphrey Clay, for all the grimness of his word and work, must have

be a joyous man, for his spirit be very powerful and rouse many

man to action. true, their action be all ugly, but that come from

their stupidity and the squalor of their surrounding. there be no

country on the north of our town for thirty mile--only smoke brick

and mortar and tall chimney and colliery stack. on the south you

must go seven mile before you will find a truly green field, and most

of we be quite old before we can make such a pilgrimage, and then

clear air and tree and stream and sky and the song of bird be

thing as separate from our life as our dream. they be almost a

show to we. our great holiday be whitsun-week, and then each church

take its child in wagonette and char-à-banc out into the near

semblance of green country, where they wander and play and laugh and

squabble and be feed until they can hardly stand. it be call a

"treat," and it give they a new zest for the street and their

adventurous, strangely independent life.



the roman Catholic church organise procession which meet in the

centre of the town and wind through the street, the little girl in

white and the little boy in the good they can muster.



in his fourth article Flynn exhort Francis to be an honest man and

take his flock to join they. in the meanwhile there have be appeal

to the bishop, who refuse to move in the matter, be convince,

from what he have see, that there be nothing uncanonical in the

conduct of the service at St. Paul's. he like Francis, and if he

could not altogether approve of the mean, the result be eminently

satisfactory. as a result of Flynn's campaign there be hardly ever a

seat to be have in St. Paul's on Sundays, and some of the most noted

preacher in our town and the surround district be glad to appear

in the pulpit.



Flynn's paper be do very well out of it. all sort of people

rush into the fray and fill his column for nothing, and when his

supporter take to interrupt the service at St. Paul's with

vehement protest the other paper take the matter up, and Francis

find a sort of greatness thrust upon he. he refuse to see

reporter, and tell one persistent Scotsman that it be Flynn's

affair, not his, and that he have no intention of move against Flynn.

he receive many letter denounce he as Anti-Christ, and many more

proclaim he the one Spiritual Hope of the North of England. More

than one of his correspondent enclose poem.



Martha be all in a flutter, and be quite sure that Francis be on

the point of be make a bishop. he be invite to preach to the

judge when they come on assize, and she have no doubt that that would

be the first step. Francis have no such illusion. he be not ambitious

for promotion. he take out Sermon no. 112 and deliver it with the

full consciousness that it be profoundly dull. Flynn come to hear it,

take shorthand note, and print an abstract without comment.



this official recognition provoke exasperation, and on the follow

Sunday as Francis be walk in cassock and biretta to his church he

be accost by a gloomy-face individual with a sandy complexion, who

call he a "spawn of Rome," and when Francis smile at the

grotesqueness of the expression he stoop down and pick up a

handful of dung and fling it in his face. Francis go on his way amid

the hoot of little boy and the jeering of woman.



a few day later the window of his house be break and the voice of

Flynn in _the Pendle News_ rise to a triumphant scream. two policeman

be mount on guard in Fern Square, and the attention of the

malcontent be transfer to the school in Bide Street. the

railing be tear down and the furniture of the door wrench away.

Roughs and hooligan join in, and one Sunday all the door of the

church be find to be screw up, and the congregation stand in the

street, while from the church step Francis read the service and

deliver the first extempore sermon of his life. he be tremble

with emotion and his voice crack, and hardly a soul could hear he,

and he break down altogether when the people sing



    _Rock of Ages, cleft for I,

     let I hide myself in thee. . . ._



a few day later the authority make the mistake of arrest Flynn

on a charge of incite to violence. the prosecution fail, but Flynn

have the satisfaction and the bitterness of martyrdom, and he return

to the assault with new frenzy.



meanwhile at home there have be a new development. Leedham, the third

son, the one stolid member of the family, have upset his mother by

announce his intention of leave school and our town and go out

to the Brazils. he have make the acquaintance of a family who have

connection out there, and he have be fire by their description of

Rio de Janeiro. his real reason be a heartfelt desire to get away

from Frederic, but of that he say nothing. he observe, with much

justice, that he be not do any good at school and would probably

learn no more if he stay there another two year. (the school be

conduct on the principle of force the bright boy and leave the

dull one to pick up what they could.) far, he argue that if he

have to earn his own living, the soon he begin the well. through

his friend, he say, he could obtain a post in a bank in Rio, and he

would rather be in a bank there than in our town.



Francis be inclined to approve, but Martha weep. like so many

mother, she have no notion of her real relation with her child, and

live in a fantasy in which she be the perfect mother who adore and

be adore by they. More than once to Mrs. Clibran-Bell she have say:



"there be nothing that my child do that they do not tell I."



and Mrs. Clibran-Bell, be of much the same type, believe she, and

together they glow with rapture over this miracle of domesticity.



Leedham have very little imagination or capacity of invention, and,

like his father, have rather a disconcerting way of accept the fact

of his existence for well, for bad. he know that he be unhappy at

home, feel that he be go to be a great deal more unhappy, and see

nothing but the necessity of get away.



"Darling Leedham," say his mother, "how can you think of enter

upon vulgar commerce!"



"what else be I to do?"



"but think of your name! a Folyat in a bank!--a clerk! and with your

christian name too!"



(the Earldom of Leedham be the title which Minna miss sharing when

she jilt Willie Folyat.)



"George Clibran-Bell be in a bank," say Leedham.



"but, darling, how can you leave your mother? how can you think of

it?"



"People have to leave their mother soon or later."



"but you love your mother?"



"of course," say Leedham sturdily, "but I want to go."



"you cannot go without your father's consent."



"no."



"very well, then."



and that seem to end the interview.



Leedham see his father first and come straight to the point.



"I want to go to the Brazils."



"I know. your mother be very much upset by it."



"that's not the point."



Francis agree.



"the point be, what be I go to be if I stay?"



"you might be a clergyman or--or----"



"I don't want to be a clergyman."



"a doctor, then?"



"can you afford it?"



"no," say Francis, and the admission bring his opposition tumbling

down. they discuss way and mean, and Francis delight in his

boy's practical good sense and independence, though he have a feeling

of pity and shame that he have not come to know he well before.



"thank you, sir," say Leedham. "and please, will you ask mother not

to cry over I?"



"you cann't expect she not to feel it."



"no, I suppose not. but I want she to be glad too."



"well," say Francis, "I'm glad and I'm proud of you. I wish----"



the thought of Frederic come to he and he say no more.



Mrs. Folyat cry in public at every possible opportunity, and she

come in for a great deal of sympathy. Frederic, who have always use

Leedham as a butt, and thoroughly dislike the idea of lose he, do

his good to make he feel a callous brute. but Leedham be excited and

exalt at the prospect of adventure, though he have no one on his side

but his father and the boy James, who gaze at he with large envious

eye and promote he to heroic rank.



during his last few week Leedham spend many hour in the study with

his father, and they have long friendly talk all about nothing, in

which they skirmish round the new affection that have spring up

between they.



on his last Sunday night there be a farewell supper. Mabel and Jessie

Clibran-Bell be there and Gertrude and Mary and Minna. Frederic be

out, and the boy James have be in bed all day with a cold catch in

crawl along the roof in his night-gown from his attic-window to the

attic of the boy next door. he have be thrash for do it--but

when the boy next door have lay in a feast of sardine and raspberry

jam the temptation be too great, and he scramble over in the pouring

rain, sit for two hour in his wet night-gown and then sleep in it.



with Frederic away Leedham could talk, and he brag of how he would

return in ten year and buy a carriage for his mother and re-build his

father's church and set James up in life and bring jewel for Minna.

(he be fond of Minna.)



"but suppose you marry?" say Mary.



"not I," say Leedham.



"I expect," remark Francis, with a chuckle, "he'll marry a

Portuguese."



"Frank! how can you!" protest Martha. "the Portuguese be

Catholics!"



"perhaps she'll be rich," throw in Minna.



"and beautiful, with dark languish eye," add Mabel Clibran-Bell.

and in a few minute they have create the future Mrs. Leedham and,

rather maliciously, endow she with a furious temper.



Leedham take all the chaff in good part and make himself especially

amiable to his mother.



Mary go upstairs with some supper for James and the talk turn on

Flynn, and everybody wonder what he would do next.



"I hate that Flynn," say Martha.



"oh, come!" reply Francis, "he's fill the church. I couldn't have

do it without he."



"but it be horrid," say Mabel Clibran-Bell.



"certainly; but Flynn be get what he want and I be get what I

want. both his people and my people be more enthusiastic than they

would be otherwise."



"Father say," put in Jessie Clibran-Bell, "that he be get

libellous."



"let he," return Francis.



"wouldn't you proceed against he?"



"not I. I don't think the clergy should squabble even in the Law

Courts."



"but," say Martha, "it would be a case for Frederic."



Mary return say that James be not in his room and nowhere in the

house. she have call through the window to the boy next door, but

there be such a terrific wind her voice be blow away. there be

two chimney-pot blow down in the square.



Mrs. Folyat go white and her lip tremble. they all look from one

to the other. Leedham leave the room and they hear the front-door

bang, and the wind moan in the chimney.



Francis rise to his foot and move towards the door. Mary run upstairs

again, and Gertrude put the parrot's cloth over his cage because he

be begin to scream. come a ring at the door, and presently

Leedham appear with his hair blow into his eye and his face very

pale and his tooth chatter. he turn to his father and say:



"come!"



Mrs. Folyat faint.



Francis turn sick at heart and go out into the passage. the front

door be open and the gas be flicker in the wind, so that it be

very dark. there be two man hold a little white bundle between

they.



the boy James have be blow from the roof and they have find he on

the pavement below. he be quite cold, and it be impossible to tell

how long he have be there.



the house be full of whispering and the guest withdraw, steal

away like ghost. Leedham stay to look after his mother. they

carry the boy upstairs and lay his poor break body on the bed in

Mary's room, and Francis fumble out and along the street to beg the

doctor to come at once. there be nothing to be do. thinking be no

use. tear seem foolish. it be only mechanically that Francis

turn to his God and say, "Thy will be do."



the boy be bury in the grim cemetery over by the canal. the

parishioner club together and erect a little marble cross above

his grave. they want to express their sympathy, and the very poor

send pathetic little wreath of ivy and hideous wax monstrosity and

horrible crosse of iron filagree. the beauty and charm of the boy

be discover after he be dead, and for a little while the house in

Fern Square be a sort of temple in his honour. his belonging be

gather together and partition, and Leedham take with he to Rio de

Janeiro his little brother's christen mug and spoon.



Mrs. Folyat be prostrate with grief, and the shock to her nerve make

she for a long time a valetudinarian. she be just recover when

there come the crown act of brutality.



Flynn be silence for a space, but it be strangely whisper among

his follower that in St. Paul's mass be be say and candle light

for the dead.



Francis have encourage the more devout among his parishioner to use

the church for private meditation and prayer. he himself, in his

grief, spend many hour there, and this find interpretation in the

report that he be institute the confessional. Flynn do not stop to

examine the accuracy or probability of the rumour but hurl

thunderbolt. a gang of rough set on Frederic one day, and he come

home with his clothe tear and muck and his face bloody. urge by

his wife, and much against his own inclination, Francis write to Flynn

and beg he to confine his attention to himself. he say:



"I be a priest, but I be proud, and if there be to be suffer as the

consequence of my action I would rather bear it on my own shoulder."



Henceforth Francis be know as the Proud Priest.



one of the most fanatical of Flynn's follower discover that the boy

James be bury not twenty yard away from the angel-guard tomb of

Humphrey Clay, and this, when bruit, fall like a spark upon the dry

mind of the most ignorant member of the faction. on a dark evening

in November they go up to the cemetery, overturn the little marble

cross, efface the name James Matthew Folyat, and scatter the

wreath and flower.



Mrs. Folyat take to her bed. the ringleader be discover and

arrest, and Francis appear in court, very pale, obviously near

breaking-point, and in a very low voice say that he do not wish to

prosecute. there be a wave of sympathy for the unfortunate rector of

St. Paul's. Flynn's paper be boycott of advertisement and he fall

into low water. he have ruin himself in the struggle and he have

almost drain Francis of courage and faith in human-kind. he clung

obstinately to his work, but be dog by a sense of the futility of

it all and, in his bad moment, see it only as a mechanical

sanctification of birth, marriage, and death. Humanity seem so

primitive--just a base struggle for existence and satisfaction in

existence, and silly devastating squabble about form. he realise

dreadfully what a gulf lie between himself and his wife, and he strove

desperately to bridge it, only to discover that she be unconscious of

any disparity and have a diabolical skill in coat any uncomfortable

fact with a romantic fiction so that it become as a pearl upon her

shell. he blame himself for it, and be kind to she and fight

against the exasperation which her prattle arouse in he. have no

friend to whom he could turn--all the man he know defer to his

cloth and treat he as a creature apart--he try to find sympathy

and interest in his daughter and Frederic, his remain son. they

be absorb in their youth and their dream and folly, and seem to

be afraid of he. he watch they, but soon find that he be spy

upon they. the one thing he have to love be the memory of the boy

James, who become ever more radiant to he, and he use to watch the

going out and coming in of the boy next door and think he a

splendid fellow, and regret all that he have miss when his own boy

be alive.



for many, many day life seem to stand still. there be dull

routine, Sunday succeed Sunday. gradually gaiety creep once more

into the house in Fern Square, but it seem to Francis so remote--as

remote as the woman upstairs, who complain and complain and yet

could babble of fashion and the weather and money and the young man

who came court her daughter.







VI



FREDERIC'S friend



_by my troth, Cony, if there be a thousand boy, thou would'st spoil

they all with take their part._

     the KNIGHT of the burning PESTLE.



at the age of twenty-four Frederic be earn twenty-five shilling a

week as a manage clerk in Mr. Starkey's office in Hanging row. he

be fairly punctual in the morning, having hire Minna to rout he out

of bed at eight o'clock, and he would lounge through the morning until

one o'clock when he would disappear for two hour for lunch and coffee

and domino in a smoky cellar call the Mecca Café. in the afternoon

he would work furiously from three to five so as to have something to

show for his day, and in the evening he would come to life. a sort of

swagger would come into his bearing and a pinkish tinge would come

into his pale cheek and a new light into his blue-green eye. he have

discover that in winter his light tenor voice could be make to earn

about thirty shilling a week, and together with a spotty-face youth

in his office who sing comic song (with patter) he go up and down

our town and district giving "I'll sing Thee Songs of Araby" and "to

Anthea" and "there be a Lady Passing by," and win much applause

which invariably go to his head and make he very drunk. he sing

under an assumed name, and no one at home know what he be do

except Minna, whom he bribe with cigarette to hold her peace. (she

use to lock herself in the bath-room and smoke they out of the

window.) when occasionally his mother complain that he be never at

home in the evening he use to say that he be rehearse. at

interval he use to take part in private theatrical with the

spotty-face youth or other of his friend. the piece generally give

be the farce of Madison Morton, or _the blind Beggars_, or some

amateur musical play. there be a Gentlemen's Musical Society which

have a little hall in Oswald Street in the centre of our town. Frederic

and the spotty-faced youth be member, though the Society have fall

on evil day and its entertainment have become rather broad. for the

most part they be smoking-concert, not unlike the Caves of Harmony

that use to be in London, but the air be purify occasionally by a

lady' Night, when the lion roar as gently as any sucking dove,

and give innocuous theatrical entertainment to which the member

bring their daughter. Frederic become a shine light in the

performance, and the member' daughter fall in love with he and

write he ridiculous letter of admiration, which he gulp down

without blink.



it be at the Gentlemen's Concert Hall that he first meet James Lawrie,

the dramatic critic of our weekly newspaper who write under the name

of "Snug," and have some public reputation as a writer of elegant

poetry, and an immense fame among journalist and actor and

theatrical musician and painter as a composer of bawdy verse. this

man be a Scotsman, a hard drinker, and he be say to know every

verse that Robert Burns ever write by heart, and also to have many

poem that have never be print. he use to write notice of the

little performance in the Gentlemen's Concert Hall, and, as he could

be very scathing, the actor use to fawn upon he and flatter he.

the spotty-faced youth introduce he to Frederic one night, and the

old man--he be not above fifty-five, but he have always be Old

Lawrie--shake he warmly by the hand and say:



"I'm proud to meet your father's son, sir."



that rather stagger Frederic, to whom it have never occur that his

father might be admirable. Old Lawrie see that he be a little take

aback and he scowl and go on:



"come, come! not ashamed of your father, be you, heh? my son be,

but then my son be respectable. that's what's the matter with they,

they're respectable and safe. Safe's a good word for a gag. you can

bring your lip together on it hard."



"I be at school in France," reply Frederic with a flush of timidity

under his paint. he have just come from the dress-rehearsal on the

stage, the play be _still water run Deep_.



"if you like France," say Old Lawrie, "you willn't like this curse

hole. you'll die in it. I've never be to France myself, but I've

read their book. they pull everything to bit with their brain.

nothing leave. they're a well lot than we be. get no moral, but who

have? we pretend to have 'em. they don't. know your burn? it's in

print, so I see no reason why I shouldn't speak it:



    _o Lord! yestreen, Thou ken, wi' Meg--

     Thy pardon I sincerely beg,

     o may it ne'er be a livin' plague

          to my dishonour,

     An' I'll ne'er lift a lawless leg

          again upon she.

     maybe Thou let the fleshly thorn

     Beset thy servant e'en and morn,

     lest he owre high and proud should turn

          'Cause he's sae gift:

     if sae, Thy hand maun e'en be bear,

          until Thou lift it.

     but, Lord, remember I and mine

     Wi' mercy temp'ral and divine

     that I for fear and grace may shine

          Excell'd by nane,

     an' a' the glory shall be Thine,

          amen, amen._



Old Lawrie be a fine man as he declaim the verse. his eye flash

and his voice come big from his chest, and when he have do he turn

to Frederic and say:



"that's burn, and out of Shakespeare there isna a healthy spirit in

the world. Burns and Shakespeare--both of 'em poor man and straight

from the earth, and 'll give ye all the cultured dandy in the world

for a farthing gift. so you're play at play-act, young man?

that's what nine-tenth the world be for ever do in its daily life.

they can' I a disgusting old man, but they should hear what I can' they

when my tongue's loosed and my mind's eye see vision. I live in

Hell, but I've a Heaven in my brain. . . . your father's a good man to

go his own way with the dirty Lutherans and the filthy Puritans

yelp at his heel. you'll not be go in for the professional

play-act?"



"no," say Frederic. "I sing."



Old Lawrie clap his old silk hat on his head, take his blackthorn

stick in his hand and give a shout of laughter. he pat Frederic on

the shoulder, purse his lip and hum through they strangely and

vaguely as though he be turn over a morsel of music on his

tongue, and then he break into verse and say:



    _o youth it be a pretty thing,

       a wild rise in the bud.

     but it must die with the pass Spring

       all trample in the mud.

     we've heavy foot in our town,

       rough shod with iron band.

     virginity go topple down

       Befouled with loutish hand.

     o spring be smoke in our town,

       and life's a dirty scrum,

     the angel weep to see God's frown

       and we make Hell to hum._



he turn away after this impromptu and join a bibulous-look

individual with white hair and an enormous face, Joshua Yeo, his

editor, and the near approach to a friend that he have.



Frederic turn to the spotty-face youth and find he grin

vacantly.



"quite balmy," say the spotty-face youth.



"I think he's splendid," return Frederic, amazed at his own

enthusiasm.



"want a new coat," say the spotty-face youth. "he's wear that ever

since I've know he, and it's green with age. he get fight

roar blind once a month, and his son lock he up. I know one of

they--Bennett Lawrie--a bee-yooti-ful young man, high-Church and all

that. may have be to your governor's show. the old man's a

Presbyterian as much as he's anything. he use to be in a bank, same

bank that Randolph Caldecott use to be in. but he quarrel,

quarrel with every one."



"do you think he make that up--about youth and our town?"



"come easy to he. when he's drunk he talk blank verse. he be run

in once, and he harangue the beak like Mark Antony at Cæsar's

funeral."



they be call back to the stage, and Frederic find that he be not

nearly so pleased with himself in his part as he have be. he begin to

think the play foolish and shoddy.



after the rehearsal he have an appointment with the spotty-face youth

to meet two girl on Kersley Moors, a high, dark, treeless common just

outside the northern suburb. from Kersley the road run into the town

past the bishop's palace, and here nightly young man and maiden

foregather and stalk each other and exchange mysterious

greeting, sometimes stop and talk, sometimes pass and

disappear down the dark lane that enclose the bishop's huge

garden. the spotty-face youth, who have be impress by Frederic's

braggadocio of the thing that be much well do in France, have

introduce he to this exchange and mart of foolish emotion and

transitory affection. they go there in search of pleasure and

adventure, and they generally find they, though more puny and debase

than they be prepared to admit. they go there now only half

believe that the girl with whom they have make their assignation

would turn up, for they have seem so superior to the usual quarry.

they do not know their name or where they live. it be enough for

they that both the girl be pretty and responsive to such wit as

they could produce.



the spotty-face youth's father be a doctor, and he have three

brother, and on the way he regale Frederic with tale of their

escapade and the narrow squeak they have have, and the great score it

be to have a father who be a man of the world and understand these

thing. he become so foul-mouthed that Frederic stop he.



"if you don't shut up I shall go home."



"right ho!" say the spotty-face youth. "only I do think you have a

well sense of fun. you don't seem to mind Old Lawrie talk about

Burns and Meg."



"that's different. that's poetry."



"be it?"



"yes. like 'Lucrece' and 'Venus and Adonis.'"



"well. they're pretty hot."



"oh! shut up."



Frederic do not rightly understand why he be so indignant with his

companion. he be conscious of a difference between the two

thing--frank acceptance and fumbling--but he could not put his finger

on it, nor could he discover why for the first time in year of folly

he should feel a sense of shame. it grow on he as they walk up the

Kersley Road and, by the second lamp-post past the bishop's gate, see

the two young woman arm-in-arm pacing slowly in front of they.



"bag I the tall one?" say the spotty-face youth.



before Frederic could reply they have come up with the girl and his

companion have greet they with a tag from the pantomime of the last

winter.



"we think you wouldn't come," say the tall girl.



"no fear," say the spotty-face youth. "trust I when I've spot a

winner."



Frederic set the pace and they walk briskly up the road to Kersley

Church. he hardly say a word, but his companion keep up a run

fire of facetious chatter. at the church the tall girl and Haslam

(that be the spotty-face youth's name) walk on and disappear

into the darkness of the moor after arrange to meet again at ten.

Frederic be leave under the lamp-post with the other girl. she be

very little and slight, and she be rather poorly dress. she look

shyly up at Frederic, and he say:



"you're very pretty."



"I like you well than the other one."



"you see," say Frederic, "I be at school in France."



"oh! France. be they very wicked in France?"



"it depend what you mean by wicked. no more than they be here."



"I suppose you willn't tell I your name."



"I don't mind," say Frederic, with a sudden flow of honesty. he have

so often be Snooks and Jones and Walker. "it's Folyat. Fred Folyat."



"Mine's Lipsett, Annie Lipsett. it's a silly name."



it seem such a silly name to Frederic that he could find nothing to

say, and there come a dead silence between they. she be offend at

last and move away and he have almost lose sight of she in the

darkness of the moor when he run and catch she up. they pass

through the post that fill the entrance to the moor, and Frederic

put his arm round her hard little waist. she stop. he stop and

kiss she and they walk on.



there be lover (and bad) everywhere, and as they creep slowly

forward they hear sigh and silly giggle and voice murmur. it

be very dark and the cloud hang low and the wind be a little cold.

they find a place to sit where through tree they could see the

light of the house. Frederic sit a little away from she and with his

cane prod into the ground.



"I wonder where the other be," say Annie Lipsett.



"do it matter?"



"no."



they be silent for a little, then Frederic remember old Lawrie,

and he purse up his lip as the old man have do and croon a little

to himself. then, suddenly, he ask:



"be you happy?"



he do not wait for she to reply but go on:



"I'm wonder why we mess about with it. what's the good of it, all?

who be you? I don't know. who be I? you don't know. we live in a

beastly dirty town and we wander about like lose soul. and because we

be lose soul we take anything that come along--you I, I you. be it

good enough? it's all wrong. but what's right? . . . it's fun, I

suppose. Fun! . . . but what else be there?"



he take the girl's hand.



"I tell you what. I'm damned sorry for you."



"of course," say Annie Lipsett. "of course, you're a gentleman."



and Frederic laugh. he tell himself that he be an idiot, and that

all _that_ be not his affair. he have bring this girl here, just as

all the other young man in the place have bring all the other young

woman, to forget, to escape for a little while, to lose all thought of

the beastliness of life down below in the town. it _be_ beastly.

everything be so dirty, and everybody be so poor and so tired. . . .

he take the girl in his arm and hold she very close and whisper

silly talk to she, and soon she be sigh and lie and nestle to

he.



they be ten minute late in their return to the lamp-post by the

church, and Haslam and the tall girl be very ill at ease and silent.

Annie Lipsett clung to Frederic's arm and they walk down to the

bishop's palace. there they part. Frederic kiss she and she clung

to he. the tall girl lead she away and they vanish into the night.



as they turn their face homeward Haslam say:



"Gawd! I have have a rummy time. I couldn't touch she without she

start on the cry game. Sha'n't see she again."



"no. I suppose not," say Frederic.



Haslam look at he.



"well. you're a caution, you be!"



"I'm a bit of a swine, the same as you," retort Frederic.







VII



young WOMEN



_our own precedent passion do instruct we

 what levity be in youth._

     TIMON of ATHENS.



young people must for ever be try to fall in love, and in this

ancient sport young woman be every bit as active as young man. for

the matter of that, the great part of humanity remain adolescent in

this affair, that be, hem in by a thick-set hedge of prejudice and

unsatisfie emotion and convention and childish theory, so that they

be for ever in a state of uneasy curiosity about love, always ready

to put salt on its tail, but unable to come within reach of it. for

that reason they be always confuse love with be in love, an

active state of living which can be permanent with an emotional

condition which must be transitory.



Mrs. Folyat have the most beautiful illusion about her household. she

be not entirely deceive by they when she come face to face with

herself, but in her relation with her husband, her friend and her

daughter she always exhibit the most profound faith in they. though

her daughter be grow woman she never trouble to discover the

state of their mind, but assume their innocence and purity, and she

never refer back to her own state of mind at the same age and the

same maiden condition. in short, she burke the difficulty and the

responsibility, though she be secretly alarmed at their slowness in

find husband. she have no notion of their find any career

outside marriage, and take no step to prepare they even for that.



there be a constant stream of young man pass through the house,

and they all seem to do their good to fall in love with Gertrude and

Mary, but they either fall victim to Minna, who play with they and

squeeze their young heart dry between her finger and thumb, or they

disappear and be catch in the toil elsewhere. there be so many

young woman and so few eligible young man. they flirt, they dance,

they pay visit to the theatre, and Gertrude sing and Mary play

her violin, but nothing happen. it be very annoying. the

Clibran-Bell girl do not marry either, but there be no comfort in

that. they have such large nose; and they be not folyat. they have

not the charm of high gentility. . . . neither Gertrude nor Mary be

pretty, but they could be amusing and they seem to attract

attention. Minna be decidedly pretty, with a wide delightful grin and

a mocking humour. the most serious and solemn young man be devote

to she. they be always propose to she, but she always refuse they

or become engaged to they for about a week. her betrothal hardly ever

seem to survive the visit to their family. she invariably seem

to see they in caricature, and have amass quite a large collection of

mental picture of north-country family who receive she at high tea

and welcome she with shy effusiveness.



Mrs. Folyat be fonder of Minna than of her other daughter. she be

easy to get on with and much less expensive. Mary and Gertrude have

acquire the habit of visit relation in the South much rich than

themselves, and every year they demand an exorbitant outlay on

clothe, and they come back rather scornful of life in Fern Square and

rather rebellious at have to resume their household duty or work

in the church and Sunday-school. also, for a time, they would assume a

lofty tone with the young man of their acquaintance, and they use to

prick at Frederic and tell he he be become provincial. Minna use

to lash they with her tongue, deal out the wicked malice with

the most urbane good-humour, and deliberately annex any young man whom

they bring to the house. she call Gertrude "Mother Bub" and Mary

"Mottle-tooth." from their superiority in year they affect to

ignore she, but they lose no opportunity of annoy she and upset

her plan for her own comfort and enjoyment.



the money-cloud have grow dark over Francis. it seem impossible to

make his expenditure acknowledge even a bow acquaintance with his

income. he have credit with the tradespeople but it be abuse. fifty

pound have become a large sum of money to he, because the payment of

it mean dislocation of his finance. Frederic be always send in

small bill that be too large for his slender earning. the

girl--Mary and Gertrude be still call "the girls"--were always

want money. Annette in Edinburgh hardly ever write without want

money, and Mrs. Folyat seem to have no notion of the decrease

elasticity of his resource. it be perfectly clear to he that a

change must be make, and quickly. he go into his account, find

that he owe three hundred and fifty pound--nearly a year's

stipend--and write the figure down on a scrap of paper and lay it

before his wife.



"we owe that," he say. "it's a lot of money."



Mrs. Folyat turn the piece of paper round and round in her finger,

and Francis stand above she pull at his beard.



"it's a big sum," he say.



Mrs. Folyat pull out her handkerchief and begin to whimper, as she

always do when Francis be masterful.



"I'm sure," she say, "I'm sure it's not my fault. I'm sure I wish

we'd never come to this hateful pace. I don't know why we do."



Francis feel a gust of exasperation.



"we come here," he say, "to marry the girl. they're not married."



Mrs. Folyat see reproach in what be only a statement of fact, and she

protest with some vehemence. the failure of her daughter hurt she.

she feel it as keenly as Sarah, the wife of Abraham, feel she

barrenness, for she see life altogether in term of marriage, romantic

marriage. her own life have fall into the line lay down by the

fiction with which she refresh herself--as a girl she have dream of

a romantic lover--he have come--a parson, a creature of noble

birth--and she have marry he. she have bear he a truly biblical

number of child and look for they to follow a similar destiny.

she have regard it as a thing that happen automatically, for she

be in mind a child, and life be to she a toy present to she by a

beneficent creator, already wound up and prepare to go indefinitely.

when apparently it run down she could do nothing but weep and make

thing as uncomfortable as possible for those near she. she hate

fact, and Francis, her husband, have the most odious habit of plump

they down in front of she.



always before when they have be present with any financial

difficulty they have sell a house at Potsham, for the reduction of

their private income by twenty or thirty pound have seem no great

matter. but they have already sell five house, and the loss of one

hundred and fifty pound a year have, as Francis now point out,

play a considerable part in bring they to their present quandary.

he be loth to sacrifice another house and more income, and nervously

propose that they should raise the required sum by sell some of

their valuable china and perhaps a piece or two of Martha's jewellery.

she hardly ever wear her jewellery, but she love to hoard it, and

whenever she be particularly pleased with her woman friend she use

to reward they by display the content of her treasure-drawer,

jewel, old lace, silk and brocade and fan, acquire and

inherit--thing valuable and trumpery all lie higgledy-piggledy.



her husband's suggestion act like salt rub into the wound

occasion by his statement of fact. she ask why she should always

be the sufferer for the delinquency of her family, and almost

persuade herself that she be their scapegoat. she go back over the

year and rake over the ashe of old resentment and grievance, even

go so far as to disinter the sacrifice of her carriage at St.

Withans.



"the fact remain," say Francis, "that we owe a large sum of money. I

be a clergyman, and my house should be free of the sordid trouble

that beset the laity. it be not free of they and I be ashamed."



"very well, then," say Martha, "let we sell everything, spend

everything--the girl will do that easily enough--and then go into the

workhouse."



"please be reasonable," rejoin Francis. "we must pay our debt and

reduce our expenditure. if necessary, the girl must go out and earn

what they can."



"the girl!"



"there be no shame in honest work, whatever it may be."



"but they will _never_ marry if they work."



"half the woman I marry be work woman."



"I willn't discuss it. you have never be the same since we come to

this hateful place."



"I be think chiefly of Mary. she could teach music. and Annette

have have a well education than the other. she could . . ."



"what?"



"she could obtain a situation as a governess."



"a governess! Annette! a governess!"



in Mrs. Folyat's eye to send your daughter out as a governess be a

confession of poverty. there could be no gloss it over. of course

the clergy be miserably pay, but Francis have always rise superior

to that reproach in public opinion by the general belief in the

amplitude of his private mean. it could be little short of disaster

then to confess to inadequacy. and a governess! poor Annette! though

to be sure when she be a child her godmother have look at she sadly

and observe that she must assuredly be prepare for a convent. she

be so plain--a remark which Minna have never cease to brandish over

poor Annette's head whenever their will clash. . . .



Francis at length cut short his wife's protestation with a sigh and

say:



"my dear, I'm sorry. that's the position. we have to swallow it. we

cann't give the girl the opportunity they ought to have. we must let

they fight their own way. at present anything be well than the sort

of life they be lead. we'll sell another house, but that shall be

the last. we'll make a fresh start. be patient with I, my dear."



"and be _i_ to tell Mary?"



"no. I'll do that, and I'll find a family for Annette."



Francis go away feel that there be a great deal to be say for

the celibacy of the clergy. other man, of course, do not see so much

of their family, and perhaps, for that reason, could understand they

well, be well friend with they, and not so acutely conscious of

their irritate peculiarity. the relation between a father and

daughter should be a very beautiful thing, and indeed there be

moment when the house in Fern Square be a place of happiness and

affectionate unity. only--only, there be the future. Martha grow

more and more helpless, and the household duty and responsibility

devolve more and more upon Gertrude and Mary, and they lose their

bloom.



Francis have a vague feeling of injustice which be harshly in

disaccord with his professional teaching of acceptance--"Whatever be,

be right" and "it's all for the good." at any rate there be still

abundant laughter in his house, and that be well than the grim

smile which be all these Northerners would for the most part allow

themselves. the day of violent opposition be go, but the Puritans

still look askance at the Proud Priest--for the nickname clung--and

his family. the grocer with an off-licence round the corner spread

tale of the large quantity of beer that be consume in the

parson's house.



Mary take the suggestion very well, and soon she have five pupil,

little boy and girl, whom she teach to fumble on the piano and to

extract horrible noise from the violin. she go to their house and

enjoy make new friend. Annette be bring home from Edinburgh at

the end of the term and be find a situation with an ironmaster's

family name Fender. she have one pupil, a little hunchbacked girl who

alternately adore she and bully she. Annette be very happy. at

home she have be so mercilessly tease by Minna that she be glad to

get away. the Fenders live in Burnley, ten mile away, and in summer

they move to a lovely house they have in Westmoreland, high-perch on

a hill look down on Grasmere and Rydal. she read enormous

quantity of novel, and devour the pound and pound of sweet and

chocolate that be lavish on her pupil. once a week she write

dutiful letter to her parent and surreptitiously she begin to write

a novel in the manner of Mr. James Payn. she write three chapter, and

then find the labour of write too exhausting and continue the

story mentally in her many idle moment.



at home in Fern Square the conduct of Gertrude have be cause some

astonishment and alarm. for five consecutive Sundays she fail to put

in an appearance at morning service, and once she neglect she

Sunday-school class. when question about it--she be a woman in

year, but Mrs. Folyat be not the mother to relax her authority until

it be wrest from she--she reply that she be make a tour of the

High Churches in our town--with a friend. the answer be find

satisfactory, but Minna look into the fact and find that her elder

sister have spend every one of those five sunday in St. Saviour's,

where there be a young acolyte who have a beautiful profile and

soulful eye. he wear the most exquisite garment, and his expression

be as near monkish as anything you can find in the Church of England.

his face be lean and pale, and his whole bearing be mournful in the

extreme.



for two sunday after the inquisition Gertrude go to service in St.

Paul's. on the third she disappear again, and Minna plead

headache, watch the other go off with their prayer-book and Sunday

clothe, and then hurry to St. Saviour's, a little church build on a

slag-heap above the jewish quarter. she creep in just before eleven

and find Gertrude sit far up near the step of the nave gaze in

rapt and religious devotion at the young acolyte as with almost

theatrical solemnity he perform his rite. if he be conscious of

she he give no sign. with an almost yearning intensity he creep

noiselessly about minister to the priest. Gertrude's great moment

come after the sermon when, the churchwarden and sidesman move

lugubriously from pew to pew, the acolyte come down to the altar step

and stand with a large brass plate in his hand wait for the

offertory. he stand there proudly with his pale face upturned, his

whole soul seem to be bear aloft on the hymn sing by the

congregation. on this occasion it be:



    _o God our help in age past,

       our hope for year to come;

     our shelter from the stormy blast,

       and our eternal home._



Minna have come in a mischievous spirit, but even she be impressed.

there be a soulfulness in the young man, the look of one hopelessly

atone for all the sin of the world, and, above all, there be

artistry in his movement. everything that he do seem to be

immensely important and pregnant with meaning. when he stoop and the

churchwarden and sidesman lay their little bag in the great brass

plate, he do it with the air of one accept a worthless gift for

the grace of the giving. to he at least it do seem to be true that

it be more blessed to give than to receive. his humility be so great,

so move, that Minna wish she have put sixpence into the bag instead

of a penny.



she could not see Gertrude's face, but she be familiar enough with

she back to be able to gauge her feeling. Gertrude have rather a poor

figure, with high shoulder and a very short waist. now her shoulder

be high than ever, and she be lean forward and her elbow be

tremble ever so slightly. Minna smile and think maliciously of

all she know about Gertrude, and that be not a little.



before the service be over she leave the church, and be lie in the

study with a wet handkerchief over her head and a volume of Tennyson

on her knee when the rest of the family come home from St. Paul's and

Gertrude from St. Saviour's.



"where do you go to, my dear?" ask Mrs. Folyat.



"oh! to St. Benedict's," reply Gertrude. "they have the most lovely

altar-cloth I ever see. but the curate intone very badly."



"as badly as pa?" ask Minna.



"that's impossible," say Francis with a long chuckle.



there be some chatter, circulation of gossip get at the church door,

and then with some anxiety Mrs. Folyat look across the long table at

her husband and say:



"be you go to tell they, Frank?"



Francis have his mouth full and could only say "Hum! ha!"



"what be it?" Frederic turn a little pale and wonder what be

come. his misdeed, take collectively, be very trivial, but he

know from experience that any one of they take singly, rob of its

context and place under the scrutiny of other eye, would assume

gigantic proportion.



"have all the Folkestone Folyats die and leave we all their money? or

have uncle William come back from India with a gigantic fortune?" Minna

be rush wildly ahead on all the strange possibility when

Francis finish his mouthful and clear his throat.



"no," he say. "I have hear from your brother Serge."



"Serge!" say Mary.



"Serge!" say Gertrude, snatch from her tender dream.



"be he rich?" ask Minna.



"I don't know. he talk of come home."



"where be he?" this come from Frederic.



"he write from Durban in South Africa."



"oh! then of course he's a millionaire. Hurrah! he'll buy Frederic a

partnership, and I a husband--catch I marry a poor man--and Mary

a genuine Strad, and Gertie a--an acolyte."



Gertrude flush hotly and look dagger across the table.



"he merely write that he be come home, as though he have only be

away a week."



"some of you child can hardly remember he," say Martha.



Minna say she could just recollect his put she into a bassinette

and let she go fly down a hill into a pond.



Francis go on:



"he send your mother some water-colour drawing."



"any good?" ask Frederic.



"I think they're quite good. but I don't know anything about these

thing."



"I'll take they to old Lawrie. he'll know," say Frederic.



"Lawrie?" murmur Gertrude.



"yes. D'you know he?"



"no. no."



Minna wink at Frederic. he have often talk to she about old Lawrie,

and she have discover that the name of the young acolyte at St.

Saviour's be Bennett Lawrie, old James' third son.



"I say," say Frederic, "do Serge know we're here?"



"no. the letter be forward from St. Withans."



"don't you think you ought to let he know what he's in for?"



"I cann't do that. he give no address."



"it willn't matter to he if he's rich," say Minna, and they all fall

to and rummage their memory for recollection of Serge as a boy.

Minna invent lavishly and suddenly she shout:



"do he say whether he'd get a wife?"



"I bet it's a blackamoor like old Nicholas Folyat," say Frederic.



"even if she be black," say Mrs. Folyat solemnly, "if he be marry

to she she will be my daughter-in-law and I shall receive she."



the conversation take on a broad complexion which be more permissible

in the family circle than in the print page.



that evening Frederic take Serge's drawing with he and seek out

old Lawrie in the Arts Club, where always on a Sunday evening there

be a gathering of old warrior and choice spirit--Joshua Yeo, Elihu

Beecroft, the painter, Peter Maitland, who write pantomime, and

Warlock Clynes, the photographer, and B. J. Strutt, the manager of the

old theatre, where, as a young man, Henry Irving have be a member of

the stock company. they be smoke and drinking and yarning. they

have vast store of anecdote of the great Bohemians in London.

Beecroft have twice have picture in the Academy, and B. J. Strutt have

begin life as a call-boy at the Haymarket Theatre. Old James Lawrie

have be to London three time and have shake hand with J. L. Toole

and Helen Faucit, and Clement Scott have send he a copy of his

ballad, of which he have produce many gross parody.



the club be simply three room in a dark block of office--a bar, an

eat room, and a smoke-room. Frederic be show in by the grubby boy

whom he find at the door read a penny "blood," and he stand

foolishly in the middle of the room realise dreadfully that old

Lawrie do not remember who he be.



"Mr. Lawrie. . ." he say.



"eh?"



"I--I--my name's Folyat. I--I act. you ask I to--to look you up

here some day."



"eh? oh, yes. come and sit down. what'll you have? I cann't pay for

your drink, but some one will."



Frederic sit down, and the little group of old man be embarrass by

his presence.



"so. . . so you act, do you? here's B. J. Strutt. get he to give you

a job in his next pantomime."



"I'm--I'm not a pro," say Frederic. "I'm a solicitor." and, as he

say it, he feel that it be a small thing to be among these free man

who practise the art. Frederic be a chameleon who take his colour

from his surrounding. he have a queer capacity for enthusiasm, which

come and go and be altogether beyond his control. he drink a little

whiskey and he feel that he be in the company of very wonderful

being. they talk of thing and man that be glorious dream to

he, and they speak of they with such ease and familiarity, like

giant play marble with the mountain. his own little celebrity,

which have be very dear to he, dwindle into nothing, and it be to

protect himself that he produce Serge's drawing and begin to talk of

his brother.



Beecroft take the drawing and look they through. he have a huge red

beard and a glisten bald head and round spectacle that make he

look like a benevolent spider. he clap his hand to his bald pink

head and with immense fervour say:



"by God!"



"be they good?" rasp Lawrie.



"no. damn bad."



Frederic feel very small.



"I don't know," say B. J. Strutt. "I like that one all yellow in the

foreground and blue in the distance. and I like that one with the

nigger file through the orange-tree with the pinky-white house

beyond."



"so do I," cry Beecroft. "I like 'em all. the man cann't draw, but he

can feel colour and big distance and lot and lot of air."



Frederic begin to feel well. the old man gather round the drawing

and give grunt of satisfaction. (they have be very bored all the

evening and be glad of something to interest they).



"where be he?" say Beecroft. "this brother of your."



"in Africa. he's come home."



"he's a genius. do you know that? a genius."



"be careful, Beecroft," put in Lawrie. "there have be about twenty

man of genius--real genius--in forty, or be it sixty?--thousand

year."



"a genius," reiterate Beecroft. "we'll give a show. you can ram he

down their throat week by week, Yeo."



"it's no good run a genius in this place," growl Lawrie.--He be

always discover poet and see they go to ruin.--"They don't want

genius. they're so used to imitation."



"at any rate," protest Beecroft, "they haven't have anything like

this for year, and I don't think we ought to let 'em off."



"my brother's come home now. I'll tell he what you say. it's

rather funny. I haven't see he since we be boy, and then he be

much old than I."



"we'll have a show," repeat Beecroft. "he's a local man?"



"we ben't bear here. but my father's be rector of St. Paul's, Bide

Street, for some year now."



"that's good enough. the stink rotter here like to think they've

have a hand in anything produce in the place--if people talk about it

enough. have some more whiskey?"



Frederic be beyond say "no." the drink go to his head, inflate

he, and he offer to sing. Strutt play his accompaniment, and

they keep he at it for an hour until he be hoarse, and they shout

the chorus in crack, beery voice.



it be very late when Frederic leave the club, after shake hand all

round and promise tearfully to bring his brother, the genius, as

soon as he arrive. he forget the drawing altogether, and old Lawrie,

be the sober of the party, gather they together and take they

home with he.







viii



serge



_it's a queer place, and indeed I don't know the place that ben't._

     the ARAN ISLANDS.



SERGE FOLYAT land at Plymouth on a wet autumn day and walk to St.

Withans rejoice and declare in his heart that England be the most

beautiful country in the world. he see no reason to alter his opinion

as he walk north until he come to the outcrop of industrialism in

the plain of Cheshire.



it take he ten day to walk from St. Withans to our town, and six of

they be wet. he love the soft english rain and the rich green of

the countryside and the glorious gold and red of the sodden autumn

leave, and when, for the first time, he see the black and grey of

South Lancashire sky and the dark chimney rise out of the dense

mass of building he could be glad of they too. all the same he

wonder what strange whimsey could have take his father out of the

soft southern air into such menacing harshness. however, it do not

greatly exercise his mind. he have never trouble to find reason for

his own folly and accept those of other with as good a grace.



he be a man a little above middle height, tan and brown, with

bright blue eye like his father's, and a close clip golden-brown

beard, turn grey at the corner of the jawbone. he love talk,

and engage all whom he meet or catch up on the road, and nearly

always leave they more cheerful than when he encounter they. when he

be alone he talk or sing to himself in a very loud voice. he be

not look for adventure and meet with none. his clothe he carry in

a sack on his back, and he have a great stick in his hand, a pocketful

of tobacco, and a calabash pipe. other possession he have none. he

walk very fast and sometimes cover forty mile in a day.



in the evening of the tenth day he enter the town by the Derby Road

and follow his nose and the tramline until he come to St. Thomas'

Church. there he ask for Fern Square and receive no response. he

stop a dismal-look man and ask he. the stranger gape at he

and say:



"A'm a stranger 'ere, my sen."



his next enquiry provoke a long answer in a language so uncouth that

he could make nothing of it. he follow the tram-line again and

wander vaguely until he come to a cross-road from which he could see

the Collegiate Church stand velvety-black against a sooty sky, with

a railway bridge and the dome of a station beyond. he see a tram

label Pendle and follow it. the road lead he under the railway

bridge, past a sequester market and a sort of fair with booth and

swing-boat and a cocoa-nut shy and a merry-go-round. he stop and

watch the dirty mournful-look people take their pleasure, and

the sight rather depress he. a little far on he have to pass

through the place in which these people live, and under the

factory where they work. he like the hum and business of it all,

and he like the slatternly grubby little shop.



there be a place where the road skirt a height, and from the road a

public park stretch down to the oily-black river wind through

flat. beyond the river gleam the reservoir of the mill, steam

under the humid air. beyond they again be hill cover with house,

and away to right and leave a forest of tall chimney. over all hang a

pall of mist and smoke, a rail edge the road, and here Serge stand

and gaze at the queer degrade beauty of it all. there be hardly a

blade of grass in the park, none at all on the flat by the river.

tree and plant be stunt. down in the park, on the bench,

saunter down the path, hide behind the bush, he could see

lover, and that comfort he.



he move on singing to himself and swinge his stick, and presently

he come to a wide place over against a washing-machine factory. the

road here be finely broad, but it be flank on either side by mean

little house and forlorn little shop. it make the slow ascent of a

long hill, and although there be plenty of traffic--tram, cab,

dray, lorry--it look empty and desolate. there be not a tree in

sight.



Serge stop a man with a sandy moustache and a complexion like a

suet-pudding and ask his direction to Fern Square.



"I'll take you there," say the man. "what number?"



"five," answer Serge.



"Mr. Folyat's." Serge nod.



"he's a good man be Mr. Folyat, and that kind to the poor, and they

don't need to go to his church neither. he and the roman priest,

Father Soledano, they do a lot of good, and there's a deal of good

need do, there be. he give I a job when I come out o' prison."



"oh! you've be in prison?"



"a month ago, I come out."



"what for?"



"'spicious character. the p'leece put a jemmy in my carpenter's bag

and find it there. Mr. Folyat 'e speak for my repu-character, but you

cann't say nothing agin the p'leece. there it be, and I 'ad to do my

six month. here we be. you look like a sea-fare man."



"good-night," say Serge.



"good-night." and the man shamble off.



Serge stand gaze at the door and then he turn and look over the

square at the Wesleyan Chapel. a factory hooter buzz. from the

inside of the house come the wailing of a violin.



Serge knock at the door Minna open it and stand peer out at

he.



"Hullo!" say Serge. "which be you? Mary?"



"my father ben't in," reply Minna.



"all the well. you don't remember I, and I've be think of you

as a baby. I'm serge."



"Serge!"



he step in. Minna rush away, and he hear she call all over

the house:



"Serge have come! Serge have come!"



there be a pattering of foot on the stair, a banging of door, and

presently Gertrude, Mary, Mrs. Folyat and Minna come down upon he. he

catch his mother up in a great hug and squeeze the breath out of

she, and she stand talk and cry while he kiss Gertrude and

Mary on the cheek and Minna full on the lip.



Mrs. Folyat lead the way to the dining-room, and he sit at the table

and they round he, and they devour he with their eye. he look

from one to the other. he think that Gertrude look sly, Mary

plain, but he like the mischief in Minna's eye, and she have a wide

friendly grin and a dimple in her cheek. his mother be so much old

than he have imagine she and he want to tease she out of it. she be

wear a white woollen shawl, and she have shove her spectacle up on

to her forehead when Minna break in upon her reading. the room be

dark and rather oppressive and none of the window be open.



Minna light the gas and pull down the blind.



"well!" say Mrs. Folyat, "you _have_ take we by surprise."



"I mean to," reply Serge. "I go to St. Withans first. I don't

know you'd go. I walk on here."



"walk!" this come from Mary.



"yes. it's a nice cheerful hole you've come to live in."



"horrible!" say Minna.



"dreadful!" cap Mrs. Folyat. "but your father would come. he say

his place be among the poor."



Gertrude and Mary exchange glance, but say nothing. Serge notice

it and try another topic.



"how's all the child? how many be there?"



"oh! my dear." Mrs. Folyat feel for her handkerchief.



Minna answer for she.



"Annette's away. she's a governess with some rich vulgar people. James

be dead. he fall from the roof. Frederic be out. he always be. we're

in. we always be. and that's the lot."



"what about Leedham?"



"I forget Leedham. he's in Rio, in a bank. be you rich, Serge?"



Serge feel in his trouser pocket and produce four sovereign, three

shilling and ten copper. he lay they out neatly on the red baize

table-cloth.



"that's all," he say.



Minna laugh and count out the money. Gertrude and Mary and his

mother look at Serge in dismay.



"I don't know," say Serge. "if this place ben't full of money,

there's no excuse for it."



"it's a queer place," say Minna, "and not so much money in it as all

that. what you've get would be wealth to most of father's people."



"your father," put in Mrs. Folyat, "say his place be among the poor.

I'm sure he get what he want."



Serge feel that she be fish for his opinion. he give it.



"I meet a man," he say, "who bring I to the door. he say my father

be very good to the poor. he be a wretched devil who have just be

let out of prison."



"Sam Dimsdale. that's his name." Minna heap Serge's money up into

little pile.



"how's Frederic?" ask Serge.



"Frederic's a solicitor," reply Mrs. Folyat with a little show of

pride.



conversation flag until Mrs. Folyat ask Gertrude and Mary to get

the supper, and then Serge insist on help and ask if he might

cook an omelette. Mrs. Folyat bid he stay with she.



he sit opposite she and she fix her spectacle and look long at

he. then she say:



"you're like your father, but there's a look in you too of my mother.

what be you go to do?"



"do? I don't know. I've spend all my life try thing and leave

they before they leave I."



"it be a terrible blow to we, your leave the Navy like that."



"be it? it's so long ago now, but I be rather surprised at it

myself. I be sick of the water and pretend to defend England's

shore when nobody seem to want to attack they."



"but you be only a boy."



"I sometimes think I shall never be anything else. I cann't stand the

thing man do. they waste such a lot of time over they."



"but you must work."



"I suppose so. but I shall have to ask you to feed I for a little."



"oh! your father willn't say no to you. he never say no to any one."



"there's consistency in that."



"your father be not the man he be. we have have terrible time, my

dear. too dreadful. the people in this town."



"why don't the girl get marry?" ask Serge.



"my dear," answer his mother, "there be so few man whom one would

like to see they marry."



Mary and Gertrude return, and just then Francis come in. Serge go

up to he and kiss he, and Francis say "God bless my soul." when

he realise who it be he shake his son warmly by the hand and go on

say: "I'm glad to see you, glad to see you, glad to see you." and

he chuckle inside he and make Serge sit down, and stand look at

he, take he in, and go on:



"something like a prodigal son, eh, Martha? only the queer thing be

that I feel it be I who ought to say 'I be no more worthy to be call

thy father!'"



Martha protest, and they sit down to supper.



Francis sit absolutely silent at the head of the table and Martha

prattle and tell Serge all the family news, all the death, and all

the content of all the will, especially those by which neither she

nor Francis have benefit, and how Willie Folyat have win his case and

become Earl of Leedham, and how Minna have be practically engaged to

he once and might have be a countess but for her folly.



"I couldn't have bear Willie for a husband. he be so mushy," say

Minna.



"you might have leave he and get a handsome settlement," suggest

Serge.



"oh, no! the title carry very little money."



"left he! serge!" Mrs. Folyat apostrophise he.



Minna wink at Serge and say:



"you're not married, I suppose?"



"no."



they eat cold ham and pickle and Gruyère cheese and captain'

biscuit. Francis drink toast and water and Serge dispose of two

bottle of beer. he look round at the family portrait and drank

their health.



"I wonder," he say, "how they like see we here?"



"I often sit with they," reply Francis, break his silence, "and I

fancy they be snob and like be in a place where they can feel

themselves immeasurably superior."



"some of they," remark Mrs. Folyat, "be worth at least a hundred

pound."



"I find myself rather like this place as I walk here," say

Serge. "but I find myself wonder what happen to all the

suppress vitality of the people in it. how many people be there?

there must be half a million. what do they all do? their work cann't be

very satisfying. do they produce child at an appalling rate? or be

there any artistic outlet? there cann't be, or it wouldn't be so ugly.

I suppose there's a lot of crime and a lot of mess. I must have a look

at it. do they have frightful disease, and ben't it rather a mockery

spread the Gospel of Christ in such a place?"



"Serge!" Mrs. Folyat be unable to follow what he say, but she be

hurt at the mention of one whom she have always regard as her Saviour

at the supper-table.



"have I shock you, mother? I'm sorry," say Serge. "you're all so

different from what I have be think you for year and year and I

find it difficult to say anything. you're not exactly full of news

about yourselves, and my thought run away with I. that's bad."



"you haven't become an infidel I hope." Mrs. Folyat be rather

querulous. "you go to church in Africa?"



"I be lie reader to the Bishop of Bloemfontein for six month."



"ah!"



that reassure Mrs. Folyat, and she turn to her food again. she

enjoy eat, and take very small mouthful and nibble at they in a

most genteel fashion. Francis on the other hand eat hurriedly in large

gulp and have always finish his plateful before everybody else.

Serge suddenly find their method of eat intensely interesting. he

too love eating--he have revel in English cooking after his year

in Africa--and it be pleasant to find that he have something in common

with his father and mother, though, instinctively, he know that he

must not talk about it.



Francis rise from the table and take up pipe and tobacco. Serge

produce his calabash and fill it.



"you don't smoke cigarette?" ask Francis.



"no."



"Frederic do. beastly habit."



Mary and Minna clear away the thing from the table and Gertrude

disappear upstairs. Francis sit by the fireplace and say nothing.

Mrs. Folyat remain in her chair at the end of the table and say

nothing either. Serge blow ring and cloud of smoke into the air and

stretch his leg. outside it have begin to rain, and the water

gurgle in the gutter.



"how long have you be here?" ask Serge.



for a long time it seem that he be to receive no answer, but then

Mrs. Folyat in a ventriloquial voice, without the small expression

in her face and without turn her head say to her husband:



"how many year have we be here, Frank?"



"a good many. nine, ten--more."



"it seem more than that."



again there be a silence, and Serge glare at the gas-jet until black

spot swam in front of his eye. a gust of indignation sweep through

he, and he bring his fist down on the table with a bang.



"look here!" he almost shout, "this ben't good enough! ben't you

glad to see I? I've come home to you after nearly twenty year, and

here you be as silent and gloom-stricken as though I'd rise and

confront you from the grave. . . . do you remember how I blubber

when I leave you at the rectory gate at St. Withans? a boy's grief be a

little thing, but it's keep you warm in my thought all these year.

. . ."



he stop. he see that his mother be mop at her eye and her

hand be fumble at the tablecloth, and she seem very old and

pitiful to he then, and he know that he must not hurt she. his father

seem not to have hear he and go on suck at his pipe, which he

smoke with great skill so that the blue smoke only come from the bowl

and his mouth at long interval. he look all beard and spectacle,

impersonal and unexpressive, sit there by the fireplace, and yet

there be humour in his very bulk. Serge feel that he have make an

error in tactic, a blunder in manner. these people, his father and

mother, be not to be take by assault. they have rampart and

bulwark against all comer, perhaps against each other, and their

inmost life be not to be lay bare for the first clamorous

belligerent. he realise that his mother's tear be defensive

weapon--a shower of greek fire and boiling pitch. they be very

effective, and they drive Serge back blistered and wound, but also

they rouse the devil of obstinacy in he and make he resolve to

stay in the queer dark house so full of shadow and to fight with all

his might against its oppressive atmosphere, and to win his way

through to the heart of the old woman, his mother, and the bulky,

silent, bearded man, his father.



he lean forward and take his mother's hand and fondle it. he

squeeze it like a lover, and give a funny little laugh deep down in

his chest.



"I'm sorry," he say.



she give his hand a convulsive, sudden little pressure, and he begin

to talk about himself and his adventure. how he have wander in

America and work his way across to Cape Town and go up-country

hunt elephant; and how he have fight in the Zulu War and teach

dutch girl English on a boer farm, do anything and

everything--prospect for gold, diamond; cheat and be cheat;

thrash and be thrash; and as he tell the smoke come fast from

his father's bowl and pipe, and at last he tell how he have take to

paint picture for a living, because he be starve in Kimberley,

and how he make enough money to pay his passage home, and come because

he want to see green England again and the people with whom he have

be happy as a boy.



"do you get the picture I send you?"



"oh, yes," say Francis. "I think some of they very good."



"I'm glad of that. I don't know much about it, but they say out there

the colour be fine. one or two be send to London and a picture

swell there write to I about they."



Mrs. Folyat say she think she would like to finish her book before

she go to bed, gather her shawl about her shoulder, tell they not

to be late, give serge her cheek to kiss, and wander from the room.

Serge open the door and close it after she.



Francis lay down his pipe. he grunt once or twice and then lean

forward in his chair and say:



"I don't think I realise before that my child be grow man and

woman. it make a difference. one lose the right to interfere, if one

ever have any. what be you go to do?"



"if possible I shall become a painter. if it's impossible--there be

plenty of other thing to do."



"and where will you live?"



"here. I've get four pound and a few shilling and the clothe I

stand up in and my drawing."



"I'm not a rich man."



"you haven't pay out a penny for I since I be fifteen."



"that's true."



"give I a couple of year' board and lodging and a hundred a year and

I'll pay you back every penny as soon as I can."



"I cann't give you a hundred a year."



"how much have Frederic have?"



"Frederic? a good deal. . . . More than I could afford. your mother's

very fond of Frederic."



"shall I tell you what will happen if you don't take my offer? I shall

stay, and go on stay until you suddenly realise that I have be

here for year."



"how do you know that?" ask Francis, a little uneasily.



"the house be like that. I'm rather like that myself--sometimes. I

suppose it's in the blood. we get into false position--we're

intelligent enough to know that they're false, but we're not strong

enough to break away. ben't it so? it's call good-nature. don't

everybody call you a good-natured man? they do I. a damned good sort

they call I--man I hate too--but it only mean that I'm easy and

don't make situation painful by demand a clear issue."



"ben't that what you're do now?"



"only because we're both good-natured man and there willn't be any issue

at all if I don't. I've come home. I'm interested. thing be go to

happen in the house, and I want to be in at the fun. I may be useful."



"what sort of thing?"



"I don't know. who do? what matter be that they should happen.

. . ."



Francis begin to chuckle, and Serge throw back his head and laugh,

though there be nothing particular to laugh at, and yet it be very

strange to he to be sit opposite a man and try to get at he

and salute his soul, and that man his father. their conversation

seem to he like two cogged wheel in a machine miss their clutch

and whiz round separately. they go on talk, but finally

admit the futility of it, exchange tobacco and sit in silence,

enjoy it and each other. Francis find company in his eld son,

and it be very pleasant just to sit and look at he, he be so strong

and clean and healthy.



Frederic come in very late and find they sit there and the room

full of smoke. Serge rise and take his thin nervous hand in his great

paw and say:



"hello! Frederic. I'm serge."



"how be you?" return Frederic. "go to stay long?"



"about two year."



"the devil you be. I've just be talk to some man about you. I

show they your drawing. one man say you're a genius. what do it

feel like?"



"be a genius? I don't know. but I imagine it's like be an

ordinary person--only more so. you look rather wash out."



"oh! I've be work hard. I'm tired."



"you're very late," say Francis.



"yes. I don't think you'd be sit up. all the woman in bed? where

be you to sleep?"



"I don't know."



"where be he to sleep, pa?"



"I don't know. I cann't wake your mother up, and the girl will be

asleep."



Serge laugh.



"I don't see anything to laugh at," mutter Frederic. "I don't want

you in my bed."



"I'll sleep on the sofa," say Serge. "I be laugh because it be

so like the Folyats."



Francis take a book in his hand and roll out of the room. Serge

remove his collar and cover his foot with his coat and lie down on

the sofa. Frederic stand tug at his little golden-red moustache

and look down at he.



"good-night," he mutter, and go away.



"God!" say Serge. "what a weak chin he have."







IX



interior



_polyerge, on the contrary, already illustrate the lowering tendency

of slavery._

     ant, BEES and WASPS.



FREDERIC have omit to make any mention of the fact that he have lose

his brother's drawing, and have brush the thought of they aside. he

have a comfortable memory and a convenient conscience which never

worried about his lapse and misdemeanour until they be know or in

danger of be know to other people. then he live in dread of the

application of official morality and indulge in a perfect orgy of

self-torment, grind himself between the upper and nether millstone

of his own laxity and the rigid code with which his upbringing have

imbue he. he have have a qualm or two about Serge's drawing, but it

be not until his brother appear on the scene that he begin to think

their loss might be serious--that be, fraught with unpleasant

consequence to himself. he be essentially amiable. Disagreement hurt

he, and he would go to any length to avoid an unprofitable quarrel.

on the other hand if a squabble seem to lead to immediate gain he

would rush at it head down.



in the morning he be out and away while Serge be still in the

bathroom splash and roar at the top of his voice. he spend the

morning in his office write letter to Beecroft and Strutt tell

they that his brother have come home with a stock of drawing well

even than those he have show they, and letter from London man about

they. he have no clear purpose in do this, but be fill with a

vague notion that if the first drawing be irreparably lose he be

make some amend.



in the lunch interval he go round to the Arts Club and ask the

grubby boy if the drawing have be find. the grubby boy make an

effort of memory and say that he seem to recollect Mr. Lawrie go

off with something under his arm that night. yes; it be a big, square

thing, because he have put Mr. Lawrie into a cab and it fall on to the

floor, and he pick it up and lay it on Mr. Lawrie's knee.



Frederic give the boy a penny, get Mr. Lawrie's address, and, as soon

as he could get away in the evening go down to his house. it be one

of a terrace of four stucco house with Gothic window. it stand at

the corner, and a little bye-street lead down one side of it to a slum.

it have a little raise lawn, two laurel tree and a privet hedge in

front of it, and a wide asphalt path lead up to the front door, which

lie far back in a huge gloomy porch. the window look out on to

another row of stucco house with a shop at the corner which for the

time be be a laundry. opposite the laundry be a public-house. two

street meet a few yard along the road, and in the cleft of they be a

large red-brick house with its garden gate gleam with brass plate.

here live Dr. Haslam, the father of the spotty-face youth.



Frederic give a long tug at the bell and stand look stupidly at the

door, the low panel of which be scratch and dent with heavy

kick. a large tabby cat come and rub herself against his leg.



presently the latch be draw and the door be open about six

inch, and in the aperture there appear a long bony face,

incredibly line and wrinkle, and in it two burn-sorrowful eye.

the mouth of this face open, and out of it come a toneless mournful

voice say:



"what be it?"



"be Mr. Lawrie in?" ask Frederic.



"he be. but he's busy. be ye from the office? we'll be ready in ten

minute."



"I want to see Mr. Lawrie most particularly on a private matter."



"ye cannot see he."



"I must."



"what name?"



"Folyat. Mr. Frederic Folyat."



"I'll see."



the door be close to and Frederic, leave with the cat, stand try

to quiet the omen at his heart. a very pale young man come through the

gate and walk up the asphalt path and come into the porch. he look

at Frederic shyly and stand as far away from he as possible. there

be an awkward moment until he say:



"have you rung?"



"yes."



"she's a bit slow. she's get rheumatism in her foot. I know you, but

you don't know I. I've see you at your father's church. my name's

Bennett Lawrie. I'm in business. it's beastly."



"do you often go to our church?"



"I go to all the High church, when I can get away. I want to be a

clergyman, but I suppose I never shall be now."



"you'd well come and see we. we have supper on Sundays for anybody

who like to come."



"I'd just love to know your father."



"I want to see _your_ father."



"oh! _my_ father!"



the boy shy away on that, and again the door be open six inch.

Bennett push it open and disappear into the dark house leave

Frederic confront with the gaunt personage who own the haggard

face.



"will ye come with I now?" she say.



Frederic follow she down a long gloomy passage and into a large

dining-room, where at the table, surround with paper, sit James

Lawrie, cursing, smoking, and write full tilt. he have a huge cup of

strong coffee by his side. his brow be draw tight over his eye,

and Frederic be most strike by his huge jutting nose. he seem all

nose--a nose and a fly pen. he take no notice of Frederic, but

growl:



"the figure--give I the figure!"



the old servant take up a newspaper and read out a series of figure

which, as far as Frederic could make out, relate to the price of

cotton. Lawrie take they down as she read, add a few word after

they, gather and fold his sheet, thrust they into a dirty inky

envelope and hold they out to the old woman.



"I'll be late if I don't take a cab," she say.



Lawrie fumble in his waistcoat pocket and produce a florin. she take

it and shuffle away. Lawrie gulp down the remainder of his coffee,

take up a battered green book and say:



"now we'll have some poetry."



and he read half a canto of Spenser's "Faërie Queene" in a big

rumble voice, mouth the archaic word.



Frederic could make little sense of it and sit take in the room, the

heavy mahogany sideboard, the horsehair chair by the fireplace, the

biblical print on the wall, the book on either side of the window,

and through the window the dismal walled garden with its starve

hawthorn tree and the cat play about on the wall. the window

be close and the air in the room be thick and smell of tobacco

and food and clothe. it be a dingy dusty room, make more than ever

forbid by a reproduction of Munkaczy's _Christ before Pilate_,

which hang over the mantelpiece between the _crucifixion_ of Rubens

and a photograph of a little Scotch church and a manse with gloomy

hill in the background.



when the reading be finish Frederic say:



"I'm sorry I interrupt you."



"not at all. I'd finish my work. I'm alone. I'm always alone in this

house. have you ever think how lonely a man can be in his own house?

. . . you've not? you don't think? may be you're wise, though, maybe

again, you're only young. well, I tell you, a man can be very lonely

in his own house, but not many be as lonely as I be. look at it

purely philosophically it's something of an achievement--in a negative

sort of way. I mean, not many man can have all that nature have

provide for a man and get nothing at all out of it. nearly all man

manage to get some picking for their vanity, but I don't even get

that. I get nothing. . . . so do hundred of thousand of people. they

cann't. but the difference between they and I be that they can pretend

and I cann't. nature's very wasteful. she produce far more man and

woman than she want. just a few be sound and really alive. the rest

be shadow. I'm a shadow. I don't know what you be. a sort of

betwixt and between I should say, just look at you. the real man

make loveliness, and the intelligent shadow have a sort of echo of it

and have a sort of reflect life through it. the rest wither away and

be dead year and year before they die. what I cann't stand though be

their damned cruelty. I cann't expect you to make much of that. I talk

like that for hour to old Tibby. she's the most real person in this

house, and the rest of we be stick to she like leech. she's have

no life of her own, haven't Tibby, and sometimes she will stand and

look at I and say, 'you're a wonderful talker, man,' and I'll say,

'I'm nothing else, woman.' queer people, we be. but we're all queer

in this place to go on live in the darkness and mist of it as we do.

I've meet your father. he's a comfortable man. it must be very pleasant

to have a comfortable man in the house."



Frederic do his good to follow he in his harangue, and, though he

could make very little of it all, he be interested and want he to

go on. he have never be in a house like it before. never have he have

such a sensation of empty darkness, and he want very much to know

what be in the rest of the house besides the boy who have speak to

he on the doorstep and Tibby and the cat. and what do they all do

when old Lawrie get drunk?



the boy Bennett come into the room, walk across to the book-shelf

by the window, take down a book and go out again without take the

small notice of his father.



the old man watch he with a sort of hunger, and he take a piece of

paper and tear it up into a thousand piece and let they flutter down

on to the floor at his foot.



Frederic plunge into his own affair and say:



"do you remember some drawing I show you? my brother's come back. I

think he want they. the boy at the club . . ."



"I have they."



"you remember Mr. Beecroft say he be a genius."



"Beecroft's a sot and a fool. but they're good. thing see and feel.

I've give over ask for more than that."



he go to a cupboard and produce the portfolio. Frederic see it with

immense relief, and cease to take any interest in old Lawrie, or

Tibby, or Bennett, or the cat. he be secure against any

unpleasantness, and the old man's talk seem to he now only

maunder folly. before he have be more than half convince that the

world be a miserable place of shadow and sham.



except for awful moment Frederic have always find life very pleasant

and amusing. he have do very much as he please and fancy that he

have be remarkably successful in dodge consequence. he do not

imagine that thing could ever be different, and think about it

always seem to he to be a ridiculous waste of time.



he take the portfolio and begin to tell old Lawrie the little he know

about Serge, and soon work round to Beecroft's declaration that an

exhibition ought to be organise, and the old man, more to humour he

and to get rid of he than for any enthusiasm that he have, ask he

to bring his brother to the club some Sunday evening. Frederic

promise and take his leave.



in the dark passage he meet Bennett wait for he. Bennett be very

nervous and take he into a little dark cell of a room at the foot of

the stair and take he by the arm and whisper:



"do you really mean I to come? of course I cann't ask you to come

here. I cann't, you know. but I would like to come to your house. you

sing, don't you, and act? I can sing and act, and I can draw and write

verse. your brother's a painter, ben't he? I should love to come."



Frederic feel irritated. the boy be so horribly in earnest. there be

nothing particularly delightful in the house in Fern Square, but if

the queer little idiot like to come of course there be no reason why

he shouldn't. he be religious, and therefore, presumably, respectable

enough.



"all right," say Frederic gruffly. "Next Sunday."



"oh! thank. thank."



the boy take his hand and press it violently. he have a cold, hard

bony hand, and Frederic have a feeling of repulsion. it seem

unnatural to he for a boy to be so emotional.



he reach home to find Serge entertain a large party, include

all the family, the Clibran-Bell girl, and his cousin, Streeten

Folyat, who have suddenly appear on his way to Westmoreland, where he

have buy a sheep-farm. Streeten belong to a wealthy branch of the

family and have already try nine different profession. he be a man

of mean, and Mrs. Folyat be make herself very charming to he, and

have he sit between herself and Mary. Serge be at the piano

playing and singe absurd little buffoonish song and tease Jessie

Clibran-Bell, whom for the first time Frederic begin to think rather

pretty. Minna be read, and Gertrude be browse in a corner,

nurse the dog.



Minna put down her book as he enter and say:



"don't Frederic look important to-night? you shall have all the

centre of the room to yourself."



"I get your drawing, Serge," Frederic speak in rather a loud voice.

he want to attract Jessie Clibran-Bell's attention. "I lend they to

old Lawrie, the dramatic critic. he show they to some friend of

his, and they say you must have an exhibition. we'll make your

fortune, yet. they say Africa's very much in the air just now."



"be you a painter, Mr. Folyat?" ask Jessie Clibran-Bell.



"one of Frederic's friend say I'm a genius," reply Serge.



"oh! then you willn't stay here. all the genius go to London. we have a

cousin who write book and she go to America and make a lot of

money."



"I don't say I be a genius. I only say one of Frederic's friend

say I be a genius. it do not follow that it be true."



"you shall judge for yourself, Jessie," say Frederic.



"how can she judge?" ask Serge. "she don't know anything about

it."



Jessie go pink and her neck stiffen, and she turn to Frederic.

he produce the drawing from the portfolio and place they round the

room, and an impromptu exhibition be hold. Serge tell they which they

ought to admire, and they admire they. on the whole they be puzzle

rather than interested. they be soon exhaust as a subject of

discussion, and Frederic, having draw Jessie away from Serge, begin

to tell she of his experience at old Lawrie's house. presently his

voice drown all the rest and all in the room be listen.



"I ask young Bennett Lawrie to supper next Sunday," he say.



"he's very beautiful, ben't he, Gertie?" observe Minna pointedly.



"you know he then?" ask Frederic.



"he's an acolyte at St. Saviour's. we've be to St. Saviour's once or

twice, haven't we gertie?"



"have we?" Gertrude's face be a brilliant Turkey red.



Mrs. Folyat wag her head.



"I don't think your father will like your fill the house with young

man."



"Rubbish, mother," say Serge. "every house ought to be fill with

young man and young woman. house be quite intolerable unless people

be make love in they."



"my dear!"



"they've get to make love somewhere."



Frederic catch Jessie's eye, and with a little swagger he say:



"yes. but we don't talk about it."



"good gracious I," say Serge with a laugh, "man and woman hardly

talk about anything else. if they don't talk they think the more, and

that's bad for they."



"I think you be disgusting," say Gertrude, tartly, and leave the

room.



"be he a nice young man, this Bennett Lawrie?" ask Mrs. Folyat.



"he's the queer fish I ever meet. his father's quite dotty."



"I'd like to know he," interrupt Serge.



"the boy's as nervous as a cat and as soft as a woman. he nearly cry

with gratitude when I ask he to come. they live opposite the

Haslams--Basil Haslam's a painter, or go to be one."



"oh! Minna know he," say Mary with sudden malice.



there be a gap in the conversation. Frederic ask Jessie if she

would accompany he, and so manoeuvre Serge away from the piano. he

sing a very sentimental love-ditty and gaze with soft eye at the

back of Jessie's neck the while.



when she leave he insist on see her home with her sister. it take

he twenty-five minute, and when he return he find Serge

buffooning for his mother and make her laugh till she cry.



"oh! dear. oh! dear," she cry. "I haven't laugh so much for year.

you'd never think Serge be a grown man, would you, Frederic?"



"never," reply Frederic with asperity.



"my good brother," say Serge solemnly, "you give a remarkable

description just now of the house of the Lawries--an unhappy,

middle-class house. you say it feel like a prison with that raw-bone

old Scotswoman for goaler. I've be a free man all my life and I feel

about this house exactly what you feel about that. there's fear in it

and unfriendliness. I don't understand why, but I will understand

before I've do."



the two brother be stand close together, and Serge have

unwittingly raise his voice. Mrs. Folyat come and lay her hand on

his arm and say:



"please, please don't quarrel."



"we're not quarrel, mother," reply Serge, "Frederic be annoy

with I. he don't know why, nor do I. it's those Lawries have upset

he. it's all right, mother. you go to bed. I'm a disturbing influence

at present. you'll get use to I and I shall become a habit like

everything else."



"it ben't fair," say Frederic.



"what ben't fair?"



"it ben't fair to talk to mother like that. she don't understand

you."



"of course she don't. it ben't any good talking. go to bed mother."



Frederic lead his mother to the door and go out with she. Streeten

declare that he must go and Mary see he to the door.



turn, Serge find Minna watch he with a broad grin on her face.

she be as tall as he, big and fine, and he think:



"well, she at least be a handsome woman. pity she don't dress

well."



Minna say:



"I'm glad you make Frederic feel small. he's a beast."



"be he? what kind of a beast?"



"the bad kind. a jealous beast."



"I think I rather like you, Minna."



"thank you. and the rest of we?"



"I'm prepared to like you all."



"you're quite right about this house, Serge. it be a prison. it's be

get bad and bad ever since James die. it be awful, of

course."



"why don't you marry?"



"how can I? I've no money; cann't make any--and I've no intention of

marry a poor man. it ben't so easy to fall in love either--unless

you're like Bub."



"who?"



"Gertrude. she's in love with that young Bennett Lawrie. she go to

his church and look at he as though he be a beautifully-cook

chop. he be rather like that. I shall call he the mutton-chop when he

come."



"don't any of the young woman get marry in these part. what about

the Clibran-Bells?"



"oh! jessie be in love with Frederic, always have be ever since he

turn up."



"how long's that?"



"a good many year. it be awful when we first come. we arrive at

five o'clock in the morning. it be pour with rain, and we drive in

two cab through the horrible dirty street. we be all very tired,

and Gertrude and Mary have be squabble in the train. we don't know

anything about town, and Ma have make we very excited by talk about

the rich people we be go to know--and marry. she always use to

be talk about marriage. she don't do it so much now."



"why on earth do they come? St. Withans be jolly enough."



"I don't know. I think they lose some money, and Ma get sick of the

country and Mother Bub get tired of fall in love with the curate,

and they worry pa until he do it."



"do he always do what mother want he to?"



"oh! yes. she's a nagger."



Serge go up to Minna and put his arm round her waist and kiss she.

she take his face in her hand and kiss his lip. then she sigh:



"what a pity you're my brother."



"I fancy a good many woman say that to their brother--when they don't

know any other man."



"have you know a lot of woman?"



"a good many."



"I think so. we seem to exist for you as individual. to the

Frederic sort of man woman only seem to exist as a surround

presence. . . . if I do something dreadful you'd stand by I,

wouldn't you?"



"I hope so. but don't do anything dreadful just for the fun of it. it

ben't worth it."



Minna give a little purr of contentment and rub her cheek against

his and say:



"you're so warm and friendly. I'm glad you come. but I can understand

people hate you like poison."



"they do, my dear, they do."



he kiss she again and she run happily away and upstairs.







x



SUNDAY supper



_he for God only._--MILTON.



PURITAN hostility to the proceeding in St. Paul's survive the demise

of Flynn and his newspaper and splutter into activity upon occasion,

as when Francis institute the Litany as a separate Sunday afternoon

service or allow his school-room to be use for musical

entertainment organise by the local nigger minstrels--(the annual

visit of Moore and Burgess give birth to numerous amateur troupes)--or

when in the jumble sale which be hold at interval he countenance

and even patronise raffle. one pretext be as good as another, but

the fundamental grievance be his friendship with Father Soledano, a

priest attach to the Roman Catholic Cathedral. the offence be

great in that he have no friend, hardly a kindly acquaintance among

the anglican clergy. they fight shy of he because he have incur

the disapproval of the dean, though their wife occasionally call on

Mrs. Folyat because she be still visit by the bishop's wife.



Father Soledano be an Irishman of spanish extraction, a little ugly

man, with a lame leg, stiff bristling hair recede from a knobby,

wrinkle forehead, little eye glow under bushy brow, a long upper

lip and a sensitive mouth, and a chin that look as though he have to

shave it every half hour.



the Roman Catholic Cathedral be about a mile away from St. Paul's,

and Father Soledano live in the priest's house in an asphalt court

that lie under its shadow. the surround district be inhabit

mostly by poor irish--ignorant, drunken, superstitious, and Jews,

whose morality be a reproach to the rest of the dweller in the

slum; and there be french people, and Bavarians, Lithuanians, not a

few Poles, and refugee from Russia. all these be sweep into the

various trade and manufactory--sweat tailor, sweat

shirt-making, sweat jam-making, sweat engineering. and Father

Soledano find his work of dig for their soul infinitely amusing.

several of his Catholics live over in the parish of St. Paul's, and

he have seek Francis out on hear a tale of his kindness to an old

woman who, by practise midwifery, support her daughter-in-law and

four child. this old woman be a Catholic, and every penny she

could spare be spend in buy image of saint. she have the Virgin,

and St. Peter, and St. Anthony of Padua, and a little Saint Catherine

of Siena. one day two of the man who have assault Frederic and

overturn the gravestone of the boy James, make a round of all the

catholic house they could discover and destroy all the image. when

Francis hear of it he go from house to house and be give a list

of all that have be destroy, and a week later he go round with

his chief sidesman carry a clothe-basket full of saint, and make

good every loss. when the aforesaid old woman find herself with a new

Virgin, a new Saint Peter, and a new Saint Anthony of Padua and a more

beautiful new Saint Catherine of Siena than she have ever think of in

her wild dream, she kneel down and begin to pray for the soul of

the English Father. and Francis kneel down and pray with she, and

all the child gather round and stare at their grandmother and

the portly bearded man kneeling there by the kitchen table, and their

mother begin to cry, and the old woman begin to cry, until Francis

lift she up and kiss she on the cheek. then he send the child

out to buy bread and jam and cake and they have a lovely tea together.



Francis do not tell the tale to anybody, but it be soon out all over

the parish, and there be much indignation. a few of the parishioner

leave the church and Mrs. Folyat be shock and affront. what

offend she most be that Francis have carry the image publicly and

openly through the street. be an inveterate gossip herself, she

could not endure be the subject of it, except it be flattering to

her vanity.



Father Soledano write to Francis and thank he, and Francis invite

he to come and see he. the invitation be accept, and the two man

find that they have many thing in common outside their profession,

and they have many a long talk about old Dublin day. Soledano be

amuse by the Anglican's easy-go optimism, and Francis be shocked,

interested, and stimulate by the priest's almost cynical pessimism.

they never discuss religion. to a certain extent they secretly

ally force in their work of deal with the moral and economic

difficulty of their poor, a certain substratum of whom be

ultimately catholic and anglican accord as they could win the

attention and sympathy of the district visitor or the Little Sisters,

though they hardly ever attend service either in the Cathedral or in

St. Paul's.



every now and then Soledano would come to supper at Fern Square on

Sundays, and it so happen that he be there when Bennett Lawrie

appear for the first time dress sprucely for the occasion with a

new suit and a very high collar and a blue bird-eye tie. the whole

family be present, having be to church in full force--Serge read

the Lessons--and they have sit down to their meal, having forget all

about young Lawrie, when there come a resounding peal at the bell. the

servant be out and Gertrude open the door to he. his face be

utterly tragic, and he could hardly find his voice to ask if Mrs.

Folyat be in. Gertrude admit he, show he into the

dining-room, where several people be talk all at once, and

disappear into the kitchen to fetch he plate, knife, and fork. it

be some moment before Frederic recognise he--two gas-jet in glass

globe do not give very much light--and Bennett suffer agony of

shyness and begin to wish he have never come. he see Francis open his

mouth and insert a large piece of cold beef and his beard wag as he

chew it slowly, and he rather resent it. he have romanticise

Francis, and have always picture he in his vestment very saintly and

impressive. the other man, Soledano, sit between Mrs. Folyat and

Minna, look much more like a saint. . . . Minna gaze at Bennett

with mischievous approval, and he think she very beautiful and cast

down his eye. Frederic say "Hullo" and tell his mother who Bennett

be, and Mrs. Folyat bade Serge and Mary make room for the young man

between they. Gertrude return with plate, knife and fork. Bennett

sit down at the place make for he, and conversation be resume and

flow on over he. it be chiefly concerned with food, and Mrs.

Folyat be very anxious to know what Father Soledano have to eat at the

priest' house. he tell she they eat very little meat and a great deal

of macaroni. Mary try to talk to Bennett but could get nothing out

of he but "yes" and "no." he like music but know nothing about it,

and have never be to a concert.



Serge tackle he. the directness of his question embarrass

Bennett, and the kindliness of his interest move he so that a lump

rise in his throat and he could hardly get out his reply. he have, he

say, be bear in the town and have hardly ever be away from it;

once to Scotland, where his father come from, and once to Westmoreland

and once to derbyshire. his family be so poor, you see, though they

have once be quite rich and live in a big house with a garden. he

could just remember the garden. he be nineteen and have be in

business since he be sixteen, first of all in a little office where

there be only one clerk, and then, by the influence of his uncle, in

a great firm of shipper where, if you do not earn very much, you

be at any rate safe. his mother be Low Church and his father be a

Presbyterian but never go to any place of worship. he have two

brother and two sister, but they be all old than himself and

don't care about the thing he care for, though one of his brother

sing in the choir at the Church of the Ascension, where they only wear

surplice and no cassock. . . . timidly he ask Serge if it be true

that he be an artist, and Serge laugh and say he be a sort of

middle-aged embryo.



"that must be splendid," say Bennett, wistfully. "I draw, but not

real thing, only dream and horrible grotesque. we start a family

paper once but the other wouldn't do anything, and I have to write it

all myself and draw all the picture, and they laugh at everything I

do, and I draw a picture of my mother be carry off by the devil

and they burn it. I write verse about the people in the office, but

they don't like they unless they're--you know--rather nasty. we cann't

smoke in our office and everybody take snuff. I think I'd like to

have be a clergyman."



he suddenly become conscious that Gertrude's eye be upon he and

that she be devour every word he say. he have recognise she as

the young woman who come so often to St. Saviour's, and he have think

about she a great deal. he have torture himself with the notion that

she might have come to see he, have even dream lofty romance in

which she figure as a mysterious lady of high degree who sweep he

off in a great carriage with two tremendous horse, and then have be

ashamed. it comfort he a little to know that she be the daughter

of the Rev. Francis Folyat, and that her attendance at St. Saviour's

could therefore only have be prompt by the high spiritual

motive. . . . all the same she be look at he exactly as she do

when he come down to the step of the nave and stand with the great

brass offertory-plate. he be wretchedly nervous, but he imagine the

Folyats to be a happy united family, and he bask in the warmth which

seem to pervade their house. he listen to their bantering

conversation and be very much afraid of they all except Serge.

Frederic seem to drink a vast quantity of beer, and he remember

story that he have hear of he in the office. like everybody else

who be interested in church matter, he be familiar with the fly

gossip concern the Folyats, and the ill-natured remark that be

current about the unmarried daughter. he think Minna more and more

beautiful, and Mary devote, and Gertrude--he could not disentangle

Gertrude from all the absurd thing he have think of she before he

know who she be.



Mrs. Folyat begin, as she always do in the presence of a newcomer, to

talk of the ancestor on the wall, and to tell the lurid story of

the Red Lady, who have know more than be ever write of the Monmouth

rebellion, and the Grey Lady who have such a violent temper, that,

lose it one day out drive with her husband in a high chariot, she

box his ear so that he lose his balance and fall out and break his

neck. she ramble on by way of Baron Folyat to Willie, now safely

establish as Earl of Leedham, and she declare, be thoroughly

warm to her subject, that fail heir male, and in the event of

the extirpation of two other branch of the family--and less likely

thing have happen--Serge would become heir, or his son, if he ever

have any.



Bennett be much impressed, as it be mean that he should be, and

begin to talk of his own ancestry. there be Lawries in Elgin as far

back as Robert the Bruce, and for hundred of year there have be

lawrie who be laird or in the ministry. Mrs. Folyat ask he who

his mother be, and Bennett reply:



"she be a Miss Smith. she marry my father when she be seventeen.

People don't seem able to marry so young nowadays."



"it be difficult, ben't it, Gertrude?" ask Minna.



the meal come to an end, and Francis ask Frederic to accompany he

to the study to discuss a theatrical entertainment that be in process

of organisation in aid of the restoration of the organ. Mary and Minna

clear away and Gertrude help her mother upstairs, carry she

spectacle, book and knitting-bag. Serge, Bennett, and Father Soledano

be leave in the dining-room. Serge and Bennett smoke and Father

Soledano begin to talk. Bennett be unused to drink beer. Serge have

ply he with it rather too generously in the frequent lapse in

their conversation, and the fume of it have go to his head so that

it feel very hot and large, while inside it his brain work with

unwonted swiftness and a hectic clarity. his cheek be flush and

they burn, but on the whole he find his new sensation very

pleasant, and there be a sort of splendour in be treat by these

grow man, an artist and a priest, as one of themselves. to Bennett

all artist be great artist--he be not his father's son for

nothing--and the priesthood be the noble and most exalt call

possible for man. he live from Sunday to Sunday. on Monday morning he

die and be bury in his office. on Saturday evening come a glorious

resurrection, and he rise to exalt height each Sunday morning when

he take the sacrament. he be an emotional creature and have no other

outlet.



he sit look from Serge to Father Soledano and from Father Soledano

to Serge as they talk, but take little account of what they say.

they be exchange impression of the town and speak of it in a

curious critical way that Bennett find difficulty in follow. he

know nothing of the machinery of the world. he be poor, and he have

accept it as axiomatic that poor people have to do work that be

distasteful to they. he have no notion of what that work result in,

or who profit by it. you go on work until you have enough to

marry, and then you marry and go on work until you die. his

brother be both bank-clerk, and he gather that their work be

even dull than his own, which consist in address envelope and

take message down into the warehouse where there be rough man who

be even poor than himself. they pack and unpacked bale of

cotton-good which be place on lorry and carry off to train,

which take they away to the sea and across the sea to Bombay and

Calcutta and Shanghai and Yokohama. there be many other process

go on in the office and warehouse, but that seem to be the

general principle--cotton come from America, be buy on the

Exchange, spin and weave in the mill near Oldham, bring to the

warehouse and dispatch--fully insure--through the complicated

machinery of the office. there be five partner in the firm and they

be all very rich. one of the employee, the head-clerk, have six

hundred a year, but he himself, Bennett, receive every week only

thirty shilling. many young man of his age be earn only half

that sum, and he be quite ready to admit, without thought or

examination, that he be worth no more to his employer. he do not

understand the machinery in which he play a part, do not want to

understand it, and do not find it sufficiently interesting. be

poor, he have to work, and the nature of the work be not his affair.

it absorb the great part of his life, but it be outside his work

that he be as really alive as he could be.



this visit to Fern Square be perhaps the great adventure of his

life. he have hear Father Soledano's voice drone on for some time,

and now he hear word that interest he.



"the middle class be begin to invest their saving in

industrial security. that be go to make thing bad than ever

for the poor, since it mean organised exploitation, dividend to be

pay as well as the profit of private enterprise. it seem to I that

man be invent machinery for make money and let they get out

of hand. a machine that no man can control or use for the purpose of

good be the most perilous engine of destruction."



"a machine," think Bennett, and at once there come to his mind the

street surround his office where all day long there be the thud

of machinery and thousand of man and woman be swallow up in the

morning by great black ugly building, and spew out again in the

evening, all, he suppose, as weary and listless as he feel himself on

every evening except Saturday.



"ben't that," say Serge, "ben't that what have happen with the

Church? . . . you don't mind my discuss it in that way? . . .

haven't it become a machine which take everything from man and give

they nothing? I fancy my father's Church don't meddle much, or, at

any rate, effectually, with politic, but yours be always struggle

after the temporal power which it have lose."



"that be because we believe that the Church and State should be one."



"I agree. and so they would be if the Church be really a Church, and

the State be really a state. I have never be to your church, but I

know that my father's be only an imitation, a fairly good imitation

and quite attractive, but it have nothing at all to do with religion as

I understand it."



"it depend what you mean by religion."



"I take it to mean the profound instinct in a human being, that

instinct of life which embrace and should direct all the rest."



"I agree, but it be impossible."



"why be it impossible?"



Bennett do not hear Father Soledano's reply. the dialogue have be to

he like the murmuring of mysterious voice in a dream, bear no

relation to his own actual experience. his own religion be so

axiomatic that the possibility of criticism, outside crude

condemnation, to which he be harden and accustom, have never

occur to he, and yet, now that it have happen, it be as

something remote, impious, but menacing and disturbing. that Father

Soledano should lend himself to such talk perturb he not at all,

for he have be bring up to believe that anything be possible for

the roman Catholic priesthood. he be conscious of resentment, and

tell himself that it be because these thing be be say in Mr.

Folyat's house. he be hurt, and childishly he wish to hand on the

pain to some one. he wait until Father Soledano's voice have die

down, and then he say, take no account of his word:



"it ben't for we to inquire into these thing. if we believe at all in

the authority and the divine origin of the Church we be bind by its

tradition and its--its dogma."



"I beg your pardon," reply Serge. "I forget that you be there. I

don't believe in the authority or the divine origin of the Church, and

I refuse to be bind by its tradition, which have always be, to say

the least of it, unhappy in its result, or its dogma, which seem to

I unsound and more or less contradictory of the spirit of the New

Testament."



"but--but . . ." Bennett pounce on Serge with an air of triumph,

brandish his point before prove it. "but what about moral?"



"that," say Serge, "be exactly where you and I part company. you

Christians have only evolve a morality which you apply to the affair

of other and not to your own. you have no standard of goodness--only

the wickedness of other people, a Pharisaic standard which would have

be repulsive to the man whom you choose to regard as your Founder.

my father's sermon, for instance--and they be like every parson's

sermon--begin by draw such a frightful picture of human wickedness

that when it be over his hearer feel that they be angel of goodness

in comparison. it's an old dodge, and I daresay Father Soledano make

use of it too."



"I do," say Father Soledano. "I do."



Bennett gape at he. he feel that he would burst into tear if this

go on any long, and indeed his eye be wet and his throat be so

dry that he could not speak.



"you like your religion?" ask Serge.



"it be my whole life." Bennett be surprise at the ferocity with

which he say this. he be stagger by Serge's answer:



"I be sorry for you. you will be badly hurt when life gobble you up

and give you other engrossing interest, which you will be

ill-equipped to tackle."



"come, come," say Father Soledano. "it be not fair. it be not fair to

come down from the general to the particular like that."



"I protest," answer Serge. "my whole indignation arise from the

unkindness and dishonesty of stuff young people, and ignorant

people, with generalisation."



"what else can you give they? they be not conscious of

individuality."



"I don't believe that, and even if it be so you ought to leave they

free to become conscious--if they can."



"the risk be too great."



"what risk?"



Bennett's mind have be move swiftly and partly by memory, partly by

intuition he come to this:



"People cann't do as they like."



Serge stand up suddenly and pace round the room.



"young idiot!" he say. "they can, and they do. ben't it your

experience, Father, that they do? the trouble be that with all these

foolish generalisation buzz in their head they be always do

the wrong thing, and do they in the wrong way, shuffle, and

sneak so as to hide away from the bogie you give they." he turn

to Bennett and ask: "have what you do and think on Sunday the

slight bearing on what you do and think on week-day?"



"it keep I from temptation," say Bennett so earnestly that there

be not the small hint of priggishness in he.



Serge take he by the arm and lift he clean out of his chair and

set he down with a jolt on to his foot.



"keep you from temptation, do it! How?--By run away from it."



Bennett be very angry. he raise his voice:



"if you have to live in my house you wouldn't talk like that. my

father's a drunken beast and my mother don't even try to understand

we. you'd believe in God if you live in our house. . ." he come to an

end suddenly. Serge pat he kindly on the shoulder.



"that's all right. that's all right. let's go upstairs and see what a

happy home be like, or perhaps you would prefer to go and talk to my

father and Father Soledano in the study."



"I'll go with you," say Bennett.



they go upstairs, and Father Soledano join Francis in the study.

in the drawing-room they find Frederic hold forth about the

performance in the school-room. the piece choose be _the Rose and the

Ring_, in a musical version.



Gertrude ask Bennett if he could sing. he reply that he could, and

Frederic graciously allow he the use of one of his song, "on, on,

my bark, dash through the foam." Bennett have a light baritone voice

with a curious harsh quality in the middle note, but he love singing

and really let himself go. when he have finish Mrs. Folyat look up

from her _Family Herald_ and say:



"very nice, very nice indeed. even Frederic do not sing it so well."



Frederic ask Bennett to take a part in _the Rose and the Ring_, and

he accept. Gertrude take he aside to show he his part, and Mary

produce her violin and play Mendelssohn's Songs without word for

half an hour, after which she produce a table and card and sit

play Bézique with her mother. (Mrs. Folyat declare that she could

not sleep without her game. no one else be allow to play card on

Sunday.)



Serge sit teasing Minna, and time fly.



there come a ring at the bell, and after a little interval a gaunt

figure in black stalk into the room, stand by the door, and say:



"Bennett, your mother say you're to come home."



Bennett rise to his foot at once, mutter good-bye, turn the colour

of a red peony and slunk out after the old Scotch servant.







XI



ART and drama



_each have an upper stream of thought

 that make all seem as it be not._

     PETER BELL the THIRD.



LAWRIE, Beecroft and Co. have not a monopoly in culture. our City

Fathers provide we with an art gallery, to which, with praiseworthy

regularity they add two Academy picture every year; the Town-hall

have be decorate by a Pre-raphaelite, and there be a whole network

of Free Libraries, all equip with thousand of book in a uniform

binding, and with the smell proper to Free Libraries. in the cold

weather they be always very full, in the hot weather they be

always very empty; but in the hot weather the accumulate smell of

the winter be distil and concentrate. for music we have two or

three series of concert during the winter month. they be chiefly

patronise by Germans and Jews, and the English brag about they. we

have a College of Music, and a School of Art in connection with the

municipal technical school. this institution be preside over by a

socialistic disciple of William Morris, who spend a great part of his

free time in design banner for Friendly Societies--Buffaloes, Free

Foresters, Hearts of Oak--and cartoon for Labour journal. it be

situate in a square which be typical of the town. in the centre of

it stand a huge ugly anglican church, and three side of it be

fill with a presbyterian chapel, a Wesleyan chapel, a baptist

chapel, a Secular hall, a Maternity Hospital and a Dental Hospital.

down a by-street be the headquarters of the Salvation Army, and down

another a large roman catholic church. quite near be the office in

which Bennett Lawrie work, and all round be slum, public-house,

brothel, a wedge of infamy between the work centre and the

outskirt. all round the anglican church in the centre of the square

run a wide pavement on which be wooden bench. here at night come

hundred of man, woman and boy who have no resting-place. they spend

half the night there until they be move on by the police, when they

go to a similar pavement with bench outside the Infirmary, meeting

half-way their comrade in misery who have be move on from that

place--a sort of general post. in the day-time the square be always

busy, for two main road meet in it, and tram-line from four

direction converge. near at hand be many cheap shop, and the

wife of the clerk come thither to make their daily purchase.



it be to this School of Art that Serge Folyat come as the result of

his exhibition, which be an almost unredeemed failure. Beecroft

bang the drum and old Lawrie blow the trumpet, but the local school

of artist be contemptuous, and declare that the new genius could

not draw. Serge quite agree. he sell ten of his picture, and go to

see the disciple of William Morris and arrange to attend eight

class a week, four in the afternoon and four in the evening.



he find the school very amusing, though at first his position be a

little difficult, for most of the student be very young and

inclined to look askance at a man with a beard turn grey and his

hair grow thin on the top of his head. the class be very cheap,

and he be able to pay for the first term himself and postpone

discussion as to future way and mean, reckon that in three

month' time his family would have digest and assimilate he, and

add he to the already large number of habit which make their

common existence tolerable. he work very hard both at home and at

the school, wrestle with the horrible difficulty of the human

body. he have an intuitive feeling that he would never be able to draw

hand, and he become very ingenious in conceal they.



the class at the school be mixed. there be a few serious

student of both sex, a great many who attend from the vanity of

talent, and some to whom study art be an occupation. a little

hunchback with a malicious intense face have be there for thirteen

year, and an old spinster of fifty-five have spend fifteen year

without ever pass an examination or take a single certificate.

she be extremely hopeful, and one of the most cheerful person in the

school. on the whole it be not cheerful. it lack spirit and

enthusiasm. many of the young man no doubt have a secret conviction

that they have a great destiny, but they be rather ashamed of it, and

only in rare moment of excitement do they dare to let it appear.

Theodore Benskin, the morrisian principal of the school, have be

enthusiastic at twenty-five, but he have stop there. however, he be

a good teacher of a mechanical sort. his business be to turn out

draughtsman rather than artist, and he succeed. Serge desire to

become a draughtsman, and he follow Benskin's direction, though all

the while he have a feeling of the grotesque in what he be do, and

be incline to think that a bushman's drawing on the wall of a cave

be of more value than all the finished study turn out under

benskinian rule. however, he be nettle by the failure of his

exhibition, and see that it be quite useless to take keen pleasure in

his work unless by the work he could communicate that pleasure to

other. he have no concise theory of art beyond a conviction that

unless it could create pleasure there be no excuse for it. as for

make money by it, there be a thousand easy way of do that,

way that leave more leisure and do not induce such profound

depression. it be all very well, he think, to gird, as do almost

everybody he meet, at the sordidness and grimness of the town in which

they live, but the most miserable of all the people in it be the

suppose artist, the man who frequent the Arts Club. they be all

man of talent, but none of they ever seem to have use their gift

to any purpose. they be perpetually curse the lack of appreciation

of their fellow-citizen, but they have never make any really serious

attempt to win they or to open up any new way for their mind. when it

come to the point their standard be those of the rich man, upon

whose caprice they live. like everybody else in the town they put up

with money as the sole channel of communication between one man and

another. Serge use sometimes to try to talk to the waif and stray

on the bench outside the church in the square, but he find they

nearly all brutalise and fuddle. they seem to have no thought

beyond the next meal, no programme beyond the next drink. they cadge.



among the student at the school be a young man whom Serge have mark

out from the very first moment. he be short, and have a large head,

dark hair, bright eye, and he be always merry. he have a joke for

everyone, and he be always in love with one or other of the

girl-student. Benskin be proud of he, for he win all possible

prize and be always solidly work. his name be Basil Haslam,

brother of that spotty-face youth who be Frederic's boon companion.

they make acquaintance quickly but do not become friend until they

both enter for a competition for a prize, the subject be a

sea-piece. Haslam win it, and protest with Benskin that Folyat's be

the good, because Folyat know about the sea and he don't.



he be delighted when Serge tell he that he have be a sailor.



"ah! that's it," he say. "that's it. I've never be anything. I can

just draw but I don't understand about man and how they live."



"that's not very difficult," reply Serge. "they be much the same

everywhere. they be all bear in the same way, and death have not many

variation. what lie in between be largely a matter of eat,

drinking, and sleep."



"and loving."



"just a few get as far as that. not many."



"but all of they seem to think about getting marry."



"that have surprisingly little to do with love. how much love do you

get in your own house?"



"not much. but then they think I'm queer. my father's a doctor. he

want I to be a doctor, but I've get a hundred-and-fifty of my own,

so I can do what I like. I shall go to London as soon as I'm through

here. it's no good be a painter here. they all think it's a joke, a

sort of excuse for do nothing."



"I know. they think picture be produce automatically--like

everything else."



"Old Benskin's automatic enough."



"exactly. he can work just as he can go to sleep, almost without

know that he's do it. it's a matter of habit. he's almost

forget how he use to despise that sort of thing."



"do you think he ever do?"



"of course, or his work wouldn't be as good as it be."



"I cann't understand people cease to be keen."



"I can. you only need to wobble a very little to come down on the

wrong side. then you're do for--in Hell. and after a bit you find

that you quite like it, except in awful moment when you realise that

after all it be Hell and that you might so easily have be in

Heaven."



"I know what you mean. you mean that the whole thing rest with

yourself. but it's rotten luck when you're weak and cann't help do

the wrong thing though you see the right thing the whole time."



"but we're all like that. we only go to Hell when we do the wrong

thing and pretend that it's the right."



"how do you find that out?"



"by a careful study of Hell and its inhabitant."



"then you don't mean the Hell one's people talk about?"



"no. I mean here and now, the world as it be. I'm not interested in

any other."



"neither be I. Hurray!"



this conversation be the first of many. Haslam use to wait for Serge

and walk with he as far as their road lay together. he be an

ambitious young man with his eye set on the road to London, not so

much because he be eager for fame and material reward as because he

be hotly impatient of art which stop short at Benskin and

Beecroft.



"but," Serge would say, "Benskin and Beecroft will both die."



"I know, but there'll be a new Beecroft and a new Benskin by that

time."



"that's true. we shall never be rid of they."



"I expect London be cram full of Benskins and Beecrofts."



"maybe, but there be more of the other sort there too."



"if I don't reach London by the time I'm twenty-seven I shall throw up

the sponge."



"why twenty-seven?" ask Serge, smile.



"oh! if a man haven't do something by the time he's twenty-seven he

never will."



"I'm a good deal more than that. . ."



"but you've do everything. you've make yourself. you're not really

any old than I be, and everybody here be so horribly old."



"yes, they all come to a bad and perfectly respectable end."



Haslam swing his fist in the air and shout indignantly:



"respectable! respectable! give I a list of any ten man live in

respectable suburban villa and I warrant you there'll be more

dishonesty and cowardly misdo in their life than in ten of the

so-call criminal class. I don't understand it. I do rotten thing

myself--who doesn't?--but I cann't shut my eye to they when they're

do. take my brother. he's a beastly idiot or an idiotic beast,

always get into scrape and shuffle out of they. by the time

he's thirty he'll still be do the same thing, but he'll have

learn how to prevent they come to the surface. he'll marry, settle

down, enjoy a comfortable income, be a pillar of the Church and a

smug, hard Pharisee like all the rest, with all his track carefully

cover up and his conscience have a splendid time go over they."



"I don't think it matter to any man," say Serge, "what his brother

be and be not."



"I know what you mean. it ben't worth while let out at brute like

my brother, but it's a great comfort to be able to do it

occasionally."



"Good Lord! my dear, we cann't do anything. we must all stew in our own

juice. I'd have a lively time of it if I begin to worry about my

brother Frederic's moral. I have quite enough to do to look after my

own."



"that's all very well. I don't mind my brother's moral so much, but

what I cann't swallow be that he will loathe art. . ."



"art will survive that. art be the concern of free man. man who have

make themselves prisoner cannot understand it, and man always hate

what they cannot understand, until they realise that the few great

principle of the world be found without any consideration for

their vanity. then they can laugh. the artist, I imagine, be free

man, and they write, paint, make music, because more direct action be

almost impossible for they in a world make captive by lie, sham, and

hypocrisy. when all man and all woman be free there will be no art,

for there will be no need for it. life itself will be enough. it will

be so splendid."



"I don't believe that." Haslam become suddenly despondent. "if there

ben't to be anything but life, what's the good of anything?"



"the answer to that be--everything. the few man who attain freedom

must tell the joy of it for the rest and for those who come after

they. spiritual evolution be slow, like every other natural process.

every true artist raise the imaginative level of humanity, but

imaginative art be a small thing compare with the imaginative life.

it be easy. some man have to choose between the two. they nearly

always choose wrongly."



there be a long silence, Haslam stride along by Serge's side. at last

he say:



"you be queer. one moment you make I want to shout with joy, and the

next you drag I down to the depth and I want to cry. you seem to

believe in such big thing, but you don't seem to believe in man at

all."



"in most man, not at all."



"and woman?"



"even less in woman. they be always see thing with man's eye,

always appeal to they by their debase instinct. clever woman be

even bad. they try to escape the dilemma by appeal to man's

intellect. I hate intellect. fine woman be always drive fine man

into the arm of fool, or bad. the world be in a mess simply

because ninety-nine people out of a hundred make a mess of their love

affair."



"but if there be such a thing as spiritual evolution it must all come

right in the end."



"that's no comfort to I. I shalln't see it. this world will have be

snuff out million of year before then. it will have serve its

purpose, and most of we will have miss our opportunity."



"I hope I shalln't."



"I hope you willn't."



they part, and Serge make his way to St. Paul's School, where he have

promise to attend the final rehearsal of _the Rose and the Ring_.

there he find his father sit half-way down the room which be light

only with one gas-jet and be empty save for Jessie Clibran-Bell at

the piano under the rudely-construct stage--barrel and plank--and

many row of school desk, which be desk and form combine, with

the desk turn down and the ink-well remove. on the wall be

picture of elephant, tiger and rhinoceros, text, the tonic

sol-fa, and two or three oleograph represent Biblical

scene--Elisha and the Bears, Saul listen to David's Harping, and

the Foolish Virgins. the wall themselves be distemper a bleak

grey, and be rather dirty. a harmonium stand against the wall

opposite the door, and above this be a glass case contain a

stuff squirrel that have lose its fur and one glass eye. Serge ask

his father what it might be do there. Francis disclaim

responsibility for the conduct of the week-day school and surmise

that it be use for an object-lesson in natural history.



"well than nothing," he say, but he do not seem to be at all

interested.



Serge plunge with a question:



"I've be think a good deal since I come here. why don't you send

my mother away for a time?"



"she wouldn't go."



"why not go with she?"



"where to?"



"anywhere. it don't matter."



"be we very stick-in-the-mud?"



"it ben't that. but why not go away--or leave Fern Square? Minna tell

I that neither you nor my mother have be the same since James die.

. . . it must have be a shock to you."



"it be."



"you don't mind my mention it?"



"not at all."



Serge wait and hope for more to come, but nothing do. Francis be

in his most taciturn mood; he keep hum and buzz to himself like

a great bee, and finger the amethyst cross on his waistcoat. Serge

take another plunge.



"how much be this live worth?"



"three hundred."



"how much be St. Withans worth?"



"six-fifty."



Serge make no comment. presently he ask:



"do you know what you be come to?"



"perfectly."



"do my mother?"



"I tell she."



"be you sorry?"



"what's the good?"



Francis drop his amethyst cross and lay his foot on his right knee

and begin thrust his finger inside his elastic-sided boot. it be a

very old boot and much wear at the heel. see that make serge notice

for the first time that his father's clothe be shabby, out of shape

and dusty. he begin to cast back in his memory, and with some

difficulty he be able to picture his father and mother as a young man

and woman--he in knee-breech and silk stocking and silver buckle

to his shoe, and she in a full gown of flower silk cut low on her

pretty shoulder--walk arm in arm in the garden at St. Withans,

and then that be blot out with recollection not so pleasing, his

father silent and his mother talk, talk, talk, then cry,

then talk again; then meal take in a cold atmosphere of

restraint. he could remember jolly walk with his father, and scene

of great tenderness with his mother, and the last day when he sob

his heart out and he be drive with his chest away and away until the

Vicarage and then the church-tower be lose from sight. he could

recognise himself in the small boy in all those memory, but in the

man and woman of those day he could not see the taciturn old man--for

he be old--sit by his side, or the foolish old woman in Fern

Square with her blankly sorrowful face and her pathetic chatter of

"the gentry" and "common people." he find that he have much affection

for both, be rather surprised to find it, and be amuse to discover

himself cast about for some melodramatic event which should account

for their listlessness and indifference to each other, their

daughter, everything and everybody. Francis be a good man; the

ex-convict of that first dismal day have say so. Mrs. Folyat be a

good woman; more than one woman in the parish have bear witness to

that.--Nothing have happen. they have dodge everything, like so many

other. for they (Serge thought) as for so many other, life have

always be round the corner--round the corner. the word lilt in

his mind like a refrain, and he say aloud:



"round the corner."



"Eh?" say Francis, startle out of his reverie.



"I should think it over if I be you," reply Serge, "about go

away, I mean. to be quite frank with you, I find my mother a little

dull."



"Dull? I wouldn't say dull. not dull. no. we're quiet people, that's

all, quiet people. she live in a very quiet place when she be young.

I be curate then. do I ever tell you about the murder that happen

there? I will some day."



a head be thrust through the curtain, hurry whisper be exchange

with Jessie Clibran-Bell and she begin to thump out some very

indifferent music that would have serve admirably for a child's game

of musical-chair.



"be it a good murder?" ask Serge.



"it be a horrible murder."



the curtain be draw. it show some reluctance and have to be

assist by the King. Gertrude be the Fairy Gruffanuff, and Bennett

Lawrie be Prince Bulbo, with a tenor song much too high for his light

baritone voice.



the entertainment be very indifferent in quality, but it seem to

give great pleasure to the performer, especially to Bennett Lawrie,

the Bottom of the company. he act with extraordinary intensity. he

seem to have hypnotise himself into the belief that he be actually

a Prince, so that he be extremely comic and yet very pathetic. his

leg be very thin, large at the knee and more than a little bow,

and in his pink tight they look enormously long--a figure of fun,

and yet he be compelling and quixotically heroic. he be right out of

the picture, and nothing else in it seem to exist for he. when he

be on the stage nothing else exist for his audience of two. he have

naturally the gift of make his personality surge over the footlight

into the auditorium, and he seem to exult in the exercise of his

power without in the least care what he do with it. Serge admire

he, but on the whole dislike his exhibition. he whisper to his

father:



"sheer blatant egoism."



"who?"



"that boy."



"he's very funny. Queer, he never say a word when he come to the

house. he be preternaturally solemn and always look as though he be

on the point of burst into tear."



"I've see many young man like that here. I fancy they don't get

enough to eat."



Bennett appear on the stage again, and Francis begin to shake with

laughter at his antic. a moment later and he be brush a tear-drop

from his nose.



when the rehearsal be over Serge go out and buy a bottle of port

at the public-house next door but one to the church, a cake and some

biscuit, and take they in to the actor assemble in the

green-room--one of the two small class-room of the school. he find

Gertrude in tear and threaten to throw up her part, Frederic

shout at she, Bennett Lawrie support she, and the whole company

look very odd and unreal with the paint thick on their face or

melt down into their collar. Francis be make himself amiable

and tell everybody in turn that he have never enjoy any

performance so well.



Minna, wear an absurd golden wig, say:



"I'm sure Serge don't like it."



"I be interested," he reply.



and indeed he have find it absorbing to see how much these people,

when they be pretend to be some one else, reveal their

character as they rarely do in ordinary life. he be immensely sorry

for they all without exactly know why. without know why, he

except Minna. he have a curious faith in Minna. in Gertrude he

believe not at all. she be in love with Bennett Lawrie. that much

be clear, but she be in love idiotically. in the green-room he hear

she cover Bennett with gross flattery which he gulp down

fatuously.







XII



ANNETTE



_hurry wind o'er the heaven's hollow

 and the heavy rain to follow._

     CHIMES.



ANNETTE in Westmoreland have the small happening in the household in

Fern Square week by week as far as her mother know they. every Friday

evening Mrs. Folyat use to write five letter: a short one to

Annette, a long one to Leedham because he be so far away, one to a

friend in Potsham with whom she have correspond ever since her

marriage, and two to elegant relation. she have no power of

consecutive thought, and her letter ramble and amble, a queer

mixture of narrative and comment, all thing be equal in interest

(or the lack of it)--"Just fancy, the verger's son be marry, and

only eighteen! do I tell you that Betsy, the new cat, have four

kitten in the kitchen drawer? your pa be very well, but the other day

I have to go to the dentist and he make a face over the bill, and I

say 'I be your wife. you have to keep I in repair.' he look so

surprised and I be surprised at myself. be it not a fool thing to

say? Frederic be work very hard, but Serge be make a dreadful

litter in his room with his brush and paint. I do hate _untidiness_

and _shiftlessness_. you will be quite a stranger here when you come.

Mary be get on very well with her music-lesson. she play the

viola now, not the violin. it be easy to get into an orchestra if

you play the viola. I hope you be do your duty, &c., &c. . . ."

the letter always wound up with a common form parental sermon, which

Annette always skip. she do not get many letter, and her mother's

regular epistle be a boon to she. she be dreadfully afraid of the

servant at High Beck, and letter give she a feeling of security

against they, for they witness to the fact that she have tie with

the world outside. occasionally, when Mrs. Folyat mount she

gentility hobby-horse, she would leave her letter lie open in her

room in the certain knowledge that they would be read and discuss

below stair.



she have never see Serge, for she be bear after his departure from

St. Withans, but he have always be far more real to she than she

other brother and sister. he be a romantic figure to she, and when

he crop up again in her mother's letter she imagine he to

herself as a be handsome beyond all other man and brave and strong.

she use to regale her pupil with tale of his adventure, borrow

from Scott or Thackeray when her own invention give out, and she make

he so entrance that her pupil announce her intention of marry

he when she grow up. she have first of all imagine he rich than

anybody have ever be, but after a letter from Minna--a poor

correspondent with excellent descriptive power--tell of Serge's

homecoming she then imagine he poor than anybody have ever be,

and she invent a lady with boundless wealth who should marry he,

restore the family fortune, and take she (Annette) away from

teaching.



on the whole Annette have little cause to complain. her employer be

stupid but not malicious. it never occur to they that she might

need a change from the society of her pupil. Annette be so young in

year--young still in mind--that they regard she rather as a

companion than as an instructress, and lose all idea of authority, so

that Deedy, the child, be always play her parent off against her

governess. Annette use to weep many tear over her ineffectuality,

but then, have a sense of humour, she would laugh at the idea of

herself, who have never successfully learn anything, be pay to

instruct another child in French, English grammar, orthography,

arithmetic and algebra. she grow fond of Deedy, and Deedy's parent

be affectionate with she, as, be kindly people, they would have

be with any strange child stay in their house. they lead a very

quiet life in Westmoreland. young people hardly ever come to stay with

they, and their house be conduct with the regularity of Mr.

Fender's office. prayer be read by Mr. Fender at eight to the four

servant on one side of the room and Annette on the other. breakfast

be at half-past. lesson be from ten till one. Deedy have to be

take for a walk in the afternoon, generally up the beck, for she have

a pool where dwelt a fairy and a hippogriff (invention of Annette's)

and love to send write message to they over the little waterfall.

at six Deedy be take to see her mother in the drawing-room, and

Annette have a free hour. at seven Deedy be put to bed, and the rest

of the day be Annette's unless she be desire to play to Mrs.

Fender in the evening.



it be a dull life, but it leave much time for dream, and sometimes

Deedy be very amusing. she have an eager pry curiosity and be much

interested in God.



"what's an only begotten son?" she ask one day.



"it mean the only one."



"be I only beget?"



"yes."



she think for a very long time. then:



"why don't God get another one?"



"oh, Deedy. hush!"



"why do you always say 'Hush' when I ask question?"



Annette laugh.



"because I don't know the answer."



"do anybody know? do your father know?"



"yes."



"how do he know?"



"because he's a clergyman."



"don't my father know?"



"perhaps he do."



"I wish I ben't only begotten."



"I don't think it make much difference."



"I wish I have a brother like Serge."



"I've never see Serge, so, you see, it don't really make much

difference."



"you've never be only begotten, so you don't know, Miss Folyat."



Annette leave it at that. she never know what Deedy be think. she

hardly know what she think herself, and her notion of other people

be axiomatic, base on uncritical acceptance of her mother's

assumption. she regard herself as a very ordinary person--(at

school she have think herself neither above nor below the general run

of girl, and have do the thing they do, and talk of the thing

they talk of, very largely because they do they and talk of

they). she feel a little resentfully that Deedy be an extraordinary

person, but put it down to her deformity and pity she. be very

active herself she could imagine no great misfortune, except perhaps

be deaf, like Beethoven, than to be unable to run and jump and

swim. she love swimming, and every morning would go up the beck to

Deedy's pool and plunge into the cold water or sit under the little

waterfall. and then she would lie in the soft grass and rub her body

over with crushed flower, and laugh for the joy and freedom of it

all. and she would come back with her hair lank and wet--there be

very little of it, and that thin in texture--and wake Deedy and tell

she how the morning be full of song. . . . often when they sit by the

pool in the evening the child would make her talk about the water and

how it feel when it kiss her body, and one day Deedy say:



"swim now."



it be a very hot August day, and Annette have be narrate an

adventure of Serge, base on the work of Edward S. Ellis, how he have

swum two hundred yard under water in an american river and surprise

and capture an indian spy. the description of under-water have be

singularly vivid, and the beck be in mid-flood and very clamorous.

Annette slip out of her clothe and dive into the pool and lie

there float, her eye close and her hair float out and her

white body shimmer mysteriously through the water. Deedy crawl to

the edge of the pool and look down.



"don't lie still. swim!"



Annette kick up a white spume of water and Deedy clap her hand.



"now work your arm!"



Annette swam swiftly to the waterfall and sit under it and play with

the water with her hand. then she dive again into the pool and

bring up a round pebble which she give to Deedy as a present from

the hippogriff. Deedy fling it back into the water.



"why, Deedy, you're cry!"



"I hate you. you're ugly."



Annette become conscious that the child be stare at her body. she

blush, hastily snatch up her clothe and run away behind an

elder-bush. all her joy have vanish and her thought be fill with

the whispering of the little girl at the school in Edinburgh. it be

part of the delight of her life here in Westmoreland that all such

griminess have be leave behind. she be so hurt in the sudden loss of

her joy that she could not think nor make any effort to understand.

all her thought be to get away as quickly as possible, to get away

from Deedy. she dress rapidly, wound up her hair, wet as it be, and

in absolute silence hurry home with Deedy.



in the house she find two letter wait she, one from her mother,

one from Minna, both announce the same thing, Gertrude's engagement

to Bennett Lawrie. Mrs. Folyat write:



"my dear, he be a very earnest and worthy young man and he simply

adore Gertrude. he be in business in a very large firm. he be a

gentleman. his grandfather be a Scotch minister, and his grandmother

be the daughter of a laird. Gertrude be very happy. they fall in love

over some theatrical they do in the school-room. everybody say he

be much well than any professional. Frederic bring he to the

house. Frederic have such nice friend. your father have build a

greenhouse out in the back garden. the engagement be not to be

announce for a year as it will be some time before they can afford to

marry. I hope you be attend to your duty and give all

satisfaction to dear Mrs. Fender . . .



Minna write:



"Dear Annette. fancy! mother Bub be engage, and Mottle-tooth be green

with envy. he be like a shorn lamb, and Mother Bub will eat he cutlet

by cutlet, with little paper frill round they. he's a clerk in an

office and his father's a drunkard, and when he stay too late an old

Scotch servant come and fetch he away. he's about thirty-nine

year young than Bub, but she couldn't face the thirty--or be it

the forty? Serge be very funny about it. Ma be very excited and

romantical. Pa haven't say a word, and I'm not sure even that he

know. I rather like the Lamb, myself, and he _be_ rather beautiful. I

suppose if Bub go off and mottle-tooth and I, there'll be room for

you at home. someone will have to look after Ma . . ."



Minna's flippancy rather offend Annette. hardly having be at home

for so many year she have many delightful fiction about the house in

Fern Square. she regard its inmate as a united and happy family,

and herself as the only outcast. it be home to she, and she envelop

it with all the unreal emotion rouse in vast audience by Madame

Patti with her rendering of the famous song. she be touch by the

very thought of love and picture Gertrude radiant and all the house

glow with the happiness of this new event. the poverty of the young

man only make it all the more delightful. the first play she have ever

see be _Caste_, and she often cry when she think of it. it

seem enviable to she to have Eccles for a father-in-law.



all this make she forget her unhappiness by the water, and she forget

Deedy's prying stare and live through the next few day in a dream of

young love.



on the third day she have a rude awakening. after dinner in the evening

she sit play to Mrs. Fender. Mr. Fender come in and whisper to

Mrs. Fender for some time, perhaps half an hour. then he go out.

Mrs. Fender sit silent for some moment, then she say.



"Miss Folyat!"



Annette stop play. Mrs. Fender be sit bolt upright in her

chair by the hearth, with a book on her knee. it be a brown

book--"Enquire within upon everything." there be a peculiar asperity

in her voice and her whole manner be big with disapprobation. she

look very like the Red Queen as she open her mouth square and say

again:



"Miss Folyat! come here!"



Annette rise and go to she.



"sit down!"



Annette sit down. Mrs. Fender screw herself up to a cold anger and

go on:



"I be sorry for your father's sake and your mother's."



Annette's heart go down into the pit of her stomach and then up into

her throat.



"I must ask you," say Mrs. Fender, "to pack up your trunk this

evening and to be ready to catch the first train in the morning. I

repeat that I be sorry, but it be necessary."



Annette's brain reel. she blurt out:



"what be it! what have I do!"



"do? what have you do? you can ask that? Miss Folyat!"



"I'll go, of course. but tell I what it be that I've do. I haven't

steal anything or--or . . ."



"I cannot tell you what it be. it pain I too deeply to think of it.

you--you have pollute the mind of my child who be entrust to your

care."



Annette understand. Deedy have be ask question. she have be

cross-examined, and the gentle art of make mountain out of

molehill have be call into play. this sudden presentation of a new

aspect of her escapade in swim in the pool bewilder and crush

she. she could make nothing of it, could hardly grasp what be in the

red queenish mind, and feel only the futility of say anything.



"you will pack up your thing to-night and be ready to catch the first

train in the morning."



"certainly."



"have you no word of regret?"



"no."



Annette have no word of any sort. she only want to get away, only to

get away and cry.



"I have write to your mother," say Mrs. Fender.



"oh!" Annette gasp and she think: "how mean! how mean! she will

make mother think just the same as she do."



she rush out of the room, upstairs, and fling herself on her bed and

cry. she go on cry until she fall asleep and do not wake again

until the early morning. it be rain, and she feel very miserable

and begin to cry again. she weep all through breakfast, weep as Mrs.

Fender put money into her hand and give she a frigid farewell. she

weep because she do not see Deedy, and she weep because she do not

want to see Deedy. she weep because she be leave the beautiful hill

and the beloved beck. she weep in the carriage all along the five

mile to the station, and the rain come pour down. the cloud be

low on the fell. they almost seem to reach the water of the lake.

all down the fell be little silver stream, and the water run and

trickle all over the road. the light be dull and grey. the colour

seem to be wash out of everything. the lake be black, and dour

figure walk the road.



in the train she have a compartment to herself and she weep until she

could weep no more, and then miserably she look out of the window at

the miserable country, drench and drown. soon she come to the sea,

and that be so dismal that her sorrow overflow and nothing but

absurd laughter be leave, and she laugh, and suddenly her thought

wake again, and she say to herself that she be go home. Serge be

at home, and a lot of people, and they have jolly fun together, and

they be all happy because Gertrude be engage, and because they

be all happy no one would be unkind to she.



Blacker and blacker grow the sky as the train roll southward, and

the ascend smoke of thousand of chimney meet the downpouring rain.

the smoke mean home to Annette, and she be glad of it. it be rather

fun to be send home suddenly like this. it be like the time when

there have be measle at school and she have be send home in the

middle of term.



soon between one town and another there be no country, no green save

that of a football field here and there. everywhere chimney stack and

the derrick of colliery, and great siding full of truck, and

mile and mile of wet slate roof, with here and there a dark church

steeple or tower. at last she see the tower of the Collegiate Church.

the rain have cease. a watery smoky sunbeam steal through the cloud

to welcome she.



her father be at the station to meet she. she throw her arm round

his neck and hug he. he kiss she warmly and say:



"dear, dear. what a young woman you have grow!"



it come on to rain again, and in the four-wheel cab Francis peer

out of the window and say:



"it be like this when we come here from St. Withans."



"how be Ma?" ask Annette with sudden trepidation.



"it have be a great shock to she," say Francis, "and she have be

very unhappy about it. we have agree to say nothing to the other and

to pretend that the little Fender girl be ill."



Annette be immensely relieve. she have be most alarmed at the

thought of what Minna would say. she want reassure, and she ask

her father again:



"be you angry with I?"



"I? no, no, my dear. angry! what's the use? perhaps you'll be happy

at home."



"I think I will. I don't do anything really. I only bathe without

any clothe on."



"it be not a usual practice with governess."



"I expect I ought never to have be a governess. I often use to feel

much young than Deedy."



"there's something in that, something in that. none of you seem to be

properly grow up. I don't know what will happen to you all. . . . I

expect your mother will talk to you about your ingratitude and

wickedness. she and I don't agree about it."



they reach Fern Square. Mrs. Folyat have take to her bed to nurse

her grief, and also by way of impress Annette with the awfulness of

the thing she have do. Annette go up to she and endure an hour's

tearful homily on the sinfulness of the flesh. she sit by her mother's

bedside with her hand in her lap and her head bow, and think

comically of Mrs. Fender read "Enquire Within" and discover from

its page how to treat wicked governess.



on the way down the dark stair she meet a man with a beard whom she

do not know.



"Hullo!" he say. "who be you?"



"Annette."



he kiss she.



"I'm serge. they don't tell I you be come home. anything wrong?"



"I've lose my place."



"do you like it?"



"not much."



"then it don't matter."



"Mother's terribly upset about it."



"that don't matter. she's always upset. we be a queer lot, and she

haven't the ghost of a notion how to handle we. she's baffle because

we're not like people out of a novelette, angel engage in dodge

the wickedness of a horrid world."



Annette's own view of thing be rather like that. she have always

believe it to be her duty to keep herself unspotted by thing

temporal, though she have no idea how to set about it. her mother have

say many unjust and unfair thing to she. she be feel rather

resentful and be pleased with the audacity of Serge's criticism. all

her upbringing have be base on the sanctity of parental authority

and the parental person, and she be fearful and fascinate by such

defiance of it.



"come up to my room," say Serge, "and let's have a look at you, and

you can tell I about yourself--if you want to."



he take her arm and lead she upstairs to the top of the house, where he

have a room under a north skylight which serve he as bed-room,

sanctum, and studio. it be a litter of paper, boot, drawing-board,

drawing, pipe, and cigar-box. he put on an old dressing-gown, light

a pipe, and make Annette sit on the bed, and stand and look at she.

she feel very happy and smile at he.



"you've get the most interesting face of the lot," he say presently,

"though that ben't say much. what's bring you home?"



she tell he the whole story.



"I see. poison the little beast's mind with the sight of your body.

I see. it's part of the game to pretend that you haven't get such a

thing. sorry, but I find it quite impossible."



Annette's traditional modesty twinge, and she shift a little

uneasily on the bed. Serge mark that and go on:



"sorry. I willn't talk about it if it make you uneasy. you believe in

soul and body separate, the soul prisone in the vile clay, and all

that. I don't. I believe that the two thing be one and indivisible.

if you don't believe that, you be apt to take all the surface

happening of life much too seriously, and you lose all sense of

proportion and humour and make the most ridiculous mess for yourself

and everybody connect with you. superficially consider, I be a bad

egg, so be you. I'm get on towards middle-age and cann't make my

own living, much less prevent other people make theirs, which be

what success seem to mean in commercial life. as for you, you've be

throw out of your situation without a character, and it will be

extremely difficult for you to find another. look at a little more

closely and searchingly we be see to be two wonderful people--all

people be wonderful--with immense potentiality for happiness or

unhappiness. do all this bore you?"



"no. please."



"what I'm really try to get at be that there be only two kind of

people--the people to whom everything that happen be experience, and

the people who turn everything that happen to they into a form of

self-indulgence, even the most horrible, even the most painful thing.

our father be the first kind of person, our mother be the second. our

father be really shatter by the death of our brother James. our

mother have be feed herself fat on it ever since. any love that

they may have share be bury in the grave with James. more briefly,

the two kind of people be those who can love and those who cannot.

Gertrude be besotte about young Lawrie, but she be quite incapable of

love he. Minna could love a certain kind of man, one who could

swamp her mockery with love. there ben't many of they."



Annette sit listen to he open-mouthed. he take paper and charcoal

and do a rough sketch of she, but do not show it she.



"I like that story," he say. "it's the most satisfactory reason I

ever hear for getting throw out of a governess' job. you cann't live

in a house like this, or a place like this, and live without trouble.

you have to fight for your life, or lose it. I'm go to work now.

get out. go and make Minna talk about Bennett Lawrie. she's amusing."



"thank you," say Annette.







imbroglio



_Quisque suos patimer mane._

     AENEID, vi.



ANNETTE be soon absorb into the household. Mrs. Folyat never could

keep any information to herself, and Gertrude and Mary quickly make

Annette feel that she be in disgrace and saddle she with their

domestic duty. Mary devote herself entirely to music, rehearse

for concert, and practise with amateur quartette, and Gertrude

give all her time to she betrothed. she meet he every day at his

office and walk home with he, unless they be go to the

theatre. then they would dine out, Bennett having go without his

mid-day meal in order to have money enough. they have the whole of

Sunday together always. he would accompany she to early celebration at

St. Paul's, breakfast at Fern Square, go to St. Saviour's morning and

evening, and spend the afternoon in the Park, for she have give up she

Sunday-school class.



their engagement be not yet announce, and he have not tell his

family, nor have Gertrude meet any of his relation. Bennett's face have

grow more and more melancholy, and Gertrude have not speak to Minna

for week because, whenever she bring her lover to the house, Minna

persist in singing:



     the pain that be all but a pleasure we'll change

       for the pleasure that's all but pain,

     and never, oh, never this heart will range

       from that old, old love again.



Annette think Bennett very handsome, and she be greatly impress

by his silence and tragic mien. she tell herself that he must be

enormously in love with Gertrude since his emotion weigh upon he

so heavily, and she think Minna odious for make fun of he. she

be very happy herself. she like do the housework and be useful

to the other, and though her mother and sister be rather tyrannical

with she, she have discover a warm corner in her father's heart in

which to take refuge. indeed her return have make a great difference to

Francis. he seek her company and talk intimately with she and

tease she, and show she a side of himself that be hide from the

other. he would take she for long walk, and to see the queer

character among his poor, and often he would ask she to sit with he

in his study while he be work. sometimes, instead of work he

would read aloud to she--fielding, or Sterne, or the poet, and he

would make translation of italian or french poem, or the ode of

Horace for she, and he would tell she that she be be much more use

to the world teach he, who be old enough to learn, than waste

time and her employer's money in pretend to instruct little girl.



except with her father and occasionally with Serge Annette never go

out and know nothing of what be happen in the town, and have even

no clear idea of its geography. she give no thought to past or future,

and be quite content to go on live in the tranquil present. she

revert to her childish belief that her father be the most wonderful

man in the world, with Serge a good second, and if she could have

spend her life in minister to they both she would have be more

than satisfied. she be rather afraid and shy of other woman, but the

helplessness of man appeal to she, and she love repair their

garment, always so sadly in need of it, and she would darn sock that

any other woman would have throw away. nobody praise she, and nobody

take much account of what she do save only the one little servant,

Ada, who adore she.



to Annette the most mysterious and awful person in the house be her

brother Frederic. she could make nothing of he. he look very pale

and unwell, but become peevish under any comment on his appearance,

however sympathetic. he be for the most part very silent when he be

at home, though that be not often, but suddenly he would break into

the wild spirit and chatter and talk nonsense and laugh a great

deal, and make fun of his mother and then be very affectionate with

she, and it would seem that of all her child Frederic have the most

affection from his mother. he would flatter she and talk about the

great rich he be go to make and the wonderful lady he be go

to marry, the daughter of a rich client, of whose estate he would be

appoint trustee--when he have his own office. that be always the

proviso--when he have his own office, and Annette be give to

understand that it would be very soon, and then if there be one man

more important than any other in the town, that man would be Frederic.

Mrs. Folyat would listen excitedly to all this and shake her ringlet,

and say to he:



"my dear, my dear, you must look after the girl."



"of course," Frederic would respond, "rich husband all round."



"but they must be gentleman."



"gentleman! of course."



and if Minna be there, she would say with honey and gall in her

voice:



"be Bennett Lawrie a gentleman?"



Mrs. Folyat would say, frigidly:



"he be very poor, but he be extremely well connected."



Frederic would swagger a little, and say:



"after all, you know, it be I who bring he to the house."



then Minna:



"we all know that all Frederic's friend be gentleman--and lady."



it take Annette a little time to pick up the thread of all the family

joke and allusion, and to disentangle the personality of the

various outlying character who be use for purpose of fun or

bickering, or, occasionally, as a weapon to enforce silence. not all

of these personage come to the house, and some of they seem only to

have a shadowy existence in the family consciousness. there be two

or three mysterious and almost mythical young man associate with

Minna. Mary's personality seem to be fill out with a vague widower

of mature year, who make mince machine and be say to propose to

she once a fortnight, Gertrude be altogether submerge in Bennett

Lawrie, while, whenever Frederic become too obstreperous or offensive

it be enough to breathe the name "Annie" to reduce he to a laconic

moroseness. this Annie be the more real of all these extra-familiar

character, and Annette be very curious about she. she keep crop

up at the most out of the way moment, as every member of the family

find it necessary at one time or another to remind Frederic of her

existence. she be never give any surname, nor, apparently, be it

know where she live or how, or what she be to Frederic, or Frederic

to she. Annette associate she absurdly with Sister Anne in

_Bluebeard_, and from that again jump to the cloud which be no

big than a man's hand. for no reason at all she regard Annie as a

figure of disaster and be vaguely sorry for she and pity she. she

pity become concrete one day when an accident bring she nearer to

Annie and give she the whole story.



the lining of Frederic's office coat have wear to tatter. go over

his wardrobe Annette discover this and take the coat into Serge's

room, which she use when Serge be away at the Art School, and begin

to mend it. when she have repair the lining she turn out the

pocket, and among other paper--a theatre programme, two

pawn-ticket, and a race-card--come on a grubby blot letter write

on cheap notepaper in a large waver scrawl. rather idly at first,

and with no qualm or scruples--(all family read all letter that

come into their hands)--she read it. there be neither address nor

date. it be very short.





"dear FRED.--You must answer my letter, you must, you must. what be I

to do? I cann't prevent mother find out soon, and she cann't bear any

more, she have have so much to bear. I cann't tell she it's you, but it's

the thinking I cann't stand when you don't write to I. if you could

only get I away somewhere, like you say you would. I'm just the

same, but I cann't write like I use to. it's the work in the house

that's so awful, with the lodger be beastly. dear Fred, do please

write to your

                ANNIE."





at first it convey nothing to Annette. she be conscious of

suffer behind the word and rather stupidly fumble about in her

mind for what it be that Annie's mother must find out soon. abruptly

she come to it and drop the letter, and hot tear come to her eye,

tear of shame. she have never come face to face with this thing

before, and it horrify she, but through the horror of it be the

knowledge that Annie be want Frederic to write to she, and she

think that she must find Frederic at once and tell he. then she

remember that she ought not to have read the letter, and she thrust

it back into the pocket of the coat and hurry back with it into

Frederic's room. that do, she go downstairs, say to herself:



"I wish I don't know. I wish I don't know."



with sudden self-criticism, half humorously, she add:



"but I do know, so it ben't any good wishing. I mustn't tell. I

mustn't tell."



her heart be flutter as she enter the drawing-room, feel that

everybody must know the secret she have discover. she be surprised

to find her mother in her usual chair nod over her book and Minna

talk in the window-seat with a young gentleman, whom she introduce

as Mr. Basil Haslam.



"Mr. Haslam be a friend of Serge's," say Minna, "and Mr. Haslam's

brother be a great friend of Frederic's."



"perhaps he know," think Annette.



but no. Basil Haslam bow politely to Annette and take no far

notice of she, and go on with his conversation with Minna. Annette

go away and down to her father's study, and there she find Francis

and Bennett Lawrie in earnest conclave. do they know? they give no

sign. Francis be smoke, and tap on the ground with his foot.

Bennett be lean forward and talk emphatically and wave his

long hand rather wildly in the air.



"I can do it," he say. "I know I can. I shall never do any good in

business. I must lead man. I must move they, lift they up, show they

the way to high thing."



Annette stop in the doorway, and say:



"be I in the way?"



"not at all," return Francis. "come in. Mr. Lawrie be be very

entertaining. we be discuss the possibility of his taking

Orders."



"that would be lovely," say Annette.



Bennett turn to she.



"you think I could do it, don't you?"



it be the first time he or any of the young man who come to the house

have speak to she directly, and Annette feel curiously grateful to

he. she stammer:



"I . . . I'm sure you . . . you could."



"it's what I've want to do all my life, only I've always think it

impossible. you'll laugh, I know, sir, but I use to preach sermon

when I be a boy, just to myself in my bed-room, and I make a little

altar when I be sixteen. I never dare talk about it at home. they

always laugh at I. I never dare tell they what I want to do.

they say I must go into an office when I be sixteen, and I go

there. . . . you know we, Gertrude and I, think you would take I as

curate as soon as I be ordain, and then when I get a living we

could be marry."



"I'm much oblige to you for let I know your plan, but it mean

time and money. we could send you to a theological college, when

you're . . . how old be you?"



"Nineteen," say Bennett, with a hot blush.



"Nineteen. when you're twenty-one. the money be the difficulty. I have

very little."



"my uncle be both rich man. I'm sure they would help if you would

speak for I, and tell they what you think."



"oh! do!" say Annette.



Bennett dart a look of gratitude at she.



"what I think!" Francis smile. "you haven't give I much time yet. I

like you. I like your enthusiasm. I've no doubt you would make a good

clergyman, but it be a very poorly pay profession . . ."



"that don't matter at all," cry Bennett. "it's the work that

matter." and he rush off into a long tirade which Annette think

very splendid, and Francis punctuate with thin blue puff of smoke

from his pipe.



"on the whole," say Francis, reflectively. "on the whole I think it

would be well when I meet your father to say nothing about your

relationship with my daughter."



Bennett seem to be on the point of protest. Francis hurry on:



"I take it seriously, I assure you. my daughter consider herself

engage to you. she be old enough to know her own mind. on the other

hand, I don't think I can give you any official recognition until

there be some more immediate prospect of your be able to provide a

livelihood for the two of you."



Bennett be embarrass by all this, and his enthusiasm ooze away and

leave he blank and expressionless. fortunately--perhaps

deliberately--he have his profile towards Annette, and she find it

very beautiful. she have a queer feeling that her father be tease

the young man, and she want to defend and help he. his ambition be

altogether laudable, and he be in love (so she believe); the two

thing be interdependent and both must be promote. have it be in

her power she would have turn Bennett into a clergyman there and

then, and hand he over to Gertrude with her blessing.



Gertrude come in just then and shatter Annette's bountiful altruism

of desire by say:



"you here!"



and Annette, who have be inflate by her dream for Bennett and his

fervency, feel at once like Cinderella, and she creep away to the

kitchen, take in her mind the picture of Gertrude embrace her

father and Bennett shake her father's hand.



at once the whole scene become curiously remote, as remote as Minna

and Basil Haslam in the drawing-room, as remote as her mother nod

foolishly to the buzz of their whisper conversation, as remote as

Deedy Fender and all her old life in Edinburgh and Westmoreland. real

only to she then be the happy day of her childhood in Cornwall, and

joyous moment here and there--a wild scamper on Arthur's Seat; a long

swim in the Firth of Forth, an affectionate talk with a girl at

school, a word of praise from a mistress whom she have adore. then,

like trip over a stone, she come back to Annie. Annie who be in

sore trouble. Annie who want only a word from Frederic. . . . she

hear Serge's step in the hall, on the stair, then his big voice

salute Basil Haslam, and then the two of they go upstairs to the

studio-bedroom at the top of the house. she hear Gertrude and Bennett

come out of the study and go upstairs. they stop on the landing,

and she hear they kiss.



Ada, the servant, be out, and she look round the kitchen and

think how cosy it be, how much nice, really, than any other room

in the house, except, perhaps, the study. Upstairs Serge laugh. no

one else in the house laugh--not like Serge. he be always so happy.

no one else be happy like that. not her father, nor her mother, nor

Gertrude, even though Bennett Lawrie love she so. . . . Bennett

Lawrie be a vivid figure to Annette. he be so intense, but he never

laugh. she feel that she would like to make he laugh. she begin to

invent foolish joke and antic that perhaps might make he laugh, and

be so busied with they that without her hear he Frederic come

into the kitchen and stand above she.



"get I some supper," he say, "I'm devilish hungry."



"oh! you!"



Annette light the gas and stand stare at he with her hand above her

head, lean on the gas-bracket. he look very white and mean and

shrivel, and the skin under his eye be puffy.



"what be you stare at?" he say. "I'm hungry."



Annette put food in front of he, and he eat wolfishly.



"I'm devilish hungry," he say. "I've be walk mile. I'm tired

and hungry. I've walk mile."



"do you go to see she?" it be out before she be aware.



Frederic drop his knife into his plate with a clatter.



"what the devil do you mean? who?"



"Annie."



Frederic grip her wrist and jump to his foot and thrust his face

close to her.



"for God's sake!" he say under his breath. "for God's sake! what do

you mean? don't you blab. don't you blab!"



"you're hurt I."



"what do you mean?"



"I read her letter. it be in your coat. I be mend it. I don't

mean to. why don't you write to she."



"what letter? I don't know any letter."



"you do. she want you to write to she."



"I have write."



"go on with your supper, then."



"you willn't tell any one. promise you willn't tell any one."



"no. all right. I willn't tell any one."



"you're a queer one, Annette. you don't seem to mind."



"mind!"



Annette be astonish to find that she have get beyond be

distressed or shocked. she be hardly at all interested in Frederic's

state of mind or condition. she feel that something must be do, and

she want to know exactly what. Annie, whoever or whatever she might

be, be unhappy and something must be do to help she. Annette turn

to Frederic and say:



"what be you go to do?"



he reply:



"what can I do? don't look at I like that. I'm not so bad as all

that, I'm not."



"but it be wicked."



"I know it be, but you cann't help it. I don't know. everything seem

all wrong. you go along quite quietly for month and month, and then

suddenly everything's all wrong. it's queer to be talk to you like

this. you don't understand the least little bit, though you be such a

queer one. but I can talk to you just because you don't understand."



"I do understand," say Annette.



"how could you? you're only a little girl. Annie Lipsett--that's her

name. she's go to have a baby. I suppose I ought to marry she. lot

of fellow do get marry like that. I cann't afford it. I don't love

she. that's what's so horrible. I don't love she, and I cann't pretend

that I do, I cann't make myself believe that I do. I be so beastly

miserable, that's what it be. thing go wrong, and they stay wrong,

and then you want something and clutch at it and miss it. miss it all

the time. it ben't just a beastly thing, I swear it ben't. I be so

miserable, that's what it be. I'm miserable now, and the bad of it

all be that I'm enjoy it. that's the sort of brute I be."



Annette find that she be cry. large tear well out of her eye

and trickle down her cheek into her mouth. the thing be close in

on she from all side and suffocate she. her imagination be

baffle. she have think herself bold, and suddenly she be out of her

depth. she strike out blindly, and presently find a footing on the

hard rock of conventional morality. from a suffering human being,

craving sympathy, Annie Lipsett become a wicked woman to be condemn

and shun, a base creature who have entice and enchained Frederic.

her footing on this rock be very insecure. soon she be sweep off it

and fling hurtle down an empty sense of the treachery of her own

emotion.



she hear Frederic say again:



"don't you tell any one!"



she mutter a reply. Frederic finish his supper and she remove his

plate and the empty dish into the scullery. Frederic follow she, she

tremble from head to foot, and long only for he to leave she. he

stand pluck at the roller-towel on the door, and he say:



"if any one do to you what I've do to she I should have to

horsewhip he. ben't it odd? I should think it simply absurd if

anybody want to horsewhip I."



Annette have a sudden gust of rage and through her clench tooth she

throw at he:



"if you don't go away I'll smash a plate in your face."



Frederic laugh nervously.



"you be a queer one," he say. "but we're a queer family, and this be

a queer house, ben't it?"



Annette rush by he, all her nerve tingle and throbbing, and fly

upstairs until she come to Serge's room. there she stand gasp, and

presently break out laugh and cry together. Serge give her water

and slap her hand, and motion to Basil Haslam to leave the room.

Basil go and Annette clung to Serge and begin to sob. her laughter

cease, and when she have do cry Serge lay she on the bed and sit

hold her hand for a long time, during which he forbid she to

speak. her head begin to ache furiously, and every little sound in the

house become explosive and a torment to she. Serge seem to realise

that too, and begin to talk to she in a low, soothe voice. he

describe the bay at Cape Town as the ship heave and throb her way

out of it with the little fringe of light on the water's-edge under

the mountain, and he tell of long day at sea, the whole voyage home

to England, the most beautiful country in the world. something he give

she of what it have be to he to see green field again and English

sky and orchard and red poppy in the corn, and little,

comfortable, cool english river.



she hardly hear what he say. his voice lull she, and his presence,

the pressure of his hand be infinitely soothing. soon she fall

asleep, and while she sleep he do not stir.



she wake happy and smile at he, peer through the darkness for his

kind eye. she tell he then, and because he say nothing she ask

he if he do not think it wicke.



"wicked!" he say. "there's good in it and bad too, just the same as

there be in everything and everybody. their happiness have be theirs,

their folly have be theirs. their unhappiness must be theirs too. you

and I can do nothing to alter it. we can only help Frederic if he

want help. we cann't help he if we make the blunder of apply an

abstract moral formula to what be to he a very concrete, actual,

human mess. keep it to yourself, my dear. you will understand one

day."







XIV



WHITE BEARD and GREY



_Maggior dolore e ben la Ricordanza

 O nell' amaro inferno amena stanza?_

     D. G. ROSSETTI



FRANCIS have many moment of doubt as to the wisdom of encourage and

abet Bennett Lawrie in his desire to enter the Church. to begin

with he have no money; he be engage--Francis suppose it must be

call an engagement--to Gertrude, and even suppose it be possible

to take the young man as curate as soon as he be ordain, that mean

at most eighty pound a year, and he be already earn more than

that. without influence the prospect of his be grant a living

be, to say the least of it, remote. to be sure the rector of St.

James, Irlam, have begin life as an itinerant violinist, but then he

have a fruity tenor voice which make he very popular with woman; also

he have marry a lady with a snug fortune.



"one must," think Francis, half apologise to himself. "one must

think of these thing materially. if I have think of it materially I

should never have. . ."



he break off the thought and begin to tell himself that he ought to

encourage the young in high-souled endeavour. Young Lawrie be

certainly remarkable, talented, very much in earnest, and, as far as

one could see, very much in love. to be sure Gertrude be a good ten

year old than he, but that be no bad thing for a young man of an

ardent temperament. certainly from Gertrude's point of view it be

well for she to be the wife of a clergyman than the wife of a clerk.

but ought one to let these social consideration weigh in the matter?

it be very difficult (think Francis), very difficult. she would be

poor in any case. she might have a large family. she be a little

woman, rather plain, just the type that produce enormous family.

and family--could there be anything more harassing than to have a

large family and to have no mean of make provision for they?



on that Francis's reflection stop. they go round and round. it

be his business to encourage the production of child (in wedlock),

and year in and year out he have faithfully fulfil his duty, without

ever pause to consider whether he have practise what he preach.

now he see that he have do so, and be shocked to find himself rather

dismay at the result, and reluctant to face the possibility of his

daughter do the same. for year he have hardly think about his

work. since the death of his son and the brutal outbreak that follow

it, hostility have cease (with the exception of an occasional

splutter at an Easter vestry meeting) and the work of his church, like

his domestic life, have run on automatically. Time have hardly exist

for he. his thought from disuse have grow sluggish, and it be very

very slowly bear in upon he that his child be begin to

claim a separate existence, and that they have every right to do so.

when he realise it he be force painfully to face the fact that he

be impotent to help they either with money, or, what be more

precious, real sympathy. it be only with an effort that he be able

to set aside the grotesqueness of Gertrude's fancy and to force

himself to see it with her eye and to take it seriously. he look

back over the year and catch a glimpse of the waste opportunity,

and though he never indulge in the luxury of self-torment he cry in

his heart:



"God forbid that when they be as old as I they should be even as I

be."



he be not sufficiently skilled in self-analysis to lay his finger on

the weakness that have bring he to such a pass. he think no ill of

his wife. he know enough of human nature to admit that nothing outside

a man's own soul could dishonour he or bring he to harm.

unconsciously he be disloyal to the tenet of his calling in

consider his own case. with all other he profess that God move

in a mysterious way and that everything happen for the good

accord to God's providence. he have long since abandon all belief

in the possibility of a noble collective life here on earth, for he

have see too much not to know that when two or three be gather

together it be not to seek God, but to promote knavery and jealousy.

moment of agony he have have when he have half see his own scepticism,

but the simple devotion of some of his parishioner, craftsman, and

factory hand, and his own great liking for many of his poor have keep

he from throw up his work, and he would say:



"though I do it ill, yet it might be do bad."



besides, he could not afford to renounce the stipend. every year he

have make small inroad upon his capital, fifty pound here and a

hundred there to satisfy creditor or sudden demand of charity for

large sum than he could afford to pay out of income.



well, well--no doubt he be make a mountain out of a molehill, and

thing be not nearly so bad as they seem. the house have be much

jolly since Serge come back and Annette bring youth and joy into

it, and if none of the family seem to be on the way to brilliant

life, after all there be well thing in the world than success,

and nothing matter so much as affection and love. and yet, how small

a part love play in human life! how soon it die!



in the end Francis laugh at himself, and tell himself that thinking

be no use. it neither make good well nor bad bad. thing be

what they be and nothing would alter they. Young Lawrie, with his

brain stuff full of illusion, wish to enter into Holy Orders. so

be it. he have promise to do all he could to help he: after all it

be something to find a young man with thought high than the

pleasure next to hand, and the first step seem to be to see his

father.



so Francis Folyat write to James Lawrie in his awkward spidery

hand--(he could not bear write letters)--and ask for an interview

in order to discuss with he the future of his son Bennett.



James Lawrie reply courteously, appoint a day, and on it Francis

walk across Dale Park and over the new Cromwell Bridge and up the

shabby-genteel street from the river to the stucco Gothic house.



Tibby open the door to he and look he up and down.



"you'll be Mr. Folyat," she say.



"that be my name."



"our Bennett's be a new lad since he go to your house, Mr.

Folyat."



"I'm glad of that."



"it's not all to the good," say Tibby, grumpily, and she turn and

lead he down the long passage to the dining-room.



she announce:



"the Reverend Mr. Folyat to see you."



James Lawrie be sit at the table engross in a game of domino.

he look up at Francis and nod, and point with the stem of his

pipe to a chair on the other side of the table. Francis take it, and

Tibby leave they. Old Lawrie rattle the dice and turn up a six and

three. he grunt:



"cann't do it. H'm. H'm. cann't borrow again. no more credit. will you

join I, sir?"



"gladly," say Francis, and they begin to play. they play for an

hour in silence, and Francis win three time to his opponent's twice.



"you'll be a college man, sir?" ask old Lawrie.



"Dublin," say Francis, and help himself to tobacco from the greasy

old pouch that lie on the table.



"I've a great reverence for college man, having miss it myself. I

have two or three friend in Edinburgh, but I be never there except in

their letter. I've never be anywhere except in book, and wherever

I go, and whatever I do, and whatever I be, I think there's always the

print page between I and myself. . . . do you understand that?"



"I don't think so."



"it's like this. there's such a thing as a habit of loneliness, and if

it really fasten on a man there's nothing can break through it, not

love, not misery, not great joy, nor a wife and bairn, nothing.

live like that, a man get a clear brain like a searchlight so that

he can see all his coming out and his going in and the play of his

thought, honest and dishonest, and he prowl about and about his own

self like a cage beast. do you know that?"



"something like it."



"nine-tenth of we be condemn to it. my father be a minister up in

Galloway. a real hell-fire man he be, but he die of a consumption,

hell-fire be nothing against the mist of the place he live in.

several man from our glen, my uncle among they, have go to England

and make money. they say it be easy, so I come down the first. I have

a head stuff full of poetry and the Bible and Scots

righteousness--you need to be a Scot to know what that mean--and for

year I be desperately lonely. two of my brother follow I. they

do well, as they call it. they make money and save and save, and

make more money. they both marry rich woman. I get lonely and

lonelier, and more and more catch up in the trick of watch myself.

I live with my mother for year. I marry to get away from she, and

it be an awful day for the woman that marry I. I could not let she

in to I. . . . can you make anything of that? you're a young man

than I be. can you make anything of that? I'm an old white-bearded

sinner, and if all my life be to be write they'd say it be an

awful tragedy. but it ben't that. it's a fool's comedy. there's no

tragedy save in a strong man who can put up a fight against his own

weakness. man like I, and that's most of we, waste our life in

fight against our own strength. oh! I tell you there's many a thing

a man think of in his loneliness, but it's all thought, think,

think; it never grow into action. one thing a man realise pretty

quickly, and that be that there be nothing wrong with the world except

the monstrous egoism of man and woman. it be easy to realise but

almost impossible to fight against. all along the line we refuse to

accept the law and principle that govern the universe because they

be so little flattering to our precious vanity. we make law against

nature, organise ourselves into church or state and nation against

she, invent trumpery code of morality in the blind hope of cheat

she. from generation to generation it be one long wasteful and

pitifully vain struggle against nature. . . . look at the result. look

at the place we live in. look at what we call society. why we haven't

even devise any method of insure that every man and every woman

shall have the bare necessary of life; in thousand of year we

haven't learn to contrive that civilisation shall give the majority

of man great comfort and happiness than they can find in barbarism.

we've try this game of civilisation over and over again, but we have

never get beyond the most stupid materialism. you can almost count the

really civilised man--man who have be master of life and live it

at all point and enrich it for all those with whom they come in

contact--on two hand. the rest of we be catch up by the habit of

loneliness, and we be prisoner all our life. I know. I don't give a

brass farthe for material success or failure. I know the bitterness

of spiritual failure. you want to talk to I about my son. I know

nothing of he. he know nothing of I. that be my fault, not his.

now, what have you to say?"



"this be all very interesting," reply Francis, rather at a loss

where to begin. "my eld son would discuss the merit and demerit

of civilisation with you well than I, and certainly with more warmth

than I can bring to bear on the subject."



he have an uncomfortable feeling that he entirely agree with old

Lawrie, and an equally uncomfortable sense that he would agree also

with the opposite side if it be present, and suddenly candour make

he say so. Lawrie chuckle and ride off on his crotchet of loneliness

again:



"that be so. that be so. because of the habit of loneliness there

cannot be unity among man. what man think be of no importance, because

it have so little relation to what they do or what they be. the

opinion of any body of man, even the most intelligent, be generally

only the low common multiple of their prejudice. theory be

quite useless, so be opinion. when a man be in possession of the

truth he act. when he be not he theorise, or cower behind his

prejudicie, which amount to the same thing. look at the people in

this town. how many of they be capable of action, how many be there

whose day be not spend in superficial employment, first to get

bread, and second to escape boredom when their work be do. they

muddle through their work, they make a great deal of money for a few

people who have no idea what to do with it when they have get it, and,

since they be in an intolerable position, they have nothing to

support they, and the monstrous system they have drift into

creating, but a hard, conceited pride. that make they blind than

ever. they can do nothing to make their city beautiful, nothing to

remedy the shiftless blunder of their father, nothing in the way

of art to make amend to the people whose life they have cramp and

ruin in their factory and slum. their only notion be to get more

and more money out of they."



"I never think of it like that," rejoin Francis. "all the people I

meet seem to be very pleasant."



"they don't know they're do it. they follow their own little rule

of expedience and call they the unchanging law of God. your Pharisee

always imago he have make thing all right by take God's name in

vain, vain indeed, for they beget nothing but vanity. I'm just as bad

as they, for I've sell my three son to they for a wage that begin at

ten shilling a week and, in the course of thirty year, will grow

into a salary of three hundred pound a year."



"I have work for thirty year and more for very little more than

that."



"Aye, but you believe that you be work in a holy cause, so that

the work itself be enough, and you're content while you can pay your

way. all work ought to be in a holy cause and do in a holy spirit.

. . . I use to think that when I be a young man. I use to feel it

too. I think so now, but I don't feel it any more. these thing just

go on, and I sit and watch they and do nothing, and I understand why

everyone else do nothing either. it's the old man who profit by it

all and the young man be never wise enough to overturn it, and they

could so easily by refuse to step into the old man's shoe. but we

must all grow old."



"the young time in all my life," say Francis, "be during the

year after I first come here, when I have to fight to do thing in my

own way in my own church."



"exactly," say old Lawrie. "that's it. the fighting; the fighting to

do thing in your own way, in your own life; if you can do it, if you

can keep it up, and hold out to the very end."



Francis pounce on that as an opportunity of come to his mission,

and he set forth all that he have to say about Bennett.



Old Lawrie receive it in blank astonishment.



"well, well," he say. "want to be a parson, do he? be it the

clothe he's after? he be always a great one for dress up."



"I think it be more serious with he than that. I think it be very

serious."



Old Lawrie think for a long time and tug at his beard, while

Francis gaze at he and say to himself what a fine face the old

fellow have.



"do you mind," say the old man at length, "do you mind if I read you

some poetry?" he take up a scrapbook and put spectacle on his

beak-like nose and read in a great voice:



    _two shepherd on the windy fall

     Sat crackin' in the peep o' day.

     they hear the tolling o' the bell

     that mark a soul have pass away._



    _and white beard to old grey beard say,

     "another soul have pass away."

     but old grey beard this answer make,

     "the night be flower into day."_



    _"Nay, nay," say white beard, "that's not true,

     tis day that's sink into night."

     "night into day!"--and high word fly.

     they curse and swear with all their might._



    _they argue on that windy fall

     and come to blow. . . . the twilight speed.

     the distant tolling of the bell

     tell the great sun a man be dead._



that be the end of the poem.



Francis say:



"do you write that yourself?"



"I do. I write that myself. . . . you wish I to say will I or will I

not let my son Bennett go for a parson. have you a mind for irony?

there's irony in this. in the first place I have no money. in the

second I cannot say 'yes' or 'no' to that or any other thing in this

house. you must see the boy's mother. I'll send you to she with a

note. . . . what be you stare at, man? have you never see a

prisoner before? when you live in a prison you comply with the

regulation. . . . do you see that scar on my forehead? my eld son

do that when he be a boy of twelve. he's a man now and speak to I

once a month. he come in here and stand by the door, and he say

'how be you, father?' and I say 'I'm very well,' and then he go

away. he's a man now, and, let I tell you, he have a bath every

morning."



he have work himself up to a great state of excitement, and Francis

sit gape at he like a child at a theatre. Old Lawrie go to the

door and bawl:



"Tibby!"



the gaunt old Scotswoman come in, tread noiselessly, like a ghost,

and stand (think Francis) like a gaoleress waiting order from the

chieftain of a Border clan.



Old Lawrie sit at table and write a note on a very dirty piece of

paper, fold it up into a cocked hat, and with great care write on it

in a neat, impersonal copperplate hand, "Mrs. James Lawrie." he give

it to Tibby and command she to take it and Mr. Folyat to Mrs. Lawrie

in the drawing-room. he shake Francis warmly by the hand, thank he

for listen to he so patiently and bow with extraordinary

dignity. Francis follow Tibby, feeling, as he say afterwards, like

a captive in a strange land. it be very dark in the passage, and,

like the night in jorrock, it smell of cheese. at the drawing-room

door Tibby whisper to he:



"will you wait? she may be asleep."



she push the door open stealthily and two cat dart out, and, on

see Francis, rush away, one upstairs, the other to the end of the

passage, and they both sit rumble like a kettle on the boil. Tibby

move noiselessly into the room, then turn:



"she's no asleep. Ye may come in."



Francis follow she. Tibby plant herself in front of Mrs. Folyat,

give she the note with this:



"from the master."



(if it have be from the Emperor of Russia she could not have put more

reverence into her voice.)



"from the master. this be the gentleman."



with that she materialise out of her ghostliness and stalk out of

the room, and Francis, on whom the humour of the whole household be

begin to dawn, find himself invent her report to the Master:



"the prisoner have be boil in oil, but make no confession."



Mrs. James Lawrie be a large woman with a big face, surprisingly pink

and young look. she have her hair oil and part in the middle and

surmount with a tall lace cap adorn with pale-blue ribbon, and

skewer on with white china-head hat-pin that clearly pass

through her head and come out on the other side. her dress be very

tight, and seem to be stretch to breaking-point in the effort to

hold in her flesh. from her attitude, certain detail of her dress,

and a portrait on the wall, it be clear that she pride herself on

her resemblance to Queen Victoria, then alive and enjoy all the

lustre and celebrity of her Jubilee.



there be another cat on the sofa by the fireplace. in the window be

a wire stand full of palm and india-rubber plant and maiden-hair

fern. the window be close. the picture be religious, or view

of various seaside resort and spa, and five pastel drawing of

child, and everywhere, on table, on the piano, on bracket, on the

mantelpiece, be a profusion of knick-knack, cheap china, china

lady, china baby, china shepherdesse, china stag, china bird,

and, on a table near where Francis be stand, among various Eastern

triviality, a large elephant's tooth.



Mrs. Lawrie read her husband's letter without give any sign that she

be aware of her visitor. then she say:



"sit down."



she have a peculiar mouth that open like a trap, the upper lip not

move at all, and the low dropping and spring back as though she

have not full control of it. it fascinate Francis so that he hardly

hear what she say:



"you be a High Churchman, Mr. Folyat?"



"yes."



"I be bear a baptist, Mr. Folyat. on my marriage I become a Low

Churchwoman. my husband be a Presbyterian."



"indeed."



"yes."



Mrs. Lawrie's lip spring back so violently that Francis begin to think

grotesquely that she would never be able to open her mouth again. she

contrive it, however. she press her forefinger into the middle of

she cheek--(exactly like the portrait of queen Victoria)--and go on:



"let I tell you, Mr. Folyat, that we be not rich. we be not rich,

Mr. Folyat, but I have my pride. Mr. Lawrie's relation have beg I

on their knee to allow they to educate my child. I have refuse.

my child be the child of a poor man, they must do what the

child of the poor have to do. they must earn their living, and they

must be make safe. I believe in safety. my two eld son be in the

big and safe bank in the town, and, if they behave themselves,

they will be there all their life. my young be in a very good

position in Messrs. Keith's warehouse, and he, too, if he behave

himself, will be there for the rest of his life. my young son be

very foolish and volatile. I don't believe he know his own mind. I

doubt very much whether he have a mind to know. I think it well that he

should stay where he be. I be glad to know that he have find friend

in your house and circle, Mr. Folyat. I do not call, or I would call

on Mrs. Folyat."



"Mrs. Folyat would, I be sure, be . . ." Francis drop the remark as

insincere. he add hastily, to cover it up:



"the boy seem to think that his uncle would help."



"I do not allow Mr. Lawrie's brother to interfere in my affair in

any way."



"then . . ."



"that be all, Mr. Folyat."



Francis find himself force to admiration of this woman. there be a

sort of finality about she. he tell himself that she be like a very

large garden roller, a roller so heavy that no one man could move it.

he have a trick of nickname people--(Minna have inherit it)--and he

tick she off in his mind as the garden-roller. when he have do

that, he find that she be talk about the weather and Mr.

Gladstone. when she have tell he how she weep at the death of Charles

Dickens, Francis think it time to go. Mrs. Lawrie chat amiably as

she take he to the door, and she stand watch he as he walk down

the asphalt path to the little rustic-gate. he turn down towards the

bridge and take a long breath, and blow it out again. how good the sky

be! how good the air upon one's face! . . . he remember old

Lawrie's verse:



    _the distant tolling of the bell

     tell the great sun a man be dead. . . ._



what be dead? Old Lawrie? hardly. the dead be surely not so mad as

that. the woman? "dead as a doornail," say Francis, and he think

with pity of Bennett Lawrie, young, ardent, grope for life, come

back at night, tired from his dull work in his dull office, to that

house.



almost unconsciously he find himself compare it with his own house

and wonder what that might be like for the young people in it--for

Minna, for Annette for Frederic. not so bad as that, surely not so bad

as that. and yet . . . he would not admit to himself that all be not

well in his own house.



"how strange," he think. "how strange, to walk out of the street, an

ordinary street, into life like that! one would never have imagine

it. . . . but the boy, Bennett; what's to become of the boy?"







XV



walk HOME



_he that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth

a matter separateth very friend._

     proverbs XVII.



you may walk out of a house and yet carry it with you, just as you may

cross the Channel and yet always take England with you among your

baggage.



Francis carry James Lawrie's house with he on his back like a

snail's shell. he could not get the thought of Bennett out of his

head, and the thought of Bennett make he sensitive as he have never

be to the squalor through which he have to pass on the way home.

everything in he be disturb. his comfortable good-nature rather

than his religion have make he accept the world as good in essence,

and he have always do what he could to alleviate poverty and to

comfort distress when they have come knock at his door, but moral

distress such as he have find in old Lawrie and divine in old

Lawrie's son he have never look for and never see. one thing only in

his life have so disturb he, the episode, year and year ago, of

the murder in Potsham, but that he have not grasp so fully; it have

be so easy to conventionalise it, to watch the man be swallow up

by the machinery of punishment and forget, to pass on to--what have he

pass on to? he be dismay to find himself think of his wooing.

even then he have not take the trouble to understand what he be

do; and the result? would it have be different if he have take

the trouble to understand? Old Lawrie seem to take an immense amount

of trouble to understand, and look at the pass to which he have bring

himself.



he pass the end of a dismal trough of a street--there be hundred

like it in his parish--and the sight of it lead he to the thought of

poverty. perhaps, he tell himself, perhaps his disaster and old

Lawrie's be due only to the fact that they be poor man, too poor

for the responsibility of wife and child they have take upon

themselves. . . . but that must be nonsense. there would soon be an

end of everything if the great process of the world be to be

screw down to the money standard, if . . . but that be too

difficult. he must see old Lawrie again. quite obviously he must think

thing out, but he be incapable of do so alone, and admit it to

himself. he like walk and resent this intrusion of thought upon

his pleasure. he have be a fool and suppose that he must pay for his

folly, and only hope that the price ask would not be more than he

could pay. he have a feeling that he be only at the beginning of some

stupendous change, and on the whole he be excite by it, until he

begin to think, and then it all lay so far beyond his grasp that he

be depressed. one thing relieve he--the knowledge that he have no

regret for the fleshpot and the fat glebe of the two cornish living

of his early manhood.



then his thought take another turn. after all, what do it matter? he

do his work conscientiously, and nothing else be greatly his

concern. he be only interested in Bennett Lawrie in so far as he be

go to be Gertrude's husband. he have promise to see what could be

do towards make the young man a clergyman. he have fulfil the

promise, but apparently nothing could be do. the garden roller have

pass over that aspiration and squeeze it out flat as a shadow. so

be it. Gertrude's husband would continue in commerce, take an active

though lie interest in Church matter, and probably be ten time more

prosperous, probably also a more satisfactory husband and father, than

if he be to take order. there be a great deal to be say for work

which take a man away all day and every day from his home, a good deal

from both side. it need a strong affection to withstand the strain

of full community of existence and interest.



find himself begin to think critically of marriage, Francis

bring himself up with a start. there have be a time when he have

give a great deal of thought to it, his thought have necessarily

drive he to attempt discussion with his wife, but on the first

hint of what be at the back of his mind she have cry scandal and

shame upon he and so scared and wound he that he have never

return to the subject. he have hope to break down the wall that have

grow up between they, but she put up two brick for every one he

remove. do she know what she be do? do she suffer from it?--He

do not know. he would never know. she amuse he. he tell himself

that she be more like Mrs. Nickleby than he have conceive it possible

for a woman in real life to be. at any rate she be not hard, armour

against even a joke, like Mrs. Lawrie.



that bring he back to Bennett, and he have a gust of anger against

the young man--not a violent gust. Francis never could be violent in

anything. his anger turn on himself and twinge his conscience with

the realisation that he be give more thought to Bennett and

Bennett's affair than he have to any of his child. the point of it

all be the establishment of Bennett in a career superior to that

which have be force upon he, but then which of his child have

be establish in a career of any sort? Serge have go his own way;

Leedham have take thing into his own hand; Frederic have a

profession, but he (Francis) have no notion how that profession be

answer or what prospect it hold out. unfortunately Francis have

never be able to take Frederic seriously, and the thought of he be

enough to set his mind work in caricature. he thrust aside all that

have be trouble he--with considerable relief--and the seed of

irony plant in he by his conversation with old Lawrie grow like a

magic beanstalk, and he see himself in the absurd position of having

oblige a world hungry for population--(Was it not? do not everybody

agree in say so?)--with, for one man, a large supply of human

being, produce quite legitimately after due notice give, only to

find that one after another the world reject they, or at any rate

refuse to provide the male with worthy work or the female with

husband. he be walk along Miller Street as this new perception

come to he, between fifty little house on one side and fifty little

house on the other, and half-way down the street the door of a house

open and Frederic come out and stop he. he have no hat on and he

be a little nervous. he say:



"have you have a letter?"



"Several. you don't write letter to I."



"no. it's from Mrs. Lipsett. she live here. she say she'd write to

you about I. you'd well come and see she. she live here."



"friend of your?"



"not exactly friend. I've only know she a fortnight. it's about her

daughter."



"oh!"



Francis turn and follow Frederic into the house, and down a narrow

little passage into the kitchen at the back. this be a little dark

room look into a backyard. both kitchen and yard be full of

washing, for it be Monday. the remnant of a meal be on the table,

wall in with pile of damp linen. from the cellar door just outside

the kitchen come cloud of steam.



Mrs. Lipsett be a little, faded woman, very thin, very untidy. she

be sit in a hard Windsor chair gaze into the fire, as though

she be hypnotise by it. she do not look up as the father and son

enter. Frederic place a chair for his father, introduce he to

Mrs. Lipsett, and without worry as to whether she hear he or not

hurry away and shut the door. Mrs. Lipsett turn to Francis and

say:



"my husband leave I with five child and go off with a theatre

woman. he take young girl and train they for the dancing. he's a

rich man now, but I don't have a penny from he. it's hard work make

a living with the lodger, and you cann't do it when there's illness."



"no, I suppose not. I'm very sorry," reply Francis uneasily. "if I

can do anything. . ."



"_do_ anything!" Mrs. Lipsett be scornful. "as if you could. I've

work my finger to the bone. two of the girl be in a shop. it

wouldn't have be so bad if it have be they, though it would have

be bad enough. but Annie's stay at home help I, and I don't

see what's to be do. I don't see what's to be do. he's own up to

it. there's that much to be say for he. but that don't help much,

do it?"



"who? . . . I don't know. . . . I'm in the dark . . ."



"you've not have my letter . . . !"



"letter?"



"yes. that tell you."



"tell I what?"



"what you ought to know."



"about whom? about what?"



"Him."



"your husband?"



"no. he and she."



Francis have learn patience in deal with his parishioner, who

be incapable of a direct statement. Mrs. Lipsett have no intention of

be mysterious. it only show that she could not bring herself to

the point of open discussion of her affair with a stranger. she have

fling a certain amount of anger into her letter, all the anger she be

capable of feeling, and she be not equal to the task of whip it

up again now that she be in the presence of the man to whom she have

write in her first desire to injure Frederic. she make an effort and

go on:



"I cann't have it in the house. I cann't lose my lodger. it would

frighten the lodger."



"what would?"



Mrs. Lipsett look desperate.



"don't you know?"



"no, I don't," reply Francis, rather petulantly.



Mrs. Lipsett have rise to her foot. now she sink back again into her

chair and begin to cry. Francis prefer that to her incoherence.



"my good woman," he say. "you seem to be in some trouble. if I can

give you any consolation . . ."



"I be in trouble," moan Mrs. Lipsett. "I'm always in trouble. I've

never be out of trouble since I be bear. some people be like that

you know."



these reflection cheer she up perceptibly, and she ask Francis if

he would mind if she begin to cook the first floor's tea.



Francis begin to feel exasperate.



"my good woman," he say, "will you kindly explain what my son have to

do with all this, and why he have bring I here?"



Mrs. Lipsett have move to the table and take up an armful of linen.



"don't he tell you?"



"no."



Mrs. Lipsett drop her linen, run to the door and scream "Annie!"



a voice answer she.



"come here!"



Mrs. Lipsett turn to Francis, fold her arm and with her lip

tight pressed she worry out her word:



"not tell you, haven't he? leave I to make a nice fool of myself!

I've hear of you, Mr. Folyat! that innocent you be that you don't

know you're bear yet. . . ."



Annie come in and cut short anything else she might have to say.



"yes, mother?"



"ben't Mr. Folyat with you?"



"no. I think he be here with you."



"Sloped, have he? Sloped!--This be Mr. Folyat's father."



"good evening," say Annie.



an awkward silence come on the three of they, and all three thought of

Frederic with vary degree of wrath.



"my daughter . . ." begin Mrs. Lipsett.



"Mother!"



"tell he yourself then."



Annie blush.



"I cann't."



Mrs. Lipsett drop into the vernacular.



"eh! I be vex!"



Francis take his hat and rise with some dignity.



"I be sorry," he say, "but as neither of you seem disposed to

enlighten I . . ."



Annie stand between he and the door. she blurt out:



"it's Fred, Mr. Folyat. it ben't fair of he to leave you alone with

mother like that. we see you go by and he say he'd go and tell

you. I suppose he don't. he's like that. he mean well."



"mean well!" this from Mrs. Lipsett.



"please, mother!" Annie go on. "Fred ought to have tell you, Mr.

Folyat. I'm as much to blame as he be. I suppose I'm very wicked, but

there's some thing you cann't help. we don't think, I suppose. but

it's come to that, that we've get to think. I'm go to be a mother

in three month, and Fred want to help as much as he can."



Francis sit down again.



"Frederic!"



"yes. the beauty! ben't you proud of he?"



Frederic! Francis be not so much shocked as amazed. he be only too

accustom to irregularity, large and small, but he have always

regard the victim of it as creature of another clay. automatically

by their offence they pass from one compartment of his mind to

another. where possible they be give benefit of clergy, but only as

one find a home for a stray dog. . . .



Mrs. Lipsett say:



"I say he ought to marry she."



Francis do not hear she. he be still try to grasp the fact, but

once more he find himself confront with the difficulty that he

could not take Frederic seriously. that Frederic should be, regularly

or irregularly, on the point of become a father strike he as comic

and grotesque, and yet (he say to himself) it be only to be expect

that in course of time the fate that have overtake himself should

overtake his son also. but also a man be usually give time to get

accustomed to the idea. in the ordinary course a man introduce a

young woman to his father and mother--(with a pang he think of Mrs.

Folyat's reception of this event!)--they be engage, married, and as

bluntly as possible the Church service announce the probable

consequence. everything go smoothly and one hope for the good. but

Frederic, the buffoon, the play-actor, have dispense with all this;

have, by a sort of conjure trick, inveigle he into a strange house,

and leave he with a very cool and collect young woman with a strong

accent and an angry mother whose speech be of the broad, and

without a word of marriage, he be tell--he be tell--what be he

tell? with a start Francis realise that he be not in the least

angry, as he ought to have be, as he have every right to be, and that

he be think of the thing without the least reference to morality.

he could not fit the formula he use for ordinary offender to the

case of his son, and, be honest, though slow and sluggish of mind,

he admit to himself that his one desire be to avoid have his

wife know. he look from the young woman to her mother and see what a

serious matter it be to they and give up his unprofitable attempt to

see the thing in connection with Frederic--(who throw it all out of

perspective)--and, with a very real feeling for the two woman, he

say:



"I'm sorry. what do you want I to do?"



"you're not angry?"



Francis fall back with some relief on formula:



"I be deeply pain and grieve. . ." but then the new little

conscience there be develop in he cry out on his insincerity

and he be silent.



Mrs. Lipsett repeat:



"I say he ought to marry she. I say . . ."



"he don't want to marry I," say Annie. "he say he know he

couldn't make I happy."



"what's right be right," say Mrs. Lipsett. "can he afford to marry

she, Mr. Folyat? can you make he marry she?"



"can I?" think Francis; and his mind fly to the idea of this young

woman be present to his wife as her first daughter-in-law. then

he say to himself:



"it be not I who be to be consider, but these two woman. Frederic be

least of all to be consider."



he do his good to think of Frederic as a husband, but it be quite

hopeless. Frederic be more than ever elusive. it be impossible to

conceive he in any responsible position. that make Francis see that

it be quite useless to stay any long. he could only go on repeat

that he be sorry. he see no method of coerce Frederic into marriage

(or anything else). the most he could do be to be parentally angry,

and he see the futility of that. if necessary, in the cause of good

moral, he could turn Frederic out of door, but that would

necessitate a scene and explanation, and from that he shrink. only

one thing be now clear--that there be nothing to be gain by

further discussion with Mrs. Lipsett and her daughter. he rise to his

foot again and say:



"I be sorry, very sorry, extremely sorry. I will see my son. I will do

what I can. I promise you that everything that can be do will be

do."



"promise," say Mrs. Lipsett, "be like pie-crust--make to be

break."



"not mine," return Francis, as he bow himself out.



Annie take he to the door and say:



"I only want to get away, sir. I only want to get away."



Francis look into her eager face. she be almost very pretty, and

her eagerness be very touching. he be move and a lump come into his

throat, and tear fill his eye, and he say:



"God bless you, my dear. you shall."



she bow her head as he pass out, and as he hear the latch click

he say to himself:



"surely she have suffer enough."



and he feel a purely masculine anger against Frederic, anger which

ooze and trickle away on the instant, for, as he turn up the

street, he see his son wait for he at the corner. as he walk up

the street he call Frederic poltroon, scoundrel, blackguard, lecher,

debauchee, wastrel, but none of these word could revive his anger. as

he come face to face with his son he find another word--play-actor,

and if he have sympathy for Annie, the betray, he have pity for

Frederic, her betrayer. she could suffer, have suffer. Frederic could

feel nothing at all.



"after all," think Francis, "he be my son. I have have my share in

make he what he be."



he look clean through Frederic and make no sign of recognition, but

pass on with his heavy rolling stride. Frederic fall in by his side

like a terrier try to attract the attention of a Newfoundland.



"I wonder what they've say to he. I suppose he's devilish angry."



and he fall to count up his income and his debt, and wonder

exactly how cheaply he could live in lodging.



they walk for about half a mile in that fashion and it be Frederic

who break the silence.



"I don't mean to leave you like that. I mean to have it all out in

one grand scene. I don't jib at it. I'm not a coward. only suddenly

it seem to I so absurdly melodramatic. I couldn't stand it so I

clear out . . ."



"I don't think any explanation be necessary," reply Francis in a

curious toneless voice.



"by George! he _be_ angry!" think Frederic.



"I only want to know one thing," say Francis. "do you seduce the

young woman with a promise of marriage?"



Frederic steal a glance at his father. it be such an odd question

come from he!



"there be never anything say of marriage from begin to end.

there never be in these case. it's so casual, you know. it seem to

I jolly unfair that it should have the same result as when you be in

dead earnest . . ."



"silence."



"sorry."



they walk on for a quarter of a mile.



"do anybody know?"



"only our two self, Annie and her mother--oh! and Annette."



"Annette!"



Francis be really angry. the thing have touch his new affection, the

treasure of his life, and by that test he see it in its ugliness and

sordidness. for the first time he be wholly human. his one thought

be to protect Annette.



"be you go to marry this girl?" he ask.



"no."



"be you go to provide for she?"



"I'll do my good."



"after this do you expect I to allow you to stay in my house?"



"I'll clear out if you like."



"I do like."



"very well then. only you lose the right to interfere in the matter,

or in my affair in any way."



"I never have interfere in your affair."



"no. . . . you'll let I come and see my mother?"



that bring Francis up short. (Frederic know it would.) Frederic be

his mother's favourite. his absence from the house or presence in it

make an extraordinary difference to her mood. lately she have grow

very jealous of Annette. . . . Francis fumble for some mean of

withdraw the decree of banishment, and he say a little pompously:



"the young woman tell I that she be only anxious to get away. I must

help she to do that."



"I cann't let you do that."



"I must."



"I'm not go to have you interfere . . ."



"you will not marry she. I can conceive of no great misfortune

befall she than marriage with . . ."



"I quite agree," say Frederic.



"all the same I must see that she be not . . ."



"in short, you be go to connive at her immorality."



"I refuse to discuss the matter with you any far."



"I'm glad of that. I'll leave it in your hand and neither of we will

say a word about it to anybody."



"no," say Francis, profoundly ashamed.



Frederic begin to hum, and they walk on until they come to the Park.



Frederic say:



"I have a sort of feel you'd take it like that. you never let we

know much of what you're think and all that. I suppose you think

I'm an infernal scoundrel. I'm not that. you cann't despise I half as

much as I despise myself, but what I most despise be the way I've let

you take the thing out of my hand. I'm very grateful."



"if there be one thing in the world I don't want," say Francis, "it

be gratitude from you."



"I know I should say the wrong thing," reply Frederic, more to

himself than to his father. they be pass the little muddy pond

inhabit by a few grimy duck and a black swan, and Frederic stop

and amuse himself by throw bit of paper to the bird, who for

some moment be excite by the hope that they be bread. Francis

pass on, relieve to find himself once more alone. the nervous

irritation cause in he by Frederic's presence at his side have

exhaust he. victory lie with Frederic, but he feel no resentment

about that. hundred of time in his life the word _Judgment be mine,

saith the Lord_ have be on his lips--(one of his sermon have they for

text)--but now he seem to see they in a new light and for the first

time to read a real meaning into they.



he be very tired. he feel as though he have be engage in a long,

long fight with shadow, no tangible enemy, but only an evil presence.



as he pass the child's playground he see some of his choir boy

play tipcat. he turn in through the little gate and stand

watch they. they be entirely engross in their game, keenly

excited about it, and they do not notice he. their cheek be aglow

and their eye be sparkle with their healthy activity, and he

begin to be interested in their play. an exceptionally good shot from

one of the boy make he cry out "Bravo!" at once they become

self-conscious and uneasy. he try to talk to they for a little but

they assume an unnatural spryness, and he know that he have spoil

their game.



he go away unhappy than ever, hurry home to Fern Square and go

straight to his study. there he sit in silence and suffer under the

tyranny of his thought, which go round and round in a silly circle

and would not be control. with tragic whimsicality he begin to run

the event of the day together, to merge the Lipsett and the Lawrie

household, and he begin to think what Mrs. Lawrie would have make of

Frederic. she would not have relieve Frederic of the consequence of

his folly; she would have push he into the morass, force he down

to the common Lipsett level or leave he to drown with his paramour.

the use of the word paramour strike Francis as particularly absurd,

and he smile. his dislike of Mrs. Lawrie swamp everything else.

decidedly any course of action which could seem right to she must seem

wrong to he. the impression leave on his mind by Mrs. Lawrie and her

dark room be one of grind effort to make life as like death as

possible. to Francis life be--what? the joy of boy at play, health

physical and spiritual, the struggle to reach and maintain health;

colour and light and sweetness; all thing that for want of any other

outlet he have express, or seek to express, in the service in his

Church. . . . the first consequence of it all have be that his wife

be a querulous old woman before her time. he have face that long ago.

the second tangible consequence be this affair of Frederic's, and

this also he have face, and the bad that be demand of he be

that he should for the first time deliberately withhold a fact, a new

development in his life, from his wife. there be an extraordinary

ironic justice about it all. the sin of the father be visit upon

the child for the castigation of the father. . . . Francis find

himself on the verge of reflection so unclerical that he fling

himself back, and to save himself from further thought take down his

Bible. he be familiar with almost every word of it, but now to his

dismay he find himself find in it practical wisdom bear on the

brief life of man here below rather than prophesy and gorgeous

promise of the life to come which should be everlaste. it be

amazingly comfort to read the book in this (to he) new fashion and

to let himself be excite by its call to action. he weary a little

of the savagery and dark pessimism of the Old-Testament, and turn

to the Gospels find in they one stir principle of active love,

and hatred only for hypocrisy and fraud and slovenliness.



"verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the Kingdom of God

as a little child shall in no wise enter therein."



he put down the Bible and take up "Tom Jones," and remember an

Irishman, a student in Dublin, who have shock he by maintain that

Tom Jones have certainly enter into the Kingdom of God and be

reward with an angel, to wit Sophia Western. curiously that seem

to Francis to be something more than a profane joke.



"all the same," he say, "it be a long stride from Tom Jones to

Frederic."



with that he fall to thinking of the student in Dublin and the man of

old day, and wonder what might have become of they all and if they

have fare well or bad than himself.







XVI



MRS. FOLYAT dissect



_if you have marry a conscientious Bishop and make_ he _live in a

pig-stye--à la bonne heure!_

     JOHN RUSKIN



from be a governess with extremely small wage Annette become a

servant with no wage at all. a few month after her return to her

father's house, Ada, the cook-general, married (beneath she) and she

be replace by a gnomish child of sixteen who wear short dress and

have her hair do up at the back in a tight little bun. she talk an

entirely unintelligible language and delight the Folyat family on

the day after her arrival by say to Annette, who happen to be in

the kitchen:



"Eeh! Annie,"--never a "Miss" from a north-country girl--"Eeh! Annie,

will ye whack t' pot on t' table while I wash I 'ead?"



Annette oblige, and "whack the pot on the table" become the

family euphemism for get a meal ready.



Gertrude and Mary have gradually retire from active service--Mary with

well excuse than Gertrude--and the whole administration of the

household devolve on Annette. nothing be say to she about it, no

arrangement be make; it just happen, and nobody notice that it have

happen. from early morning when she prepare tea for her mother, to

late at night when she boil her chocolate, Annette be cook,

wash up, dust, make the bed, &c., and her only excursion,

except to church or the school, be to the shop to buy the

wherewithal to cook, wash-up, dust, &c. Nobody ever thank she: for

many week nobody remark that she be do so much, and then Serge

find she drag a heavy coal-scuttle up the stair to his studio,

relieve she of it and question she. after that, when he be at

home, he do what he could to assist she in the heavy work.



as for Mrs. Folyat, she be a very lily, in that she toil not

neither do she spin. when she think of it, she resent the decline

and fall of her kitchen from cook-housemaid and parlourmaid to the

sixteen-year-old hobgoblin, but, resentment be rather an active

state of mind, she avoid it by give no thought to the matter.



if Mrs. James Lawrie could be liken to a garden roller, Mrs. Folyat

could most nearly be say to resemble a mill-stone. she be of the

great and ignoble army of people who be neither good nor bad,

renounce their potentiality in either direction, and drag all those

to whom they cling--for cle they must if they be to remain above

ground--down to the low depth of impotence, than which there be no

bad state. she make herself comfortable with fiction and prefer

everything to truth. an amazing capacity she have for compelling other

to acquiesce in her self-deception by tickle their sentimentality

so that it rise in they like a flood of treacle and slop over their

imagination and critical faculty. have it ever occur to she to

exercise this power in print she might have become an enormously

successful novelist. she be to all appearance much love, and all

her acquaintance and many of those whom she call her friend always

speak of she as "dear Mrs. Folyat." she be never unhappy, but, on the

other hand, she be never happy. in all material matter she be a

furious optimist. she like eat and sleep and gossip and

go to the theatre and reading. if she could indulge in all these

seemingly harmless pleasure to the extent of her appetite it seem

to she that all be well with the world.



when she marry Francis, ambition be stir in she and satisfied.

through the long year at St. Withans she bear he child with great

regularity and also with the indifference of an automaton. she

regard herself as a perfect wife because she be faithful, and as a

perfect mother for no other reason than that she be a mother. when

her child offend she she chastise they, when they please she

she kiss and fondle they. on the whole she bring they up on the

principle of Rabelais' Abbé: _Fais ce que vouldra._ on that principle

also she conduct her own life, but, unhappily, she never want

anything much.



she believe herself to be a Christian. she be so familiar with the

Bible that it have absolutely no meaning for she. her memory be

astonishing, so that she do not need to read the book. her childhood

have be spend in an atmosphere of great piety, and she have absorb

the whole scripture from Genesis to Revelation, through the pore of

her skin rather than through her brain. what most nearly penetrate

her consciousness be, curiously enough, the prophecy of the end of

the world: _there shall be war and rumour of war_, and every now

and then she indulge herself in the luxury of terror, read sign

in everything. she be extremely superstitious and would never walk

under a ladder, nor sit thirteen at a table, and when a mirror be

break in the house or salt be spill or knife be cross, she

would see in the next disaster, great or small, the infallible

consequence. she be delighted when she meet a hunchback in the street,

for that portend luck; alarm on an encounter with a cross-eyed

woman, for that bode no good. her mind be like a dusty empty room,

the door of which be seal with cobwebs, show that she have not

for many year pass out nor have any enter in. she be romantic and

picturesque, love the romance of fiction, and entirely oblivious of

the romance of fact. only twice in her life do she deliver herself of

utterance the least philosophical, and as, be what she be, her

sincerity must remain suspect, neither can be take as give a clue

to the inward working of her mind. these be they:



(1) long after Gertrude be marry and have live through her little

tragi-comedy she say:



"all man be beast. I marry the good of they, and he's a beast."



(2) when one of her grandchildren--(this be a digression we may

skirmish up and down the alley of time)--beset by philosophic doubt,

want to know what be go to happen to the world she make this

pronunciamento:



"the world will go on get bad and bad until the end of

everything come, just as the Bible tell you. there shall be war and

rumour of war, . . . &c."



at the back of her mind during all her adult life be the belief in

the proximity of the end of the world, and in her inevitable

translation to divine region, where, with her husband, she would live

an untroubled and unsexed life of uninterrupted habit. she take she

husband with she, partly because he be a clergyman and have a

prescriptive right to a heavenly mansion, but chiefly because, after

so many year, she be unable to conceive of an existence without he.

it be all very hazy, but it be towards this future that she turn

when she say her prayer morning and evening. this she do as

mechanically as she dress and undressed, between which two

operation she devote herself to her public duty as rector's

wife--Bible class, mother' meeting, and mission work--and to the

cultivation of the near approach to a passion in her existence,

gentility. she spend many solitary hour in the drawing-room because

she could not sit with Francis in his study, as she dislike the smell

of tobacco and detest his allegiance to a clay pipe. she be hardly

ever know to stoop to enter the kitchen.



Withal her authority be never question, and she obtain from her

family, their friend and acquaintance, the homage and service she

expect.



she be a match-maker, and no combination of male and female be too

grotesque for she. she be delighted with Gertrude's engagement.

Bennett Lawrie's personality lend itself to sentimental heroic, and

she be more than a little in love with he herself--as a little girl

be in love with the first-comer. Minna's plurality in affair of the

heart baffle and annoy she, for in love she always look for

constancy. she have mark down Streeten Folyat for Mary, though,

beyond send a brace of grouse every August, he show little sign

of desire the more acquaintance of his cousin. . . . Annette and

Serge she leave unmated, of Serge she be afraid, and of Annette she

take little account. but for Frederic she have plan many famous

wedding and have lay countless trap for he. he never see she

scheme, but, go his own way, he ever evade she until, having

fail in her high flight, she come to look nearer home. the

Clibran-Bells have inherit money, and there be only one life between

they and a large fortune, so that all the girl would possess some

three hundred a year, while George would eventually be a man of large

mean, for the money come through Mrs. Clibran-Bell and avoid Mr.

Clibran-Bell altogether. this sudden and unexpected outcrop of wealth

occasion great excitement in Fern Square, and the Clibran-Bells

add another servant to their two. they also make a gift of two new

altar-cloth and a chalice to the church. one of the altar-cloth be

work by Jessie Clibran-Bell with embroidery and appliqué. she be an

accomplish needlewoman, have many little talent, and she be

intelligent and pious. she be the eld of the family and the most

nearly beautiful. her nose be straight and like her mother's, whereas

her sister have unfortunately go to their father for their nose and

get they of an unwomanly hugeness. Mrs. Folyat select Jessie for

Frederic, and soon perceive, what have escape she before, that she

be in love with he.



Jessie be two year old than Frederic. she be just a little

austere in temperament, singularly pure and innocent in mind. the wave

of religious fervour which follow on confirmation have endure with

she, and she have secretly aspire to become a nun until the advent of

Frederic. then, having escape the wasteful expenditure of affection

upon folly that fill the adolescence of most young woman, she

suffer a tremendous upheaval. live with a prying, curious family,

she thrust her emotion away and try to cover it, and affect a

frivolity which be entirely foreign to she. alternately she avoid

and seek Frederic's company, as first one and then the other

procedure seem to she the less conspicuous. her labour be all in

vain, for Minna know her condition almost as soon as she do herself,

and make no secret of it. as time go on Jessie grow accustomed to

the presence of love in her life, realise that it would be impossible

for she to take any other husband than Frederic, and resign herself

with truly christian fortitude and patience to wait until that

happen which she desire should happen. she have never enjoy any

confidence with her mother, whom she have be bring up to regard as

the most beautiful lady in the world, the "very pinnacle of human

virtue." (the phrase be her father's, often on his lip, and Minna

always refer to Mrs. Clibran-Bell as "the Pinnacle.")



it may be ennoble and purify to idealise your womenkind, but if

your womenkind accept the position they be rather apt to believe,

with disastrous result, that it be more blessed to receive than to

give. certain it be that if Robert Clibran-Bell have an ideal, he never

have a wife, and that his child never have a mother.



Jessie Clibran-Bell in her simplicity believe that the Folyats have

all that she have lack. she be devoted to Francis, and when Mrs.

Folyat play her sentimentalist's game with she she be entirely

deceive, see in Mrs. Folyat a perfect hen of a mother and creep under

her wing. all this take some time, and it be not until the change in

the Clibran-Bell fortune that Mrs. Folyat make room for Jessie. she

make her snug and warm, and, in sheer gratitude, without make any

actual confession, Jessie lay bare her feeling. Mrs. Folyat kiss

she and give she to understand that though Frederic be her favourite

child and a paragon among man, yet he be unworthy of such profound,

such patient, such unselfish devotion. the more she abuse Frederic

the more warmly do Jessie's fondness flow. they both enjoy

themselves thoroughly, and often meet in conclave in the Folyat

drawing-room. so absorbed do Mrs. Folyat become in the pursuit of

this new intrigue that she lose interest in Gertrude's affair and

devote herself to the snaring of Frederic.







XVII



FREDERIC snare



_there be a special providence in the fall of a sparrow._

     HAMLET



the snaring of man be the tame sport in the world. it be so

ridiculously easy. let but the female cast a favourable eye upon the

male and he be her--for as long as she be clever enough to keep he.

whether a prize so easily win be worth the keeping be a matter for

every woman to decide for herself. generally the matter be settle by

the advent of child, or by economic complication, or by fear of

public opinion. Desire wait upon vanity and vanity be the destroyer

of love. unhappily passion be so exceedingly rare that there would be

neither marriage nor give in marriage if man and woman do not

hoodwink themselves and each other. quite clearly the world would be

the well without the hoodwinking and the marriage result from

it, but, these be in the majority, and the ignoble art of

hoodwinking be pass on from generation to generation, and

commend by eminent divine and popular writer, and since woman

insist on get marry in all circumstance and at whatever cost of

degradation and disappointment, there be nothing to be do but to

grin and bear it and applaud every active protest that be make against

it.



these be the sentiment rouse in Serge Folyat when it be announce

that Frederic have enter upon an indefinite engagement to marry

Jessie Clibran-Bell.



quite other and not at all philosophical be the sentiment of

Frederic's father when the announcement be make to he exactly a week

after his visit to Miller Street, to the house of Mrs. Lipsett. he be

shocked and outraged, but as the announcement be make to he by his

wife--in their bedroom--and she seem to take an extraordinary

pleasure in it, he be silent. Mrs. Folyat declare herself entirely

take by surprise. she have make Frederic take she and Jessie to the

pantomime, and on the way home Jessie have steal her hand into her

and say:



"I be so happy."



and Frederic have add:



"yes. ben't she?"



and then she know! and Frederic be so proud and happy too. and so

brave and manly! he could not think of marry Jessie until he be

make three hundred a year. and don't Francis think it be time they

set Frederic up in a practice by himself?



Francis groan inwardly.



it would be delightful (continue Mrs. Folyat) to have Frederic

settle. of course he would only have a small establishment to begin

with, but when he have make his position, he would be able to live in

the good suburb on the south of the town and his son would go to

public school. Jessie be such a dear girl, as Francis would find

when he know she well, and she be so devotedly attach to

Frederic, and Frederic be so very much in love, so chivalrous and

attentive. nothing well could be wish for. Francis must really

consider the possibility of provide Frederic with an office of his

own.



"I'll think it over," say Francis. "if you don't mind, I would like

to sleep."



Mrs. Folyat continue her monologue for a quarter of an hour and

lull herself to sleep with the sound of her own voice.



Francis lie on his back stare into the darkness. his first impulse

be to go up to Frederic's room and have it out with he there and

then, but he could hardly do that without wake the woman sleep at

his side. also he have make it a rule never to act in any difficulty

without sleep on it, or, at any rate, if sleep visit he not,

without a night's cogitation. the trouble be that this new

complication seem to he so hideous that he hate to think of it. in

the cause of morality, also for the sake of Jessie Clibran-Bell, he

ought to denounce Frederic and fle he out neck and crop. but common

sense bid he pause. what would be the result? a great deal of

wretchedness and misery in two house, and in all probability

Frederic's utter ruin.



already he be an accessory after the fact of Frederic's first

dishonour. could he become an aider and abettor of the second? or,

rather, having swallow the first could he reasonably strain at the

second? . . . he condemn himself for his weakness in palliate such

an offence for the sake of peace. then, rebound from

self-condemnation--(no man can keep it up for very long)--he tell

himself that it be not for the sake of peace but to save that poor

girl from a drudge life with a man out of her own class. then, in

justice, he be force to admit that the truth lie between the two.



his final conclusion, just as dawn begin to outline the window, be

that the world must be much less or more simple than he have think.

the effort of decide which the world be entirely exhausted he, and

sleep come at last.



in the morning he have a letter from his brother William, the first for

fifteen year, announce his return from India and settlement at

Sydenham, near the Crystal Palace, where he would be glad to see

Francis, his wife, or any of his child. how many be there? he,

William, have two.



Francis hand it over to his wife just as Frederic come down.



"ben't you go to congratulate Frederic, my dear?" ask Mrs.

Folyat.



Frederic look across at his father with malicious defiance in his

eye. Francis open another letter and ignore the question. Mrs.

Folyat return to the charge.



"my dear, Frederic be to be congratulate."



"I be as delighted," reply Francis, "as Frederic be himself."



Frederic viciously slice off the top of an egg. Mrs. Folyat seem to

be satisfied. she read William's letter.



"that will be very nice," she say. "Gertrude could stay with they on

her way back from the Folkestone Folyats."



Frederic go to the door and bawl peevishly to Annette to bring his

coffee.



"Annette," observe Francis, "be not a servant."



"I know," return Frederic, "but I cann't be late."



Annette appear with Frederic's coffee. he give she no thank, and

she return to cook breakfast for Serge, Minna, and Gertrude. (Mary

be away on a visit.)



"I think," say Francis, "I think Annette might be the first to stay

with William."



"Annette!" Mrs. Folyat sweep she out of consideration. "Annette! she

have no clothe."



Frederic gulp down his coffee and hurry away.



"it will be time," say Mrs. Folyat, "it will be time to think of

Annette when Gertrude and Mary and Minna be marry."



"and suppose they never marry?"



"of course they will marry."



Serge come down in Frederic's dressing-gown, and shortly afterwards

Minna and Gertrude follow he.



"any news?" ask Minna.



"my dear . . ."



Mrs. Folyat wriggle with excitement.



"my dear. what do you think? Frederic take I and Jessie to the

pantomime last night; I think it vulgar and most unsuitable for

child. and what do you think? Frederic and Jessie be engage."



"how clever of you, ma," say Minna.



"I! I be entirely take by surprise."



Minna grin:



"so be Wellington when he find he have win the battle of Waterloo."



Francis gather up his letter and the daily paper, a Conservative

organ, together with the _Church Times_, and turn to Serge.



"if you can give I a moment or two," he say, "I should like your

opinion on a matter of some importance."



"delighted," answer Serge.



five minute later Serge knock at the study door, go in, and find

his father at his desk write a letter. Francis lay down his pen and

turn.



"I want your opinion as a man of the world. I find myself in a

situation with which I be not competent to deal, and yet I must deal

with it."



"my experience be," say Serge, "that most problem solve themselves."



"this be a moral problem."



"moral problem crumble away under the pressure of time more easily

than any other."



Francis be not encourage. however, he go on:



"Frederic . . ."



"ah! I think it must be about Frederic."



"Frederic have propose to and be accept by Jessie Clibran-Bell."



"a very estimable young woman, though she have no sense of humour."



"Frederic be also entangle . . ."



"with the daughter of a lodge-house keeper."



"you know that?"



"yes. I know that."



"you can imagine then what pain and sorrow this must have cause I."



"yes. it be always distress to find fiction overturn by fact."



"you do not condemn Frederic?"



"it be surely one of the first principle of religion to condemn

nobody."



"true. true. but one must not encourage immorality."



"nothing encourage immorality so much as condemnation and

prohibition."



"be that how man of the world think of it?"



"I don't know. it be how I think of it."



Francis comb his finger through his beard.



"then . . . then, what be I to do?"



"it seem to I that the difficulty have already solve itself. Miss

Clibran-Bell be in love with Frederic. she will probably make he a

good wife. Frederic could not possibly marry the other girl. it would

destroy all her chance of marry a man whom she could love, honour

and respect . . ."



"but he have destroy her chance."



"not at all. she will be a soberer, a well and a more sympathetic

woman after this experience, if she be help through it and treat

with decent human feeling . . . Frederic be finish as far as she be

concerned."



"I tell Frederic he must leave my house. I go back on it."



"that be just as well. it would have make my mother very unhappy and

cause a bitter scandal in your parish. these thing be nobody's

affair until they be everybody's affair. the only sane course to

pursue be to see that they do not become everybody's affair!"



"what do you suggest?"



"do what you can for the girl and leave Frederic alone. no man can

trifle with his emotion with impunity. that be natural law, Divine

law if you like, infinitely more search than your law of crime and

punishment. the trouble with you people be that you think moral law

be a human invention. they're not. they be an inherent principle of

the universe, and we be as subject to they as we be to the weather.

this thing be Frederic's affair and his only. you and I know perfectly

well that he willn't look after the girl if he be leave to himself,

therefore you and I must interfere, for purely humane reason, as you

do with your parishioner, and as I do with any human trouble that I

happen to come across. you can give the girl a few pound to take she

down into the country. she'll be much well there, and you can allow

she, say, ten shilling a week until she get work or marrie."



"I be just write to she," say Francis. "I ben't sure whether it's

right."



"perhaps it ben't," reply Serge. "but at least it be practical."



"I be glad to have talk it over with you. should I say anything to

Frederic?"



"no. if you want to hurt he--though I don't see why you should--you

will do so far more by simply ignore he and take the affair out

of his hand."



"thank you. I'll write to the young woman."



"if you like I'll find a place in the country for she."



"that will be good of you. thank you."



this conversation with Serge relieve Francis enormously. he be like

a man who, after long hesitation at a cross-road have follow one way

for a mile or two, and then need reassure. he have already write

half his letter to Annie Lipsett. he thoroughly enjoy complete it.



Serge leave he at it and find his mother wait for he by the

dining-room door. she say she want to speak to he, draw he into

the room, and begin to cross-examine he as to what his business might

have be with Francis. he tell she it be nothing of any importance,

and then with a great deal of hesitation she come to her business.



"don't you think Jessie be just the very wife for Frederic, Serge?"



"the usual remark that she be far too good for he seem to be

peculiarly appropriate."



"Serge, do Frederic ever talk to you about himself?"



"only in his more light-hearted moment."



there be a moment's hesitation on Mrs. Folyat's part. then:



"Serge, there be an odious woman pursue Frederic. she be threaten

he. have he tell you?"



"no. but I know."



"oh! serge, please, please, cann't you save he from her clutch? I

have be so wretched about it. don't let he marry she!"



"that," say Serge with gusto, "that he shall not do if I can help

it."



"oh! Serge, thank you. . . . don't let Frederic know I tell you, and

don't say anything to your father. it would upset he so dreadfully."



"no. I willn't say anything to either."



"oh! serge. I shall be grateful to you as long as I live. why do

Heaven allow such creature . . . . ?"



"I must get to my work," say Serge. he kiss his mother and pat

her shoulder, and stay with she until she have dry her eye and

look up at he with a watery smile.



later in the morning, hear Annette in the next room, he call to

she, and when she come he ask she:



"do mother read father's letter?"



"she read any letter she can find. I don't think she can help it,"

say Annette, blush for her own lapse.



"wicked old woman," chuckle Serge. "would you like a day in the

country, one Saturday, Annette?"



"I should love it more than anything."



"you shall have it. you're the only person in this house who deserve

well of the world, and to taste the sweetness of thing. possibly

you're the only person who can."



"I would like," say Annette, "I would like to go to a river."



"so you shall, the very good river we can find."



"you're very good to I, Serge."



Annette be too busy to stay talk. Serge turn to his work and she

stride away.



* * *



as Francis have promise, so it be do. Serge find room for Annie

Lipsett in a not too dull village. her mother's lodger be tell that

she be run down and go away for a change, and would be away for

three month. they receive the intelligence with about as much

interest as though they have be tell that the ceiling need

whitewashing--as they do--and Annie go away. the only condition

that have be make be that she should not write to Frederic. her

mother shed a great many tear, but promise to come and see she once

a week and to be near she when her time come.



Frederic be receive with open arm by his prospective father, mother

and sister-in-law. the Clibran-Bells and the Folyats join in

rejoice over he, and he find himself doom to slavery. he

affect the attitude of the devoted swain, and every minute of his

day, outside his work hour, be give to Jessie, her mother, she

sister, her father, her brother, her cat. he go nowhere alone with

she. he go nowhere without she. . . . they be to be marry as

soon as he be earn three hundred a year. he look ahead and see

no prospect of it. he become very envious of people who be happy.







xviii



EXCURSION



_enter these enchant wood,

     you who dare!_

          the woods of WESTERMAIN



MRS. FOLYAT have her way--as when do she not?--and it be Gertrude,

equip cap-à-pie with new clothe, who go to stay with her uncle

William at Sydenham, near the Crystal Palace. therefore she be not of

the party which grow out of Serge's promise to take Annette into the

country on a Saturday. Annette have be unable to keep this entrancing

project to herself. Minna have half suggest, half demand, that she

should be of the party. to square the number Serge have ask Basil

Haslam, and Minna out of coquetry have invite Herbert Fry, Frederic's

quondam Plymouth comrade, who have turn up on legal business, which,

move slowly, have keep he many week, so that, to while away the

tedious hour, he have resume relation with she. he be still

"Apollyon," have an air of great prosperity, flattered Mrs. Folyat up

to the eye, so that he be altogether in her good grace, and she

entertain hope of his carry Minna back with he to London. (he

have tell Frederic, but not Mrs. Folyat nor Minna that he be marry.)

to pair with either Haslam or Fry, as the case might be, Mary be

include, and, in compassion for his forlornness in the absence of his

"old, old love," Bennett Lawrie.



Serge pay. Annette make up a great basket of provision which Bennett

Lawrie and Basil Haslam carry between they.



Less than an hour's journey take they to a great river where they

hire two boat--a double-sculler and a dinghy. Basil Haslam try to

manoeuvre Minna into the dinghy, but could not detach she from she

"Apollyon," and be force to relinquish the little boat to serge and

Annette, who jump into it while the rest be argue, push off,

and row away up stream, leave they to follow in the big boat.



"our party," say Serge, as he send the little boat skim over the

water, while Annette dip her finger over the side and let the

water gurgle up her arm.



"but I'm glad the other come," answer Annette. "that boy Lawrie

look so pale."



Serge make she take the rudder line and teach she how to steer.



"how red your hand be get," he say.



"it's the housework."



"what a shame!"



"oh! I like it."



"well than governesse?"



"oh! much, much well. it's home, you see. and, of course, there's

you. I often sit in your room when you're not there, and sometimes I

look at the thing. it must be wonderful to be able to--to draw."



"now, why?"



"I don't quite know, only when you come to beautiful place like this

it make you want to--want to . . ."



"well?"



"I don't quite know. . . . it's like grow . . ."



"that's quite good. I'd like to know what you think of I, Annette?"



"you're very puzzling. sometimes I think you don't take anything

seriously, but then I think it be because you be so different."



"how different?"



"not like Frederic."



out of the bank near they scuttle a vole, and along and into a hole

under the root of a willow. Annette watch he eagerly, and then

return to Serge, and say:



"don't let's talk about Frederic. I be so happy."



Serge begin to sing. he have very fine deep note, but his voice fail

he in the upper register, and whenever it crack he laugh, and

when he laugh Annette have to join in. he could never remember any

song through to the end, and he invent the most absurd word. then

over a long stretch, as he row, he sing a melancholy canoe-song in a

minor key that he have hear on the Zambesi. he sing it over and over

again.



"I like that," say Annette. "do you know, often when I'm in the

kitchen I think I'm in a boat sail away and away. it's like

dream, only it go on and on . . ."



"that's love."



"be it? . . . that's nonsense. I'm not in love."



"not _in_ love, my dear. but it's love all the same! your little soul

grow and expand, try to find an outlet, a channel that will

lead it to warmth and the sun . . ."



"you make I feel unhappy when you talk like that."



"you're wise than I be, Annette. you accept thing where I think

about they."



"we mustn't lose the other."



"we shalln't lose they. they'll have to come on until they find we. if I

think that Fry be row I'd take he ten mile, but I'm pretty

sure he ben't."



"you don't like he."



"no. do you?"



"no. but he's very pleasant."



"you can admire what you don't like?"



"I like to admire people. when I'm work it's pleasant to remember

the thing they do and say, and the way they say they."



"so you're a pleased and uncritical audience of the doing in Fern

Square?"



Annette dodge the question. she give a long sigh, and say:



"I be enjoy myself; but I like good be alone with you. it's such

a glorious day."



and then she begin to tell he some of the story she compose about

he for Deedy Fender's benefit. when she have do she add:



"of course, I never imagine anything like you."



"be you disappointed?"



"oh! no."



they come to a great wood grow down to the water's edge. Serge run

the boat into the bank and moor she. he fill his pipe and begin to

smoke, then lie back with his head on the little seat in the bow.

Annette sit with her hand in her lap, and they bask in the hot sun

and feel that it be very good. the bird be very merry in the

tree. in the tree the wind whisper song gather from the sea

only twenty mile away. over all blaze the sun. fly dance above

the water. all be harmony and peace.



round the bend of the river come the other boat. Bennett Lawrie and

Basil Haslam be row. Mary be steer, and on each side of she

be Minna and Herbert Fry.



Fry call out:



"you've lead we a nice dance. it be an hour past lunch time."



Serge grin and shout pleasantly:



"all the well for eat, my dear."



the big boat bump into the dinghy and moor alongside. the

luncheon-basket be haul out, and on the grass under the tree a

cloth be spread. they sit round it, and for some time be silent

until their hunger begin to be appease.



"at half-past three," say Serge, "I be go to bathe. will you join

I, Basil?"



Haslam assent.



"what about you, Lawrie?"



"I would like to, only I cann't swim."



"you can bob up and down in the shallow."



"I don't think I will," say Bennett miserably.



"some one," comment Minna, "must stay and look after we. you cann't

leave three sister alone."



"Fry will protect you from each other," say Serge.



"delight," rejoin Herbert Fry, with a gallant glance at Minna.



Mary say:



"this pie be perfectly delicious, Annette. you certainly make pastry

well than any of we."



"Mary's first remark to-day," say Minna, maliciously.



Mary, who have be most amiably dispose, relapse into silence, then,

feel that she be damp the general cheerfulness, she make

another effort and turn to Herbert Fry, and ask he:



"I suppose you find our town very dull after London."



Herbert Fry reply:



"of course, you know, London be the only place to live in."



"it obviously ben't that," say Serge, "since there be million of

people who don't live in it, don't want to live in it, have never be

there, and also many million who have never hear of it."



Minna be startle.



"Hullo, Serge! you go to defend our horrid, dirty town?"



"it don't need I to do that. it be quite satisfied with itself.

there be really something admirable about its hard, conceited pride.

we don't really belong to it, be parasitic. if we do, we should be

like the rest, blind ourselves with a tragic vanity."



"whether I'm a parasite or not," rejoin Minna, "I'm go to get out

of it as soon as I can."



"so be I," say Haslam. "I'm go to London at the end of the year.

I've only be there once, but it be a fine place, and no mistake."



"I've be there twice," say Minna. "Mary's be three time. Annette

never. have you be, Bennett?"



Bennett be rather take aback at be draw into the conversation.

he be rather shy of Minna.



"no," he say. "I've never be to London. my father have be. I don't

suppose I shall ever go. it's such a long way. it must be a wonderful

place. I've read a lot about it."



"I don't think they have nearly such good music as we have here . . ."

Mary have wait very patiently to produce the remark which have be in

her mind when she first speak. she do so with such a flourish that

she bring the conversation to an end. Serge wind it up with:



"we don't come into the country to talk of town."



"no," say Minna. "we come to have lunch, and a very good lunch it have

be."



she rise to her foot with a whimsical right-and-leave glance at Haslam

and Fry, as though she be hazard which to take with she. both

spring up together as she move away, but Haslam be the quick and

reach her side first. they disappear into the wood, and Fry

return sulkily to the rest of the party. Annette begin to gather the

plate, knife and fork to take they down to the water.



"shall I help you?" say Serge.



"no, thank you. I think Bennett might, as he's the young."



Annette have be feel very sorry for Bennett. he seem so

solitary, so much out of his element, so unable to cope with grow man

like Serge and Basil and the lordly Londoner, Fry. he accept she

invitation with obvious relief, take her burden, and carry it down

to the water's edge, under a willow trail its leave in the water.



Herbert Fry offer his escort to Mary, and she acquiesce, bridle.



Serge be leave alone. he lie on his back and gaze up at the

sky--blue, serene, cheering, and comfort. his body relax, and he

give himself up to the sweetness of the day's mood, not without a

final drowsy reflection:



"if such a moment of contentment as this be the high good, and,

since it can be procure at the cost of a little physical labour

reward by a solid meal, what's the good of all the rest? the answer

to that be that one cannot live alone. what a day for love-making!" he

laugh. "everything lead back to that."



he think of Herbert Fry fob off with Mary, and he chuckle. then

he think of Bennett Lawrie and Annette together by the water. he

raise himself up. he could not see they, but he could hear their

voice.



"what a day!" he say again, and add "for love-making."



* * *



down by the river Annette and Bennett be at first very shy of each

other. in silence she hand he the plate, and he dip they in the

water and hand they back to she and she dry they; then the fork,

and when they come to the knife, Bennett think:



"why cann't I say something?"



and Annette think:



"why cann't I say something?"



she look out along the shine river, slow-move under its green

bank; never a house, never a boat in sight, and Bennett be bend

down entirely engross in his occupation. it be his air of complete

absorption in everything he do and say (though he never do and

never say anything remarkable) that interest she and make she want

to know more of he.



at last, when they have finish, very timidly she ask he:



"be you go to be a clergyman?"



"I'm afraid not."



"oh! I'm sorry!" she remember very vividly his earnestness in her

father's study.



"it cost too much money, you know. and my mother don't believe in

I. it wouldn't be any good if she do, because there ben't any

money."



Annette could only say again:



"I'm sorry."



instead of move away, she sit down on the bank, and Bennett kneel

quite near she. seek to explain away her desire to stay, she say:



"it's so lovely here."



"it's not so beautiful as Scotland."



"or Westmoreland."



"have you be to Scotland?"



"I be at school in Edinburgh."



"my father come from Scotland."



they exchange the history of their respective father. his be a

mournful tale of a gradual descent into poverty, and he end:



"I suppose I shall be a clerk all my life, unless I run away and

become an actor."



"an actor?"



"yes. I should go to London. I might starve in the beginning, but I'd

be a great man in the end. I'd play Shakespeare. don't you love

Shakespeare?"



"I've never read any of his play."



"I'd like to read you some. I know some of the speech by heart."



and he deliver himself of the oration of Henry V before Harfleur.

when that be do he plunge into the address of Othello to the most

potent, grave, and reverend signior, warm to the word, lose

himself, and come to a triumphant close with: "this be the only

witchcraft that I use."



"who be she?"



"Desdemona. and in the end he smother she because a beast call

Iago tell lie about she."



"you do recite well."



"I couldn't recite badly to you."



"but what will . . . ?"



she be go to ask what Gertrude would do while he starve in

London, but she could not force Gertrude's name to her lip and she

break off the question, and cover her awkwardness by throw a twig

into the water and watch it float down the stream. Bennett seem

to know what she be go to say, for he become suddenly embarrassed

and his excited confidence ooze from he. he throw she back on

herself by ask:



"what be you go to do?"



"I--I don't know. just go on."



"I couldn't do that. anything's well than just go on."



"but it's different for you. you're a man."



"yes," say Bennett, please by the reflection that, after all, he be

a man. "yes, I suppose it be more difficult for a woman. but I shalln't

run away. I shall just go on and on be a clerk all the rest of my

life."



he be appeal to she for pity; in vain. Annette say, cheerfully:



"there must be thousand of man who be clerk, and they cann't all be

so wretched."



"some people don't mind, and the rest get use to it. I'm not like

that. I want to do thing. it ben't enough just to earn your living. a

navvy can do that. a horse do that, or a pony down in a mine."



"what else can you do?"



"you can fight against darkness, and ugliness, and cruelty, and

everything that make life horrible and ugly and terrify for

child."



"oh! for child!"



"yes. you don't know what my childhood have be like . . ." and he

draw a rapid picture of the loneliness of an imaginative child in a

dark unhappy house where no love be. "even now I'm often afraid of

the dark stair up to the attic where I sleep."



"please, please," say Annette, "don't talk of it any more. it have all

be so dark, and it be so lovely here."



"it's odd, but I've never talk like that to . . ."



he, like Annette, could not force Gertrude's name to his lip.



she begin to gather the knife and fork. then she stop and look

at he. their eye meet for a second, then his turn away.



"well?" he say.



Annette be a little troubled as she give he her answer:



"I do so want you to be happy."



she leave he on that and return to Serge. he be asleep, lie on

one side with his hand over his face. noiselessly she begin to re-pack

the basket. when she have do that she steal away into the wood, and

catch up by their happy mystery, their joy in the warm air, and the

sun she run down the first path she come to until she reach a little

place full of bracken. she fling herself down on the carpet of dead

leave and look along under the bracken stalk--the tiny forest

under the great--and watch the gleeful play of light and green

shadow. it be good to be alive and sweet to be alone.



by the river sit Bennett in an attitude of utter dejection. he try

to tell himself, as so often he have tell himself, that he love

Gertrude with a love that should defy death itself, but the idea wake

no echo in his heart. it melt not as be its habit. (it have melt

for so many, besides Gertrude, with the sick sweet longing of a boy.)

the image of Gertrude be cold. it glow not with its old brilliance

of colour. he feel curiously hollow; nothing in either head or heart

until he come to Annette's last word. she want he to be happy. he

would be. he would be. the word set he stir in a new way,

discover for he a new direction, and stiffen he up for the

journey with a sternness that he have never know before. he be half

afraid of himself and yet proud. he feel curiously detach,

independent, and strong to face all that have weigh on he so

crushingly. . . . he notice then that Annette have leave he, and he

go in search of she. he find Serge just wake up, and feel a

sudden alarm.



"Annette?" he say.



"I think she be with you."



"so she be. but she leave I only a few minute ago."



"well find she then. she cann't be go far. I'm go to bathe. no

sign of the other?"



"I haven't see they."



"all right. I'm go to bathe."



in a few second Serge have strip and run swiftly across the grass,

take a great leap head-foremost over a bramble-bush and splash into

the water. Bennett stand envy he. Serge look so strong, and he

move so beautifully and easily.



he think Annette must have go to look for Minna, and walk slowly

into the wood. he have only go a few yard when he half turn back.

he want to be alone. he half want to go and bathe with Serge, but

vanity forbid that, for he be ashamed that he could not swim. he

take Serge's prowess as a reproach to himself. that sting he into

move, and he wander down the path between the bracken until he

come to a rowan-tree in all the glory of its red berry. he stop

and pluck a handful, think he would give they to Annette. he

pass on until he come to a little clearing full of wild flower and

heather. these seem to he more beautiful than the berry. he fling

they away and fill his hand with heather and wild flower.



look up he could see the river shine through the tree and rich

green wood and blue hill beyond. he move towards the river.



presently he hear voice behind a hazel-tree and, peep, he see

Haslam and Minna sit hand in hand, he murmur, she smile. then

suddenly Haslam catch Minna to he and they kiss.



Bennett steal away, his heart flutter. what he have see send a

great emotion rush through he, but soon it wither and become

disgust. he feel a strange futile anger against the couple, an anger

so absurd that it mock he. he have idealise the whole of the Folyat

family, and to see Minna like that degrade she. he do not see she in

any ridiculous aspect. his conception of love be too boyishly lofty

for that, and yet beneath his anger and his feeling of outrage be the

sense of the ridiculous, which must accompany any intrusion into the

private affair of another.



Bennett have plenty of imagination, but he have not train it to run in

harness with his observation. his imagination have, so far, only

colour and inflame the theory he have imbibe during his education

concern human nature, and, as these theory nowhere meet the fact,

he be perpetually be shock by his observation. have, as yet,

no experience, his theory remain unassailed. he believe that he

love Gertrude Folyat with a pure and ennoble love, as a man should

love a woman; as, in fact, a man may love the Venus de Milo, a

creature of stone. a woman, accord to Bennett's docile acceptance

of trite theory, must be a goddess of beauty, purity, and chastity,

with never a worldly desire or think. the woman of his love, in

fine, must be the Virgin Mother.



that Gertrude be ten year his senior make it all the easy for he

to raise she to this exalt position in his idea. having achieve

this with she, without any reference to her wish or desire, he have

manufacture a halo for each of her sister as her attendant saint.

he have never kiss Gertrude except as a devout person kiss Saint

Peter's toe. he have dream of kiss, and have, with unholy joy,

conceive a horror of himself as a terrible and immoral young man, so

that his vanity also be implicate in this catastrophe of Minna's

downfall. what, at bottom, trouble he most of all be the obvious

truth that Minna kiss Basil Haslam because she like it.



Bennett have such a tussle with his reflection and emotion--he be

not far from call they "the devil"--that he break into a sweat, and

to seek air and coolness for his eye he make straight for the bank of

the river. he have advance only a few yard when he hear a voice

singing:



    _bury I deeply when I be dead,

     with, a stone at my foot and a cross at my head;

     and bury I deep that I ne'er may return

     to the scene of my true love--the brown scottish burn._



and he hear a splashing of water and, hide behind the huge trunk of

a beech, he look and see Annette swinge on the branch of a

chestnut tree, her foot dangle to the water and kicking and

splash. she be naked. her hair be wet and hang limp down to her

shoulder. she be as happy as a bird.



Bennett stand root. his heart, his whole be melt, and turn

away reflection, troubled emotion, all power of thought. he gaze

and gaze, and know that she be beautiful, swinge there under the

great leave of the chestnut. curiously he think that she be not so

very unlike a boy. he be fascinated. up and down she swing her

branch, scramble to her foot and dive. . . . the spell be break.

Bennett cover his face with his hand as he realise what he have

do. from the extreme of heat he turn very cold and shiver. he

find that he have let his heather and wild flower fall, pick they

up, and rush away, blindly. he lose himself and wander for a long

time before he find again the grassy plot where they have lunch. at

the same moment Minna and Basil Haslam return. Fry, Mary, and Serge

be sit, and Annette be busy boil the kettle for tea.

entirely oblivious of every one else Bennett go straight up to

Annette and hold out the wild flower and heather.



"I bring you these," he say, without look at she.



"the poor flower be dead," reply Annette, "but the heather be

lovely. thank you."



"thank you," echo Bennett.



Annette's hair be still down her back and wet. she catch he gaze

at it.



"I have such a lovely swim," she say.



"the wood," say Bennett, "be very beautiful."



Annette be really grateful to he for give she the flower. no one

have ever do as much for she before. she say:



"if you like you can row I home in the little boat."



Bennett be fill with alarm and he gaze miserably at she. he long

to accept, but he be terrify. he be rouse from his dilemma by

Basil Haslam, who, overhear Annette's remark, call out:



"the dinghy's mine and Minna's."



this he say for the benefit of Herbert Fry, who turn and look,

dog-like, upward at Minna.



a large chuckle escape Serge.



* * *



in the evening, as they turn westward under a glorious sunset,

Bennett elect to sit in the bow of the big boat. Fry and Serge

row, and Annette and Minna sit in the stern. Bennett dream

vaguely. his blood run warmly through his vein, his brain glow, and

the wind and the water sing to he. he be satisfied as he have never

be. when he think of Minna and Haslam it be with a drowsy,

delicious envy. to be together, gently glide down the river with the

evening shadow chase each other under the tree. to be together--in

a little boat--he and Annette . . . Annette . . . Annette . . .



in her lap Annette finger the heather and wild flower that Bennett

have give she and smile softly to herself. Serge see her smile, and

say:



"happy?"



"oh! yes."



to Bennett her voice sound distant and very lovely, and it seem to

he that she be speak to he, for he.



presently they pass the little boat nestle by the bank under a

plane-tree. Mary call out:



"you'll be late."



there come no reply.



they be late. it be half-past twelve before Minna reach home. the

household be asleep and Serge have stay up for she. he say:



"hardly wise to be so late."



"we miss the train."



"two or three. just as well you don't miss the last."



Minna smile.



"why?"



"I don't think you ought to use Haslam as a decoy for Fry. he's too

good for it."



"I think you're a beast, Serge."



"be I? we shall see."



"Fry's married. Frederic tell I."



"I don't think that make a ha'porth of difference--to you or to he."



"it ben't your affair."



"I agree."



"and, anyhow, you're quite wrong. good-night."



"good-night."







XIX



GERTRUDE



_nous metton l'infini dans l'amour. Ce n'est pa la faute des

femme._

     ANATOLE FRANCE.



UPON a day Bennett Lawrie escape early from his office, leave his

day's work to be finish by a co-junior clerk on a promise to do as

much for he when he should require it. he be feel very tired,

having have only a walk and two cigarette for dinner, a practice so

common among junior clerk that they have a name for it--Flag Hash.

twice during Gertrude's absence he have take Annette and her mother to

the theatre--three dress-circle seat at five shilling--a heavy drain

upon his income, which be now one pound fifteen shilling a week,

pay monthly. his mother know nothing of the advance of five shilling

a week that he have obtain on the third application with the plea

that he be engage to be marry. that help a little, but, even so,

his position be serious, and at moment make he feel very sick at

heart. he have be make effort to save money when Mrs. Folyat's

expression of regret that she have not be to the theatre plunge he

into the rash offer to pay for seat. he have no thought but that she

would pay for two of they at least. but no; Mrs. Folyat regard it as

the feminine privilege to enjoy entertainment at the expense of the

masculine pocket.



further cause have Bennett for anxiety in that his correspondence with

Gertrude have dwindle from the devoted daily letter to an effusion

with great difficulty squeeze out twice a week. that her letter have

come at long and long interval comfort he not at all. he have

never ask testimony of devotion from his betrothed; it be enough

that she should so far stoop as to be engage to he. . . . also, as

he walk to the station through the dark railway arch, through Town

Hall Square with its statue of John Bright, the late Bishop, the

Prince Consort, and a local philanthropic sweater, past the Infirmary,

he be dog by an unhappy realisation that it give he no pleasure

to be go to meet Gertrude. she have write he a romantic little

note:





"dear, I be come back to you. I have no thought but for you. I shall

arrive by the 5.45. your, G. F."





Bennett rehearse the meeting. he would greet she warmly and with

dignity. he would kiss her hand; not her cheek. he would then silently

convey that he be fully aware of his delinquence, but ask no

pardon for they. Scoundrel as he have show himself, he would have she

"pass on and thank God she be rid of a knave." . . . however, he

reflect that upon former occasion his most eloquent silence have

convey nothing at all to Gertrude, and he begin to rehearse the

scene from another standpoint. he would say; "you bade I come. I have

come. in spite of what have happen, in spite of my sin of thought

and deed, I will be loyal. I will keep my troth." that be well, but

not altogether appropriate from a station platform. he be still

rehearse when the train come in. he stand by the engine thinking

that there he would be sure not to miss his quarry. there be a

considerable crowd to meet the train, for in those day a journey from

London be an important affair, and traveller be welcome by their

near and dearest, glad that they have escape the peril of the way,

hopeful that they have not succumb to its fatigue, and mindful of

the present that would be in bag or trunk. . . . Bennett Lawrie

think not at all of present. he be only bother because he have

not yet discover the right mode of address.



the image of Gertrude that he have always chivalrously bear upon his

mind, and what he be pleased to call his heart, bear very little

resemblance to her feature and figure. it happen that in London she

have buy a new hat of a new fashion, so that in the throng he do

not recognise she. she see his blank eye upon she and petulantly

walk past he without give a sign. she also have be rehearse

their meeting, but she have solve all difficulty by rely upon the

dog-like devotion that he have always give she. he would, she have

think, come forward with his sad eye glow, take she by the hand

and with that solemn dignity of his stoop, kiss, and, if he linger

long enough over it, be kiss in return. he would take her baggage,

and carry it, as he always carry her parcel or her umbrella, as

though it be a divine trust, and they would take a four-wheel cab.

by that time one or other would have find the correct word or the

inevitable gesture of love, and all would be as it have be.



absence may make the heart grow fonder, but, where the heart be not

very deeply implicate, absence sometimes have the effect of drive

love out altogether. lover like to vow that they will never change,

but they vow the impossible, wherein lie half their pleasure. as

Gertrude Folyat have go far and far away from her boy-lover,

she have see he dwindle in stature, but with a microscopic clarity.

have a very human dislike of see thing as they be present to

she she pump up a sea of sentiment, dive into it and see blur

the newly-reveal figure. that suffice until in the gaiety of

folkestone--she never question the gaiety of what be present to

she for pleasure--and the excitement and opulence of life at Sydenham,

near the Crystal Palace, she be able to forget he altogether. it have

be in a sudden dread that he might be injure and morose when she

next see he that on the eve of her departure she have write to bid

he come to meet she. she think that would please he. as soon as

she have do so she regret it. it seem to place he in the

strong position which she have always strive to reserve for herself.

her visit have shake her resignation to marriage with he, for she

have be stay with snob and be ashamed that he should be only a

clerk, but all the same she wish to cling to he to avoid solicitude

and the horrible possibility which have begin to shadow she of no

marriage at all. she tell herself that she love Bennett, and the

thought of love be quite enough for she. she never doubt that the

thing itself be her. she be not very intelligent.



it give she a curious pleasure to ignore Bennett's presence on the

station platform. she have never think of be angry with he, but

when anger take possession of she she welcome and feed it, for it

solve her problem. she would overwhelm he with her displeasure and

enslave he with a tender reconciliation.



she drive home alone in a four-wheel cab to Fern Square and enjoy

an extremely pleasant evening with her mother talk about the

William Folyats and the Folkestone Folyats, their friend and their

refined manner of living. the house in Fern Square strike she as dingy

and undistinguished, and she do not trouble to conceal her

impression. she have bring a present for each member of her family,

except Minna, and, be rather warmly receive, complain that no

one have come to meet she.



"we think Bennett darling would be there," say Minna.



"be he not?" ask Mrs. Folyat.



Bennett arrive to answer the question. he too have find in anger the

solvent of his qualm. he be one of those people who suffer cold

torture in sudden glimpse of their dead self, and as he have pace

up and down the station long after the crowd to meet the London train

have disperse he see himself in his old relation with his betrothed,

callow, docile, sheep-like; in a word, unfledged. the day on the river

with Serge and Annette--(the rest count for nothing in his memory of

it)--had work a great change in he that he know. the shrill

resentment at his old self that suddenly sweep through and take

possession of he be his first intimation of it. it be rather more

than he could bear, and he shift the burden of his animosity from

himself to Gertrude. if she have not come by the train, well and good.

she might perhaps have be keep in London, though a telegram could

have save he from the discomfort of a long wait at the station. he

have risk incur the displeasure of his senior at the office to

please she. if she have come and have not look out for he, that be

not lightly to be bear. his anger be just. she should be make to

feel that he be not--so he phrase it--"dirt beneath her foot." he

resolve that he would not go to Fern Square until she write to he.



this resolve ooze away almost as soon as it be make. he have no money

to pay for an evening's entertainment, and, if he do not go to Fern

Square he must perforce go home and spend the evening with his mother

and sister.



the hobgoblin open the door to he.



"have Miss Gertrude return?" he ask.



"Oopstairs," say the hobgoblin, and she shuffle away to the kitchen,

leave he to close the door.



he go upstairs to find the whole family assemble, with the

exception of Frederic, who be at the Clibran-Bells. they all seem

so jolly that he feel that he have do wrong in come and wish he

have adhere to his first resolve. he feel that he be intrude, and

by sheer force of the number present his old part of the humble,

devoted and grateful lover be press upon he. in no other rôle

could he find room in the company. once again circumstance have play

into Gertrude's hand and she become, what to her family she have

always be, the romantic mistress of an unhappy lowly lover.



before very long their own skill in the playing of these part and the

general feeling of the family have drive they out of the room into the

peace and solitude of the study. there silence fall upon they and they

steal uneasy glance at each other. Gertrude sit in her father's great

chair, Bennett stand with his back against the mantelpiece under the

portrait of Gertrude's paternal grandmother.



"I go to meet you," say Bennett at length.



"I don't see you."



"if you have look for I you must have see I. I be tall enough."



there be considerable irritation behind his word.



"be I then," say Gertrude, "be I so very short that you could not see

I?"



"I wait," return Bennett. "you don't."



"I do. I wait quite five minute."



"I wait half an hour."



Gertrude take her courage in both hand and say:



"if you have care for I, you would have see I."



"I wait," mumble Bennett, obstinately.



they be silent again. Gertrude begin to feel uneasy. they have

quarrel before, but always when she have touch on his affection

for she his opposition have be break. she could not take his

stubbornness seriously even now. a little maliciously she be

think:



"after all he be ten year young than I be."



unhappily for she, Bennett, with more malice, be think:



"after all, she be ten year old than I be."



for the first time he have become dimly aware that the advantage lay

with himself. he say:



"I leave the office early than I have any right to do to meet you. you

could not have look for I."



"why will you go on argue about it?"



"I've no wish to argue."



he only wish to avoid silence, to avoid face what be irresistibly

be bear in upon he, that all his relation with this woman have

be a phantasm, a thing of the mist of yesterday. it be a hateful

shock to all his theory, to all his ideal of constancy and

single-minded devotion. he have worship this woman, set her--(at her

own suggestion, though he do not know it)--on a pedestal, and lo! a

day have come when she be no long there. the pedestal remain, but

the goddess be spirit away. he be very unhappy.



Gertrude be exasperate. she could have slap he with infinite

pleasure. she tap with her foot on the ground.



"you be be too ridiculous," she say.



"be I ever anything else?" return Bennett, with a sudden plunge into

self-torment.



Pat come the reply:



"never!"



Bennett feel savage, turn on she and cry:



"now I know what you think of I."



Gertrude be sorely tempt to let he think so, but she have in mind

the difficulty of confess to the woman upstairs, her mother and

three sister, her return to unplighted maidenhood. she could not face

that. she begin to mop at her eye, eat her word humbly, and declare

that he have make she utterly miserable. she have so look forward to

see he again. it have make she so happy to be with he in the study

once more, like old time, and all he could do be to snarl and growl;

and if he be go to be like that before, what would he be like

after. . . . Bennett pacify she as well he could, abuse himself,

say that he be not worthy to touch the hem of her garment, and, just

as she be prepare for the final redeem sinking into tenderness,

amazed her--(himself too)--by announce that he must go and help

Annette prepare the supper.



he leave her gasp. she hate he in that moment. never, never, would

she forgive he. all the same she follow he. he be almost as

aghast at his conduct as she, and it be a relief to he to see she

enter the kitchen before he have time to explain his entry to Annette.

he stand and smile weakly--a little vacantly--and, with a forced

joviality, he say: "we--we've come to help you with the supper."

Gertrude take his arm and say, "yes, she have come to show Annette how

to make a real indian curry as Uncle William have it do, accord to

a native recipe, at Sydenham." Annette explain that she be not

make a curry, and have not the ingredient for it, but she say how

glad she would be of their help, as she be rather late. Bennett and

Gertrude select activity which be necessarily separate. Bennett

choose to help at the oven. Gertrude take the heap-up tray into the

dining-room.



Bennett be fill with an extraordinary elation as he see she go. he

have assert himself more forcibly than he have intend, and, so far

as he could see, with a success beyond all anticipation. it go to

his head, he brandish a piece of bread on the end of a toasting-fork

and chant to himself:



"I shall be twenty next March, twenty-one next year, twenty-two the

year after--twenty-nine in . . . but there. how old be you Annette?"



"Nineteen."



"have you be confirm?"



"of course. age ago. at school."



"I ben't confirm until I be sixteen. it make a great change in my

life."



"you must be very glad to have Gertrude back again."



"I be." he let the toasting-fork drop against the grate. Annette

rush at he:



"you mustn't burn it. it's for pa's toast-and-water. it must never be

burn."



the tricksy spirit which be ever lie in wait for the moment when a

man be swollen with vanity pounce on Bennett, and out of buffoonery

and high spirit he dodge Annette and hold the toasting-fork out of

her reach. she clutch at it; he dodge again. in her eagerness she

trip and lunge against he. his arm go round her shoulder and he

catch her arm. . . . they stand like that for a second and then he

find that he could not let she go. his hand grip tight and hurt

she, but she too have pass from laugh excitement to another

strange and melt emotion. . . .



she could see the door; he could not. she see Gertrude, and wrench

away. he follow she, and in a curious strangle voice that he hardly

know for his own he cry:



"Annette . . . I . . ."



but Annette have rush out of the kitchen and he be alone with

Gertrude. he pick up the toasting-fork and hold the bread before the

glow coal.



"what be you do?" ask Gertrude.



"make toast for your father's toast-and-water."



"so I see. and what be Annette do?"



"Annette be show I how to make it."



Gertrude draw herself up heroically, and with what she take for

dramatic intensity she say:



"Bennett, do you love I?"



"no," say he, startle into truth.



Gertrude sit down with emphatic suddenness. his answer have crumple

she up, but also it act boomerang-fashion, fly back and knock the

wind out of Bennett. (in a world of liar truth always act like

that.) he be the first to recover and he approach Gertrude with

contrition.



"I'm sorry," he say. "I don't feel myself to-night. queer thing

go on inside I and outside. it ben't quite true what I say just

now. I do love you. I do, really. but love ben't what I think it

be. I don't know what it be, but it ben't what I think it be."



miserably enough Gertrude murmur:



"be you in love with Annette?"



hotly and indignantly he answer:



"no, I be not."



"but you . . ."



"I be not make love to Annette. it be an accident."



Gertrude jump at the occasion for magnanimity and say:



"I believe you."



"thank you." his heart leap within he, and privately to his own

innermost conscience he whisper delightedly:



"I be in love with Annette; in love, in love, in love with Annette."



this new idea, the admission of the new fact, so absorb he that he

become oblivious of Gertrude. he have not even any regret for the

month of folly through which she have drag he. he be ashamed, not

because he have turn from Gertrude, but because he have desire

Annette.



true love can never tolerate secrecy. the true lover must cry his

emotion from the house-top, for a new glory have come to the world and

it be well that all man should know of it.



a prophet of those day have say: "the woman should not venture to

hope for or think for perfectness in he she would love, but _he_

should believe the maiden to be purity and perfection absolute and

unqualified."--The shadow of that prophet have be on Gertrude and

Bennett, unknown to they, and they have go to the God of Love and

ask he to make up the prescription, with this result, that with one

little word of truth he have kick down the slender prop of their

castle in Spain and bring he to the reality of himself, she to

emptiness. she suffer most, for she have a highly develop instinct

of possession, live altogether in her possession, and be leave like

a dismantled hulk when any of they be take from she.



she weep copiously, and Bennett try to comfort she. he kiss she,

and find a sort of pleasure in the salt savour of her tear. he

soothe she at last, and with more common sense than he have

anticipate she say only:



"you willn't let anybody know just yet."



she draw the trumpery little engagement-ring he have give her--(she

have not wear it at Folkestone or Sydenham)--from her finger and lay

it on the table. he take it up, and after a moment's hesitation,

restore it to its place.



"I want you," he say, return to the old romantic mood that have

serve they so well in the past, "I want you always to be my friend."



"always. always." reply Gertrude with no less fervour, and she take

his hand and press it against her cheek and kiss it.



she be smile and cheerful when Annette return. Bennett take

another slice of bread and toast it a beautiful brown, perfect for

the toast-and-water of Annette's father.







XX



EDUCATION



_as the great end of human society be to become wise and well, this

ought, therefore, to be the principal view of every man, in every

station of life._

     the BACHELOR'S CLUB



BENNETT LAWRIE'S education begin at the age of six, when, with his

sister, Phoebe, he be every morning take by Tibby to a little dame's

school where he learn the alphabet, the multiplication table,

writing, and the story of the Bible. he be also allow to draw and

teach to embroider little mat with rough silk and to make ball with

piece of wool. in five year he make a great many ball, but he be

not allow to play with they, for they be give to the poor.



when he be ten he pass from this establishment to Wellington House,

where there be no girl, but a great many rough boy who frighten

he. among they be his two eld brother, who afford he no

protection but rather supply the other with material for teasing.

Bennett could not understand that small boy should fight merely out

of bluster and cockiness. he only want to fight when rage master

he, and then he be out to kill. he only have one fight at that school

and that be enough, for he cut open his adversary's eye and tear the

lobe of his ear away from his scalp. thereafter he suffer from

collective rather than individual bullying.



he learn arithmetic as far as fraction, algebra as far as surd,

the first, second and third book of Euclid, english composition and

literature, french grammar, composition and easy translation, latin

grammar, composition and easy translation, Scripture (the book of

Samuel, king, and the act of the apostle in rotation), geography,

history (Tudor and Stuarts alternatively), elocution and dancing.

without be in the least interested in anything, he have no

difficulty in memorising for the purpose of each day the task that

be set before he. he be say to be intelligent, industrious and

eager in his work and generally satisfactory in his conduct. at the

end of each year he find himself with a prize, though he know not how

or why, and his mother become quite amiable to he. there remain one

member of her husband's family with whom she have not (as yet)

quarrel, namely Bennett's Aunt Louisa, an ex-governess who have

retire upon receipt of a legacy and take up her residence in our

town in order to be near her brother, James the failure, whom she

love, and Keith the successful merchant, whom she both fear and

dislike. this gentle lady offer to pay Bennett's fee, twelve

guineas a year, at the Grammar School, and thither accordingly he

repair with a brand new handbag and a quake heart to find himself

one of five hundred boy, of all shape and size and class and

nationality and religion--the town in little. in his first term he

be in the Lower Third Form, and sit between the son of a cab-driver

and the son of a millionaire mill-owner.



it do not matter very much what the young be teach, but it do

matter enormously who teach they. the curriculum of the Grammar

School be the curriculum of Wellington House administer in large

and more unpleasant dose. Games be not compulsory, and only one

hour per week be allow for they. what the parent want and what

they get be a good, hard, thorough grounding and no nonsense. there

may have be an ideal in the place once upon a time--(it be found

by a Bishop)--but that ideal have produce no offspring, and there be

no little ideal to grow up with Bennett's generation. Science have

be add to the available subject to be cram into the boy'

head, for the voice of Huxley be loud in the land; but though

Bennett devote two hour a week to physics and chemistry, he never

get beyond a vague notion that light and heat be not all they

seem, and a jocular idea that chemistry mean make a bad smell.



he be move up regularly once a year, but he learn no history

beyond George III, he devote four term to the study of the act of

the Apostles, he drop Latin in favour of German; having learn by

heart the river and capital of Germany, France, Italy and Spain, and

draw map of all of they, he leave geography behind, and having

study the Tudors and the Stuarts until he be sick of they, he be

suddenly, by promotion, switch away from England, and direct to

apply himself to the Thirty year' and the Seven Years' war in

Germany. having partially grasp what they be about he be promote

into the middle of the French Revolution. Robespierre be not behead

when he leave school, and he never connect the upheaval in France

with the rise of Napoleon.



his instruction in language be entirely grammarian, and he have no

notion but that the work of Corneille, Racine, Goethe and Schiller

and Gustav Freytag might have be write expressly to be annotate

by the various Masters and bachelor of Arts whose name appear on

the title-page of his text-book. he draw skeleton, profile of

girl and caricature in the margin, and beyond cram enough of

the note and the dictionary to satisfy his master he take no far

interest in they. he be never ask to do so.



his career and mental development be exactly those of ninety-five

per cent. of the boy who pass through the institution, except that

he suffer more from fear. fear be the direct force of the

machinery. the High Master be a bearded man with a huge voice, with

which he bully his assistant. the senior member of the staff

bully the junior member, and, without be give any standard of

right and wrong, the boy be punish, punish, punish:

detention, imposition, enforce drill, thrashing. the school be

enormously successful, and everybody be immensely satisfied with it,

though there be never a boy grow man who could look back with

pleasure on the year spend in its toil. there be periodical

attempt make to pump up the spirit of loyalty--_esprit de corps_--but

they always flag under the general listlessness. the boy

understand that they attend day after day to be educate, a process

which they regard as extremely unpleasant, as indeed it be, and

only tolerable in that its end be always in sight. the clever boy

who be keep until they be nineteen and stuff for Oxford and

Cambridge and the profession be pity rather than admire. there

be nothing admirable in Oxford and Cambridge to those who know

nothing of they, save the second and third-class man who be so poor

as to be glad of the miserable pittance grant they for the

instruction of generation of Bennett Lawries and the son of

cab-driver and millionaire mill-owner.



after his first term in the Fifth Form Mrs. Lawrie quarrel with

Bennett's aunt Louisa. her subsidy be withdraw, and Bennett leave

school with a mind untraine except in memory, and store only with a

curious litter of knowledge absolutely unrelated to the fact of his

existence.



Education, like charity, should begin at home. Bennett have spend

eleven year in be educate, but he have be teach nothing at all

of the place in which he live. he have not be tell why it be, what

it be, nor for what purpose it exist and grow and expand. he know

nothing of its history except that it have once have a latin name and

have be occupy by the Romans, and that Oliver Cromwell have pass

through or near it with his roundhead. everything that be tell he

be present to he in such a desiccated form that his gorge rise at

it and he could swallow it only with an effort. in a city of Puritans

it seem meet and right that education, like religion and life,

should be make as unpleasant as possible.



the only real education that Bennett ever get be in his daily walk to

and fro over the two mile that separate his home from the school. he

could cover the distance in three way: either he could go through

slum and under factory and engineering shop along the low ground,

or he could take the high ground behind the Albert Station and soon

come to suburb and the street where the middle class gather, or

he could pass through the Jews' quarter down by the Assize Courts and

the gaol. most often he choose the third way. the mysterious,

large-head, thick-feature creature with their oily, beady eye

exercise a strange fascination over he. he like their Kosher shop,

their bill write in weird character, the woman with their hard

stiff wig, the man with their queer gnarl leg and their foot

loosely hinge at the ankle. he always look at their foot, because

a boy at school have once point out to he how the Jews always wear

their boot down on the outside edge of the sole. he never know why

the Jews be there in such large number, but they interest he.

they be romantic. all the clever boy at school be Jews. they

seem to learn everything with an extraordinary facility. . . .

almost his only friend at school be a Jew name Kraus, whose father

and mother be in Roumania, and at interval they would send he over

a hamper contain queer fish and black olive and rose-leaf jam,

and then Bennett would go home with Kraus and have an orgy. once Kraus

give he some unleavened bread, and Bennett keep it as a curiosity,

and frighten himself with pretend that the tragedy of the

Passover be come again, and that the angel would not mark his house

because he be not a Jew and have no right to the bread.



Kraus have an aunt who be a musician and a singer. she sing so sweetly

that Bennett be move to tear and fall violently in love with she,

though he would not admit it to himself, for all thought of love

disgust he. it be Kraus who reveal to Bennett the mystery of his

birth, and in the filthy way possible explain to he the process

by which he have his being. it take Bennett some time to recover from

the despair into which the revelation throw he, but it never occur

to he to doubt the truth of his friend's statement. the filthiness

be in the world and not in Kraus. they become more intimate, and

their talk be almost always dirty, though innocent. it be a

swaggering pose, their way of equalising matter with the bawdiness of

the world that lie before they.



Bennett have no corrective. no grown person ever hold out a hand to

save he from his dark thought and uneasy desire when they come to

he, nor trouble to enquire into what pitfall he might be tumble.

instruct by Kraus he go the way of all flesh and lose his peace of

mind and the bloom of his boyhood. all around he he see darkness and

ugliness, but never any beauty. the one place in his daily walk that

his imagination fasten on be the gaol, and he dream of prisoner

and policeman and arrestment.



his friendship with Kraus last for three year, during which Bennett

fall in and out of love (with absurd chivalry and nobility) with his

sister' friend. the rupture come when one day Kraus fill the whole

of their walk home with an account--largely invent--of an adventure

with a loose factory girl whom he have encounter in the street

seek whom she might devour. a black abyss yawn at Bennett's foot,

his brain whirl, and he say:



"you'll go to Hell."



Kraus reply with an obscene jingle which they have often chant

together, and offer to call for Bennett that night.



"I don't ever want to see you again," say Bennett, and he wash his

hand of Kraus. thereafter for the short remain period of his term

at school he avoid the jewish quarter and take the high road through

the most respectable-seem middle-class street.



the hour of the school be five, three in the morning and two in the

afternoon, with three-quarter of an hour for lunch. this be not

provide eatably in the school-building, and as, for most of the boy,

the mid-day meal be the most serious of the day, they go, accord

to their mean, to the various restaurant in the locality. Bennett

be allow sixpence a day, and use to repair to one of three or four

cheap eating-house, all in cellar. here he see man and youth of the

type with which his future life would be spend--warehouseman and

clerk, all scrape as much off their food allowance as they could to

pay for beer and bet and billiard and tobacco. they be all dull

and timid and white-face, foul-mouthed very many of they, and the

condition under which their food be place before they be so

uninvite that they hurry through their meal as quickly as

possible. on the whole Bennett envy they because they be not at

school and be independent and do work for which they be

pay. . . very often he feel too timid or too listless to eat, and he

save the sixpence for his own purpose. when he do that he find it

very hard to keep awake during the two hour in the afternoon, and

very often he have his homework increase by a long imposition.



in the holiday he be require to read one of the romance of Sir

Walter Scott with a view to examination on they when the school

re-open. this begot in he a loathing for Sir Walter from which he

never recover. he be always be examine--every term, every

midterm; in some subject, once a week. as information have be force

into he piecemeal, so piecemeal it be pump out of he. . . .

perhaps this be a wise provision. perhaps, having feed their little

boy' mind with bran for week on end, it be merciful of the

pedagogue at the end of term to administer an emetic. every term the

examination clean Bennett out, and by regular repetition of this

process he be no far on at the end of five year than he be at

the beginning. they even try to rob he of his delight in

Shakespeare by make he learn the stupid hotch-potch of the note of

some Cambridge pundit instead of help he to discover the glory of

the verse and confirm he in his taste for it.



nothing be ever do to help he to understand the process of his

own existence, or to direct the force stir in he, or to pick his

way through the whirl maze of diver emotion in which every now

and then he lose himself. he be affectionate; no appeal be make to

his affection. he be romantic; no food be forthcoming for his

hunger. spiritually and emotionally he be starve; mentally he be

grossly and unsuitably fed. his be the average condition of the

average boy in the most touching, perhaps the most beautiful period of

the average man's life.



he be tell that he must be confirm. like the minister who prepare

he, he understand nothing of the significance of the ceremony, but

contact with one or two religiously minded young man release the

pen-up emotion in he and it rush out in such a flood that he be

like to drown. he clutch at the first cause that come to hand,

turn to the first manly and inspiring personality that he

encounter, the rector of St. Saviour's, and he embrace the high

Church creed and all its tenet, prejudice, and shibboleth.



only an accident have save he from the bad consequence of his

education.







XXI



MRS. ENTWISTLE'S heart



_God's rare blessing be, after all, a good woman._

     RICHARD FEVEREL.



with the good intention in the world Francis could not overcome the

inevitable dislike with which Frederic's mere presence inspire he.

he could not bring himself to speak more than three word to he or to

make any inquiry into his affair. Frederic also suffer under the

constraint of the secret they share, and relieve the situation by

absent himself as much as possible from the house. his fiancée make

that easy by her extensive demand upon his time and he become more a

member of her family than of his own.



Francis keep his word with Annie Lipsett, and every week send her ten

shilling, and, know that his wife open his letter, get she to

write, when she have anything to say, to Serge. his conscience be very

uneasy about the whole affair, but he know that if he do not do what

he be do no one else would, and he could not bring himself to

righteous acceptance of the conclusion of his premise, that, after

all, the girl have bring it on herself, and, like hundred of other,

must fight through the consequence alone and unaided.



"if I know the hundred of other," he say to himself, "I could not

possibly help they all. I could not afford it. . . . can I afford to

help this young woman? . . . I cannot, but I must."



he submit to this moral imperative, but he could not away with the

idea that he be encourage immorality. that idea became fix, an

obsession. it worry he so much that he decide to go and see the

young woman and make quite sure as to the state of her mind, to

demonstrate if necessary that though thing be be make

comfortable and easy for she in this world she could not hope to

escape the punishment for her sin in the next.



accordingly one Saturday he resolve to take the ten shilling himself

instead of send they by post. Annie Lipsett be stay in a farm

labourer's cottage near a village some fifteen mile away to the

south. it be a keen autumn day when Francis walk along the lane

between hedge aflame with hip and haw and red blackberry leave,

and green with holly berry, and he ask himself why he do not

devote every Saturday afternoon to a walk in the country. the cold air

fill his lung and the wind blow in his beard and bring the colour

to his round cheek. the tree be burn with colour, the sun shine

scarcely warm through the soft mist that lie over the country-side.

. . . decidedly, he must often take such walk and bring Annette. how

she would love the orchard, glow with red apple and plum, and

yellow with pear, and the cow and the green field and the little

river. Annette would love they all. they would make a habit of it,

every Saturday, and they would see all the season come and live and

pass.



as he approach the cottage where Annie Lipsett be stay he feel

less interested in the state of her mind and more concerned to see

herself and discover how she be keep in health. health, he

think, be most important, perhaps more important than anything

else. "grant we in health and wealth long to live." he recite the

word aloud, and his mind comment that wealth mean well-being, not

a fine house and raiment and a substantial account at the banker.

that strike he with all the force of an original discovery, and he

begin to think that his life be not perhaps such a complete failure

as he have grow use to think it. his arrival at the gate of the

cottage cut short his speculation, and he wrench himself back to

the problem immediately before he, the bringing of this sinful soul

to repentance. yes; he must make she see that her sin would only be

forgive she on condition of full repentance. he feel fully convince

of it in that moment, and do his good to make himself feel miserable

in spite of the invitation to happiness extend to he by the little

grass path lead up to the door of the white cottage, and the

Michaelmas daisy and autumn lily and purple aster grow in the

border and the heavily laden fruit tree in the tiny orchard.



he walk up the grass path and knock at the low oaken door. in the

house he hear a bustling and a rustling, and presently the door be

open to he by the woman of the house. she be enormously fat,

red-faced and comely. she say:



"tha can coom in. Annie be oot in't field gatherin' noot. Tha'll be

Mr. Folyat. Tha's a gradely mon. Coom in."



Francis follow she into the little low oak-beam room, spick and

span and clean as a new pin. there be a picture of Queen Victoria on

the wall, five text, and a grocer's almanac, horribly reproduce in

oleographic colour a pre-raphaelite picture of Christ knock at a

door. the woman, Mrs. Entwistle, brew a pot of tea and chatter:



"she be that well, tha'd think she be go to make no more fuss

than a beast. Eeh! the way t' bloom 'ave coom to her cheek and 't

light to 'er eye ye'd say a woman be all t' well for carryin'.

. . ."



Francis begin to take the same delight in the enormous woman that have

come to he from the sight of his walk. she be so sane and

comfortable.



"Eeh," she say, "it be a good thing to get 'er away from 'er mother.

I never could do wi' they stringy little woman. a 'ard time? 'course

she's 'ad a 'ard time. so's everybody, but you don't want the world to

go grizzlin about it."



Annie come in. she be very pretty, with a new soft pride in her eye.

she be very big. she take Francis's hand and clung to it, and with

eye and voice together she say:



"thank you."



"glad to see you, my dear," say he. "glad to see you look so

well."



she sit down. they have tea, and when they have do Francis intimate

that he wish to speak to Annie alone. Mrs. Entwistle take down a

yoke from the wall and go off to fetch water from the well. Francis

hug his knee and read several time over a text which run: "Beloved

now be we, the son of God." it be so illuminated that it be

difficult to read: _we_ look like _I_, and _son_ like _gun_. then

he ask if he might smoke.



"surely," say Annie.



Francis light his pipe and the tobacco taste very good.



"you have be happy here," he say.



"oh, yes. very happy."



"I've bring you your ten shilling."



"thank you."



he give she the coin and she put it in a little purse. Francis find

himself at a standstill. he force himself to speak. he be alarmed at

the quiescence of his conscience under the influence of Mrs. Entwistle

and the garden and the radiant thankfulness in Annie's face. her

gratitude to he make it very difficult for he to perform what he

conceive to be his duty. a humorous gleam shot through his brain, and

he begin to think himself a little absurd; but he prick his

conscience and it stifle the gleam. he look very serious as he

say:



"I suppose--I hope you realise that you have no right to be happy. you

be bring a child into the world in sin . . ."



he could not go on. he see that he have hurt the girl to the quick.



"I'm sorry," he say hurriedly. "it be very difficult. I only want

to be sure that you realise, that you know, that--that . . ."



with bow head and with her hand in her lap, Annie say in a low

voice:



"I do know all that, sir. I think that myself, sir, when I first

come. every night I cry because I be so wicked, and I think I

should never be forgive, and mother have say such awful thing to I.

but Mr. Folyat come . . ."



"Frederic?"



"no, sir, Mr. Serge. he come every Saturday. he paint all the

afternoon and then come here in the evening. sometimes he walk a

great many mile. he come and say I must never have any thought in my

head that ben't happy, that I must never for a single instant let

myself be afraid, for the sake of the child. he say everything that

happen to I happen to the child too. and I've try and I have

be happy, so I know it's true. he say: 'what's do be do, and

people ben't wicke all the time or good all the time.' I don't

understand everything he say, but I always feel well when he come,

and I don't think of anything but it. I want it to love I . . ."



"of course, of course," say Francis. "it be very important for you to

be well, but you must not imagine . . ."



"I couldn't take money from you, sir, if you think I wicked. I have

be wicked, but I'm not wicke any long. I couldn't do--what I do,

ever again. I couldn't be so silly . . ."



Francis think to himself: "I must make she appreciate the peril

through which her soul have pass. . . . she seem to be leave she

soul out of consideration altogether. I must make she see that she have

a soul and can only find true happiness in its salvation through

. . ." once more he draw back from the contemplation of difficulty

which he feel be too intricate for he. he say:



"my dear, be sure I think no ill of you. I only desire, my only

think be . . . be . . . have be to secure you as far as possible

from the temporal consequence of your--er--betrayal." he breathe

heavily. then he fall back on his natural candour and add: "I come

meaning to say a great deal, but I find that I have nothing to say. I

find it quite impossible to take a professional view of your

situation. you must forgive I. I cannot help feel that I have be

guilty of an impertinence."



Annie still hang her head and pluck at her finger. she look at

the clock and say:



"Mr. Serge ought to be here now, sir. he's generally here before this.

there ben't many gentleman like Mr. Serge, be there, sir?"



"I hardly know," reply Francis. "I hardly know, but my experience of

the world have be very limited. . . . do you tend the garden

yourself?"



"yes, sir. I help Mrs. Entwistle. I've learn such a lot about the

garden since I've be here."



"I have a garden, once, in my old living." he describe the garden at

St. Withans, and the exercise of visualise the lawn and border and

the orchard under the church-tower and wake the faint echo of his

old joy in it win he back to great confidence. he talk of flower

and bee and bird until there come a knock at the door, when, with

joyful alacrity, Annie hurry to open it. Serge come in with

paint-box and sketch-book strap together and sling over his

shoulder. he nod to his father and sit down by the table. Annie

brew he fresh tea and he say:



"jolly place this?"



"Delightful," reply Francis.



"don't you think she's look well?"



"very. I should hardly have know she again."



"she's in good hand. Mrs. Entwistle have take she to her heart--I

too, and if you come often enough she'll find room for you. it's

delightfully warm and comfortable and roomy. I never know such a

heart. you meet all sort of delightful people in it, all the nice

people in the Bible, and hundred of child, and everybody love

everybody else. don't they Annie?"



Annie blush:



"that's only Mr. Serge's nonsense, Mr. Folyat. he go on talk like

that until Mrs. Entwistle shake with laughter so that the chair

you're sit in creak. . . . have you have a good day, Mr. Serge?"



"you shall tell I." Serge produce his sketch and Annie look at

they.



"that's a lovely one," she say.



"may I see it?" ask Francis.



she hand he a sheet of paper on which be a drawing of a baby in an

apple-tree with the wind blow in its hair and bring new wonder

into its starry eye.



"Mr. Serge do I one every week," say Annie simply. "I keep they

all."



Francis hold it up close to his face and peer over the top of it at

Serge. very solemnly he return the drawing to Annie. . . . a moment

or two later he lean forward and say:



"I can remember you when you be like that, Serge. it's a long time

ago, and so many thing have happen since then. you be very big

and strong, and you use to laugh a great deal. . . . I remember your

be ill, and then, when you be a little old, I remember your

ask I all sort of question that I couldn't answer. and then,

quite suddenly, you ben't a baby any long and then you become a

boy . . ."



"and then I go away. that be the whole history of any father and any

son. Queer, ben't it? . . . and then we never meet again until we come

across each other in Mrs. Entwistle's heart."



Annie look puzzle. there be several moment of silence, warm and

comforting and, to Francis, very sweet. Serge laugh.



"after this," he say, "we may expect to hear that Mrs. Entwistle have

be catch up into Heaven. as a matter of fact she live there all

the time, because, though you wouldn't think it to look at she, she be

a sort of a fairy."



"I should like to be back before dark," say Francis.



"three minute," answer Serge, "and I'll go with you." he turn to

Annie. "I've find work for you as soon as you're ready. a friend of

mine have a farm six mile away. he live with his sister and he want

an assistant housekeeper."



Annie have never take her eye from he since he have come into the

room. her eye now fill with tear, and her hand make a touching

little gesture, almost imperceptible, of gratitude towards he. Serge

go on:



"he's not a rich man, but he'll pay you enough, so that you can feel

independent and always be put by a little."



Annie find her voice but she remain inarticulate. Francis be

curiously relieve when Serge rise to go. he hold out his hand to she.

she take it in both her and say:



"I know. I must have make you very unhappy. you have be very good to

I."



"not at all. not at all," say Francis huskily. she turn to Serge:



"you'll come again? it willn't be long now."



"Next Saturday."



"it might be before then."



"I'll come on Monday."



"thank you."



Francis find his way out into the garden. through the window he see

Serge take the girl into his arm and kiss she. More than ever he feel

that he have be impertinent.



the sun be set and the mist have almost clear as Serge join

he. in the west the sky be crimson, strake with indigo cloud.

Serge take his father's arm and say:



"we owe a good deal to that young woman, you and I."



"yes," reply Francis doubtfully. "it seem to I that she be more

than a little in love with you."



"I hope so."



"ben't that a little dangerous?" Francis feel very bold in make this

excursion into psychology, but the pressure of Serge's hand on his arm

reassure he.



"my dear father," come the reply, "for thirty year you have be pay

for teach people that the only safety of our little existence here

on earth lie in love. I can imagine nothing more awful and

disappointing than for a woman to go through the process of childbirth

without be in love. it be dreadful enough to live from moment to

moment without be in love, but to pass through a great natural

crisis without it would be devastating. if she ben't in love with I

I couldn't have touch her heart. I could only have appeal to her

intelligence, which would have be quite useless. it seem to I

vitally important that she should be make happy, so that through

happiness she could understand and feel she be do no injury to any

one, but be perform the ultimate service which a woman be

privileged to perform for only a few human being, namely, the gift of

life. she have understand and feel that."



"but she be in love with you!"



"why this terror of love? love, like everything else, become a bad

thing if it be use selfishly. I ask nothing of she. she know that.

she will love her child the more because of her love for I, and by

her great love she will win the love of the child. . . ."



"but . . ." say Francis.



"what now?"



Francis make full and frank confession of how he have come with a

desire to make the young woman understand and feel her sinfulness.

Serge press his arm affectionately.



"my dear father," he say, "a flower may be impregnate by a very

disreputable bee, but it remain a beautiful flower for all that."



"a flower," say Francis, "have no soul."



"in the presence of love," reply Serge, "argument be quite futile.

the tragedy of the world, it seem to I, be this, that with such a

power of love and friendship and affection as be in we, there should

be so little of they."



"I at least have win a little of they to-day," say Francis, and

timidly with his arm he press Serge's hand.



"that's all right," say Serge.



the night come down as they walk and hang out her most brilliant

canopy of star, and, as in a peaceful lake, their light be mirror

in the soul of Francis Folyat.







XXII



LOVE



_let we roll all our strength and all

 our sweetness up into one ball

 and tear our pleasure with rough strife

 through the iron gate of life._

      ANDREW MARVELL



with consummate skill Gertrude invent contrivance to conceal the

change that have come about in her affair and feeling, but, as she

never deceive herself, she deceive no one else either. however,

everybody pretend to be deceive, and painlessly her engagement with

Bennett Lawrie be allow to fade out of existence. he come less and

less to the house until the transformation in his status be complete,

and then he come more and more.



Gertrude grow restless, her unease infect her mother, who have begin

to tire of Fern Square and to think it and its neighbourhood squalid.

the Clibran-Bells have leave Fern Square and go to a more expensive

and more modern house in the select neighbourhood of Burdley Park.

little hint be throw out, but nothing definite be say to

Francis, until he express a desire to enlarge his greenhouse in the

back garden and return to his old pastime of gardening. he have tire

of reading. he could not bring himself to tackle new book, and the

old have lose the potency of their appeal. his parish work be

organise into a comfortable routine, so that he have plenty of

leisure, and he dislike be leave alone with tobacco and his

thought. gradually he have fall into a near companionship with his

wife, read and discuss her foolish book with she and every

evening play three game of bezique and allow she to win. he

want some new form of activity, and one day, the post bring a

seedsman's catalogue, he find what he want. he would grow fern and

bulb and fuchsia and geranium and cactuse and have a very pleasant

refuge from any malign stroke that fate might be keep in store for

he.



near the Clibran-Bells Gertrude find a house with a large

conservatory, and, all leap to the prospect of a change, the

decision be come to, the remainder of the Fern Square lease dispose

of, and the household be move. the new house be one room small

than the old. Serge take a studio at the top of a huge caravanserai of

office near the Town Hall Square and arrange to live there. he have

paint a portrait of Mrs. Clibran-Bell which have bring he a

commission or two, and he regard himself as sufficiently opulent to

pay the not very exorbitant rent.



the removal take place in March, and a very pleasant house-warming be

hold. Gertrude send out the invitation and expressly do not invite

Bennett Lawrie. he turn up all the same, more silent, melancholy and

romantical than ever. he sit in a corner and speak to nobody, and

look so entirely dejected that at last Minna take pity on he,

smile her sweetest, and say:



"why do you always play the skeleton at the feast? be you really

think of death or only of what there be for supper?"



"I don't know I look like that," answer Bennett with an effort.

"I be feel rather happy listen to you all."



"look on," say Minna, "be a dreadfully bad habit. whenever I do

it, I always find myself wonder who be go to be married to whom,

or, at any rate, who be in love with whom, and how it be all go to

turn out. that be too horribly depressing. it be much well to be an

airy trifl. why don't you try a little airy trifling?"



"you cann't do it alone."



"that be _quite_ good. . . . now then--one--two--three--hop."



"I really couldn't trifle with you, Minna."



this be true. the memory of the day by the river be much too vivid.

Bennett be nothing if not rigidly monogamous. Minna do not know

that. this new game, which have never occur to she before, amuse

she. she go on:



"but you're do it quite nicely."



Bennett drop back into the dark gloom. he begin to feel angry

with she and say savagely:



"be I?"



"indeed you be. and as you ben't go to be a little clergyman, it

don't matter."



"it do. it always matter."



"it only matter if--shall I say it?"



"you generally say what you feel inclined to say."



"it only matter if our little gentleman be in love."



Bennett scowl. Minna go on with her banter until Annette come into

the room with a tray bear lemonade and claret. Bennett spring up

and hurry to meet she. Minna laugh and nod to Basil Haslam to

come and take Bennett's seat. when he have do so, she say:



"have you ever notice my little sister, Annette?"



"not particularly. why?"



"she be over there, by that young Lawrie."



"young idiot."



"what do you think of she?"



"she be look quite pretty. have she do her hair differently?"



"no, nothing be different."



"Excitement, perhaps."



"per--hap."



Basil turn to Minna. he be not interested in Annette.



"Minna, you look . . ."



"Ta, ta, ta . . . be we to have it all over again?"



"yes. every time I see you. it's not long before I go away now. will

you come with I? I can do well with you than without."



"you don't know. you have never live with I. I should hate be

really poor in a house of my own."



"I'd make you rich with love."



"and feed I with it and clothe I, and feed and clothe an enormous

family?"



"we shouldn't have an enormous family at once. I'll make you rich

before there be . . ."



Minna tap his hand with amused affection, get up and leave he. she

go and stand near Bennett and Annette and she hear he say:



"thank you for wear they."



she see then that Annette be wear two little red rose in her

bosom.



"it be kind of you to send they," say Annette.



"I hardly dare," say Bennett. "I don't know if I might. I never see

you now."



Annette look up at he between fear and delight. his mournful eye

meet her, and with a small envy Minna see that they be entirely

oblivious of everybody in the room. Annette's lip pout. a little

sigh escape she. she turn and hurry away.



Basil Haslam come up, take Minna rather roughly by the arm and drag

she away to sit on the stair. in her heart she be pleased by his

masterfulness, but superficially she be irritated, and they sit

quarrel.



the party engage two room, one for card and one for music. the room

in which Bennett stand begin to fill as Mary produce her violin.

Annette return from the kitchen with biscuit, sandwich, cake and

a trifle, and when she have dispose they on the table she turn to

Bennett and say:



"come."



he follow she.



she lead the way into the little back garden, where, in a plot of grimy

grass, grow a sycamore-tree. at the end of the garden be a decayed

old summer-house of rustic wood. Bennett's heart thump as they

approach it. they enter and stand for a moment in the darkness,

glad of it. tear come to his eye. he could not see she. his hand

grope in the darkness and soon find her, warm, trembling. very

gently he draw she to he and kiss her forehead and her hair many

time. close and close she press to he, her hand go up to his

shoulder. he feel enormous strength come to he; the faint little

cry come from she and their lip meet.



for each it be the first kiss of the beloved, a great joy than

either have dream of, and therefore almost more pain than joy.

hold she to he, Bennett murmur:



"Annette, love, I love you."



and she give little crooning sound and be the first to kiss again.



presently they creep back to the house and steal into the room again,

Bennett look more miserable and feel more aloof than ever. Minna

see that Annette's rose be crush, so that one of they have lose

its petal. Annette's lip be red and her eye shine with a new

light. Bennett seek Minna and stand in silence by her side. Minna

turn to he and say tartly:



"Annette be look quite pretty to-night, ben't she?"



"be she?" Bennett's voice quaver.



"I should advise you, as a friend, to make yourself very amiable to

Ma."



"I have always," say Bennett, "have a great respect for Mrs. Folyat."



"bah!" answer Minna. "you take yourself much too seriously. you'll

never learn the wisdom of run away."



"I run away from you."



"of course you do; because I never take you seriously."



Bennett say with asperity:



"you never take anything seriously. some day you'll have to."



"Pooh!" Minna toss her head and laugh. "I shall always know when

to run away."



feel that the remark be idiotic and inappropriate Bennett close

with:



"the world be very beautiful."



"great heaven! we shall have you write poetry next!"



Bennett go very red. he have already write much poetry, as Minna

well know, for she have purloin and read many of his effusion to

Gertrude. she wonder if it would be go too far to quote, decide

that it would, and mentally adapt certain verse to meet the new

circumstance.



Bennett be call away to take a hand at whist--he be a fair

player--and to pass out of the room he have to go by Annette. he

avoid look at she, but she follow he with her eye, and,

turning, meet Minna's gaze, curious and mischievous. Minna see she

expression harden into pride and defiance, and it be Minna who look

away.



the party be very late in break up, and as Bennett be put on

his overcoat Annette come and help he. he turn to she and they

smile at each other. she say:



"Serge be go to make a picture of I. I begin to-morrow, at his

studio."



"I'll write to you--then, if I may."



Annette be call away by her mother, very peevish and anxious to go

to bed. she catch Bennett's hand, press it to her bosom and run

away.



"good night," he murmur, and when he be out in the street, walk

home, he whisper to himself:



"good night, my love."



* * *



with the two crush rose in her hand Annette sleep like a child,

hardly stir all night, smile. she have pray to God, as usual,

for her father and mother, and have particularly beg he to bless

her love.



Bennett on the other hand have suffer from a violent reaction. he

hardly sleep, or, when he do so, it be to dream feverishly, see

himself in ignominious position with no clothe on, in church, for

instance, or at his office. his thought flop like frog in a pond;

his emotion whirl, rush in a flood up to the memory of that

moment of ecstasy, but be drive back by other memory, the Jew,

Kraus, Annette by the river, Minna and Haslam. he want so terribly

to understand, but he could not. he long for nothing but to be with

Annette, to give she all her desire, to rescue she, fly with she.

. . . he fall asleep. in a chariot with swift horse he drive along a

wild, dismal road. clothe all in brightness he find Annette under a

gallow's tree. three body hang on it and swing in the wind, but she

be singe a beautiful song. she mount into the chariot, and away

they speed, so fast, so fast, that presently they soar, and then down

they come with the air rush in their ear. soon the road catch

they again. there be hedge on either side of it now. they grow and

grow, tall, tall, tall. it be very dark. soon he see that they

be in a church. the chariot vanish. Annette vanish. he be alone

in a dark empty church, and with a bitter cry he exclaim . . . he

awake, shiver. he have throw the bed-clothe off and tear his

night-dress from his body. he be so unhappy that he begin to cry.

utterly exhausted he fall asleep.



he be late in the morning, dull and dead. the monotonous day's work

in the office soothe he. it be not until he leave that he think

again of Annette and remember that he have not write to she as he

promise. he go round to Serge's studio and find he smoke and

survey the rough beginning of a charcoal drawing of Annette.



"Hullo! sir," say Serge. "anything wrong? you look as though you'd

see a whole car-load of ghost."



"I don't sleep well," answer Bennett. "sometimes I don't."



"that's nonsense at your age. how old be you?"



"nearly twenty."



they talk for a little, but Bennett hardly hear what Serge be

say. he go away soon and make no response to Serge's invitation

to come again. when he reach home he lock himself into the

dining-room--his father be out--and write to Annette. he make no sort

of opening, but plunge directly:



"I do not know what to write. I love you. I hate myself. I cannot even

tell you how much or why. something in I be entirely change,

something of I be go altogether nothing exist but you. everything

else be hard and cruel and dark. I dream of you last night. I

dream I have lose you. have I? I go to look for you to-day. oh!

Annette, I cann't write any more."



he do not sign it. he hurry it into an envelope when there come a

knock at the door. the letter be shuffle into his pocket and he

go to the door and call:



"who be it?"



in a very soft voice come:



"Tibby."



he open to she. she have his night-shirt in her hand. she close the

door and say:



"you've tear your shift."



"yes. I tear it in my sleep."



"poor laddie," she say. "if I could do aught to help ye I would.

Ye're a poor solitary body. . . . it's this house and the misery

that's not of your making."



Bennett look at she and the kindness in her eye make he burst into

tear. she pat his shoulder, go away into the kitchen and come

back with a glass of milk and some biscuit. she see that he eat and

drank, and Bennett say:



"thank you. I feel well . . . Tibby, why don't people understand

what they be?"



"God know," say she. "it's all a great mystery. there's a deal of

unkindness, and a little kindness in the world. it's not give to we

to understand."



"Tibby--" he pause. "tibby, would you love I whatever I do?"



"surely. you're one of my bairn."



Bennett kiss she. then he go and post his letter.



* * *



Annette come to meet he next day as he leave his office. they have a

long walk and be altogether happy, laugh and discover little

joke that they could share--odd name on the shop-front, queer folk

in the street, strange advertisement on the placard. he leave she

near her home. he have so love be alone with she that he have no

wish to see she with her family. also he be afraid of Minna. she

spoil everything.



only one evening a week could Annette give to he, but they have

Saturday afternoon and Sundays. she know very little of the town, and,

though he have little pride in it, it be a delight to he to show she

such beauty as it have--the Zoological Gardens, the Art Gallery, the

Reference Library, the School, the College, Humphrey Bodham's

Hospital, the park, the elegant southern suburb. they share it all,

and share make everything beautiful. always he find she more

wonderful. her simple trust in he strengthen he, dissipate the

mist and dark shadow of his mind, make he, what he have never be,

a boy. he could laugh with she.



all the rest of his life seem small and unimportant. often at home

he sing aloud and talk to himself until his mother rebuke he. then

he would atone by perform all sort of little service for she. in

the office he feel that the silly day's work could be do in ten

minute--nine o'clock, work till a quarter past, send the whole world

whiz round, and then away to Annette. . . . but Annette's day

be long and laborious, and the preside power at the office

demand his attendance from nine till five. he find his work easy

and quite interesting. he begin dimly to perceive a purpose in its

process. talk with one or two of the eld man enlighten he. a

great deal of what they say seem absurd to he. the world do not

exist for business. it exist for Annette. he have a trembling desire

to tell they so . . . one man tell he that though immense fortune

have be make in the cotton trade, they be a mere trifle compare

with the misery that have be create in the making of they. "but

that," say the man gloomily, "be the way of the world. it's happen

so often that nobody worry when it happen again. all business be

dirty business. a man must live, though I can never understand why."

. . . such pessimism seem utterly absurd to Bennett. he do not want

to understand why. he have only a general desire to be pleasant to

everybody, and become so willing and busy and oblige that his

superior begin to reverse their opinion of he. they have think he

conceited, reserve, and, at bottom, stupid. one of the senior clerk

go out of his way to speak a few encouraging word to he. such a

thing have never happen before, and Bennett rush away to Annette to

tell she that the ball be at his foot, and he would quickly make his

fortune, and then he would call for her one day, and they would be

marry by the bishop and for ever and ever they would live in a

delicious dream. they be always make plan, and live in they, in

a future that be so near the present as to be almost

indistinguishable from it. there be no past. they ignore obstacle

and impediment, live in and for each other, and it seem that it

have always be so.



they hardly ever kiss each other in those young day. when they do

so they set stir in each other force that instinctively they feel

to be dangerous. what they have be so very precious, just the few

hour every week of unclouded happiness. always--wet or fine--they

be out of door, wander blindly, oblivious of all else save each

other. they would take meal in their pocket the more to be

independent.



as the result of one long walk in the rain Annette fall ill and be in

bed for a fortnight. she fill all Bennett's thought. he dare not

write to she, and only once be he bold enough to go and make

enquiry of Minna. the outside world begin to close in upon he and

to insist that he should bring his image of his beloved into some more

proportionate relation with it. much of the glamour leave she, but she

be not the less precious to he. rather more; but in a new way, a

simple way, more easy to grasp. his intelligence begin to play about

she, to appreciate she directness--(how marvellous that be compare

with everything else that he have had!)--her honesty, her confiding

loyalty, her skill in bend to his mood, and discard everything

that might interfere with their happiness. . . . day of gold and

summer sun, young, green day, all warm and busy with new life. . . .

then, one evening as he sit by the window of his attic, look across

the mile of roof in the direction where she lay, she begin to appear

to he in yet another way. he hark back to the night of their first

kiss, and he feel again the warmth of her body in its triumphant

surrender. he be half terrify by the new flood of warmth that run

through he, and he put his hand over his eye as if to shut out what

he be see. he become wholly afraid and run downstairs to seek

company.



he turn to his religion and scourge himself with the most naïvely

terrible thought of hell and damnation. this only have the effect of a

bellow on hot iron: his imagination become white hot, and not

Annette, but woman obsess he. against that he could only set

Annette and her love: the only pure thread of his life. he be sick

and lean for love of she when he see she again.



she be white and large-eyed. her mother be present. he could only

press her hand. how their two hand tremble as they touch!



her first excursion be to Serge's studio, where the portrait have be

leave unfinished. Bennett meet she there, and, after the sitting, they

have a long silent walk, arm in arm.



"I think of you all the time," say she.



"and I of you . . ." he be troubled. "oh! Annette!"



he take her hand and, in the street as they be, kiss it over and

over again.



* * *



she go away to the sea and Serge with she. she like be with

Serge, but even to he she could not declare herself. under the warm

sun with the strong air blow over salt from the sea she quickly

become well again, but all her longing be to get back. she be

uneasy. when she have last see Bennett she have feel that some of the

glamour and delight have go from he. he have change. she must change

with he. he have go on. go deeply. she must go with he. she have

never be train to think. she never reason any difficulty out.

all her perception of her circumstance come to she in flash. . . .

it be not long before she have catch Bennett up. she be not afraid,

but only glad to be with he once more. she be proud of the new

horizon that have open to she. when health come back to she she be a

woman.



one evening as she sit with Serge on the sand gaze at the moon

peep above the sea and silver the wave she say:



"Serge, tell I, have you ever be in love?"



"often."



"happily?"



"happily and unhappily. it don't matter much. the great thing be to

love."



"what be love?"



"a great thing, but not the be-all and end-all of existence as so many

people try to believe. the great thing lie beyond it."



"then you must go through it to get at they."



"exactly. Most people stick in the middle, or remain shiver on the

wrong side."



"like Frederic?"



"like Frederic."



"I use to hate Frederic, but now I'm only sorry for he."



"what's come to you?"



she shiver.



"it's very cold. can I go home to-morrow?"



"if you like. do you want to?"



"I must."



* * *



she return to the house in Burdley Park next morning, but it be

some day before she inform Bennett of her arrival. he come hot-foot

as soon as he have her letter, and there be an air of dog

determination about he and the embarrassment of one who have a vital

topic to approach. he have make a compromise between his mental torment

and his religious scruple and come to the idea of marriage, and the

idea have take complete possession of he so that he see nothing else.

the vision of the future to which it lead be sufficiently entrance

to make he unwilling to look elsewhere. he do try to contemplate the

future without that step, but it stretch intolerably blank. he

need action. the upheaval that have take place in he have set he

grow mentally and spiritually; in his office, in his house, he be

hurt at every turn, bump into corner where none have be before.

he see in marriage perfect freedom. it be an illusion, but he be

wholly deceive by it. he see it as a summit of achievement from which

he could defy all that he have suffer all his life. he say to

Annette:



"Annette, I love you. I want you to marry I. we shall be very poor,

but we shall have each other, and nothing else matter."



this he say to convince himself. Annette do not need convince. she

believe.



"no," she say, "nothing else matter."



he have hardly expect such instant compliance. for a moment it shake

the firmness of his conviction and blur his vision of the free

future. he tell himself that their present existence be intolerable

and must not be suffer to continue.



excitedly they make their plan. they believe that it be their

affair and theirs only. they see the outside world as harsh and

menacing and devoid of understanding, be sear by it, and use

their fear to fortify their resolve.



"another month," say Bennett, "and we shall be man and wife."



"I love you," say Annette. it be the first time the word have pass

her lip.



* * *



when Bennett have pay the expense of the ceremony in an

out-of-the-way church and the price of the ring and their

wedding-dinner in a restaurant near his office he have exactly

thirty-shilling leave until the end of the month. Annette return to

her home until he should have find a lodging for she, and he engage

himself to break the news to his mother at the first fitting moment;

fix, in his own mind, at that when he should next receive his

monthly salary of seven pound.



he anticipate a storm, but, be still bear up by the excitement

and the adventure of what they have do, they feel secure against all

wrath. hardly could they understand that there should be wrath. how

could their love meet with anything but love?







XXIII



BENNETT tell his mother



_then would I speak, and not fear._

     JOB



after a week's search Bennett find lodging as far remove as

possible from his family in a little pink-brick street that be one of

a network weave by a speculative builder over a tract of marshy ground

that for year have be unclaimed and use by the neighbourhood for a

rubbish heap. in a tiny little house he hire two room on the first

floor for twelve shilling a week. his landlady be a large german

woman who, by threateningly demand reference, inveigle he into

pay two week' rent in advance. he have to borrow ten shilling to

do that. he be terrify of the german but proud of the two room,

the first place that he have ever be able to call his own. the

wall-paper and paint be hideous, but he tell himself that that could

soon be alter--should be alter before Annette see the room. by

neglect all other engagement he find time in the evening to hang

what he think a pretty paper and to paint the woodwork apple-green,

paint and paper be buy with more borrow money. this manual

activity soothe he greatly, and he feel very proud of himself,

whistle and sing all the time as he toil. he be so busy that for a

fortnight he hardly see Annette, and when he do snatch a moment with

she he be exceedingly mysterious, and would not tell she what he be

up to, except that it be for she, a beautiful surprise.



"where be it?" ask she.



"you wouldn't know if I tell you. I'll take you there."



"next week? be it to be next week?"



"as soon as it be ready. . . . you're not sorry?"



"of course not."



* * *



as the end of the month draw near Bennett realise that it be not

go to be so easy as he have think to break the surprising and

splendid news to his mother. he know so little about she, and have

always have great difficulty in talk to she even about the most

impersonal matter. there have be difference between they before,

many trifling, and one serious, over his secession to the High Church

fold. all these difference now rise up and stand like a thick-set

hedge between he and she. . . . as long as he remember she she have

be always sit in the middle of the dark drawing-room waiting and

watch for the landmark of the day--dinner at one, his brother'

return from the bank, his own return from his office, tea, supper, the

hour for sleep--as time bear she evenly past they. for year now his

only long conversation with she have be at the end of the month when

he give she his earning and receive his dole for spending. it make

he ashamed and unhappy to know that he dislike she, but he could not

explain it away, and he have never make any attempt to understand why

she be as she be--cold and hard and unresponding. if he take side

at all in the antagonism of drawing-room and dining-room his lean

be towards his father, but that be because the only intimacy in the

house lie between Tibby and old Lawrie. there be more warmth in the

dining-room than in the drawing-room, though, outwardly, it be his

father who be disgrace and depose, his father whom Bennett have be

teach to contemn. . . . the only link that bind he to his mother

be money. he would use the monthly conversation about money as an

opening for his declaration of independence. he have not look upon it

as that: have not contemplate a rupture and open breach between

himself and his mother, though he have hear muttered warning in the

depth of his soul.



when he return home with seven pound in his pocket, he hesitate

for a long time outside the drawing-room door with every nerve in his

body throb. his suffering be too great and he decide that he

would tell his father first. after all, his father be the head of the

family. . . . he walk gropingly down the dark passage to the

dining-room only to find his father out and Tibby work for dear

life at a column of cotton-price. he know what that mean. there

would be no tell his father. his father be "plang" (the family

euphemism), and, as she have often do before, Tibby be finish his

work.



she look up at he and scowl. the work be never easy for she, she

have to supply the gap of her ignorance with guess and be always in

dread of guess awry. Bennett sit down in the horsehair chair by the

fireplace, under the blue-eyed portrait of his grandfather, the scot

minister, and rattle the money in his pocket. Tibby go on work.

much of Bennett's terror vanish and he break into the scratching of

her pen:



"Tibby."



"eh?"



"you say once you'd love I whatever I do."



"aye. what have you be do?"



"I'm married."



"Losh!"



Tibby drop her pen and turn sorrowful eye of wonder upon he.

Bennett jingle the money in his pocket.



"I'm married," he say. "I'm very happy."



"Och! the foolishness of man! marry! Laddie, ye'll never have a son

as young as yourself."



"I'm married," say Bennett, "and I'm go to be very happy, and I

don't care what . . ."



"have you tell your mother?"



"no."



"well tell she at once. you'll break your neck over it. I'll finish

this and then I'll think it out. . . . marry! Losh!"



she turn to her work again, and the pen scratch and splutter.

Bennett reach the door when she call to he:



"Laddie."



he turn.



"if ye love the lassie, ye've no call to be afeard. there's always a

way. there's no way where no love be."



"I love she," say Bennett unconsciously dramatic and absurd. "I love

she as my life."



"God bless ye."



* * *



fortify by her benison and also by having once tell his immense

secret Bennett pass swiftly to the drawing-room. he find his mother

sit in her chair in the middle of the room with a cat in her lap.

he stoop and kiss she.



"I've get some news for you!"



"sit down. you don't come and talk to I as often as you might."



there be an unusual geniality in her voice that make it easy for he

to go on.



"I've have a rise."



"that's good. they must be pleased with you. how much?"



"five shilling a week."



"that's very good. you shall have a shilling a week more for your

pocket-money. I'm glad you're do so well. you can keep five

shilling for yourself this month."



"that ben't all my news."



"what else?"



"I want to keep it all."



"Nonsense. you cann't do that."



"I must. you see. I haven't tell you everything. you see . . . I shall

want my money now. I'm--what I want to tell you be that--that . . ."

he give a little nervous giggle that exasperate his mother and set

she tap with her foot on the floor. "I'm--you see--I'm marry."



her mouth drop. her hand wave weakly in the air. she get up and

go and stand for a long time--it seem a very long time--by the

window. without turn she say:



"who be the woman?"



"her name be Annette. Annette Folyat."



"I might have know it. . . will you ask your father to come here?"



"Father's out." Bennett feel that his cause be lose. only in the most

desperate case be his father's presence over request in the

drawing-room.



"tibby then." she go to the door and with extraordinary power of the

lung shout for the old servant.



Tibby came shuffle. she be dress to go out, in bonnet and shawl,

and have an envelope in her hand.



"I'm in haste," she say.



"Tibby, what's to be do? Bennett have marry one of the daughter of

that High Church popery priest. what be I to do?"



"what can you do?"



"it cann't go on. it's miserable folly. it's ruin. it's beggary. . . .

where be you married? when?" she pounce on Bennett.



"a fortnight ago. at St. Barnabas; bann and everything. we sign the

register. I forbid you to interfere."



"silence."



"I will not be silent. I have take my own life into my own hand. I

be go to have my own money and my own house. I shall leave your

house to-night, and I shall not enter it again until you ask I and my

wife together."



"that's right, laddie," say Tibby quietly.



Mrs. Lawrie open her mouth to rend Tibby, who add:



"I canna thole a man that winnot stand by his own doing."



Mrs. Lawrie turn to Bennett and say:



"may you never have a child to hurt you as you have hurt I this day."



the wild frenzy that have possess Bennett ooze away, and weakly he

ask:



"be I to go?"



"go. . . . as you've make your bed, so you must lie on it."



a little unsteadily Bennett walk upstairs to his attic and begin to

pack his belonging. he lay they all out on the bed, book, clothe,

small piece of furniture, and they seem to he very little. in

possession of his secret he have feel very large and important; now he

feel very small indeed.



Downstairs in the drawing-room his mother sit write a letter to

Francis, denounce he and all his work and his daughter, who be

a snare to youth and guilelessness. Tibby have try to reason with

she, but she be beyond reason. she have be hurt and wish to hurt.

carefully, laboriously, she have toil to insure her child against

all risk and peril of the world. brick by brick she have build a

prison for each of they which should last as long as life, and, at the

first touch, the wall that hem in and secure she youngest bear

have come topple down, and all around herself she see the abomination

of desolation. she hate life, and her enemy have prove too strong for

she.







XXIV



ANNETTE tell her FATHER



_you have store of patience, only now and then fit of desperation_

     diana of the CROSSWAYS



FRANCIS receive Mrs. Lawrie's incoherent offensive letter, gulp

down its unpalatable statement of fact, burn it, and rush to his

greenhouse to think it over and to master the anger that be rise in

he. . . . he blame himself for not having see what be in the air

and try to remember incident and conversation which should have

give he the hint. he recollect several, quite enough to set he

scourge himself for his blind neglect, until he begin to ask himself

what he could have do suppose he have see and realise. quite

clearly he could not have forbid Bennett the house. Interference

be always dangerous where the emotion be concern.



most painful of all be the thought that Annette should not have have

trust enough in he to seek his advice and comfort if she be in

trouble. she must have suffer, he tell himself, to make such a

plunge into poverty and the responsibility of marriage. it must have

be a tremendous flood of feeling that have sweep she into it. . . .

it be so pitiful: a mere child: child both of they.



in a second he find himself think the bad of it--a scramble

marriage of necessity. he put that from he. of course not. Annette

have be well and happy--except for her illness--extraordinarily

happy, and so gentle and sympathetic and thoughtful, so blithe and

busy. no wickedness there, no hypocritical covering up of dark gnawing

secret. only the most absurd, pitiful romantic folly, reckless

defiance of all the law of prudence.



if his thought of Annette be gentle and indulgent, he find it hard

to extend his kindliness to Bennett. young man would be young man, but

they should leave young woman alone. (Francis, still regard young

woman as generically and fundamentally different from young man. to

he young woman who take any active part in the affair of love be

abnormal and unmaidenly. what exactly young man be to do with their

ardour or where to present it, he do not know, and he be unconscious

of any discrepancy in his thought.) the personal factor enter into

his contemplation of this side of the pother. he tell himself that

Bennett have treat he very badly, have accept his hospitality for

year, receive his indulgence in his affair with Gertrude, his--to

be sure, unsuccessful--assistance in the furtherance of his clerical

ambition, and then, secretly, with cunning and deceitfulness, he have

play upon Annette's young and innocent affection. there be an easy

satisfaction in thus angrily vilify Bennett, but it do not last

long, for it lead to a conception of Annette which do not sort with

her nature as he know it. she have always be curiously self-reliant

and, quite clearly, fully cognisant of the fact of her existence and

the purpose of her womanhood. still he be reluctant to relinquish

Bennett from the talon of his wrath. he be go to take Annette

away, and could give no guarantee of his ability to provide for she

and make she secure against the devastating influence of the hard

struggle for daily bread. with his instinct for justice he ask

himself what else they have to offer Annette, and, far, what they

have give she from day to day ever since her return--drudgery,

unende toil, a monotonous, trivial, and unrewarded activity. that

bring he hotly near the heart of the mystery, but he turn his

back on it, only to find himself most vividly remember his visit to

the house of the Lawries, and find in that the explanation of

Bennett's share in the preposterous marriage. he have wonder then

what would become of Bennett. now he be answer. . . . presumably

Mrs. Lawrie have not be misinform. obviously not. her vituperation

come from a fury of despair, a hopelessness in the face of a new turn

of fate, which he feel to be so degrading that he desire to avoid it.

clearly there be nothing to be do. if it be salutary by a heavy

use of the tongue to lacerate Annette and bring she to a sense of the

seriousness of the thing she have do, he would--but he reflect that

his wife would do all that and more than be necessary in that kind.

for himself then there be nothing to be do and nothing to be say.

if they find it impossible--as be more than likely--to live on

Bennett's income, something must be do to help they. both family

must contribute. . . for a moment he think fantastically that the

solution might be to ignore their marriage altogether, and keep

Annette at home until Bennett could afford to keep she. he know that

for folly. if passion have so far blind their reason that they have

rush into an insoluble compact, to thwart and repress it would be to

invite unimagined disaster.



"it be beyond I," he say. "do these thing happen when I be young?

the world seem to be change. I be too old to change with it."



his last reflection be that, having swallow Frederic's disaster, he

could not logically strain at Annette's. he be wound. time would

heal his wound. above all he must not be reduce to such an ignoble

frenzy of bewilderment as Mrs. Lawrie. then he feel sorry for the

"garden-roller."



"it must be," he say, "very distressing to come on a hard stone in

the middle of a soft lawn."



that restore his humour. he take twelve little pot and begin fill

they with earth and fibre for his bulb.



Annette come into the greenhouse. Francis suppress a desire to run

away. he do not look at she, but pretend to be absorb in his

work. Annette ask if she might help he.



"I think," he say, "I think you have well close the door."



Annette close the door and stand with she back against it. Francis

steal a glance at she. she be excite but there be no fear in she,

only a sort of shy obstinacy. she say:



"how you love your greenhouse! you have be so much happy since we

come here."



"I have. and you?"



"I'm not altogether happy, because I want to go away."



"my dear!"



"yes. you cann't be quite happy when you're go away from thing and

people you've love and grow use to, can you?"



"I suppose not."



"Father . . ." Francis tremble. his affection be touch. in his

thought he have not realise the poignancy of his loss. it be go

to be very painful; more painful almost than anything that have ever

happen to he. he could not bear her hesitation, and he hasten the

calamity.



"I know," he say.



"you know?"



"yes. I have have a letter from--his mother. she be very angry."



"and you . . . be you angry?"



"oh! my dear, dear child . . ."



then Annette be in his arm and they be cry together, and she

be say:



"dear, dear father . . . I don't mean . . . I don't know it be

go to be like this. I don't think, I don't think of anything but

he. I haven't think of anything but he for a long time. . . ."



"but such a wedding . . . no cake, no present, nobody to cry over you

. . ."



"only you, father."



"I'm an old fool. I ought to be very angry with you. . . . but I'm

not. I ought to be predict the most horrible and miserable future

for you. . . . but I cann't. . . . it's much too serious. . . . I think

you ought to tell your mother. it will hurt she less if it come from

you than if it come from I. I'll tell the other. . . . there's

nothing to be say. I believe that you love each other. I will pray

for your happiness. . . ."



"he's ready for I," say Annette. . . . "I want to go to he

to-night, but I'll wait until to-morrow if you like."



Francis ponder that for a moment.



"no," he say. "no, I think it would be good if you tell your mother

now and go away at once. it will save many tear. we shall have the

night to get use to the idea. . . . it's a new idea; rather a

difficult one to digest--our little Annette a married woman."



she tell he then that Bennett be come for she to the end of the

street.



"and your belonging?" ask Francis.



"I be go to carry they."



"could you? I never think they be so little. . . . don't bride

usually have trousseaux?"



"I'm to have nothing that bride usually have. I don't want anything."



Francis fill the twelfth little pot, and very deliberately squeeze

the mould down with his thumb.



"I think," he say, "I think that while you be talk to your mother

I will walk along and see my--my son-in-law."



"yes. . . . yes. Bennett will be glad to see you."



"will he?" say Francis dubiously.



they leave the greenhouse. he watch Annette run upstairs, take his

hat and stick and walk up the street. at the corner he see a lean

figure, stand under a lamp-post. it be Bennett. he be seize by a

sudden fierce desire to hurt he and he grip his stick more tightly

and saw with it up and down. he be walk rather fast than he

know and catch up with Bennett before the sudden mood have pass. his

stick swing in the air, and Bennett be rouse from his dream of

bliss by a sudden thwack across his loin. he be more startled than

hurt, for he have not hear any approach.



"Ooh!" he cry, then recognise his assailant. "Mr. Folyat!"



Francis breathe heavily and raise his stick again. to feel Bennett's

flesh yield under his blow have give he an intense and peculiar

satisfaction, a pleasure so unwonted that his sense crave more of

it. his mind however have shoot ahead of his mood and he drop his

stick and say:



"I beg your pardon. . . . that be not what I intend. my intention

be frequently belie by my performance. . . . do I hurt you?"



"you do." Bennett rub his thigh ruefully, then stoop and

restore his stick to Francis. they stare at each other by the light

of the lamp-post and at length Francis say:



"Annette be tell her mother. she have just tell I. I propose to

stay with you until she come. we should--a--we should know each other

well."



"I tell my mother yesterday, I leave her house last night."



"it be foolish of you to quarrel."



Francis lay his hand on Bennett's arm and turn with he down the

street. they pass up and down on the side opposite the house,

Francis explain as good he could how and why he have come to strike

his son-in-law. he be very frank, and point out those element of

Bennett's conduct of which, as a gentleman, he could not approve, but

make it clear that they should not stand in the way of a friendly

acceptance of the inevitable.



* * *



Upstairs in the drawing-room Annette have find her mother alone with

Serge. Mrs. Folyat be knit a never-end woollen vest, and Serge

be unwind a skein for her round the back of a chair. Annette tell

her news. Serge go on wind the skein. Mrs. Folyat drop she

knitting, take off her spectacle, put they on again, push they up

to her forehead and look Annette up and down. then very slowly, as

though she be grope for her word, she say:



"I be think only of your father. this will bring his white hair in

sorrow to the grave."



"I have tell father," say Annette



Mrs. Folyat be too far go in sentimentality--forge sentiment--to

feel anything. she have choose what she think the most appropriate

and effective method of attack, only to find it parry. she clutch

blindly at the first seemingly fit word that come to her mind, those

which have already be use by Mrs. Lawrie:



"as you have make your bed, so you must lie on it."



Serge rise and say:



"that be no reason why you should try to make it more uncomfortable,

mother."



Mrs. Folyat hardly hear he. she have begin to think (the specially

ordain scourge of the sentimentalist) what people would say of she;

not what they would say of Annette: she be incapable of see the

affair from Annette's point of view. one of her darling fiction, that

of her perfect motherhood, be menace. she be a she-lioness to

protect it: her fiction be to she what her child might have

be. with incisive and bitter sarcasm she assail Annette for the

space of two minute. she predict that Bennett would take to drink,

that he would desert she, that there would be a scandal, and she (Mrs.

Folyat) would never be able to hold up her head again. when she could

find no more baneful prognostication to throw at her offend

daughter's head, she take refuge in tear and begin to declare that

she wish that she be dead, since all the love she have lavish on

her child be to be return with such ingratitude. they be all

ungrateful, all, all--except dear Frederic--and she wish she have

never have a daughter. . . . Annette bear it all meekly, though she be

very near break down. it have all seem so simple to she: she

love, she be obey her love, and all this make it so complicated.

. . . Serge's blood boil, but he say nothing. he see that Annette

be in an impregnable position, not to be undermine.



very quietly Annette say:



"I be go to-night, mother. I tell father I would stay until

to-morrow, but he say I have well go to-night."



Mrs. Folyat cover her face with her handkerchief. tear she know

be unanswerable, but she do not anticipate that Annette would make

no attempt to carry the discussion far. when she remove she

handkerchief Annette be go and Serge be sit quietly unwind

her skein of wool.



"Serge! Serge!" she say.



"yes, mother."



"have she go?"



"yes, mother."



he turn and look at she, and under his steady gaze she be

silence. she bring her spectacle down on to her nose, take up her

knitting and go on with it. every now and then she sniff.



Serge wind the new skein of wool into a ball and place it in the

basket by her side. he wait for a moment to see if she have anything

to say. she only sniff. every line in her figure express a perfect

wallowing in self-pity. he leave she to it.



* * *



in the street Francis, still cling to Bennett's arm, end his

homily thus:



"marriage, of course, be a blessed condition, and man be not mean to

live alone. you will get into difficulty; everybody do. you will

look for help; everybody does.--But don't let it become a habit."



he have a great deal more to say, but just as, for the fourteenth time,

they come opposite the house, the door open and Serge and Annette

come out, he carry her luggage, a small trunk. in her hand she have

two hat of straw, very high in the crown and very small in the brim.

Bennett leave his father-in-law and rush over to she.



"excuse I," he say to Serge, and take Annette's trunk from he.

Annette lay her hand in his arm and they walk off up the street in

the direction of a cab-rank in the main Burdley Road.



Francis join Serge and they follow close behind.



"and to think," say Francis, "that Annette should be the first to go,

and that she should go like this! . . . what do you, make of it,

serge?"



"it would be funny," reply Serge, "if it be not so pathetic."



"just . . . just what I have be feel. look at they! they look as

if they be go off to an evening's merry-making."



"they have forget we already."



that be true. the lover walk fast, hail a cab on the rank, and

have climb in to it and be off by the time Serge and Francis come

up with they. Serge bawl to the driver, the cab stop, and

Annette, conscience-stricken, jump down and come quickly to her

father. Francis draw a ring from his finger, a gold ring set with an

emerald, and say:



"I couldn't let you go without my present."



"I'm not go far, father."



"no, my dear, but it be for ever."



Serge go to Bennett in the cab, shake hand with he, and say:



"you're do a big thing than you know."



Bennett wring Serge's hand, and could find no well expression of his

very real emotion than this:



"you're my brother now, you know."



Annette come up, kiss Serge, and be promise her finished portrait

for a wedding present.



"that's two!" she say.



"good-bye, Annette!"



"good-bye. good-bye."



she mount into the cab again, and its iron wheel go clatter

over the cobble-stone.



"I wonder," say Francis, turn homeward, "I wonder if he hear a

word of all that I say to he."



"do you say much?" ask Serge.



"I strike he."



Serge laugh.



"it be most extraordinary. an uncontrollable impulse. it need some

explanation, for I mean only to assure he that, in spite of his

burglarious entry into it, I accept he as a member of my family. do

you approve, Serge?"



"I believe in Annette. I would rather be Annette than Gertrude or Mary

or Minna."



"so would I. I wonder why?"



"you willn't agree with I, but I detest all this repression of emotion

in the name of virtue. it be nothing but cowardice. you cann't destroy

emotion by suppress it. it only go bad. . . . I'm only thankful

to see Annette out of your house and away fight for her own hand."



"theoretically I cannot applaud Annette, but, frankly, I must confess

that I be excited and curiously uplifted by her open defiance of

. . ."



"my dear father, you be a sentimentalist yearn over love's young

dream. Annette know that--instinctively. she know that you would

expect she to live on love's young dream indefinitely, until the bloom

be go from her youth and the edge from her appetite. she know that

she could not trust you. still less my mother. she take the law into

her own hand, and I admire she for it."



Francis walk on for some moment in silence. at the gate he say:



"I have reason to respect your opinion, Serge, but I heartily dislike

they. . . . will you come and help I in the greenhouse? I should be

oblige if you will stay with I to-night until your mother be in bed

and asleep. it will be so bad for she to talk."



* * *



Mary see her mother to bed and then come to say good-night to her

father. she wear an expression of intense gloom as she peck at his

cheek. she pat his shoulder as though to tell he to be a little

man and bear it.



Minna come.



"I shall be the next, pa."



"not another elopement, my dear."



"no, pa. . . I want to send a piece of my wedding-cake to Annette.

will you give I away, Serge?"



"with all my heart."



Minna kiss her father and pull his beard as she use to do when

she be a little girl.



at the door of the greenhouse she turn:



"I shall have Gertrude and Mary for my bridesmaid. willn't they be

pleased? . . ."



"go to bed," say Francis.



"we give Ma some hot gin and water to make her sleep," say Minna, and

she wink at Serge. she go away light-heartedly, hum the Dead

March in Saul.



Gertrude do not appear.



* * *



at half-past twelve Serge go up to his mother's room, peep in, see

she sleep, gently close the door, and tip-toed away. he tell his

father.



"thank God, for that," say Francis. "I be afraid she . . ."



he take up the lamp and begin slowly to move when there come a

peremptory ring at the front-door bell. the lamp in his hand rattle,

and he go to open the door. he see a policeman stand on the

door-step. he be so startled and alarmed that he could find nothing

to say.



"anything wrong, constable?" ask Serge.



"the Reverend Mr. Folyat?"



"my name," answer Francis. "anything wrong?"



"we've get a gentleman at the station; give we your name for bail, Mr.

Folyat."



"a gentleman?"



"Yessir. drunk and obscene language."



"have a drink, constable?" say Serge.



"well, sir . . ."



they go into the study. the constable be refresh, and tell how an

old man in a rusty green coat and a battered silk hat have be bring

into the station and for many hour have refuse to give his name or

any information about himself. he be not know to the police. the

arrest take place early in the afternoon. at eleven o'clock he have

ask for bail, refer the police to Mr. Folyat and give his name,

but no address. his name be James Lawrie.



"good gracious!" exclaim Francis. "Mr. Lawrie! dear I! poor

gentleman. . . . will you come with I, Serge?"



they go out as quietly as they could. with his hand on the knob of

the front door Serge hear his mother call from the landing:



"Serge! Francis! Frank!"



he close the door and run after his father and the constable, who

be already some way up the street.



at the police-station they be keep for some time in the waiting-room

until, escort by a brawny officer, old Lawrie appear before they.

he be clearly only just rouse from sleep. he look extremely

disreputable, with his hat hang over one eye and his bushy white

hair stick out under the hat. his white beard be filthy with mud

and blood. he stand blink at the light and peer at Francis.

after a moment or two he recognise he, remove his hat, and stand

with bow head.



"this be Mr. Folyat," say the inspector.



"Aye."



"Mr. Folyat will go bail for you. you must give your address, age, and

occupation."



Old Lawrie mumble so inarticulately that Francis be appeal to. he

give the address, age, and occupation of Bennett's father.



after a formality or two they be show out politely, and old Lawrie

be bid to attend in court the next morning.



he say:



"Aye."



out in the street he shake himself like a wet dog. Francis say

kindly:



"I be sorry indeed to meet you again in such unfortunate

circumstance, Mr. Lawrie."



"blether!" say the old man. "one prison be like unto another. man.

I've make a philosophical discovery of the first magnitude. the dirty

soul of man be write on the wall of my cell. . . . when last we

meet--as they say in the play--you be kind enough to listen to some

verse of mine. what d'ye think of this?"



he take a deep breath, and blow out his chest.



"I compose it as I lay on the hard board in my cell. I write it on

the wall among the rest, for the benefit and well understanding of

my successor:



    _this place be but a room in Hell,

     damn for the punishment of thief

     who steal their brother' booty; for 'tis sure

     the small thief starve on what the big thief leave._



what d'ye think of it?"



"Admirable!" say Serge.



Old Lawrie turn to he:



"and who may you be? you've a bonny voice."



"my son," say Francis, glad to say something, for it have just

occur to he that this old lunatic be the father of his new

son-in-law. he be infinitely relieve when Serge say in a whisper:



"I'll take he home. it's on my way."



they part company as they come into the Burdley Road. Francis

watch Serge and the shambling figure of the old man disappear into

the darkness, and then, ruefully enough, walk home. it would be

difficult, he think, to persuade his wife to make light of old

Lawrie's foible.



"I shall never be able," he say to himself, "to make she see that

Annette have marry the son and not the father."



indeed, when he tell his wife of that night's adventure--and she keep

he at it until half-past four in the morning--it become very clear to

he that not Annette's secrecy nor her highhandedness nor her want of

faith in her parent be one-half so bitter to she as the fact that

Bennett be, with natural inadvertence, his father's son.







XXV



LAWRIEAN PHILOSOPHY



_I now mean to be serious--it be time._

     DON JUAN.



MEANWHILE Serge and old Lawrie become so interested in each other that

they walk far into the night. it be Serge who open the

conversation:



"I gather that you will be charge with drunkenness and obscene

language."



"Aye. when I'm fou I'm mighty full o' poetry. the exact word be

'bloody symbol.' the man probably think I be refer to his

vice. I tell he he be a symbol of Society's hypocritical endeavour

to suppress the consequence of its own villainy. my drunkenness be

one of those consequence. it be the direct outcome of the habit of

loneliness. . . . do I talk to you about that before? . . . no. it

would be your father. have you ever be to prison?"



Serge regret that he have never have that experience.



"it be a dirty cell they put I in, but it be shine with the

truth, the blackguardly truth of all humanity. man, I find there what

I've be seek these thirty year. . . . I wonder now if ye'll

understand I. I would like to know what ye make of life, or if ye

make anything of it at all."



"it seem to I simple enough," reply Serge. "a man be bear. two

thing lie before he, love and death."



"that's it. that's it. now mark what I'm go to tell you. on the

wall of my cell be drawing and writing--horrible drawing of

woman, lewd verse, and hysterical outburst in the name of Jesus

Christ. they be conventional, I admit, but that only make it all

the bad. it mean that man be imprison in their own mind,

debar from woman on the one hand and from God on the other. you may

tell I that my cell have be occupy only by low type, but if

the Prince of Wales be to be incarcerate in it he would in time add

to the collection of bawdy rhyme, and if he be follow by the

Archbishop of Canterbury there would be one more such inscription as:

'Christ die to save I and the magistrate.' some man be reduce to

filthiness, some to hysteria, some to both. for the superficial and

trivial purpose of existence such as the day's work, marriage, family

duty, the so-call pleasure of society, they contrive to cover up

their deplorable condition. within themselves they be reduce to the

most devastating loneliness. in their day-to-day prison of Society

they do not write their thought on the wall (except for an

occasional jubilant outburst over the successful issue of an amorous

adventure), and it have remain for I to find in an actual

acknowledge prison the frank revelation of the state of the human

mind. . . . it have always be so. . . . briton never shall be slave

indeed! they never have be, never will be, anything else."



Serge quote:



"L'inconvénient du règne de l'opinion, c'est qu'elle se mêle à ce donot

elle n'a que faire; par exemple, la vie privée. De là la tristesse de

l'Amérique et de l'Angleterre."



"aye," say the old man. "and what would the man that write that say

if he could see our town and all the other town, the rusty link in

the world-wide thing the man of our time be so pleased to call

industrialism? man make everything in their own image. if you want to

know what man be look at their town, look at their house, look at

their book, their art. . . . at first, be human, ye'll be dazzle

and please by the conceit and egoism that have go to the making of

they, but soon beneath the conceit and the egoism ye'll find nothing

but fear--fear of death, fear of love; appeal to Jesus Christ from

the one, abuse of woman by way of escape from the other. fool and

blind! there's no escape. there's no good life but in the honest

meeting of the one and the other. . . ."



"and woman?" ask Serge.



"their mind reflect only the mind of man. I think now that all the

trouble, all the distress, and all the muddle come from the arrogance

of man, who have always prefer the reflection of life in the

flattering mirror of their mind to life itself. they have drop the

bone for the shadow, when they might have have both. they could have

admire the shadow and eaten the bone; but, in the folly of their

arrogance, they have throw both away. . . . they must be almost as

great a trial to God as they be to themselves. God be very merciful,

since, though they will not love, yet he allow they to die. the

mistake be understandable. a man's eye, all his sense, assure he

that he be the centre of the universe. quite obviously his sense lie,

but it be often difficult to see the obvious. there cannot be more

than one centre of the universe, and, if a man will only reflect for a

moment, he will see that all his neighbour, his dog, the tree in his

garden--if he have a garden--every star in the sky, must be victim of

the same delusion. unhappily, though man have live on this world for

thousand of year, he have not yet make the small mental effort

necessary for the slight correction of his sense. it have take he

thousand of year to discover that this earth on which he have his

dwelling be not the centre of the solar system. that be a shock to

his vanity, and his endeavour since then have be to prove his own

all-importance in the scheme of thing. he have turn to and

pigeon-hole his knowledge and call it science. he have become

increasingly adventurous and busy, simply because of the restlessness

that have come over he on be confront with his mistake. he have

discover the whole habitable globe and proceed to defile it. in my

lifetime he have blunder into the discovery of steam-power,

electricity, and they talk of oil as a generator of more power. I have

see many change, but always it have come back to the same thing. the

principle of life be few and simple. every discovery put a girdle

round the earth, every invention that liberate man in body and mind

make the command sound clearly and more loud: 'thou shalt love and

thou shalt die. . . .' with every discovery however the egoism of

mankind wax more and more fat and they stop their ear to the

command. they insist that they be the crown achievement and

purpose of creation--the old delusion, you observe, of be the

centre of the universe. those who be most strongly obsess by this

delusion thrust those in whom the conviction be not so strong away

from their path or down under their foot. they thrust and fight their

way to the centre of human organisation, which they mistake for the

centre of the universe, the point at which their centre-hood can be

most openly declare for all man to see. they thrust and fight their

way to power, only to find themselves powerless, for, in spite of

themselves, in spite of the lie with which they be feed and feed

themselves, man do obey the law of love and death. . . . but in such

a way, such a halting, mean, decrepit, stealthy way!"



here the old fellow pause, and Serge say:



"you have come to my contention that good and bad, for man and woman,

lie wholly in the use or the abuse of thing."



but old Lawrie be so intent on his own thought that he seem not to

hear Serge. they come to the bridge under the Collegiate Church and

lean against the parapet. oily black the river run under the dark

wall of warehouse and mill. the light of the window and the

street lamp shine and flicker in the greasy depth of the tainted

water.



"Yon river," say old Lawrie, "be like the life of a man. I know not

where it rise, but it come pure and sweet from the hill-side,

meander and murmur through meadow, grow wider and ever wide

in its irresistible and purposeful progress to the sea. in the town

and city of man it becomes poison and poisonous, but, taint as

it be, it hasten onward to its goal. . . . I beg your pardon if I

have obscure my meaning with parable. what I see, and what much

bitter experience have teach I, be that there be evil enough lie in

wait for man without their add to the sum of it by mental and moral

confusion. say their place in the creation be the high, say that in

they life find its keenest expression, should not their glory be the

glory of service rather than the vain-glory of servitude? why must

they always be demand applause for the work they do so ill? be

there any work that man have ever do--outside the art--that could

not have be do well? . . . I say there be none. and I have find

the answer to all these question only to-day, in my prison-cell. to a

man disease with egoism--and how many man be not?--love and death

be hurtful thing, for they be not flattering to his vanity. in the

reflection of life in which man strive to live (for in that reflection

their vanity can have free play, exactly as it can and always do

when a man scan his feature in a glass) love and death be not see.

all human code of conduct and of moral, all dealing between man and

man, be cut to fit the reflection and not life itself. . . . what,

then, be human life?--what be the depth that sustain the yeasty

turbulence of man's knavery and folly and dirtiness and hysteria?

. . . a man be kin and comrade with all thing live, from the great

sun to the mote dance in the sun's ray. he be a part of that

radiance which rise from the centre of the universe and course

through the vein of every stone and every tree and every living

thing. . . . Aye, such a power of life in a man, and such a comical

small thing as he make of himself! . . . such a comical, small thing

as I've make of myself! . . . Rapacity make this town what it be.

think what it might have be, what all town might have be, if love

have make they! . . . there'll come a time when Society will no long

be a prison wall off with fear of love and fear of death. the poet

have not live and sing for nothing. they'll cleanse the wall of the

filth and the cry of bitter anguish; and when man have do with

discover the world and play at conqueror and king o' the

castle, he will come to the most glorious day of all when he shall

know himself, what he be:



    _Great Nature speak, with air benign:

       'go on, ye human race!

     this low world I you resign,

       be fruitful and increase.

     the liquid fire of strong desire,

       I've pour in every bosom;

     here, on this hand, do Mankind stand,

       and there be Beauty's blossom.'_



that's Robert Burns for ye! . . . good night."



he walk away abruptly, and Serge only remember then that he have

intend to inform the old man of the fate that have befall his son.

More than ever he feel that Bennett and Annette be, in the main

principle of their action, right, though they might be wrong in the

detail of their manner of do it. the world would exact a heavy

penalty of they. the world would be wrong.



* * *



Old Lawrie awake next morning to find his wife stand by his bedside

hold out a letter. it be from Mrs. Folyat and be extremely

offensive. Old Lawrie read it:



"there's no doubt," he say, "that he's a son of mine."



he hand the letter back to his wife, turn over on his side and

go to sleep again.







XXVI



MINNA'S choice



_it be always difficult to get rid of a woman at the end of a

tragedy._

     CHARLES LAMB.



there be no competition for the mantle of Annette. in the Burdley

Park house the Folyats begin to realise that they be increasingly

uncomfortable. Annette's power of organisation have not be great,

but she have acquire considerable skill in prevent the consequence

of her mistake and lache be generally feel. . . . when she leave

there be a sort of domestic collapse. no meal be ever punctual,

nor be they tolerably cook. Mrs. Folyat's temper suffer, and she

lash her three remain daughter with shrill sarcasm. . . . Mary

have a sudden influx of new pupil and absent herself all day long.

Gertrude arrange for a round of visit, and Minna become extremely

zealous in church work, while Mrs. Folyat simmer in her indignation

against the world in general, Annette in particular, and especially

against love, that laugh enemy of public opinion. not Annette's

duplicity, not her secrecy, not her defiance of parental authority so

rankle in her mother's mind as the black-and-white fact before all

the vulgar, pry world that Bennett's father be not respectable.

the unlucky Bennett have insert an advertisement of the marriage--he

read it many time himself: _Lawrie--Folyat. on the_ 28_th Sept.,

Edward Bennett, young son of James Lawrie, to Annette, young

daughter of the Rev. Francis Folyat;_ for it be the first time he have

see word of his own in print. lower down on the same page be a

short paragraph describe his father's appearance in the police

court, where, surely, the magistrate have seldom have such an

entertaining quarter of an hour. Old Lawrie pursue the argument begin

overnight with the policeman (Serge have the third movement of it) and

close it with variation on an idea borrow from Ruskin, that,

society be responsible for every crime and misdemeanour commit

by its individual member, lot should be cast in each case as to

which citizen of a certain district should bear the brunt of it. this,

he say, would at any rate promote a feeling of responsibility towards

one's neighbour, and would in time lead each man to love his neighbour

as himself. when that come about there would be neither crime nor

misdemeanour.



"till then," say the magistrate, "I must administer the law as it

stand. I be not a philosopher, but it seem to I that the condition

you aspire to do obtain. man do love their neighbour as themselves:

that be, very little." (Laughter.)



James Lawrie, cotton-broker and journalist, be fine ten shilling

and cost.



the Lawrie family read the report and pretend that they have not do

so. the Folyat family read it, and Mrs. Folyat, by continually

explain it away, force it on the attention of many people who

would otherwise never have hear of it. . . . she never forgave

Annette. she declare that they, as a family, be utterly disgrace,

would never hold up their head again, that no one would ever call,

that there be nothing to be do except for Francis to retire and

they all to go and live in some place where no one have ever hear of

they before. it be a splendid opportunity for her talent for

invent evil and call monster from the vasty deep, and she

waste no moment of it. with her own foolish tongue she set so many

scandal go that, for a time, the clerical lady be chary of

call. the scandal reach the bishop's palace and be inquire

into. the bishop's wife, a kindly lady, lay they by call, and,

more, by send, as she have not do for some year, an invitation to

her garden-party. this so elated Mrs. Folyat that she forget her gloom

and tear and set Mary to work on her good black silk gown.



no member of the family, except Francis and Serge, visit Annette in

her lodging in the house of the german woman.



for the benefit of his mother and his fiancée, Frederic vow that,

when next he meet Bennett Lawrie, he would horsewhip he.



"at least," say Mrs. Folyat for Serge's benefit, "I have one son who

be a man."



* * *



they might refuse to visit Annette, but they could not forget she. now

that she be go, they realise she more nearly than they have ever

do when the whole burden of their comfortable existence rest upon

her shoulder. Mrs. Folyat grow more and more querulous as the

household fall into bad and bad confusion. she demand an extra

servant; Francis say they could not afford it. she dismiss the

hobgoblin, now a fully develop gnome, and, one after another,

engage a series of incompetent, untidy, and immoral female. at last,

when one of they corrupt the washerwoman--the washing be do at

home in those day on a Monday and Tuesday--and draw she into a

wholesale conspiracy of theft, Mrs. Folyat, in despair, send for Minna

and implore she to take the burden of housekeep off her hand.

with a fair show of grace Minna set to, but it be not long before she

go to see Annette. Annette be delighted. the day without Bennett

be very long, and in their two room there be not enough work to

occupy her hand for the morning; also, very frequently, she have no

money at all and could not go out into the town. she think, too,

that Mina's come be a sign that her mother be on the point of

relent. Annette never doubt that she love her mother, and her

disapproval often weigh heavily on her spirit.



with a child's pride in a new toy she display her two room and

Bennett's handiwork on the wall and wood and the bulrush he have

paint in oil on the bathroom window.



"what an awful street you live in," say Minna.



"be it?" Annette have never consider it æsthetically. it be the

place she live in, the scene of her honeymoon. she have fill it with

romance and hold it holy.



"Ma say," remark Minna, settle herself largely in Bennett's

wicker-chair so that she seem to overflow it and fill the room,--"Ma

say that she be quite sure Bennett will take to drink."



"I don't believe Ma could have say anything so odious."



"then you don't know Ma."



Minna take stock of the room, and she be divide between pity and

contempt for her sister--pity that she should live in such a poor

place, contempt that she should be satisfied and pleased with it, and

she think with a shudder of the day when the scale should fall from

the lover' eye and they should see themselves as they be, in that

place, as it be. Minna have so often open her heart to love only to

expel it on find it ridiculous that she could not conceive of any

affection as permanently seat. she be like an inept gardener, who

might plant spring flower in his border and deem it natural and

inevitable that summer and autumn should be empty of all save weed.

she have cultivate a taste for fall in love, and always lose

patience with it before she come to love.



she have come to ask Annette how she have contrive the more or less

smooth-running of household affair in Fern Square and Burdley Park,

but find herself instead ponder marriage as here represent and

also as apply to herself. she ask Annette what she do all day

long. Annette tell she: she sew, mend, thought of Bennett, go

out to buy his supper.



"a little different from home?" suggest Minna.



"of course," reply Annette, "I'd like more people. it's hard to make

it go all the day round when there's only one. but then, I read. I

usedn't to be able to do that."



"how do you manage at home? I cann't."



"I don't think I manage at all. Bennett say I'm an awfully bad

manager. there be such a lot of thing to do that they have to be

do."



"how do you make the servant work?"



"I don't. I do it all myself. if she do anything I generally have to

do it all over again. she light the fire in the morning and clean the

boot and all the nasty work. I think in their own home they leave

all the rest undo."



Minna rise from her seat and demand to be show the bedroom. this

be very ugly. she make a wry face.



"do you like it?--being marry, I mean."



Annette smile. musingly she say:



"what a silly question!"



* * *



Minna return to Burdley Park little enlighten but uneasy and

troubled. she go to the kitchen and work, as she think, very

hard, and scold the servant and lash herself into a state of anger

with thing in general. by the evening she be entirely miserable. she

sit down in her bedroom and write to Basil Haslam:





"I be miserable. thing be get bad and bad. you have often

scold I for not take thing seriously enough. you little know I.

do man ever know woman? do they ever take woman seriously? don't they

always fall back on the woman's instinct which they have invent as

an excuse for their own silence and reticence? . . .



"I have be to see Annette. poor child! it have upset I. I should

like to see you--to-morrow, if possible. can you come?

     "your, M."





she also write to Herbert Fry, on a sudden mischievous impulse which

she do not take the trouble to understand, she enjoy it so

thoroughly:





"I be go to be marry, and I hope to come to London. this place

ben't fit to live in, certainly not to be marry in."





her pen scrawl triumphantly as she add:





"Kind regard to Mrs. Fry.

     "your, M."





she send the letter to Mr. Fry's office address in London Wall. she

do not know where he live.



* * *



Basil Haslam come next day burst with sympathy and high hope. Minna

receive he, for the sake of effect, in the kitchen. like Charlotte,

she be cut bread and butter. she have send the servant out on an

errand.



Basil come in very quietly, and make Minna think of a young

inexperienced doctor cultivate a bedside manner. however, she

repress her desire to tease he and say:



"I have learn my lesson."



"what lesson?"



"something about a stall ox."



she scrape the butter very thin on the bread by way of heighten

her own sensation of a chasten poverty.



"we shall be very poor," she say.



"oh, Minna! I will make you rich."



"I suppose there be a lot of money in London."



"will you come to London with I?"



"don't I say so in my letter?"



Basil be always literal. he take out her letter and read it again.



"Stupid," say Minna. "I mean it if I don't say it."



she lay down the knife and the loaf and submit to her lover's

embrace.



Basil could not contain his delight:



"there's my one-fifty a year. I can make three hundred the first year,

five hundred the next, a thousand the next . . ."



"a thousand!"



"we'll live in a studio first of all. then we'll live in a house and

give dinner to the dealer and editor. and then we'll live in a house

with a studio and the dealer and editor shall give dinner to we."



"that will be fun," say Minna.



together they carry the tea-tray upstairs and break the news of

their engagement to Mrs. Folyat. Frederic and Jessie Clibran-Bell be

there. they have be conspire with Mrs. Folyat to bring about a

speedy wedding. with the assistance of Mr. Clibran-Bell Frederic have

be take work on his own account and have make fifty pound in a

year. Herbert Fry have assist he by let he act as his agent--on

condition that he have Frederic's agency work in London--and now there

be talk of his set up in an office of his own, if his father

could guarantee he one year's expense.



Mrs. Folyat set all this before Basil and Minna, and excitedly they

plan a double wedding in two month' time.



Mrs. Folyat see in this project the chance of wipe out the stain of

Annette's offence.



* * *



Francis be approach that very night. he be for wait. they could

sell no more of their Potsham house, or there would be no provision

for their old age. (he have already begin to think dimly of retirement

to the soft south and a garden.) Mrs. Folyat, however, have set she

heart on the plan. she wheedle, cajole, coax, scold, suggest

scheme after scheme, until Francis agree to sell his life-insurance

policy, but on condition that the proceed be divide equally

between his child with the exception of Leedham, who be married to

a wealthy portuguese widow, ten year his senior, in Rio . . . Mrs.

Folyat pounce on that, and next morning see to it that he begin to

take the necessary step.



twelve hundred pound be raise by this mean. Serge disapprove and

disclaim his share, so that the rest have two hundred and forty

pound each.



Frederic take an office near Serge's studio, engage two clerk, and

be regard as sufficiently establish to enter into the state of

matrimony.



there be an entertaining wedding. Bennett and Annette be invite

and formally take back into the fold. Basil and Minna Haslam go to

London to spend their honeymoon in the studio they have take in

Chelsea. Frederic and Jessie Folyat take a house next door but one to

James Lawrie's. there be many tear shed over the bride, and after

Mrs. Folyat have deliver herself of a sort of funeral oration _à la_

Bossuet, Minna whisper to Serge:



"Ma always do love a theatrical performance."



"'your son's your son till he get he a wife,'" say Mrs. Folyat to

Frederic, and then to Minna she complete the tag, "'your daughter's

your daughter the rest of your life.'"



it be a very exciting and a very happy day in the Folyat household.

Mrs. Folyat chatter all the evening. Mary and Gertrude say not a

word and go silently off to bed, so that Francis be compel to

escort his wife to her room and perform the innumerable little

service she require.



"don't the house feel empty?" she say.



Francis mumble.



"I'm sure Annette be go to have a baby."



"M-m-m-m."



"I think I be never go to be a grandmother."



"you always be impatient," say Francis in an unexpectedly loud

voice.



that be criticism, which she could not abide. Francis rue his

precipitancy. he be very unhappy about Frederic, but, he ask

himself, what could he do? what could he do? there be no doubt that

Jessie love Frederic, but do not that, in itself, the more

dangerously expose she to his folly and weak selfishness?



he hardly hear his wife's word as she went maunder on. in the

darkness he pray that all might be, as he try to believe, for the

good.







XXVII



GERTRUDE make the best of it



_De quel ravissement nous privent nos intempérance._

     JOUBERT.



when Annette's baby--a boy--be bear, Gertrude be the first to go and

see it. she take with she a woollen bonnet and a horn spoon.



having become capitalist with the enormous sum that have come to

Annette, they have leave their lodging for a little house in a row of

little house each of seven room and a scullery. they have a little

maid, who open the door to Gertrude. she be a tiny wizened creature

but very voluble. Gertrude be not a yard inside the house when she

have a full description of the baby, its layette, Annette's condition

and appearance, and the devotion of Bennett, who, she say, "never have

no eye for nothink 'cept 'be ugly little wife."



Gertrude be show upstairs, to find Annette sit up chatter to

an enormously fat woman, who be introduce to she as Mrs. Entwistle.

they be talk about Serge, of whom the fat woman express the

most glowing admiration.



the baby, a very little one, ugly and blotch, be hand to

Gertrude, and she be properly ecstatic over it. Mrs. Entwistle say:



"Eeh! ow I do 'ave to slap 'be little buttock to make 'Im cry!"



"Slap?" say Gertrude, rather horrified.



"Eeh! Miss, don't ye know that? well, I never. sometimes you 'ave to

fair leather into 'em."



Gertrude hold the baby in her arm and hug he close to her breast.

she be feel very mournful, and envy tug at her heart. she say:



"it's a very little house you live in."



"ben't it? but we love it. it's just big enough for the three of we."



"how--how be Bennett?"



"oh! he's very well, and he get more money now, though still very

little. I'm afraid we shall never have very much as long as he remain

in business, and if he leave it I suppose we should have nothing. but

we don't think about it--much."



"you must be very happy."



very mournfully Gertrude say this. she be disappoint. she have

fancy that when she hold Annette's baby in her arm she would feel

all kind of beautiful and exalted emotion. it be certainly pleasant

to feel its warmth, and to hold it, so helpless as it be, give she a

genial sense of protection, but she be want, hope for more than

that. and when Annette reply that she be very happy--she look it

too--Gertrude realise painfully that she be brutally indifferent.



the starving cannot rejoice with the well-feed.



Gertrude feel her life trickle away through her finger: bad of

all, though she be not conscious of it, her desire for life be

ebb away from she. all the bitterness, all the hunger, all the hard

envy in her heart she translate into one word: "Old." she say to

herself: "I be get old." . . . having come to a concise and

rounded thought she be prick by it into revolt, and she say

gently, at first, to Annette:



"I envy you. I remember you when you be a little girl. I have always

thought of you as little, so that I have hardly know you. . . . and I

must have always seem to you beyond your reach. now it be you who

be beyond mine. ben't it funny?"



she give the child to Annette, watch it blindly wriggle against

its mother's breast, and tear trickle down her nose on to the

counterpane. Annette be so engross in her boy that she do not

notice it, and Gertrude be at once ashamed of her tear, brush they

away, and angrily, in her heart, accuse Annette of selfishness. she

would have be so grateful only for a little pressure of the hand, a

little smile, something that would bid she come into the circle of

warmth, so radiant with the joy of the child. she be too timid, too

much take up with pity for herself, to force her way in. she dared

not assume that she would be welcome, for she be too conscious of her

own awkwardness.



she let slip the opportunity as she have spoil so many. the conflict

in her soul leave she bruised and sore, and she almost hate

Annette--Annette who have lie and cheat to take her lover. she

turn from her thwart emotion to sentimentality, rake over the

ashe of the past, and artificially reconstruct the ruse and

strategem that she suppose Annette have use to capture Bennett

during her absence. . . . with effusive cordiality she kiss Annette

and the baby and promise often to come and see it. a little

awkwardly--she be not always tactful--Annette explain that

Bennett's sister be to be the baby's Godmother. that give Gertrude

the handle she be seek, and she persuade herself that she have

deliberately be slight.



she go away almost without another word. on her way home she be

thrust by her fancied injury into contemplate her future. as

people always do when they contemplate the future, she lose sight of

the infinite gradation which lead from the point at which she stand to

the point on which her eye be fix, so that all her forward life

be present to her mental vision as acid, cold, bitterly assail

she without clemency. all her desire be to escape that future, and to

evade the phantom conjure up by her own mind--a mind very similar to

her mother's and also infect by it--and to do so in a way that

should, if ever so slightly, prick Annette's conscience . . .



idea be too often the gaoler of our soul, which, seek health

and freedom, grope out of prison, take counsel of the first-comer,

an idea whom we have fee'd with prejudice and cowardice to stand guard

over we. Gertrude, seek freedom from her home, from her own folly,

from herself, accost the first-comer, marriage, who, with a false

smile, open a door and clap she into another cell. this, be

large than the other, she take for a place wide open to the wind of

Heaven, and pass from querulous fear of the future to excitement in

the immediate view. to be sure, she only see four wall, but there be

more light on they, more air and mystery between she and they. . . .

above all, nowhere in her cell could she see the figure of her sister

Mary, whom she have begin to detest, nervously and irritably. . . .

Mrs. Folyat have grow more and more incapable. the work of the house

be divide between Gertrude and Mary. between the two there be a

grim struggle as to which of the two should make herself the less

indispensable to her mother. it be very certain, as both know in

their inmost heart, that if one of they be to be leave, that one

would remain for ever, with nothing to do save to turn the hour-glass

when the sand run out. Mary, be the weak of the two, be the

more good-natured, and it be for Mary that Mrs. Folyat most often

call when she drop her knitting-needle, or mislay her

spectacle, or lose her book by sit on it, or wish to play

Patience at some inappropriate hour. everybody say Mrs. Folyat be a

dear old lady. she like the character, clung to it and abuse it.

either Gertrude or Mary must be gobble up by her selfishness. both

Gertrude and Mary believe that their mother be a dear old lady. they

dream not that they be in revolt against she, but fancy--as it

seem more heroical to do--that they be at grip in a fearful

struggle with life. they be both very near hysteria, Gertrude, after

her visit to Annette, be the nearer.



* * *



there come to live near the town at this time Mrs. Bradby-Folyat, an

aunt of the Folkestone Folyats, an old lady of much wealth, whose

estate be continually be augment by legacy bequeath by

irascible Bradbys and Folyats who be sicken by the attention of

their legacy-hunt poor relation. Mrs. Bradby-Folyat leave she

relation alone, and the harvest of her wisdom be great. . . . be

a lady of strong character and almost masculine intelligence she have a

great fondness for the weak and almost idiotic Streeten Folyat, who

long ago have abandon his sheep-farm in Westmoreland and wander

from one profession to another, shed in each a portion of his

patrimony. between journalism and market-gardening he spend several

month with his aunt at Boynton and amuse himself in the town in

Frederic's company. occasionally he visit the house in Burdley Park.

. . . then he buy a small fleet of fishing-smack at Scarborough,

sell they after ten month at a heavy loss and return to Boynton.

his income have dwindle to four hundred. he buy house in our town

and be quickly embroil in a law-suit--his idleness make he

quarrelsome--and place the case in Frederic's hand. by sheer luck

Frederic win the case and delight the old lady at Boynton, who

insist on consider that he have save Streeten from ruin. she

invite Frederic and his wife to stay with she, and entrust he with

the management of her estate. Frederic be almost delirious at this

access of fortune, and calculate that if the old lady live for

another ten year he would make at least six thousand pound. he be

in debt--he could not amuse himself with Streeten for nothing--and he

borrow money from a friendly moneylender whose rate of interest per

cent. _per mensem_ seem reasonable and low.



when Frederic be not at Boynton Streeten be at Frederic's house, and

when Streeten be at Frederic's house there also be Gertrude.

Streeten be amazingly vain, a fop, and as eager to scan his feature

in the glass as a little boy just on the verge of adolescence, who be

begin to feel that the eye of the world be upon he. such man,

when no mirror be near, will turn to the near woman. if in she he

can see the faint reflection of himself, pat he will fall in love

with it. . . . there be not many mirror in Frederic's house.

Streeten turn to Jessie but see only Frederic, to Gertrude then, and

he see himself enlarge, heighten, dazzle. it be the most

bewildering reflection of himself that he have ever see, and at once

he be prostrate before it.



almost before he could realise what have happen he be pick up,

thrust into a frock-coat and silk hat, take to church, marry to

Gertrude, and pack off for a honeymoon to Ilfracombe. he be very

bored and savage. he want to be at Boynton or amuse himself with

Frederic.



it be one thing to steal glance at your own reflection when you think

no one be look, quite another to be married to it, though the

mirror tell its tale never so constantly.



it be too cruel, it be indecent, to write of Gertrude's honeymoon.







XXVIII



MOTHER and DAUGHTER



_life . . . be like love. all reason be against it, and all healthy

instinct for it._

     EREWHON revisit.



ON hearing of the capture of Streeten, celebrate in the most jubilant

strain by Mrs. Folyat, with a magnificently unjust comparison of her

new son-in-law with Bennett Lawrie, Minna write this letter to Mary:





"mother Bub love cut her lamb up into chop. do she fix he with

an eye? you know how she can bore into the back of a man's neck. I'm

almost sorry I miss the fun. I suppose she'll be well off than any

of we. we're beastly poor, the studio's always in a mess and we cann't

get it straight. London be amusing but awfully big and callous. it

make you feel that it never care whether you're there or not, and

the river be almost the most human thing in it. nobody seem to want

Basil's work. I suppose there be thousand of Basils all want to

do the same thing, and I suppose each Basil have a _I_ want a great

deal to eat and more pleasure and fun than be good for she, and not

care particularly how much of his soul he have to sell to give it

she. the Folyats have a certain charm, but we're all selfish--except,

of course, dear old Ma, who always would have it that we get our

wickedness from Pa. Mother Bub have the charm of a basilisk, or a

fly-paper. I hope she will come to London, as it will be nice to

borrow money from she.

     Dearest love, Mottle dear,

          M.



P.S.--Basil have just sell a drawing. sausage and mash for supper!

also beer!



P.P.S.--Did Bennett go to the wedding? how grateful he must have be

to streeten for step into his shoe.



P.P.P.S.--I wouldn't get married if I be you. and to think I might

have be a Countess! Willie Folyat live in London--the Hearl of

Leedham, if you please. I hear he's turn out a horrid little prig. I

know he would, I feel it in my bone. I have such clever bone.

          M. H."





Mary be magnanimous and keep the letter to herself. she be

essentially good-natured and bear no malice. she be amuse by Minna's

spite and do not believe a word she say. to her Gertrude be happy;

she be marry, therefore she love her husband and her husband love

she. it be impossible for Mary to take a detached view, to tell black

from white, good from bad. she be mentally short-sighted and her

pleasure lie entirely in sentiment. she love music as she love

nothing else in the world, but her pleasure in it be the pleasure of

rhythm. Harmony touch she not at all. she have a sort of nervous

sensitiveness which make she extremely shy and unresponsive. a kind of

island existence be her, and the island on which she dwelt be in a

perpetual fog. every sound that reach she from without--and little

else but sound do reach she--be blur. voice more easily move

she than action or the expression of a person's face. she have always

love her father because of his soft, gentle voice, and when Serge be

in the house she be animate and more quickly interested in what be

go on around she.



she accept her defeat by Gertrude docilely enough, give up the

majority of her pupil and much of her chamber-music and take up the

rein of the household. with only her father and mother to provide

for, it be fairly easy, and the expense be so much reduce that

she be able to pay more wage and to procure a well class of maid.

Mrs. Folyat take a dislike to the maid, and all her service have to be

perform by Mary herself.



Serge have fall into the habit of take supper with his family--his

father and mother and Mary--nearly every Sunday evening, and he be

exasperate by the petty attention which his mother be continually

demand. he have try many a time to find a way to the heart of this

curious, stupid, yet gentle and kindly sister of his, but he have

always find it impossible to set her thought move. she seem to

have almost lose the capacity of thinking, and she have so little sense

of humour that any blunt statement of fact hurt she as a direct

attack. she show in many way that she be fond of he, but it be

as a dog be fond, with a mute uncomprehending sympathy.



Serge fall back on action. whenever his mother, in the metallic tone

of her querulous mood, ask Mary to fetch her book from the other end

of the house, or to unravel her knitting when she have drop a

stitch, or to read to she because her eye ache, serge bustlingly and

rather ostentatiously forestall his sister. there be never any sign

that he have produce any effect on mother or daughter.



this go on for month. existence in the house in Burdley Park pass

smoothly and placidly, and Francis seem to be happy, as he have never

be, busy with his parish and greenhouse. he be silent for day

together, except that every now and then he would hum tunelessly to

himself, boom like a bumble-bee. he have every small joy that he

ask of the world and be content. he like the new generation of his

parishioner well than the old, they be not so dour, and

everything seem to he to be go well and happily. he see Frederic

very seldom, and Annette very frequently, and Minna and Gertrude be

regular correspondent. Serge have not for a very long time ask he

for money, and for the first time for many, many year his expense

and income be on good term with each other. good of all, Mrs.

Folyat have begin to see herself and her husband as a sort of Darby and

Joan, and sweeten her conduct to fit the character. everybody say

you might go far before you could find a more delightful old couple.

they achieve a sort of celebrity.



Mary too come in for her share of the general admiration, and her

devotion to her mother be by more than one tyrannous old woman

brandish over the head of a peevish and fade daughter. Mary recke

nothing of it, and it would have make no impression on she if she have.



one Sunday, when her mother have rather explosively demand she

spectacle, and Serge without a word have go down to the dining-room

for they, and without a word have give they to she, a new idea come to

Mary. she sit stupidly gaze at her mother and very slowly she begin

to think what would become of she if her father and mother be to

die. there be a loud-tick clock in the room, and it say with

remorseless insistency:



"I-shall-be-alone."



this be a very dreadful idea to she. she strangle it.



there be no getting rid of thought. if they be strangle their

corpse remain and rot in the mind, to its last detriment. this

idea remain in Mary's mind, cold and dead, and gradually poison

the sweetness of her nature.



a fix idea be a dead idea.



* * *



Mary's temper suffer, and she vent her spleen on her pupil to

such a degree that there come a time when she have only one left--the

young daughter of the sausage-machine manufacturing widower, all of

whose daughter she have instruct in turn in a polite mastery of the

violin. her bi-weekly visit to his house have become part of the

routine of his household, and she be part and parcel of its

furniture, be fit into the heavy dinner-party when there be a

gap. at other entertainment she be never omit and be as much

part of their colour as the fade good chair-cover that be take

out for the occasion or the japanese lantern which illuminate they.

she be useful, for she be always willing to play the piano for hour

on end when the young people want to dance. to the widower, who

never see she on other occasion, she be always associate with

gaiety.



one day he propose marriage to she, and she refuse he.



"be sure," he say, "that I shall always be your friend. and I shall

continue to hope."



he be really relieve at be reject, and retire to cogitate the

extraordinary impulse which have drive he to do such a thing. he feel

very uncomfortable, for the fiction with which he have surround his

dead wife have be shake.



Mary leave his house in a flutter. the man have always be kind to she,

he be an admirable father, and she have always respect he as a

solid man, though he be a little too northernly solid to be take

altogether seriously. his house be very comfortable, though ugly and

too reekingly prosperous, but the habit of year have make it a corner

of the equilateral triangle of her life. its atmosphere be altogether

different from that of her home and deliver she from monotony.



she only feel about his proposal of marriage be one of surprise.

she think of it only materially and be not signally disturb by it

until he send she an extraordinary letter in which he seek to

explain away his behaviour. in the course of it he cut deeply in his

contemplation of the marriage--having be marry--and have,

unwittingly, set his emotion stir. Mary's emotion respond, but

her modesty pluck they back. she do not, she tell herself, "love"

Mr. Hargreave, because, after all, he be only a common man who have

begin life as a boy in a smithy. it have be easy enough when she

think of marriage as a mere translation from one house to another,

but, quite clearly, he be ask for a personal relation, and from

that she shrank, chiefly because it be a change from the custom of

year. when she desire a concrete objection she fish out from the

confusion in her mind the prejudiced idea that she would be a

stepmother; bad than that, a stepmother to child to whom she have

be a pay instructress, child moreover who have, upon occasion,

be so cruel to she that she have be unable to retort upon they or

to maintain discipline. . . . she read Mr. Hargreave's letter once

more and see that she could not easily enter his house again, except

it be to leave her home.



she leave the matter for a day or two, do not reply, and fail to

attend for Violet Hargreave's violin lesson. a day or two more and she

receive another letter from Mr. Hargreave in which he completely

abase himself, and, in his desire to be kind and to palliate the

affront he conceive himself to have put upon she, wax tender and

be almost lyrical in her praise.



she try to write to he but could find nothing to say. tear roll

down and plop on to the paper, and she grow hot and impatient with

herself. clearly she must go to his house and reassure he. no soon

have she resolve on that, than she feel that she could not explain

herself, that he would renew his proposal, and she would have to say

either "yes" or "no." if "yes," then a thousand and one objection

would rise in her mind. if "no," then it would become impossible for

she ever to enter his house again.



she dry her eye and resolve that she would go there and then and

get it over. it be evening. she could ask for one of the Hargreave

girl, leave a piece of music; she be familiar enough at the house;

no one would suspect the undercurrent.



as she go downstairs her mother call to she. she could not find

"Johnny Ludlow" anywhere, and what have Mary do with it, and why be

she so careless?



"I be not careless," reply Mary. "you be read it yourself. you

must have leave it in your room."



"Johnny Ludlow" be find behind the cushion of Mrs. Folyat's chair.

Mary feel a gust of impatience as she give the book to her mother. she

sit down suddenly, and with a desperate gulp she say very quickly:



"Mr. Hargreave have ask I to marry he!"



"you, my dear . . . Mr. Hargreave! he must be nearly sixty!"



the word "sixty" chill Mary.



"fifty-one," she murmur.



"an old man like that . . . really he ought to be ashamed of himself.

he ought to be prepare himself for his eternal life instead of

thinking of a wife. . . . and with all those child too."



Mary's sense of justice be offend.



"a great many widower marry again for the sake of their child,

don't they?"



"but Mr. Hargreave have two grow-up daughter."



again there be a chilly catch at Mary's heart, and she have a lump in

her throat. she say:



"no one else have ever ask I to marry."



it need melodrama to move Mrs. Folyat; tragedy or tragi-comedy leave

her blank. she be in no mood for general consideration, for she be

think with cold practicability of the need of the moment. when she

think of the house without Mary it be as a place of absolute

silence. there be many evening when Francis say never a word; many

again when he sit alone in his study or work in his greenhouse, and

only come up just before it be time to go to bed. Mrs. Folyat have a

horror of silence. . . . Mary must not go, she think, Mary must not

go. she come swiftly to the point and ask:



"have you accept he?"



unreasonably, in the face of experience, Mary have be expect

sympathy; she so crave it. for a flickering moment she desire almost

viciously to lie, but she be hurt into truth.



"no," she say.



Mrs. Folyat sigh with relief and triumph.



"of course you couldn't," she say. "he be such a common man. . . .

let we play Bézique."



Mary fetch the card and they play until Francis come up at ten

o'clock. she let he take her hand and go downstairs to the kitchen

to brew her mother's chocolate. she have lose all interest in Mr.

Hargreave, and she feel nothing at all.



in her bedroom that night she find it quite easy to write to he. she

say that she trust he to understand that she could not marry he,

and that it would be good in the circumstance if he find another

teacher for Violet. he have (she continue) always be very kind to

she. she be very grateful to he, and would think well of he, but

her duty lie towards her father and mother.



so, without any ill-feeling she slip into the part design for she

by her mother.



as she be write to Mr. Hargreave, her mother say to Francis:



"my dear, what do you think? that horrid old Hargreave have actually

propose to Mary. of course she refuse he."



"Poor Mary," say Francis.







XXIX



discussion



_will kein Gott auf Erde sein?

 sind wir selber Götter._

      W. MÜLLER.



through the year Father Soledano have remain a fairly frequent

visitor at the house of the Folyats. his be the only really constant

intimacy that Francis enjoy, and it be base on the kinship of

their humour and their common taste for mental caricature. both

stranger to our town and dwelling outside its activity, they love to

foregather and burlesque its politic, its manner, and its worship of

money. Father Soledano go far than Francis and poke his fun at

english institution, though then he become malicious and Francis

could not see eye to eye with he. Francis have no politic save a

dislike for Mr. Gladstone and a distrust of Benjamin Disraeli and Lord

Salisbury, and he know too little of modern English literature to be

able to appreciate the priest's sarcasm at the expense of Carlyle,

Ruskin, George Eliot, or Robert Browning. he have never hear of George

Meredith, but he become almost angry when Soledano scoff at Dickens

and Thackeray. . . .



their discussion use to take place on Sunday evening in the study,

and it often happen that Serge be present. one Sunday night when,

as often happen, Soledano, hark back to the Manchester murder, he

launch out upon a violent assault upon England, and quote once more

word that be often upon his lip, word of the mother of Charles

Stewart Parnell:



"'the English be hate everywhere for their arrogance, greed, cannot,

and hypocrisy. they want we all to think they be so goody-goody. they

be simply thief.'"



"oh! come, come," say Francis, "not so bad as that. after all we have

give the world a good deal and show the way to other nation in

many thing."



"you have show the other nation how to steal."



"I don't think any nation, or any collective body of man who have

pool their sense of right and wrong need much instruction in that,"

say Serge. "it be simply a question of steal from a body of man

weak than themselves. man in the mass be abominable. there ben't

anything to choose between England and France, or Italy, or the new

German Empire or America. England have be more successful than the

rest and have therefore have more opportunity of do harm. . . ."



"good as well," put in Francis. "good as well."



"only incidentally and by accident," retort Soledano. "what I

contend be that you cannot have collective villainy and individual

virtue, collective bad action and individual good action."



"you cann't indict a nation," say Serge.



"I can and I do."



"then you be not so clever as I think. there be no such thing as

collective action, there be only the action of individual. you herd

man together so that they may carry out the will of individual, and,

as in the present condition of society, the most cunning and

cold-blooded and unscrupulous man survive to exercise their will over

the herd. what be produce by the herd be almost always bad, because

their effort be direct only towards base ideal. . . . in the long

run it may be a good thing to gather man together into huge masse for

the easy and more expeditious creation of wealth and the mean of

subsistence. I don't know. I cann't see into the future. but you and my

father know--who better?--how the poor be be grind down in this

town, and it must be the same in every other. what appal I be that

there be no sort of corrective to the base ideal of success and

accumulate wealth and what be call power except the blind revolt of

nature in man and woman--especially woman. there be absolutely

nothing. there be a certain number of artist in this town, man of my

own trade, but they all seem to be do their work from the dealer's

point of view, to produce a saleable article, and not for the sheer

delight of exercise a talent, without which the result cannot give

delight. the theatre be even bad: they be feed from London with

stupid replica of piece design to give the illusion of pleasure

rather than pleasure itself. the newspaper will soon be nothing but

advertising sheet. it will soon be impossible for any man to do his

work with any joy in it. it be bad enough when a man waste himself in

feed his own vanity, but when he be use only to feed the vanity of

another man then there be absolutely no hope for he. there might be

something say for an arrangement by which a man give a certain number

of hour of his day to joyless work, so that during the rest he can

take joy in other thing. but all these man who be do work in

which there be no reward at all be pay so little that they be

shatter by financial anxiety. they marry wife whom they cannot

afford to keep and produce child whom it be impossible for they to

feed and educate. . . . England be in a bad way, Father. it seem to

I rather unfair to attack she when she be down."



"the great Empire the world have ever see!" say Father Soledano

mockingly.



Francis look thoughtful. he light his pipe and say:



"I wish I understand what you be talk about, Serge."



"I want a corrective," answer Serge. "all this material organisation

may be a good thing in the long run, but spiritual health be every bit

as important as physical health--more. they're organise education

now, but towards no ideal save the base ideal of cunning unscrupulous

man--self-help, and all that. a man's life consist of only two

thing, work and love. at present love be wipe out of consideration

altogether, and work be regard as a damned unpleasant thing that have

to be stomach. at present a man must be either a slave or an

employer of slave, that is, a slave who be promote. if you promote a

slave to the condition of a free man he go bad, because he have the

soul of a slave and cannot live except under tyranny. if he escape

from the tyranny of a man he seek that of his own vice. . . . if you

educate man as slave they will be slave, just as your Loyola say,

Father--every child who pass through the jesuit' hand remain

theirs for ever. . . . you get revolt every now and then as in the

French Revolution and in 1848, but that be nothing but the desire of

the slave of poverty for the slavery of wealth."



"Christopher Sly," say Soledano, "will always be Christopher Sly. if

you be stupid enough you can stand anything. man be stupid. that be

the whole story. when you have say that you have say everything."



Serge bring his fist down on the table.



"I don't believe it. if, inspire by a base ideal, they can do all

that they have do, they can, when inspire by a noble ideal, the

simple and most beautiful of all, the ideal of a life of love and

work, do well yet and gain material well-being in justice through

spiritual health."



"bah!" say Soledano. "that be your english idealism. man can only

understand a base ideal. they be impel only by one

instinct--hunger. they be terrify of hunger and fight only to

protect themselves against it. all their other instinct, even the

instinct of reproduction, have to take their chance--a very poor one.

also my friend, your idealism be just a joke to woman. life be too

serious, too immediately appal for they, for they be just as

cruelly drive by their instinct of reproduction as they be by the

instinct of hunger."



"very well, then," say Serge, "drop the idealism and call it

practical good sense. concentrate on the instinct of hunger and the

instinct of reproduction and organise for the satisfaction of both."



"it be impossible. you be ask man to be intelligent. the English

will never be that."



Father Soledano say good-night to Francis and hold out his hand to

Serge.



"I'm come with you," say Serge.



"still unconvinced?"



"absolutely convinced that I be right."



they drive back in a cab to the priest's house in the asphalt

courtyard under the cathedral.



"will you tell I," ask Serge, "how you reconcile what you have say

this evening with what you say in your church?"



"I don't."



"can you go on?"



"like the rest of the world, I do what I be tell. if I examine and

scrutinise everything that I be tell to do I should do very little

of it. . . . on the whole we do good. we save a certain number of man

from sink into brutality, and to a certain number of other we give

an outlet for their emotion, which amount to the same thing."



"how much do you believe of what you tell they?"



"I have never examine my belief. like your father, I do what I be

tell to do. suppose I renounce my faith and the priesthood. my place

would be take by another. there be too many man, my friend, too many

woman, and life move both too slowly and too swiftly . . . what can

you do? you say that the good life consist wholly of work and love.

then work, my friend, and love. there be nothing to prevent you. I

also work, and I also love. very lovingly I despise man, because I

know they, as you, I think, do not."



"quite candidly, it seem to I cowardly and rather despicable to

teach man to believe in another life beyond the grave."



"life, as it be, must be make supportable."



"from within, not from without."



"you seem to be level an accusation at my Church, but you must be

just and observe that we do display, for the benefit of the man whose

soul be our care, a certain faith in the next life by renounce the

pleasure of this."



"you stifle an instinct. that seem to I as great a sin as abuse it

by excess of the pleasure derive from its satisfaction."



"I find your point of view interesting, but too naïve and simple. the

idea of original sin may be fanciful, it may have its origin in

oriental myth, but there be contamination from some source or other."



"simply from a wrong interpretation of life. I say it be possible for

man to understand life."



"it be quite impossible. they can only live it."



"then there be absolutely no meaning in all their activity, all their

invention, all their discovery . . ."



"I can see none. they be still the slave of hunger. when you appease

the hunger of the body there remain the hunger of the spirit."



"exactly, and I contend that in the hand of intelligent man the

machinery in their power could satisfy the bodily hunger of all man,

and set they free to find satisfaction for the hunger of the spirit.

. . . as I see it, it be towards that that the world be tend. there

will be a great deal of cruelty and oppression by the way, but there

will come a time when man's mastery of the world will be so great that

anything save the most elastic organisation will make life intolerable

for rich and poor alike. as you say, if you be stupid enough you can

endure anything. man be more intelligent now than they be fifty

year ago. they will be ten time as intelligent fifty year hence.

. . ."



"look at home, my friend. look at home."



"I do. and it be just that absurdly pathetic tragi-comedy that make

I scan the world to see what hope there be for future generation.

. . . you make the mistake of take man as you find they. I take

myself and discover what I might be, to what I might grow if I could

get my fill of friendship, and affection, and love."



"love be of God."



"God be in Man. I take myself, as I say. there be much in myself that

I despise, even as you despise man, but there be in myself an essence

which I know to be unconquerable and free. that you translate into

another world and call God and eternal life. you postpone freedom,

because to you the crust of slavery seem impenetrable. I want freedom

for that essence in myself here and now. it be the fierce instinct

in I, strong than hunger, strong than reproduction, which be

only by the way. what I find in myself I believe to exist in all other

man."



"but then," say Father Soledano, "you have never do as you be

tell."



Serge laugh and take his leave.







XXX



FREDERIC in the toils



_O, you shall have he give a number of those false face ere he

depart._

     every man out of his humour.



SUPERSTITION will have it that marriage be a good thing, and, be

one of the most powerful agent in human affair, forbid discussion

of its pseudo-axiom. superstition use marriage as a club with which

to lay man and woman low. sincerity insist on examine marriage, and

discover that there be no such thing, as superstition interpret it.

Society do not marry people, neither do the Church. society and

Church can only record what they be tell. man and woman marry

themselves by as much free will as they possess, and their marriage

will be good or bad or both in the degree in which they be good or

bad or both. if their marriage be good it will endure. if it be bad it

will come to an end and it will none the less be at an end though

superstition insist that the party to it continue miserably to dwell

under one roof and never seek outside it the love they have suffer

to escape. superstition refuse to countenance divorce--a dissolution

of the bond as free as the making of it--and smile blandly upon every

hideous captivity so long as it come not to public knowledge. . .

superstitious person be perpetually set their face against

Nature's subtle and ingenious provision for every emergency, but, it

be to be observe, that if you set your face against anything in

nature, it will simply go round the other way and hit you in the back

of the neck, exactly at the moment when you be congratulate

yourself on having make a comfortable provision for the mature year

of your life and a ripe and venerable old age.



they be very superstitious person who live near Frederic and

Jessie Folyat, and they smile benignantly upon their young marriage.

every morning several old lady and more than one old gentleman

peep out of their dining-room window to see Jessie walk down the

garden on Frederic's arm and kiss he at the little iron gate.



"ah!" they say, "young love! young love! there be nothing like it."



and this in the face of their own appalling experience and the fact

that Frederic and Jessie be neither of they very young: but

superstitious person realise very little of all that happen to they

and they see even less of what be present to their eye. it be

enough for these people that Jessie and Frederic be newly marry,

and they keep they in their mind as newly marry long after they have

settle down and the exciting novelty have give way to day-to-day

habit.



Frederic never see the head at the window as he hurry away to his

office, but Jessie see they, and more for they than for any

satisfaction of her own she maintain the practice of kiss she

husband. in the evening she would go down to the little gate and kiss

he again as he arrive.



"ah! lucky man!" the audience would sigh in their wither,

sentimental old heart.



when Frederic do not come Jessie would turn and visibly wilt under

the gaze of the superstitious person, who mutter to themselves:



"poor little bride! poor little bride!"



at length there come a time when on four evening in succession

Frederic do not come, and on the fourth evening Jessie could not

bring herself to turn and walk up the path alone. she go out into

the street, round the corner, and in at the kitchen door, and not

again for a long time do she go down to the little iron gate in the

evening.



* * *



Frederic be a liar of the common type, which indulge in absurd and

useless exaggeration. when he buy a neck-tie at a cheap hosier's

for half-a-crown he would say he get it at a more fashionable shop for

seven-and-six, though the name of the maker be sew inside it. when

he borrow money he would ask for three time as much as he want.

when he walk three mile he always stretch they out to ten. his

lying be for his own benefit first of all, and it be to help in

deceive himself that he extend it to other people. his income be

always estimate at at least three time too high a figure, and his

expenditure, which also he blow out to convince himself of the truth

of his estimate, always exceed it. Jessie have two hundred a year: he

persuade himself that she have five hundred, and force many quarrel

upon she because she come to he with bill for household expense.

. . . time and again do Jessie find he out in his lying, but, as he

always carry it into their intimate relation and multiply the

nothing that he give she to the _n_th power, she be appease; but

imperceptibly she be contaminate, and in spite of her many anxious

moment as to their solvency, contract the habit of lie to her

family as to her affair and the state of Frederic's business. this

be, in fact, unhealthy. outside the management of the Bradby-Folyat

estate there be very little work that could bring in any solid

profit, though in his office there be an air of bustling activity due

to the fairly constant stream of small county-court and police-court

case, which come to he as a tribute to his prowess as a liar. be

what be call a gentleman, he could lie from a coign of vantage, and

a number of small shopkeeper and shady customer come to Lawyer

Folyat, though, when there be any danger of a skilful

cross-examination, they soon learn to avoid he. still, there be

enough business in the office to go to Frederic's head: he be one of

those man who be perpetually intoxicate, though they never touch

alcohol and may be, frequently be, ardent temperance reformer. every

case that come into his office become four or five in his mind, and he

never doubt but that he be build up a large, solid, and

flourish business. he have all the air of a successful man,

hoodwink many innocent person and very soon have two young man as

article clerk, whose premium go to swell his banking account. he

be what be call generous, give for the pleasure of be thank,

and lavish present on his wife, his mother, his mother-in-law, his

sister, and Jessie's sister. he think for a long time of pay

his father back some of the money that have be disburse for he,

think it over so long that at last he believe he have repay it and

pat himself on the back as a dutiful son. . . . when he have moment

of doubt--and they be very awful when they come--he would go to his

mother and she would cluck over he like an old hen, and tell he he

be the most grateful, the most affectionate, the most generous, and

truly thoughtful of her child. he would gulp down her flattery and

win back to self-deception, without which it have become impossible for

he to face his wife, whom he be for ever pester with absurd

question like "do you love I?" "how much do you love I?" "would

anything ever make you cease to love I?" and when she reply as well

she could with exaggerated demonstration he hardly listen to she.

. . . truly in their relationship it be he who play the feminine

part.



when Jessie be with child he lie to himself about his son, see

himself build up a great firm for his inheritance, and from the

very first moment be a hero to the little fellow. he begin to feel

irresistible and so torment his wife with his swaggering that she

protest by mention one or two awkward little fact. she bring

down on herself such a storm of anger that her nerve give way and she

have a fit of hysteria. . . in a week she be bring to bed of a

miscarriage.



she be not very ill, but she suffer terribly, for Frederic hardly

speak a word to she for ten day, and then he arrange for she to go

and stay at the sea alone, unless she choose to take one of her sister

with she. she would not do that and she go alone. he promise to

spend Saturdays and Sundays with she, but at the end of each week he

declare that it be impossible for he to get away. . . . he be

hardly responsible for his action. the most glorious fiction he have

ever create have come topple down and he be not altogether to blame

for the breach which gape so wide between himself and his wife that

he could not avoid see it. she, too, have miss her opportunity,

for she be so oppress by the physical ugliness of the calamity that

she be freeze by it and could not give he the warmth that might have

save he from still far flounder in the morass. . . . as it

be, he be savagely resentful against she and miss not the pettiest

occasion of hurt she. under this treatment her love die almost

without a struggle, so painlessly indeed that she attribute all her

hurt and her agony to the discovery that come to she by the sea, that

Frederic have never love she. she see that clearly and be instantly

fill with dread lest she should betray herself and let he feel that

she know. . . . every letter she write to he be carefully frame to

convey a picture of herself as loyal, tender, devoted, proud,

and--with the most cunning falsity of all--admire. these letter

soothe Frederic. he have find it difficult to admire his own

brutality, though, as he move far away from it, it be distort

by the prism of his vanity into something very like strength. that

accomplish, it become an easy task to cover over the unpleasant fact

of the disaster so that it become as a pearl upon his shell.



he be loftily forgiving when Jessie return, and she be softly,

cushionly submissive. for the first time--love be dead--she let

loose upon he the full force of her sex. he be still sensitive

enough to feel repel, even as he yield.



their house be fill with stealthy shadow. it grow dark and

darker. each seek to illuminate it with lie, lie, and yet more

lie.



at first, as usual, his lie give he the illusion of great freedom,

and he heighten the illusion by treat Jessie with less and less

consideration. he gulp down the forced admiration she give he and

be always try to squeeze more of it out of she. when he be in a

mood of self-abasement she admire the loftiness which could stoop to

acknowledge its defect, and quickly he be ride off again with his

head full of himself as the kind of husband, the good of son, the

most irresistibly successful of man. such glaring divergence present

itself to his mind as consistency.



such a state of thing impose a heavy strain upon Jessie. she be not

always quick enough to follow he in his snipe-like flight. sometimes

when he be accuse himself of neglect and thoughtlessness and lack

of consideration for she, it seem to she that it would be easy

and might afford both of they relief if she agree with he. then his

vanity writhe and furiously he would cry:



"you be always find fault with I. . . my mother think I

perfect."



it be impossible to be wise where love be not, and Jessie could not

learn discretion. he be so extraordinarily convincing in his

self-reproach that she always forget the lesson of caution she have

set herself in his absence.



still he would force endear phrase upon she and caress and

demand to be tell that she love he. her parrot-cry appease he,

and, feel confident that she love he, in stealthy small way he

begin to betray she, indeed, where before he have only dare to be

false to she in thought. he absent himself from his house to seek

the company of flattering fool. he return at long and long

interval to stoke up the furnace of his wife's love. . . . he be

like a child who, having build a house of card, remove first one

card and then another from the base and leave only enough to keep the

edifice ominously sway.



* * *



do what he would, Frederic be slowly force into retreat. it be

impossible for life to stand still. if it cannot move forward it will

plunge backward. life be for ever seek its channel, love. . . .

Frederic be bear backward, and it be not long before he come to the

thought of Annie Lipsett. easily he persuade himself that he have be

treat with injustice, and thwart by interference from do what

be right. pity himself, he begin to pity she, and, in a tremendous

orgy of self-righteousness, tell himself that he ought to make amend,

and at least, even if he could do nothing, let she know that he have

not forget she. it do not occur to he that she might have

forget he: impossible to conceive that she could wish to.



though he be on a considerably more amiable foot with his father,

he could not broach the subject with he. as far as Francis be

concerned it be bury, and be not to be exhume. Frederic turn to

Serge, and by hint and semi-question draw his own conclusion that

Serge be still in touch with Annie. he leave it at that and wait,

and take to frequent Serge's company enough to form a fairly

accurate idea of his habitual movement. these still include frequent

excursion into the country, for Serge find a good market for

water-colour drawing of the semi-urbanised fell and dale of

Lancashire, and the little town so tuck away into a narrow valley

that from one side of they you could see across the smoke to the hill

and the green country beyond.



one day, when he know that Serge be out on an expedition, Frederic

visit his studio and ransack it. he find two letter from Annie

Lipsett and from they become possessed of her history. Serge's friend,

the farmer, have marry six month before and Annie have have to come to

town again to earn she living as good she could. Serge have procure

she a situation in a dressmaker's, and she be in lodging in a suburb

not very far away from Annette's little house.



Frederic write a very cautious little letter on his office paper, and,

in a spasm of jealousy of Serge, enclose a five-pound note. the money

be return two day later without any reply. he send it back again,

implore she to take it if she have a single friendly thought of he

or any wish for his happiness. (he heave an enormous sigh as he write

the word--happiness). the five-pound note be return again. he

guess, rightly, that Serge be responsible, and he swear that he

would not be oust from his rightful position as benefactor to the

woman he have wrong. be not his own happiness wreck? could he not,

by this mean, restore it? . . . he be persuade that he could.



he leave his office early, and with a hectic sort of elation in the

adventure--it be so much more exciting than the idea of return

home--set out to discover the house in which Annie Lipsett live. he

wait at the corner of the street until he see she come. she be

with Serge. furiously he turn and stride away.



the next evening he wait for she. she be alone. with byronic gloom

he stand in front of she and say:



"Annie!"



she catch her breath and step back a pace.



"please," she say. "no! I think you would understand."



"I understand nothing," say Frederic; "nothing except that my life be

miserable, wreck, a thing of captivity and torture."



"you mustn't come to see I. it ben't right. . . . your . . ."



"it be right," say Frederic. "it have all be wrong, but this be

right."



(he know his language be stilte, but he could not give himself time

to revise it.)



Annie say simply:



"please, Mr. Frederic, it ben't any good. it be all over long ago.

your way and my way ben't the same."



Frederic walk with she down the street, and find it hard to keep up

with she, she go so swiftly. he make one last effort and say:



"I want to see the child . . . our own be . . ."



Annie have hear about that from Serge. she turn to he and hold out

her hand:



"I'm so sorry. . . . you shall see he just this once, if you'll

promise I never to come again . . . and he be not to know who you

be. he have never hear of you."



the unconscious cruelty of her word do not penetrate Frederic's

mind. the situation appeal to he as a situation. he be become a

connoisseur, and the ironically bitter savour of this tickle his

palate. with offensive humility and gratitude he say:



"thank you . . . thank you."



* * *



the boy be in bed sleep, with the clothe tumble by his

restlessness and his arm fling across his face.



"he be such a good boy," say Annie; "he have always be good and

happy."



"he be like you," say Frederic. "I be glad I have see he. I be glad

to have find you again."



"will you go now?"



Frederic be startle. her simplicity and gentleness have sober he.

he have grow so use to swagger from situation to situation that it

be alarming to find this, which should have be the most touching

and move and the most honourable to himself, dissolve by the light

touch of sincerity. it be all the more disconcerting, inasmuch as he

have make no allowance for change in Annie. in their previous

acquaintance she have be as adroit and as eager as he in the game of

False Positions, which be the principal occupation of human being all

the world over. he have take her rejection of his proffer assistance

as another move in the game, and lo!--here she be simply ignore the

past and out of a purely general sort of friendliness allow he to

see her son, and when he have see, request he to go! he be

humiliate, but still so astonish that, though all his desire be to

play upon her pity and so to drag she back to the old footing, he

could not find word keen enough for his purpose. he heave great

sigh and fix she with sorrowful and yearn eye, but she gaze

only at the child, busy herself with his bed, put up her hand to the

gas jet and wait until Frederic be out of the room before she

turn it low.



he wait for she in the passage.



"tell I," he say, "how you be off for money. you shall not want.

. . ."



"I make my living. I like my work."



"I couldn't bear to think of you suffer through I."



Annie look at he with that disarm directness that be unfamiliar

to he:



"I have suffer," she say.



Frederic go away.



* * *



it be not long before he have persuade himself that she have

deliberately plot to humiliate he, by meet his generosity--have

he not be generous?--with what he call "beastly pride."

Generosity, in his dual scheme of the world, should find its

complement in a grovel gratitude. generosity be the prerogative

of the male, gratitude the privilege of the female. that a woman

should show self-reliance and fle back a man's generosity, suspect

he most of all when he bring gift, offend he as an indecency

. . . after all if the woman do not take her cue from the man where

be he? how can he continue to play his part? what become of the human

drama?



Frederic's reflection of course be more particular than this, but,

generalise, they would amount to the same thing. the world (_i.e._

Frederic) be so dishonest that honesty (_i.e._ an honest person,

Annie) seem to be offend against all the rule of the game, and,

since the world be under the illusion that its whole existence depend

on the game, it devote its energy to the suppression of honesty.

. . . Frederic tell himself that he have a right to assist the woman,

who be defiantly happy in the face of her sin, while he, her partner

in that sin, be properly wretched and conscience-stricken and

honestly desirous of make amend. he would obey his conscience--that

must be right!--regain his self-respect and compel gratitude from

Annie.



"we shall see!" he say, having partially restore his belief in his

own rectitude and irresistibility.



he take to send toy and little garment for the boy. they be

return to his office.



he go to Annie's room to find that she have fly. the devil of

obstinacy be rouse in he, and he bribe her landlady to procure her

new address. he call but be refuse admittance. . . . then one

morning he wait and follow she to her place of business and

thereafter waylay she several time. she be quite amiable but

absolutely unyielding. one day as he be walk along by her side

breathlessly pour into her ear a tale of self-pity,

self-accusation, self-abasement, entreaty for forgiveness, a word of

kindness, extravagant out-pouring of love for the boy and his brave,

splendid, true-hearted mother, all mix together most adroitly with a

complacent masculine belief in the softness and gullibility of the

female heart, they meet Serge. Annie call to he. Serge come at once.



"take I home," she say.



Frederic catch hold of her arm and solemnly abjure she not to break

his heart, to believe in he, to believe that he only be her friend.

. . .



"let she go, you swine," say Serge, and thrust Frederic away.



they be in a crowded thoroughfare. it have be rain and the

street be very muddy. it be evening and clerk and shop assistant

be hurry home. no one pay any attention to the little group. the

stream of people part, pass round they, close again, and move

on. . . . the cold anger in Serge's tone infuriate Frederic. he see

it all now. it be Serge who be thwart he. Serge who at every

turn be thrust humiliation upon he. he lose count of everything

in hatred of Serge. he have a stick in his hand. he raise it and

strike blindly. the stick be wrench away, he receive a terrific

blow on the point of his chin, his foot slip from under he, and he

go down. . . . by the time he be up again Serge and Annie have

disappear. no one pay he any heed, only, a few yard away,

grin from ear to ear, he see the boy from his office.



he hail a cab and drive home. Jessie be alarmed at his condition,

but her alarm give way to pride as he tell she how he have see a man

break a shop-window and run away with a handful of jewel--a huge,

burly man, and how he have give chase, catch up with he, and after a

tremendous struggle--the man know a good deal about wrestling--hold

he until the arrival of the police. . . . what with the soothe

influence of have his wound tend, and the interest of his story,

Frederic find it not at all difficult to recover from the degradation

of the scene in the street and its outcome. he be so gentle and

caressing, so apparently without thought beyond the moment, that

Jessie begin flutteringly to whisper to her heart that perhaps she have

be wrong, perhaps, after all, Frederic have really love she from the

beginning. both indulge in the luxury of forgiveness and fond

indulgence, and they be like a shyly self-conscious couple on

honeymoon.



* * *



Honeymoon folly be weaken, and next day Frederic have small power of

resistance against his own miserable thought. his office-boy smirk

when he see he, and in the afternoon he grin with a damnable

familiarity as he announce Mr. Serge Folyat. Serge come in on his

heel, catch the boy by the ear and thrust he out through the door.

Frederic sink back into his chair, do his good to draw on his

professional manner and sit with his fingertip press together and

his lip purse up.



Serge say:



"I've come to beg your pardon. I lose my temper."



Frederic could find nothing to say. Serge go on:



"let we, if we can, discuss the matter on a friendly footing. you make

a beast of yourself by pester a woman. I make a beast of myself by

hit you. now we know where we be. . . . we're likely to meet at

home and other place where any obvious hostility would be

embarrassing. . . ."



"I don't wish to meet you at home or anywhere else."



"it will be difficult to avoid. I think we have well settle the case

out of court. ben't that what you call it?"



Frederic tug at his waistcoat and look almost dignified as he

say:



"I have no wish to interfere in your affair. I will thank you not to

meddle with mine."



"it happen, however," reply Serge, "that our affair have

overlap. I must ask you to withdraw."



"and if I refuse?"



"then it will become necessary for I to knock you down whenever I

find you in my way. . . ."



"may I ask. . . ?"



"what I be get out of it for myself? I be foolish enough to

believe that you would not look for an interested motive. . . . the

position be this. . . . you shirk a responsibility which I have have

the pleasure and the privilege of assume. your beastly jealousy

resent that, and you seem bent on take up that old responsibility.

there be two reason why you should not do that--first, because it be

too late; second, because your attempt to do so be an insult to your

wife . . ."



"keep my wife out of it."



"if you will tell your wife and ask her permission to make a

settlement upon the boy . . ."



"you know I cann't do that. I cann't afford it."



"then leave it alone."



"no."



"you'll take the consequence?"



"I'll take the consequence and be damn to you. . . . it's a fine

thing to do, ben't it?--to take a woman when she's go under?"



"my dear brother," say Serge, "you be the most childish little

blackguard . . ."



"I'm man enough, any way, to stand up for my own right . . ."



"when you learn that you have no right you'll be a man . . . in a way

you be right. my brother be not my keeper. I should prefer not to let

the thing go any far, for your wife's sake. . . ."



"keep my wife out of it!"



"good-bye, then . . . you insist on be a fool?"



"I shall do as I think well."



the office-boy announce another client and Serge go away.



* * *



Frederic continue to waylay Annie Lipsett, but could never meet she

without Serge, who call for she at her house in the morning and at

her place of business in the evening. he write to she and implore she

to give he an opportunity of explain himself. (he have begin to

believe, without reference to Jessie, whom he keep in a separate

compartment of his mind, that he love Annie, have never cease to love

she, and that a declaration of love would break down her resistance.)

she do not reply and he write at great length explain his desire

to set she beyond anxiety, and hint at the fire that be rage

in his bosom, fire which he stoke with uncease care.



at last he have a letter from she. she write:





"DEAR MR. FREDERIC,--Please, please believe that I want nothing from

you, that I be happy as I be. I don't want my boy ever to know who

his father be. he be mine by all the love I have give he. I could

not share he with you, and to let you do anything for he would be

sharing, wouldn't it? I have think no ill of you for a long time

now. I be to blame just as much as you. that be all over. you cannot

take I into your life, therefore I cannot take you into mine . . ."





Frederic be interrupt in the reading of it and slip it into the

pocket of his coat.



his long absence have begin to stir jealousy in his wife. she be

spy on he. she find the letter, her jealousy burst into flame,

and thereafter be no peace in Frederic's house, nor any moment of

sweetness and ease.



once more, with horrible hypocrisy, Jessie resume her habit of

walk with her husband to the little iron gate in the morning, and

meet he there in the evening, and the old lady and gentleman,

who have be a little anxious, peer through their window and smile

their blessing.



Mrs. Folyat always say that Frederic's house remind she of Eden

before the Fall.







XXXI



news from MINNA



_"Sir" cry Adams, "I assure you she be as innocent as

myself."_

     JOSEPH ANDREWS.



MRS. FOLYAT find the position of a grandmother entirely to she

like--the maximum of opportunity for beatific clucking with no

responsibility. Annette have three child, Gertrude two, and Minna

two, and Mrs. Folyat have already a large collection of their saying

for quotation in company, the most popular be an ode address by

Annette's second boy to Mr. Gladstone, who have visit our town

several time when its allegiance to the Liberal cause begin to waver.



Minna bring she two child to stay in Burdley Park. they come for

a fortnight and stay four month. they would have stay long but

that Francis begin to be anxious and, after a good deal of cogitation,

shyly question Minna as to her husband's doing.



"Basil be have a bad year," say Minna. "we're horribly poor

sometimes. rent in London be so dear."



"even so," say Francis, "it seem hardly wise to leave he for so

long."



"we have row." Minna seem to be quite cheerful about it. "poor

people always do have row. they get so afraid, that they cann't enjoy

anything else."



"I be begin to think that something serious might have happen."



"oh, no. I'm still Basil's 'darling wife' when he write to I, and he

be my 'devoted husband.'"



"marriage," say Francis, "be very difficult."



"of course it be, to anybody who ben't an angel like you. . . . I'll

go back and try again."



Francis suck at his pipe thoughtfully.



"I oughtn't to tell you this," he say, "but Annette run away once."



"do she?"



"yes, after breakfast. she be back again in time to give Bennett his

tea."



* * *



two day later Minna return to London. the day after she have go,

Basil appear with a draw, miserable face. he ask Francis if he

might speak to he, and Francis, quaking, lead he into the study.

Basil say he have be abroad. Minna have run away from he with the

child.



"she come here," say Francis. "for all we know, she be write to

you every day and hear from you. she say she be hear from you.

. . . only just before she go she speak about your letter. she go

back to London yesterday. you ought to be with she. . . . in my

opinion you ought to have fetch she back month ago."



Basil seem to have a great deal to say, but he gulp it down and

reach out for the railway guide.



"yes," he say. "I suppose we must try again."



"if you want money," say Francis, "I would rather you come to I than

be oblige to any one else."



"it ben't money. thank all the same."



Francis feel his heart sink, but he let it pass. it seem all the

more imperative to he that Basil should hurry back to London. he

bustle he out of the house and see he to the station.



* * *



three week pass during which no word come from Minna or Basil.

Francis do not write to they, hope that they be settle their

difference--whatever they might be.



one morning when he be up early he take in the letter and find one

from Minna address to Mary. he watch Mary read it at breakfast.

without look up she thrust it back into its envelope, her hand

tremble so that the paper rustle, and slip it into her pocket.



"who's your letter from," ask Mrs. Folyat. Francis hold his breath.



"it's from Fawcett's, the music-publisher. they haven't get the piece

I want. perhaps I don't give the name right."



Francis breathe again.



Mary disappear soon after breakfast. she go to Serge's studio. he

be out. she wait for he all day and have nothing to eat. she do

not even light the gas but sit thinking, think on no thought. Serge

find she in the dark.



"why, Mary!" he say.



she hold out Minna's letter, and he sit and read it.



"have you tell anybody at home?"



"no. it's too awful."



"it ben't awful at all. it's very silly of they to be angry with each

other."



"but divorce. . . . it's wicked."



"nonsense. it may be necessary. it often be. . . . she'll want a good

deal of sympathy."



"she don't deserve any."



"how absurd you screw-up people be! you don't give sympathy because

people deserve it, but because they need it."



Mary ponder that for a moment or two. then she ask:



"what do you say I be?"



"screw-up."



Mary say nothing.



"we'd well burn this," say Serge. "we shall have to be discreet.

letter nearly always convey wrong impression."



"shall I write to Minna?"



"if you want to. don't give she your opinion. she willn't want it."



"who be to tell they at home?"



"I will, if you like."



"that's what I want you to do. . . . I feel that something be

happen all the time Minna be here."



"I'll go home with you now."



"I think the soon the well. . . . something awful might happen."



* * *



Serge find his father in the greenhouse and go straight to the

point. Francis be in his shirt-sleeve. he lay down his trowel and

very slowly put on his coat.



"I know something be happen, but I never think it could be as

bad as that."



he sit down heavily and blink through his spectacle.



"I seem," he say, "I seem to have bring my child into the world

to very little happiness. I suppose Minna ought never to have marry

a poor man. . . . it's very queer, Serge, very queer. one read of

these thing and the right and wrong of they appear to be very

simple. they happen in one's own family and the right and wrong

don't appear so simple. . . . if Minna be to come in now, I should

be glad to see she. I should at least know that she be safe. . . ."



"the truth be," say Serge, "that the right and wrong don't matter.

you either love people or you don't. if you love they, you help they.

if you don't, some one else do."



"I think," say Francis, "I have well go to London. I always like

Basil. he always like I. I might be able to make he see reason.

. . . Minna say she be innocent. he ought to take she back."



"my dear father, that ben't reason. that be nonsense. . . . you're

think of what people will say. public opinion don't matter any

more than my opinion or your opinion. if they have fall so far apart

as to wish to break the tie between they it will be quite impossible

for they to live together without degradation----"



"you go so fast. I cann't follow you. I don't see . . ."



"it be always degrade for a man and a woman to live together when

they have no love for each other."



"dear I!" murmur Francis. "dear I!" his face wear an expression of

immense surprise. he go on mutter to himself in a puzzled way,

and finally, with a sort of triumph, as though he have find the

solution of his riddle:



"but if they be marry?"



"my dear father, you must admit that love and marriage be two very

different thing. love be divine, marriage be human."



"But----"



"marriage be not a divine ordinance. it be a respectable human

institution contrive for the comfortable existence of society."



"I be think of Minna's child."



"so be I."



"she will lose they."



"that be her affair. anything be well for they than be bring up

in a house with a man and a woman who hate each other."



"I cann't admit that."



"as a matter of principle, perhaps not; as a matter of practice, you

will, just as you take over Frederic's mess. . . ."



"how do that turn out?"



"splendidly."



very slowly Francis turn that over in his mind and go back in

memory to the day in Mrs. Entwistle's cottage. it do not bring he

any great elucidation, but it give he a feeling of confidence in

Serge, and, cling to he, he say:



"what be we to do?"



"if you'll agree to say nothing to my mother, to write nothing to

Basil, and not to bother your head about the right and wrong of it,

I'll go to London and see Minna. if there's a glimmer of hope I'll do

everything I can. if there ben't, I'll see Minna through. . . . I

don't think I shall come back. I cann't stay in this place much long.

it gobble man up and don't even have the decency to digest they

properly. . . . it's a machine and have no conscience about the past,

no concern for the future. it darken man's mind so that they live

hideously and their horrible sin be visit upon their child. no,

I shalln't come back. I cann't. . . ."



"there be a great deal of wickedness in this place. it be God's will,"

say Francis.



"Men's will. the will of man cheat and cozen by their own

rapacity. . . . but that be neither here nor there. will you agree to

say nothing to my mother until you hear from I?"



"I'll promise you that," say Francis with a little compunction, for

he see how dark would be the day of wait with such a secret

tugging at his heart and his wife babble of her child's

marriage. "how do you know? do Mary tell you?"



"yes, Mary tell I. Mary have be rather a trump about it."



"I shall be able to talk to Mary," think Francis, with a sigh of

relief.



* * *



Serge spend the night pack and dismantle his studio. he destroy

a great many of his picture, call up the porter and make he a

present of his furniture and the clothe that be leave after he have

pack two bag.



in the morning he go to fetch Annie Lipsett. he find she just

leave, but make she go back with he to see the boy. he he hug

and kiss, and then he give Annie a cheque for fifty pound for his

education.



"and for God's sake," he say, "don't make he a gentleman. put he to

a trade. if he's any real good he'll get out of it. if he's only

middling good he'll stay there and marry and die respectable. if he's

bad--God help you; but he willn't be that."



Annie say:



"you're go."



"yes. I'm go."



she be very plucky and fight back her tear. Serge take she

shoulder in his hand and say:



"you and I have have a queer sort of love, an impersonal sort of

meeting in Heaven here on earth. I never understand before what it

must feel like to be a seraph--just a head and wing. we've be so

busy fight our way up out of a slimy pit that we haven't have time

to think much about each other--only the boy."



Annie's tear flow freely and she cling to his hand and say:



"you don't know what you've be to I, but I can tell you now. it be

so much to have you for my friend in that time when I have no one. I

love you. . . ."



"I know, I know."



"but all that sort of love go away afterwards when I have the boy. it

have be a great thing for he too. . . ."



"I've learn a lot from he."



"that's so wonderful about you. you seem to be always learn. and

now you're go. I use to dread your going, but now it don't hurt

I at all. . . . you will always have I to think gladly of you."



"and I of you. . . . we've make the world rich by a friendship."



"I want to say thank you," she say, "but I cann't, not enough."



"of course you cann't. . . . come along."



* * *



in a few hour Serge be in the express for London. he have a portfolio

of picture and drawing, two bag, and one hundred and twenty pound

in note. as the train pass out of the dingy murk and his eye

light on the green, undefiled country, he draw in great breath and

find it hard not to shout for joy in the new z for adventure that

have come to he.



"that seraph notion," he think, "I wonder where it come from? that

curious hunger for the state of childhood, the pretence that it be

superior to adult life. . . . surely it all come from their

incompetence in manage their affair as man and woman. they seem to

lose their simplicity. I wonder why? . . . Old Lawrie must be right.

mind, body, spirit. you cann't poison the spirit. that's God, and he's

beyond contamination. body and mind be the instrument of the spirit.

Poison the mind and the body suffer. . . . that's right. yes: old

Lawrie's right. fear of love and fear of death; the mind hem in and

lose its bright power of reflection, so that it show only a

distort image of life. . . . no wonder they hate life when it look

like that. . . . it cann't go on for ever. the spirit must break

through it all in time . . . in time."



the train rush along, and he begin to think that perhaps the problem

be be solve. when man have make it so easy to escape from their

city of captivity, would not their mind also be free? would there

not be a gradual adjustment of mind to large surrounding? or be

the mind of man so clothe with century of tyranny that swifter

transportation also would be use as an instrument of slavery? . . .



"no," he think, "there be a deep faith in man than they know. they

endure heroically because they be sure that in the end their effort

will lead to deliverance."



as an ironic comment upon his reflection the train run into a real

"old particular" London fog and be hold up for half an hour outside

the station. in that half-hour his thought run swiftly. he have never

be to London before, and he be move by a boyish excitement at the

prospect of enter it. that he find absurd. it would be hardly at

all different from the place he have just leave. that have hold little

for he: this could hold nothing at all. he have no ambition, and often

ludicrously have learn the scorn a man can come by who prefer

anything to his own advancement; often he have see how profitable it

be for a man to sacrifice his talent to his vanity, and how

incredible to such a man that it could be possible to sacrifice vanity

to talent. from all he have hear of London, the great city in the

world, its subservience to ambitious man be as immense as its renown.

in our town, Benskin and his school of little fish have dub Serge

"amateur" by way of kill he. he have like the isolation that have

follow, but now he think that isolation could be of little use to

a man, except he could spring from it to great freedom and a purer

joy in his work. "Amateur." . . . be interpret, that mean one

who love his work, as its contrary, "professional," signify one who

work for gain. . . . these city be professional. they reject

he, as they reject all amateur. . . . so be it. Serge feel no

bitterness. he be a free man. he ask nothing: he have be give

much, first of all the power to enjoy. . . . he chuckle to think that

the only usefulness the suspicious world of professional man would

allow he lay--apparently--in succour female in distress.

Knight-errantry, once the lofty of profession, be descend into

the hand of the contemn amateur.



"at bottom," say Serge, "the difference between they and I be that I

take woman seriously and they don't."



* * *



his stay in London be short even than he have think it would be.

he visit Basil first, and find he work desperately, painting,

charcoal drawing, black-and-white, Christmas card, book

illustration, design for menu, chocolate box--all slipshod,

formal, but just neatly and obviously charming. through his tooth he

ask Serge what the hell he have come for and go on work. Serge

turn over a pile of drawing on the table by the window.



"Benskin would dote on you now. . . . how you must hate art to be able

to do they so well!"



Basil grunt. "I hate everything."



"you always be extreme."



Basil lay down his pen.



"do she send you?"



"no. she don't know I'm in London. I come to you first because I

think your point of view might be helpful when I come to tackle she.

I've get nothing to go upon except her letter to Mary, which ben't

particularly illuminate."



"it wouldn't be. it's just funny to she--just funny, do you hear? I've

implore she, on my knee I've beg she just to help I to

understand she, to give I some clue as to what it be that she really

want, to keep we from go to smash, and she just sit and listen

to I with that slow grin of her. . . . I frighten she, I think,

the last time, and the grin fade from her face, but she become as

hard as a stone. . . . she don't care. she don't care. and I think

she want to break I. . . . she haven't do it. do you hear? she

haven't do it!"



"do you weep?"



"I . . . I break down."



"ah! not a good way of convince she of your capacity to give she

what she want."



Basil stride angrily about the studio, wave his arm and shouting.



"it's not a bit of good. it's do now. . . . it's all over. it's

finish."



"it willn't be finish until you've done think about it. there

don't seem to be much prospect of that."



"I'm not go to discuss it with you."



"I don't want to. what be the fact? you've accuse she of

infidelity. who's the man?"



"Fry. . . . his wife's divorce he. that's evidence enough, ben't

it?"



"I'm not concerned with the evidence. I only want to know whether it's

necessary that there should be a divorce."



"she's leave I."



"I might persuade she to return."



"could you?"



"I might. . . ."



"I'll forgive she. . . . if she will come to I as a contrite woman.

. . ."



"that's slush. if you be go to spend your life in quarrel as

to which be really the magnanimous party, I shalln't stir a finger.

. . . do you want she?"



"if she . . ."



"if you want she, there can be no condition. . . ."



"but she . . ."



Serge see that it be hopeless. Basil be cling to his grievance,

nurse they, cherish they. they have become more precious to he

than his own happiness, than his wife, than the well-being of his

child. . . . still there be hope that on Minna's side there might

be magnanimity and generosity enough to uproot the thick-set hedge

with which Basil have surround himself.



* * *



Minna be in room in the Marylebone Road, near Madame Tussaud's. she

have a woman friend with she, a queer inanimate creature who look as

though she have step out of the waxwork--a model of Nell Gwynne.

Minna seem quite happy. she be lie on a sofa eat turkish

delight and read "Jane Eyre." she drop her book as Serge enter

and her friend glide away.



"I _be_ glad to see you," she say. "it's so dull. ben't it a beastly

business?"



"I've just be to see Basil."



"be he still weep?"



Serge ignore that question and ask she another.



"what's the trouble between you two?"



"Basil say I'm----"



"I know that, but that's only the outcome of the trouble."



Minna be interested. she sit up on the sofa with her hand between

her knee.



"how clever you be, Serge! no one else have ever think of that.

everybody else be quarrel as to whether I do or do not."



"do you?"



"no. that come long after the mischief's do. the trouble between

Basil and I be simply this. Basil want I to be a mother to he and

I cann't. People be simply sicken about mother. I'm a woman first

and a mother afterwards. be a mother grow out of be a woman.

. . . Basil want I to be a work of art in theory and a mother in

practice. I simply couldn't do it. . . . it's my own fault. I know

Basil be like that before I marry he. I have a sort of blind moment

when I think I could change he. you cann't change people. I cann't

change myself. . . . I ought to have leave he long ago, but Basil's

the sort of man you cann't leave. he cling. he play on your nerve

and make you frightened. he look at you with his big eye and seem

so helpless that you're afraid to leave he, and you don't like

hurt he. he simply _make_ you be a mother to he and then take

advantage of it, and thing go from bad to bad. . . . London seem

to frighten he, take away all his courage and his ambition. London's

too big for he. he want to be at the top of the tree all at once,

simply because he's afraid of the climb. . . . we should have do

well to stay at home."



"that wouldn't have make any difference."



"no, I suppose not. I be I and Basil be Basil and that's the whole

story, and it's just like a man of that sort to turn round and try to

kill you when you willn't let he cling to you any long."



Minna's voice become venomous.



"grievance again!" think Serge, and he see then how impossible be

his position. he could not tell Minna of Basil's willingness to take

she back upon condition. either of they or both must surrender their

grievance if anything be to be do. that seem to be extremely

improbable.



"you will not go back, then?"



"I'm quite willing to go back, if Basil----"



More condition! oh, the folly of insistence upon right! . . . Serge

drop the subject, accept the inevitable and ask:



"then it be to go on?"



"that rest with Basil."



"if he do not withdraw the petition I suppose you will not defend."



"I shall defend my honour if I have to spend my last penny on it. I'm

not go to have mud throw at I and say 'thank you' for it. I don't

trust Basil. he's a vindictive little beast. he's sure to say our

marriage be happy. . . . besides, I must think of the child."



"I wish you would."



"I do. their mother's honour be precious to they."



"personally," say Serge, "I would sell my honour for twopence."



"oh! you! . . . but then you don't care what anybody think of you."



"not a straw."



"then it ben't any good talk to you. you really be an immoral man.

. . . if Basil go for I, I shall go for he. you'd hold up the

other cheek, I know, but then you're not human. I tell my child

once to think before they strike, and Benny say, 'I do think, and

then I strike. . . .' I'm like that too. I'm not go to listen to

you. I'm not go back to Basil, I'm not go to lie down and let

he weep over my sin in public. he's a little beast and everybody

shall know that he's a little beast. . . ."



Minna have work herself up into a state of anger. she be hot and red

in the face with it, and look coarse and unpleasant.



Serge say to himself:



"no wonder knight-errantry be dead, since woman have take upon

themselves to be as stupidly selfish as man."



he make one last effort, and suggest that she should take the more

sensible course and leave it to Basil unoppose to set the cumbrous

machinery of the law in motion, if only for the sake of her father and

mother. to that Minna only reply with a brilliant but spiteful

caricature of Mrs. Folyat's state of mind as slowly she digest the

unpalatable truth that all marriage be not make in Heaven.



* * *



Serge write to Francis that night and tell he that there be no hope,

since both Minna and Basil be resolute to part. all that could be

look for be that they would injure each other as little as possible

in the process. so far as he could see, the pain of uprooting be

over. the pair be absolutely divorced. unhappily, they seem

determined to call down on each other the disapprobation of the world,

in their frenziedly childish desire to hurt each other. . . . Serge

beg Francis to make his mother take a reasonable, human view of it,

since Minna would need friendliness and assistance, and suggest that

he should come to an arrangement with Basil's family for the

maintenance of the child.



his letter end thus:



"good-bye, my dear father. I be your first disappointment, but in the

end you and I recognise each other. that be permanent. it will be

with I wherever I go, with you to the end of your life. you be of

those who believe that understanding be not give to we. your belief

must be a bitter comfort to you. I believe that man be rapidly come

to an end of their material activity so that soon they will be force

to find understanding or perish. . . . do you remember a night when

you and I watch the rest act an absurd play, and I say

involuntarily, 'round the corner'? modern life be theatrical.

everybody be play a part, because they be without understand.

life for modern man and woman be for ever round the corner because

they attempt to tackle their affair with the mind of child,

child who believe everything they be tell and examine nothing.

they play with everything. they can do nothing else. unhappily, life

be a serious business which yield its reward of joy only to

simplicity, sincerity, and purity, or, if you like the old trinity

well--faith, hope, and charity. the old belief be true--nearly all

that you preach, I mean; but from repetition they have become stale

and meaningless. they need restatement. . . . I be go back to the

sea, not because I believe that the 'great wide space of the

earth'--what a lot of twaddle be talk about them!--have a monopoly

of truth, but because I must move and keep move. it be in the air.

perhaps I feel it before other man. the salvation of human life lie

in movement, circulation. . . . more simply and less philosophically I

be go because it amuse I to go. I like pass through the world

salute the few man of courage and good heart whom one can find, and,

of such man, my dear father, I count you not the least."



Francis keep this letter and through his hour of torment often read

it. it let in air.







XXXII



the cutting of a KNOT



_fear, and the pit, and the snare, be upon thee, o inhabitant of the

earth._

     ISAIAH, xxiv. 17.



it be one of the most disconcerting phenomenon of existence that, when

passionate love have answer its purpose, it simply disappear,

leave its instrument wed by such truth as they have discover

in each other or divorce by the lie they have forge for each

other's delight. very rarely, however, be the issue so simple. the

bone-and-shadow business come into play here also, and most people

marry with very little passionate love and a great deal of careful

imitation of it, so that most marriage be strangle in their birth

with a very tangled web of lie.



it be so with Frederic and Jessie Folyat in their marriage, and they

be never so nearly unite as when jealousy come between they. their

marriage feast do coldly furnish forth the funeral of love, and over

love's dead body they quarrel. they have scene, hysterical

skirmish and almost as hysterical reconciliation. there be grim

sport in it all, a sort of fascination in the stealthy prying and

spying, each crouch and shrink in readiness for the other's

spring, the snarl bravado with which each dare the other to come

on, a little far, a little far, invite to a caress,

repel with a scratch blow; and all smooth-seem, veil,

polite, with polished air and graceful manner and feigned interest

and inquiry: a pooling of the common stock only to wrangle over the

division of it again. the gambling fever be in it. at any moment all

might be lose upon a throw, a little gain, a little loss, more gain,

more gain, a little more and the other might be beggar, the game

win. but neither dare let the game come to an end. when one be near

ruin, grey-face, anxiously glare for the turn of the card, the

other cheat and the game go on. it absorb both. neither could do

without it. it be a drug. their craving for it be agony; its

satisfaction a seem delight.



they be very skilful and cunning to let no trace of it appear on the

surface of their life. Frederic abandon all pursuit of Annie

Lipsett, he desert the company of his flattering fool, for these

thing trespass upon the field of his fevere sport. it be very

rarely that they go of their own accord to seek purchasable

pleasure. visit they pay, when politeness and discretion compel,

and everybody find they charming. they could be good company and

their talent be useful. they become popular and be much in

request to organise entertainment, bazaar, jumble sale, and such

function.



* * *



in his business Frederic become more cunning, quicker-witte, and his

reputation gain. his practice increase. his whole life be

concentrated on his home and his office. he grow lean and alert, but

he be always tired.



in the early day of his management of the Bradby-Folyat estate he have

borrow large sum of money. these debt he be able considerably to

reduce, and very soon there be no arrear of interest outstanding.

as he begin to feel himself on more solid ground his habit of

exaggeration lose much of its hold upon he, and man who have

previously avoid he begin to seek his company. many who have

dismiss he as a bore now come to see quality in he, and, as he

gain the acquaintance of a well class of man, the quality of the

work that pass through his hand improve.



over Minna's disaster he behave well. he explain the legal aspect

of divorce to his father, and by tell he what he hear man say

about it--man who have know Basil Haslam, man of the world--help he

to understand that there be less malice than idle curiosity in

gossip, that scandal be the thing of a day, and that sympathy be to

a great extent on Minna's side and altogether with her parent. . . .

Francis be not greatly comfort. he feel that the attitude of mind

of Frederic's "man of the world" be rather dirty, but he appreciate

the kindness, which be great than he have look for. he be not at

all easy, remember Serge's and his own attitude towards Frederic's

imbroglio, when Frederic rush up to town, pounce on Herbert Fry,

and insist on his marrying Minna. . . . as it happen, it be a

fatal step. Minna comply only because she think the marriage would

infuriate Basil (the horrible ordeal through which she have pass have

deprive she of all control), and Fry because he love she and because

his affair be more complicated than any one know save himself, and,

have to leave the country, he prefer to pass into exile with a

beloved companion. his life have come to ruin, and he think that to

have Minna for his wife would be a step towards reconstruction and

would help to blot out the past. . . . Frederic come back glow with

virtue and manly pride, feel that he have make an honest woman of

his sister.



Frederic's interview with Herbert Fry have seem to he a direct

triumph of right over wrong. it be the first time he have ever find

himself in the van of the big battalion, and it give he a feeling of

confidence that be almost exhilarate. he return to his wife, to

find that her suspicion of he be not abate, and convince himself

that she be cruel and unjust. he gamble in marriage more recklessly

than ever, and if before she have be anxious, now she be fill with

dread as she see that she be play a lose game. soon or later

he would have clear she out and the last tie between they would be

break. her dread paralyse she. only mechanically could she keep the

card flutter and the pot a-boiling.



* * *



Frederic lose his draw look. he be win, and be sure that the

luck would never turn again. feel immeasurably superior to Fry, who

have commit the unpardonable folly of be find out, and morally

on a different plane from Minna and the world of illicit love which

have spew she out to the scorn of all man (except man of the world,

who could wink at these thing), he fall back upon the cushion of

middle-class prosperity, thrust aside happiness as a thing to be

desire, and concentrate all his energy on money. he begin to

speculate--successfully at first, then unsuccessfully. in his early

day of practice it have hardly be worth while to keep his account

separate, and, as his business grow, he never trouble to reorganise

his book.



Mrs. Bradby-Folyat die. she have take a dislike to Gertrude and leave

Streeten Folyat only a thousand pound. Frederic receive twenty-five

pound to buy a mourning ring. that do not fret he. there be the

estate to be wind up, and the picking of the process would be rich.



the executor ask to see the account. Frederic make they up, but

they be find so slovenly and unsatisfactory that further inquiry

be institute and an accountant be call in--a precise, mince

little man who speak with a strong north-country accent, sniff, and

walk in and out of the office as though he be tread the aisle

of a chapel. he exasperate Frederic so that he go out of his way to

be rude to he. the accountant sniff and smugly turn the other

cheek. he be a week in the office and go away without say a

word.



Frederic receive a letter from one of the executor request he to

hand over all paper and security to another large firm of

solicitor. without comment a statement of account be enclose,

show a deficit in the Bradby-Folyat estate of six thousand pound.

every nerve in Frederic's body quiver and go hot and dry. he

lock the statement away and give order for the Bradby-Folyat

deed-box to be hand over to the representative of the nominate

solicitor upon their give a receipt for it. mechanically, with a

fevere concentration upon the figure as an occupation to keep

himself from think, he go into his banking account. he have three

hundred pound in cash. his share, which would have to be sell at a

loss, would realise another thousand. outstanding debt amount to

not two hundred. . . . his wife's money be her upon trust for her

child, or, fail her child, for her nephews and niece. all

the Clibran-Bell money be trust money. his father have none, only

enough to make a small provision for his old age and his wife and

Mary.



the executor call. he be polite--a barrister by profession, with

the most suave and urbane brow-beat manner. he suppose that the

numerous mistake could be rectify, and that where loss have

occur through incompetent investment the deficiency would be make

good. Frederic say not a word. he twiddle a little piece of paper

between his finger and his face be as white as the paper. the

executor draw his own conclusion and say:



"it be misappropriation and embezzlement. I have try to persuade

Batson's not to take proceeding, but they insist that it must go

before the Law Society. . . . you will be lucky if you get no bad

than be strike off the roll."



the word bit into Frederic's brain and go trickle down his spine.

the executor take his hat and leave he sit by his table still

twiddle the little piece of paper, with his face as grey as a

goose-feather. he sit very still for a long time stare at the piece

of paper in his hand. presently he let it fall, but still he sat

stare. . . . he hear his clerk go. the cashier bring the key of

the safe. he say good-night. Frederic say good-night, and be

startle at the sound of his own voice. the silence have seem to he

so inevitable, so final, surely eternal.



one think spring to life in his brain: "no one must know." that give

he a purpose and bring he to the need of action. at home he force

an amiable mood upon his wife. in the evening they call at Burdley

Park and take Mary to the theatre. they see her home after a merry

evening, and, in the high spirit, they call on the Clibran-Bells

and invite some of the family to come and play whist on the morrow.

Frederic smoke a cigar with his father-in-law and discuss the new

waterworks scheme and the police scandal which have lately set all the

town by the ear, a whole division having be discover to be

draw large profit from organised prostitution in a certain

district. many droll story be in circulation of constable catch

_in flagrante delicto_, and Frederic and his father-in-law laugh

heartily over they. at certain moment Frederic have a crazy desire to

pick his father-in-law up by the scruff of the neck and shake he:

there be something in his manner so ridiculous and undignified, and

his jocularity be so trivial and pointless. however, Frederic

continue to laugh, and old Clibran-Bell pat he on the shoulder

and tell he he be a good fellow, a very good fellow.



in the office next day Frederic tease and pester his clerk and

keep they all bustle, find errand for they to go, require

book from the Law Library, discover paper that be long overdue

and have to be fetch. seize with a wild, hilarious impulse, he make

out a whole series of bogus writ and send they to be stamp and

deliver. . . . when all the clerk have go he sit down and write to

Batson's, say that he have make further inquiry and have many

paper and much information to lay before they which have previously

be overlook, and he add that such deficiency as might remain

after final examination would be pay in full. this letter he post

himself. he return to his office, write a cheque for each of his

clerk, repay his article clerk their premium, lay an envelope

contain they on each desk, look round to make sure he have

forget nothing, lock the outer door, walk down to the bridge by

the Collegiate church and throw the key into the river.



at night, after the whist-party have disperse, he pretend that he

have paper to look into and send Jessie to bed. he sit by the fire

stare into the glow coal. it die down, but he make no effort to

keep it alight. he be exhaust. the assumed hilarity of the evening

have be too great a strain, and yet not strain enough. he be drive

himself to a collapse, but be fearful lest it should come too soon.



it be very cold. he shiver and crouch over the black grate. he

hear his wife's voice call he:



"ben't you come up to-night?"



"presently . . . presently."



when he judge that she would be asleep he creep upstairs, and in the

dark, to avoid wake she and also to avoid see she, he slip

into the bed by her side. all night he lie awake, cold, throbbing,

strain and start at all the small noise of the house.



at breakfast he chatter gaily over the newspaper. there be a

school board election toward, and a woman have offer herself as a

candidate for their division. he chaff Jessie and say he suppose

she would soon be want to vote for Parliament. Jessie be to spend

the day in town shop with her mother. he ask she to make sundry

small purchase for he, and they agree that they would have a crab

for supper.



he be rather a long time pack the little handbag he always take

with he to town. she go to remind he that it be get late and

find he with his hand in a drawer. he shut it hastily and ask she

to fetch his tobacco-pouch from upstairs. when she come down again he

be wait for she at the front door. she walk to the little iron

gate with he and they kiss. as he reach the kerb he turn to

look at she and see the old lady and gentleman at their window, and

he feel with a twinge of shame that for year he have be a spectacle

without know it. . . . he think Jessie look rather ill, tired,

old, and bony. it be absurd for they to kiss in public. . . .

everything seem absurd, fantastical, and unreal. the world be

present to his eye in sharp outline than he have ever see it

before. it be bathe in a cold grey light. it have nothing to do with

he. it be go on. he feel stationary. that his body be move be

nothing. his thought be not move. everything be absurd. the new

sharply outlined world, with its curious interwoven activity (he see

how they be dovetail), be move on. the world with which he have

be concern--the world in which he have be miserable, elated,

crestfallen, amused, disgusted--the world in which he have know

affection and companionship and spite and jealousy--be move

backward, sink from under his foot while he himself stand on the

verge of a nonsensical dawn that have its light from a set sun.

away from he, backward and forward, everything move fast and

fast, make he dizzy, intolerably dizzy, sick and cold with it.



he have intend to go to London, but at the station he see a sign

indicate a train for Plymouth. the name start out of the blurred

past and relieve he, a little restore his balance, and he see

clearly the scene of his boyhood--the grimy little office where he

have be article, the ship, the Hoe and the Sound. then all that too

slip away from he.



he take the train for Plymouth, and have a carriage all to himself as

far as Crewe. he sit stupidly stare out of the window. the train be

go so fast. why do everything move so fast? . . . he be very

tired. at Crewe a man enter the carriage. he have not think of

that. he must change. he must be alone. the train move on before he

could bring himself to stir. . . . with the presence of the man at the

other end of the carriage his mood change. out of the cold mist that

be upon he a desire rise and take possession of he. he do not

know what desire it be but it take the form of an itch to speak to

the man. he steal glance at he but his lip would not obey he. the

man say:



"it's a fine day."



Frederic agree that it be a fine day, and the desire in he fall

back into the void. the man be part of the absurd world that have

nothing to do with he, the world that go on, the trivial, silly

world. how trivial and silly everything be: the train be silly,

movement be silly; absurd and grotesque be the man's voice and his

idiotic comment on the day, and that be silly too. a day be but the

passage out of night into night. the whole world be nothing, move

out of nothing into nothing. some thing be clear because they do

not matter; other thing be blur because they have matter to

he, Frederic, who matter no long because he be stand still

and everything else be move. . . . his eye mechanically read the

legend--"To stop the train pull down the Cord outside the Window.

Penalty for Improper Use, £5."



"I could stop it," he think, "but it would only move on again.

everything move on again."



with that slight movement in his mind old habit reassert itself and

he begin to crave for self-pity, but the unfamiliar presence of the

man make that impossible. that habit of mind need the co-operation

of other habit. it be isolate and fall away again. . . . there have

be so much clear-cut action in the last few hour, action for a

purpose, action that could not be recall and therefore drive he on

to the fulfilment of the purpose.



"I must be alone," thump Frederic's mind, and the train-wheel take

it up, "alone, alone, alone."



he became exasperate with the presence of the other man. what right

have he in the world where there be nothing but Frederic, nothing at

all, an empty world where a man must at last make sure, make very

sure, that he be nothing?



the man get out at Bristol. it seem to Frederic that he have come and

go like a shadow. so little time, the emptiness of the world move

so swiftly, and through it Plymouth come near and nearer to he.

Plymouth appear to he as a sort of monster, a dog shadow that

have run after he for a long time, terrify he, to spring ahead and

come to meet he. and yet it be still behind. everything be two

thing, behind and in front; the contradiction make it nothing. . . .



he be freeze with terror. back, back, this way; no, that; now the

other. . . . "it will have I! it will have I! why? I be nothing. I

be nothing. it don't believe that I be nothing. . . . no, no. there

be nothing but myself, myself, myself. . . ."



he draw the revolver from his pocket.



"no, no. I will go back. I will go back."



he sit absolutely numb for a long time. suddenly he think of his

wife, coldly, clearly. he see himself in she. she be strong than

he. he must show she that he be the strong.



he think of his father and pass into a golden stream of peace. he

would go to his father. . . "I will arise and go to my father and say

unto he, 'Father, I have sin against Heaven and before thee and be

no more worthy to be call thy son.' . . ." his father would

understand as he have understand before. . . . but then he know that

all that his mother have think of he would be sponge away from her

mind, and he remember with what bitterness she have speak of Minna.



"too difficult," he think. "too many people."



the train gather speed down an incline. fast and fast. his

terror lest the journey should come to an end clutch he back into

the present. he must make haste. he must be the quick.



he have drop the revolver into his pocket again. now he fumble for

it. it catch in the lining, and he tug at it with feverish

impatience. . . . his heart leap on the report, which seem to come

from far away. . . . he feel nothing; less and less; out of the

swiftly move world he be sink downward, downward, gather

speed, fall, fall into nothing.



* * *



in the small hour of the morning Mr. Clibran-Bell ring furiously at

the bell of the house in Burdley Park. after many minute Francis come

down in his dressing-gown with a candle in his hand. Mr. Clibran-Bell

step into the hall.



"Frederic," he say, "have not be home all night. Jessie be at my

house. . . . my dear friend, my dear old friend . . ."



"have . . . something happen?"



"he's . . . he's at Plymouth. dead. they find he in the train, shoot

in the side."



Francis stand very still, his mind slowly grasp this new appalling

fact. tear trickle down his cheek into his beard.



"I shall go to Plymouth by the first train," say Mr. Clibran-Bell, "I

must get at the truth for Jessie's sake."



"yes. it be very good of you."



it be a long time after Mr. Clibran-Bell have go before Francis go

upstairs again. the candle burn itself out. his thought see-sawed up

and down.



"Frederic--dead. frederic--dead."



when he have grope his way back to his own existence, burden with

this new catastrophe, he say to himself:



"I cann't go on. . . . I cann't go on."



he see Frederic lying huddle in the corner of a railway carriage,

stranger to whom he be nothing find he. . . . then he think of

that other dead body that he have see long, long ago, the woman lie

in the little dark house, under the gutter light of the tallow

candle and the clement light of the moon. death violent, death

insistent, death that would not be shroud away or soften or make

seeming bless with word or tear. tear! death be too harsh. and

yet it matter nothing how it come about. it be always the same:

bitter, the bitter end to bitterness. all life be salt with the

savour of death. vain, vain the endeavour to sweeten it. sweetness and

corruption, be they not yoke-fellow? . . . word from the Bible

pass through Francis Folyat's mind: "I be the resurrection and the

Life," and again: "for behold, the day be come in which they shall

say, Blessed be the barren, and the womb that never bare, and the

pap which never give suck," and again in his bitter grief he turn

to the Book of Job:



"my day be past, my purpose be break off, even the thought of my

heart.



"they change the night into day: the light be short because of

darkness.



"if I wait, the grave be mine house; I have make my bed in the

darkness.



"I have say to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou art

my mother and my sister.



"and where be now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?



"they shall go down to the base of the pit where our rest together be

in the dust."







XXXIII



the conclusion of the matter



_the vision of Christ that thou dost see

 be my vision's great enemy.

 Thine have a great hook nose like thine

 Mine have a snub nose like to mine._

      the EVERLASTING GOSPEL.



TWELVE middle-class Englishmen and an official sit in inquest on the

body of Frederic. they gaze shyly and uninterestedly upon it and then

hear the evidence to the effect that he be most happily married and

be without financial worry of any kind. . . . the verdict, in view of

the fact that the revolver be in the deceased's overcoat pocket, be

one of death by misadventure.



Francis learn the truth from Mr. Clibran-Bell. Mrs. Folyat be not

tell, neither be Jessie. queer thing be rumour, however, and

Mrs. Folyat begin to feel--not absolutely without foundation--that she

be look upon askance. she go into deep mourning and raise

Frederic to sainthood, and surround herself with relic from among

his personal belonging. she brood over the past and begin to piece

together her scatter memory. nothing take clear shape except, what

she have not see at the time, the long coolness between her husband

and her son, and she begin to charge and reproach Francis with it. by

vilify Francis she have the illusion that she be exalt Frederic.

she keep insist that Francis must be sorry now that her poor angel

be dead. Francis be remorseful. he be probe deeply and deeply

into the unillumine past, grope his way through tortuous

mole-gallery. the perpetual false deification of Frederic bother

he, his wife's voice, lachrymose and thin, din in his ear, be

an exasperation. he be busy, frantically busy, force his way with

all the strength of his nature out of the slough of despond into which

he have fall, and she seem intent on thrust he out of the

slough into a sea of treacly mud. at length, one day, when she have

raise Frederic a peg high in her idolatrous beatification, suddenly

the truth be wrench from he:



"can you not see that he mean to kill himself?"



"oh! Frank . . . !"



he could despitefully have bite his tongue out for having say it,

but, having do so, he owe it to she to go on. it might prove her

salvation. it might bring she back to he so that together they might

perceive and win to the way of brightness.



"he take the pistol with he in his pocket. he have no luggage with

he. he have lock the door of his office and pay up his clerk'

wage and the premium of his pupil."



"oh! Frank . . . oh! Frank!"



and Francis hope that she would turn to he and understand, but she

very anguish of sorrow she must turn to self-indulgence, and she move

from the luxury of worship to the luxury of self-accusation:



"we drive he to it. all of we. we never understand he."



she tell Jessie, who be prostrate by the knowledge, and Mr.

Clibran-Bell refuse ever to enter the Folyats' house again.



Francis pass through the very black hour of all after that. he

pray to his God but be not comfort; his mind would run only in

the harsh channel of the faith he have spend his life in teaching.

the God he find be a jealous God, a God of cruelty and vengeance and

punishment. in vain he tell himself that this be the just visitation

of sin. he could not believe it. all his spirit crave for the belief

in mercy, the live eternity, the life everlaste. he be hem in

by the habit of year, and long familiarity with thing sacred, all

the vocabulary of paradox that have flow so easily from his lip week

in, week out, year after year. he want the truth of it, but it be

all word, word, word, a rain of fine dust fall upon his

intelligence, blind his eye. he need that in his religion which

could square with and illuminate the fact of his existence, but ever

the darkness grow more impenetrable.



for three week he go on mechanically with his work, go blindly

through the ritual which he have fight so hard to establish, but

always when he come to the Benediction and commend the congregation

to the Peace of God, he know, could not away with the knowledge, that

there be no peace in his own heart, and he rebuke himself and call

himself Hypocrite.



he could not take refuge in self-torment. his need be too great. he

tell himself that he no long believe, and pray for help in his

unbelief. but there have always be faith in he. nothing have ever

shake it. his necessity lie in the fact that the symbol he have

always use be cheapen, worn, debase. his mind could not change.

it be definitely cast in the story of the Godhead in Man in the

person of Jesus of Nazareth, bear of the Virgin birth, persecute and

slay by the Jews to rise again in glory to the eternal salvation of

soul. . . . the teaching of this gospel should, if it have any

purpose, lead to noble life, a superb preparation for eternity. but

whither have it lead himself? to the small of small life, to the

ruin of two of his child, fall into the very snare against which

they have be warn with all the threat of eternal punishment and

Hell fire at the command of an appoint minister of the Christian

religion. . . . he try to look beyond his own family, to see what

effect the Gospel have have upon his parishioner and he could not

disguise from himself the pitifulness of their condition. to consider

the effect of the christian religion upon the history of the world be

too large an undertaking for he.



Serge have say that he be of those who believe that understanding be

not vouchsafe to we. what do he mean? . . . word haunt him:--"To

justify the work of Man to God," or be it "to justify the work of

God to man"? surely the last. the work of Man could not be justify.

he feel himself to be near the clue he be seek, but the effort to

follow it be beyond he. for he the only tie between Man and God be

Jesus Christ.



he read the Gospels, and soon give up try to unravel the hard

saying, but he read again and again every passage in which the word

Love and Mercy occur. they soothe he, and, read over and over

the gentleness of Jesus under persecution, he become soften and very

tender, and seek the company of child, his grandchild.



he rest for a fortnight and then take up his work, for one Sunday

only. all the old business of threaten and hector and denouncing

and hold the wrath of God back with prayer, and pile up mountain

upon mountain of sin to teach the love and mercy of the Gospel

through and after punishment, everlasting and relentless, be empty,

all sound and fury.



his conclusion be, not that the christian religion have become

theatrical, rhetorical, mechanical, inhuman and unjust, but that he

himself by his own life have become unworthy to administer it. like

many Christians, face with the difficult, almost (in these day)

impossible, task of distil the essential truth from its

accumulation of taint lumber, he take refuge, without see any

inconsistency, in the ascetic ideal, think that a life of absolute

chastity and poverty and abstraction from the thing of this world

would give a man the right to hurl thunder and the lightning of the

jewish Bible at his fellow man. and yet in his heart, as, latent in

the heart of all man, be the true faith in the ineffable love,



    _. . . che muove 'l Sole e l'altre stelle._



he could not disentangle this love, this spirit of man, from the

superstition of the age, and could not therefore let it freely move

his own existence. he tell himself that he have fail, that he ought

never to have enter the priesthood, that he be an old man and could

not change. no other course lie open to he than to retire.



he write to his Bishop to ask his leave, and, if it be grant, to

apply for a pension from the Diocesan fund.



never again do he conduct Divine service in any church.



* * *



he feel infinitely happy when he have do this, and a new brightness

come to Mrs. Folyat and Mary when they know they be to escape from

the town where they have come by so much suffering, and the numb

monotony of a rather idle existence in drab surrounding. they set

their face southward, for they have decide to live in Potsham, where

Francis have hold his first curacy. they be go to live in

Crabtrees, where Francis Folyat and Martha Brett have meet and love

each other so long ago, and all day long Francis would be busy in the

garden run down to the river, and all day long Martha would sit in

the gazebo and look out at the water, and see the tide come in, and

the heron fish, and the boat go sail by, all as it have be

long ago, peaceful and beautiful. . . . already, week before they

could go, the peace of it begin to fill the house in Burdley Park, and

the dark past slip away from they and Francis begin to feel the

richness of old age, when good and bad have be do, and the

fruit of reflection can be gather in.



often as he sat work in the greenhouse, or in the study turning

over his book--he have go back to the love of his early day,

Fielding and Don Quixote--Francis would think of Serge, and the day

when together they have walk away from Mrs. Entwistle's cottage. that

memory preoccupy he more and more, and he feel a desire to see

Annie Lipsett again before he go away. she write to he at long

interval to let he know that she have not forget. his feeling

about the episode have always be spice with the joy of forbidden

thing. it have be entirely separate from the rest of his life, and

yet, unknown to he, it have inform the whole of it, and, in his most

need, have give he the assurance of love and mercy which have uphold

he in the face of the doctrine and dogma of his church, even though

he have seem to himself to be uphold the Church by the sacrifice

of himself.



* * *



he find Annie Lipsett busy and thoughtful. she be go to be

married to an auctioneer who have be a lodger in her mother's house.

she have just have a letter from Serge in Ceylon and its friendliness

have remove her last anxiety.



"you see, sir," she say to Francis, "Mr. Serge find I when

everything be as complicated as that piece of lace, and he make it

all simple. and after that, be with he make one able to bear

everything, because one feel that, whatever it be, it would go away.

he use to say that be unhappy and dark in your mind be just the

same as be unwell in your body, and if it be take in time there

be always a cure for it. so funny he use to be about it. he be

always talk to I about the boy, and he use to say that I must

teach he nothing, because child be always right by themselves

until they begin to imitate grow-up people, and bad thing be easy

to imitate than good because they be grotesque, and grow-up people

have always to be learn good thing from child over and over

again."



"I have never forget that day when I come to see you."



"nor I, sir."



"we're go away, for ever. it be queer, but you be the only person

whom I really want to see before I leave. we have never seem to

belong to this place."



"I use to hate it too, but Mr. Serge make I laugh at it all. he say

it be just an accident, though I don't know what he mean by that. I

often don't really understand Mr. Serge, except about the boy, but

then I could see that everything he say be true."



"I hope you will be very, very happy."



Annie surprise Francis by put her arm round his neck and kiss

he. he return the kiss.



it be only some time after he have leave she that it strike he that he

have never once think of Frederic in connection with she. when he

call Frederic to his mind it be always as a graceful, impudent,

funny little boy. he have never know the man Frederic. Frederic have

never be a man.



* * *



even in our town the green of spring be show and the zestful wind

be blow upon the blacken house when Francis, his wife and Mary

leave upon their long journey to the south. gleeful and glad they be,

and the spring be in their heart and the keen adventurousness of

escape. after long captivity they be shake from their shoe the

dust of the hostile city, leave in its toil the sole hostage of all

their family, Annette, doom to the life of drudgery to which that

city condemn its woman, for, except they be bear in drudgery, the

son of its woman could never endure its service, nor would they be

fit for it.







XXXIV



nunc DIMITTIS SERVUM TUUM, DOMINE



_for mine eye have see Thy salvation._

     the SONG of SIMEON.



many wise man have laugh at the futility of thought and discard an

opinion as a worthless thing.



in the garden at Crabtrees Francis grow rose and delphinium and tall

hollyhock and all homely flower, and busily he tend his vegetable

and herb. he keep bee and grow skilled in their way. every day in

summer Mrs. Folyat sit in the gazebo, and in the winter she have she

own little drawing-room where the gossip would come in and take tea

over a great fire.



their living be very frugal, for their mean be small. only two

house besides Crabtrees be leave of Mrs. Folyat's inheritance.



outwardly Potsham be hardly at all change since the day when Francis

and his bride have set out on their honeymoon, but its glory be

depart. its fragrance and faint perfume of the high manner of an

old day be go. little boy whom they remember play

barefoote in the street call the Strand, down by the little dock

and the mud flat, have make fortune and dispossess little by little

the old gentlefolk. their son have go to the university and their

daughter have visit London. no long be the inhabitant of

Potsham gently little in a little place, but in a little place ape

the folly of great city. People and place be no long in

harmony. man and woman seem continually to be adjust themselves

to an outside standard. they be as sluggard who protest their

wakefulness. . . . but for Francis and Martha, Potsham be as it have

be in their youth, a place of sleep, of tranquil sleep attend by

pleasant dream of rose and blue water and warm fig ripen in the

sunlight mellow by the soft, moist air.



their golden wedding come, their diamond-wedding, and between the two

be but the drowsy hum of bell in a lofty tower. the hair of both

be snow-white, and Francis have his brush into two long ringlet

that fall down on to his shoulder on either side of his head. his

eye be bright and young, often twinkle with merriment behind his

spectacle, and people use to come and tell he funny thing to see

he enjoy the joke and chuckle down in his throat and shake all over

with his inward mirth.



Gertrude often come to stay with her two child, and upon a day she

arrive and never go away. Streeten have shed his capital bit by bit

in one profession after another until he have not enough leave to

support his family. then he disappear without a word and no trace of

he could be find.



every two year Annette use to come and bring with her one or more of

her child. like her mother, she have eight. she could never stay

long because Bennett would write every day and implore she to come

back. . . . when any of her child have be ill she use to send

they down, and they stay until Francis judge they well enough to

return, and that be never until their little pinch white face be

fill out and bake as brown as a bun. the second boy, Stephen, once

spend five month at Crabtrees. he be a very queer, silent little

creature, and he use to sit and stare at his grandparent and his

aunt. once, after dog Francis for two day and scrutinise he

in the most embarrassing way, he say:



"Grandpa, what be it make your eye so bright and blue, like the

sky?"



Francis chuckle and reply:



"my dear, they're little mirror and I polish they."



a great summer pass into a melancholy misty autumn, but on a rare

fine day, the sun warm the first sigh breath of winter, Stephen

Lawrie sit with a book in his lap under the siberian crabtree on the

lawn. his grandfather be dig in the vegetable garden near by,

when, look up, Stephen see he pitch forward and fall flat on his

face. it be as though he have be blow down.



the boy sit stare, stun by the heaviness of the fall. then he be

seize by the terror of it and rush scream away.



it be a stroke, and Crabtrees become a house of the sick. Stephen be

pack off home.



* * *



before the winter be out Francis seem to be quite well again, and

he be out and about and busy prepare for the spring. February be

hardly go when he be lay low again, this time never to rise. he

be partially paralyse and could not speak. for a long time his wit

be go. . . . slowly he creep back again into the existence of the

house. his spirit would not yield up his body to the earth.



Gertrude be his nurse, and very gentle with he. she be creep

about his room, think he asleep, with her shadow swinge to and

fro as she move. in a sudden, strangle voice, she hear he say:



"I can speak."



she turn to he, but he lie very still, and his face look pinch

and whiter than it have do. she be alarmed and sit up with he all

night. in the early morning he ask to see his wife. Gertrude fetch

she, and she came huddle and bunch up in shawl and flannel and sit

by his bedside. he move his hand a little and she reach out and

take it in her. he say:



"it have be a long time, but it have be a good time. it have not all

be good for you. I would be glad if you--if you could forgive I

. . ."



"oh! my dear, my dear. . . . the good . . ."



"I have always be afraid," he go on, and his voice gain in

strength. "I have always be afraid of say too much, and I have

say too little. . . . it have be good when we be old. you have

much to forgive."



Mrs. Folyat could only weep. Francis ask to be give his Bible and

the amethyst cross he have wear on sunday on his watchchain. they be

lay by his side and he take the cross in his hand. he say that

everything he leave be to go to Mary, but she be to help the other

when they need help. . . . then he tell his wife she must go away

and rest, for he desire to communicate for the last time and must

have a space in which to prepare himself. Gertrude aid Mrs. Folyat

out of the room.



it be all Fool's Day.



at nine o'clock Mary be have breakfast alone when Serge walk in.

she tell he, and he go up at once to his father's room. he stand by

the bed for a long time before Francis open his eye and see he.

his eye smile and he say:



"my son."



"Father."



"I be not of those who believe that understanding be not give to we,

for I come to understand. the beginning and the ending of all thing

be in God, and we may not question, nor idly interpret the beginning

and the end. we pass from dust to dust, but the spirit endureth for

ever, and in all thing in our passage the spirit move we. be it not

so?"



"it be so."



"and life be very good, to be round with a sleep."



"life be very good."



"surely I have not altogether fail my God, since I have know you."



"we have know each other. a man must die many time before his life

be do."



"so be it. . . . I shall sleep now."



Serge stoop and kiss his father's brow, and in a few minute he

be dead.



the END







print BY

BALLANTYNE & COMPANY LTD

TAVISTOCK STREET covent GARDEN

LONDON







Transcriber's note



this transcription be base on scan digitize from a copy at the

Cornell University Library and post by the Internet Archive at:



     https://archive.org/details/cu31924013593722



for reference, scan digitize by Google from a copy at Princeton

University be also consult. this file be post at:



     https://books.google.com/books?id=hL4sAAAAYAAJ



the follow change to the text be note:



-- p. 58: at the same age and the same maiden condition in

short--add a period after "condition".



-- p. 87: the old man watch hm with a sort of hunger--change "hm"

to "he".



-- p. 92: she go to his church and look at he as though she be a

beautifully-cook chop. he be rather like that. I shall call he the

mutton-chop when he comes.--Changed the "she" after "though" to "he".



-- p. 114: Serged plunge with a question--change "serged" to

"Serge".



-- p. 142: keep it to youself, my dear.--Changed "youself" to

"yourself".



-- p. 160: she make an effort and go on.:--Deleted the period

between "on" and the colon.



-- p. 163: "I be deeply pained and grieve, . ."--Changed the comma to

a period.



-- p. 181: five minute later Serge knock at the study door. go

in, and find his father at his desk write a letter, Francis lay

down his pen and turned.--Changed the period after "door" to a comma

and change the comma after "a letter" to a period.



-- p. 184: Serge find room for Annie Lispett in a not too dull

village.--Changed "Lispett" to "Lipsett".



-- p. 216: force into he piecemeal, so peacemeal it be

pump--change "peacemeal" to "piecemeal".



-- p. 247: insert a period at the end of the epigraph.



-- p. 280: have a me want a greal deal to eat--change "greal" to

"great".



-- p. 319: "no. that come long after the mischief's do." "the

trouble between Basil and I be simply this.--Deleted the quotation

mark between "do." and "the trouble".



variant spelling such as "prejudicie," "delinquence," and

"strategem" be retain.

















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ROUND the CORNER ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





