The project Gutenberg eBook of Mendel: a Story of Youth

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Mendel: A Story of Youth



author: Gilbert Cannan



Release date: June 19, 2017 [ebook #54931]



language: English



credit: produce by Paul Haxo with special thank to the University

        of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the Hathi Trust Digital

        Library, the University of California, and the Internet

        Archive.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MENDEL: a story of YOUTH ***









produce by Paul Haxo with special thank to the University

of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the Hathi Trust Digital

Library, the University of California, and the Internet

Archive.











MENDEL







_by the same AUTHOR_

    round the CORNER

    OLD MOLE

    YOUNG earnest

_LONDON, T. FISHER UNWIN LTD._



    PETER HOMUNCULUS

    LITTLE BROTHER

    three pretty MEN

    SAMUEL BUTLER

    WINDMILLS

    SATIRE

    the JOY of the THEATRE

    four play

    ADVENTUROUS LOVE (POEMS)







MENDEL



A story of youth

BY GILBERT CANNAN





LONDON

T. FISHER UNWIN LTD

ADELPHI TERRACE







_first publish in 1916_



(_all right reserve_)







_to D. C._



_shall tear be shed because the blossom fall,

 because the cloudy cherry slip away,

 and leave its branch in a leafy thrall

 till ruddy fruit do hang upon the spray?_



_shall tear be shed because the youthful bloom

 and all th'excess of early life must fade

 for large wealth of joy in small room

 to dwell contain in love of man and maid?_



_Nay, rather leap, o heart, to see fulfil

 in certain joy th'uncertain promise glee,

 to have so many mountain torrent spill

 for one fair river move to the sea._







content



BOOK I: EAST



                                   PAGE

I.    LONDON where the king live    11

II.   POVERTY                        21

III.  prison                         34

IV.   FIRST LOVE                     52

V.    a turning-POINT                63

VI.   EDGAR FROITZHEIM and other    74

VII.  the DETMOLD                    83

VIII. HETTY FINCH                    96

IX.   the QUINTETTE                 109

X.    morrison                      134



BOOK II: BOHEMIA



I.    THE POT-AU-FEU                145

II.   LOGAN                         156

III.  LOGAN sets to WORK            167

IV.   BURNHAM BEECHES               183

V.    HAPPY hampstead               196

VI.   CAMDEN TOWN                   209

VII.  MR. TILNEY TYSOE              221

VIII. the MERLIN'S CAVE             235

IX.   "GOOD-BYE"                    247

X.    PARIS                         259



BOOK III: the passing of YOUTH



I.    EDWARD TUFNELL                283

II.   the campaign opens            295

III.  SUCCESS                       306

IV.   reaction                      320

V.    LOGAN GIVES a party           331

VI.   REVELATION                    346

VII.  conflict                      364

VIII. OLIVER                        382

IX.   LOGAN makes an END            404

X.    PASSOVER                      415







BOOK one



EAST







I



LONDON where the king live



the boat-train have disgorge its passenger, who have huddle together

in a crowd round the luggage as it be drag out of the van, and

then have jostle their way out into the London they have be so long

approach. when the crowd scatter it leave like a deposit a little

knot of strange-look people in brilliant clothe who stare about

they pathetically and helplessly. there be three old man who seem

to be stranger to each other and a handsome Jewess with her

family--two girl and three boy. the two elder boy carry on their

back the family bed, and the young clung to his mother's

skirt and be frighten by the noise, the hurry crowd of people,

the vastness and the ugly, complicated angular line of the station.

the woman look disappointed and hurt. her eye search through the

crowd, through every fresh stream of people. she be baffle and

anxious. once or twice she be accost, but she could not understand

a word of what be say to she. at last she produce a piece of paper

and show it to a railway official, who come up think it be time

these outlandish folk move on. he could not read what be write on

it, for the paper be very dirty and the character be crab and

awkwardly write. he turn to the old man, one of whom say

excitedly the only english word he knew--"London--Jewish--Society."

the official look relieve. these people do not look like Jews, and

the eld girl and the little boy be lovely. he go away, and the

woman, whose hope have rise, once more look disconsolate. the

little boy bury his face in her apron and wept.



a suburban train came wheeze into the platform, which be at once

alive with hurry man in silk hat and tail-coat. catch sight of

the brilliantly attire group, the handsome woman and the lovely girl,

the boy with their head bow beneath the billow pile of feather

bedding, some of they stop. the little boy look up with tear in

his eye. one man put his hand in his pocket and throw down a few

copper. other follow his example, and the little boy run after the

shower penny as they bounce in the air, and roll, span, and

settle. he dance from penny to penny and a crowd gather; for, in

his bright jerkin and breech and little top-boot, dance like a

sprite, gay and wild, he be an astonishing figure to find in the

grime and ugliness of the station. silver be throw among the penny

to keep he dancing, but at last he be exhausted and run to his

mother with his fist full of money, and the man hurry on to their

office.



the official return with an interpreter, who discover that the

woman's name be Kühler, that she have expect to be meet by her

husband, that she have come from Austrian Poland, and that the address

write on the piece of paper be Gun Street. the number be

indecipherable.



the three old man be give instruction and they go away. the

interpreter take charge of the family and lead they to a refuge, where

he leave they, say that he would go and find Mr. Kühler. with a roof

over her head and food provide for her child, Mrs. Kühler sit

stoically to wait for the husband she have not see for two year. she

have no preconceived idea of London, and this bleak, bare room be

London to she, quite acceptable. the stress and the anxiety of the

detestable journey be over. this be peace and good. her husband

would find she. he have come to make a home in London. he have send for

she. he would come.



hour pass. they sleep, eat, talk, walk about the room, and

still Mr. Kühler do not come. the peace of the refuge be invade

with memory of the journey, the rattle, rattle, rattle of the

train-wheel, the brusque official who treat the poor traveller

like parcel, the soldier at the frontier, the wet, bare quay in

Holland, the first sight of the sea, immense, ominous, heaving,

heave up to the sky; the stink ship that heave like the sea and

make the brain oscillate like milk in a pan; the solidity of the

english quay, wet and bare, and of the English train, astonishingly

comfortable. . . . and still Mr. Kühler do not come.



the girl be cold and miserable. the boy wrestle and practise

feat of strength with each other to keep warm, and look to their

mother for applause. she give it they mechanically as she sit by the

little boy, whom she have lay to sleep on the bedding. he would be

hungry, she think, when he wake up, and she must get he food. there

be the money which have be throw to he, but she do not know its

value. People do not throw much money away. at home people do not

throw even small money away. there such a thing could not happen.

there money, like everything else, avoid the poor. but this be rich

England, where it rain money.



when the boy wake up she would go out and buy he something good to

eat, and if Mr. Kühler do not come to-morrow she would find some work

and a room, or a corner of a room, to live in. perhaps Jacob have go

to America again. he have be there twice, and both time suddenly.

People always go to America suddenly. he go out and buy a clean

collar, and say he be go and would send money for she as soon as

he have enough. . . . poor Jacob, he could not endure their poverty and

he would not steal, but he would always fight the soldier and the

bailiff when they come to take the bedding. . . . the sea heave, and

it rain money. the two boy begin to fight, a sudden fury in both of

they. their sister rush to part they and Mrs. Kühler rise.



at the end of the long room she see Jacob peer from group to group.

he look white and ill, as he have do when he come again and again

to implore she to marry he, and she feel half afraid of he, as she

have do when the violent fury of love in he have break down her

resistance and drag she from her comfortable home to the bare life

he have to offer she. he come to she now with the same ungraciousness

that have mark his wooing, explain to she that he have just get a

job and could not get away to meet she, and turn from she to the

child. the boy be grow big and strong, and the eld girl be

a beauty. he be satisfied, stoop and pick up little Mendel in his

strong arm. the child wake up, give a little grunt of pleasure as he

recognize the familiar smell of his father, and go to sleep again.



"he's heavy," say Mrs. Kühler. "you cannot carry he all the way."



"his face be like a flower," say Jacob.



he go first, carry the boy, and his family follow he into the

roar street. the lamp be light and the shop be dazzle. there

be barrow of fruit, fish, old iron, book, cheap jewellery, all light

up with naphtha flare. the child be half frightened, half

delighted. the smell and the noise of the street excite they. every

now and then they hear snatch of their own language and be

comfort. they come to shop bear yiddish character and London no

long seem to they forbiddingly foreign, though they begin to feel

conscious of their clothe, which make they conspicuous. the boy

curse and growl under the bed and begin to complain that they

have so far to go. Mr. Kühler find the child too heavy and have to put

he down. Mendel take his mother's hand and trot along by her side.



they turn into a darkish street which run for some length between

very tall house. it be obscure enough to allow the clear sky to be

see, patch with cloud and deep blue, starry space. at the end of

it be a building cover with light and illuminated sign. they

shine golden and splendid. never have Mendel see anything so glorious,

so rich, so dream-like, so clearly correspond to that marvellous

region where all his thought end, pass out of his reach, and take

on a brilliant and mighty life of their own, a glory great than that

of the Emperor at home. but this be England and have only a king.



"do the King live there?" he ask his mother.



"No; that be a shop."



"have father get a shop like that?"



"not yet."



"will he soon have a shop like that?"



"very soon."



Mendel would have like to have stand and gaze at the glorious,

glitter shop. he feel sure the King must buy his boot there, and

he think that if he stay long enough he would see the King drive

up in his crystal coach, with his crown on his head, and go into the

shop. but his father lead the way out of the darkish street into

another that be still darker, very narrow, and flank with little

low house. one of these they enter, and in a small, almost

unfurnished room they have supper, and Mendel go to sleep hear his

father say to his mother, "thirteen shilling." just before that his

father have hold his hand out under the candle, and they be raw and

bleed.



* * * * *



one room be luxury to they. at home in Austria they have have a corner

of a room, and the three other corner be occupy by the carpenter,

the stableman, and the potter. in the centre of the room stand the

common water-bucket and the common refuse-tub. London have shower

money on they and provide they with a whole room. they feel hopeful.



Mr. Kühler make thirteen shilling a week polish walking-stick,

and when that trade be bad he could sometimes get work as a furrier.

he have intend to take his family over to America, but find work

in London, he think it well to stay there. besides, he have a

grudge against America, for while there he have invent a device for

twisting tail of fur, but his invention have be steal from he and

he have miss his chance of make a fortune. America be evil and

living be very dear. London be the more comfortable place for the

struggle. and in London he have find Abramovich, the friend of his

boyhood, the one creature in the world upon whom he rely. he have no

reason for his faith. Abramovich have never do he any good, but he

be not of those who pass. he might disappear for year, but he always

come back again, and time make no difference. he be always the same.

if help be need he give it, and if he need help he ask for it.

Abramovich be a very strong reason for stay in London. . . . the

boy would soon be work and the eld girl be a beauty. the

match-maker would be busy with she. another two year, and the

match-maker would find she a rich man who would help they all and put

money into a business. that be Jacob's desire, to have a business of

his own, for he loathe work for another man. he could not do it

for long. always he end with a quarrel, perhaps with blow, or he

simply walk out and would not return.



he be a devout Jew and despise Christians, as he despise luxury,

pleasure, comfort, not actively nor with any hatred. he simply do not

need they. he have live without they, and he ask nothing of life. he

be alive; that be enough. passion seize he and he follow they.

without passion he never move, never stir a finger except to keep

himself alive. passion have choose his wife for he. Golda, the

beautiful, be his wife. in she he be bind more firmly to his race

and his faith, and there be no need to look beyond. he be root.

she have bear he child, but he have no more ambition for they than

for himself. Leah, the beauty, should wed a rich man, not for

ambitious reason, but because, in life, beauty and rich be proper

mate. there be a certain orderliness about life, and certain thing

can only be prevent by an irruption of passion. if that happen,

then life take its revenge and become hard and bleak, but it be

still life, and only a fool will complain. Jacob never complain, and

he take his Golda's reproach in silence, unless she become unjust,

and then he silence she brutally and callously. she bear with he,

because she prize his honesty, his steadfast simplicity, and because

she know that his passion have never waken a profound answer in

herself. she have very slowly be rouse to love, which have flower

in she with the birth of her young child, in whom she have learn a

power of acceptance almost equal to her husband's. like he, she clung

to her race and her faith and never look beyond.



in London she find that she be leave alone and her life be no long

hem in by a menacing world of soldier and police and peasant, who

swear the Jews cheat they and spread terrifying tale of jewish

practice upon christian child. Christian London be indifferent to

the Jews, and she could be indifferent to Christian London. she have no

curiosity about it and never go above a mile from her house. she

make no attempt to learn English, but could not help glean a few

word from her child as they pick it up at school. the synagogue

be the centre of her life, and from it come all the life she care to

have outside her family. she be absorb in little Mendel, by whom

her world be colour. if he be happy, that be sunshine to she. if

he be oppress and tearful, her sky be overcast. if he be ill, it

seem to she a menace of the end.



he be a strange child and very slow in grow into a boy. the other

child have seem to shoot into independence almost as soon as they

could walk. but Mendel clung to she, would not learn to feed himself,

and would not go to sleep at night unless she sing to he and rock

he in the cradle, in which he sleep even after he go to school. as

long as he could curl up in it he sleep in his cradle, and he make she

learn as much as she could of an English song which have catch his

fancy. it be the only english song she ever know, and night after

night she have to sing it over and over again as she rock the heavy

cradle:--



    Daisy, Daisy, give I your answer, do;

    I'm half crazy, all for the love of you.



she have no idea what the word mean, but the boy love the tune and

her funny accent and intonation, and even when she be ill and tired

she would sing he to sleep, and then sit brood over he with her

finger just touch his curly hair. and in her complete absorption

in his odd, unchildlike childhood she be perfectly content, and

entirely indifferent to all that happen outside he. brutal thing,

terrible thing happen, but they never touch the child, and if she

could, she hide the knowledge of they from he.



Abramovich collect a little capital and persuade Mr. Kühler to join

he in a furrier's business. they be not altogether unsuccessful,

and Mr. Kühler take a whole house in Gun Street and buy a piano,

but soon their capital be exhausted and they have give more credit

than they be accord and the business trickle through their

finger. Mr. Kühler take to his bed, for he could sleep at will and

almost indefinitely, and so could avoid see poverty once more

creep up like a muddy sea round his wife and child. it have be

bad enough when that happen at home, where at the bad there be

his relation to help, and there be the potato field to be

despoiled, and, at least, the child could be happy playing in the

road or by the river, or on the side of the mountain. but here in

London poverty be black indeed, and there be no one but Abramovich

to help, and he be in almost as bad case as himself. yet

astonishingly Abramovich come again and again to the rescue. he be a

little squat, ugly man, the stunt product of some obscure russian

ghetto, and he seem to live by and for his enthusiasm for the Kühler

family. in their presence he glow, greedily drink in every word that

Jacob or Golda say, and be always loud in his praise of the

beautiful child. . . . "the sky be dark now," he use to say, "but

they will be rich, and they will give you horse and carriage, and

Turkey carpet, and footman, and flower in the winter, and they will

bring english gentleman to the house and what you want, that you shall

have. . . ." "I want nothing," Jacob would say. "I want nothing. I

will work and be my own master. I will not steal or help other man to

steal." "you wait," Abramovich would reply. "these child have only

to go out into London and all will be give to they."



only the eld girl listen to these conversation, and she use to

hold her head high, and her face would go pale as ferociously she

follow up the idea they suggest to she.



but Abramovich could bring no consolation. Jacob would not go back to

the stick-polishing, and at last he could bear it no long, go out

and buy a clean collar, clip his beard, and without a word of

farewell, go to America.







II



poverty



then follow, for Golda, the black year of her life. she remove

once more to one room in Gun Street, and she and the two boy earn

enough to keep body and soul together. she find work in other

people's house, help at party, and when nothing else be

available she go to a little restaurant to assist as scullery-maid,

and stay after closing-time to scrub the table and sweep the floor.

for this she be give crust of bread and scrap from the plate. she

never have a word from her husband, and she know she would not hear

unless he make money. if he fail again, as of course he would, he

would live in silence, solitary, proud, avoid his fellow-man, who

would have nothing to do with he except he make the surrender of

dignity which it be impossible for he to make. she would not hear

from he, and he would return one day unannounced, without a word, as

though he have come from the next street; and as likely as not he would

have give the coat off his back to some one poor than himself.

. . . Jacob be like that. he would give away on an impulse thing

that it have cost he week of save to acquire. low as he stand in

the world, he seem always to be look downward, as though he

could believe in what come up from the depth but not in anything that

go beyond he. Golda could not understand he, but she believe in

he absolutely. she know that he suffer even more than she, and she

have learn from he not to complain. the Jews have always suffer.

that be make clear in the synagogue, where, in wail over the

captivity in Babylon, Golda find a vent for her own sorrow. she

would weep over the suffering of her race as she weep for those who

be dead, her father and her mother, and her father's father and her

little brother, on the anniversary of their death. however poor she

might be she have money to buy candle for they, and whatever the cost

she keep the observance of her religion.



so she live isolated and proud, untouched by the excitement her

child find in the house of their friend and in the street.



very wild be the life in the neighbourhood of Gun Street. there be

constant feud between Jews and Christians, battle with fist and

stick and stone. Old Jews be insult and pelt by Christian

youth, and the young Jews would take up their cause. there be

violent dispute between landlord and tenant, husband and wife,

prostitute and their bully. any evening, walk along Gun Street,

you might hear scream and growl in one of the little house.

louder and loud it would grow. suddenly the male voice would be

silent, the female would rise to a shriek, the door would open, and

out into the street would be propel a half-naked woman. she would

wail and batter on the door, and, if that be of no avail, she would

go to the house of a friend and silence would come again. . . . or

sometimes a door would open and a man would be shoot out to lie limp

and flabby in the gutter.



Harry, the second boy, take to this wild life like a duck to water. he

practise with dumb-bell and learn the art of boxing, and so

excite Mendel with his feat of strength that he too practise

exercise and learn to stand on his hand, and cheerfully allow

his brother to knock he down over and over again in his ambition to

learn the element of defence and the use of the straight left. in

vain: his brain be not quick enough, or be too quick. his hand

would never obey he in time, but he dream of be a strong man,

the strong man in the world, who by sheer muscle should compel

universal admiration and assume authority.



in the family the child's superiority be acknowledge tacitly. he have

his way in everything. he want such strange thing, and be adamant

in his whim. if he be not allow to do as he wish, he lie on the

ground and roar until he be humour; or he would refuse to eat; or

he would go out of the house with the intention of lose himself. as

he be know all through the neighbourhood for his beauty that be

impossible. he be an object of pride to the neighbour, and whenever

he be find far from home, there be always some one who know he to

take he back. but Golda could not realize this, and she suffer

torture.



the boy love the street and the shop, the market with their

fruit-stall and fish-barrow, the brilliant colour in Petticoat

Lane. he would wander drink in with his eye colour and beauty,

shake with emotion at the sight of the pretty little girl with

their little round face, their ivory skin, and their brilliant black

eye. Ugliness hurt he not at all. it be the condition of thing,

the dark chaos out of which flash beauty. but cruelty could drive

he nearly mad, and he would tremble with rage and terror at the sight

of a woman with a bloody face or a man kick a horse.



he have a friend, a christian boy, name Artie Beech, who adore he

even as Abramovich adore his father. Golda be alarm by this

friendship, think no good could come out of the Christians, and she

try to forbid it, but the boy have his way, and he love Artie Beech

as a child love a doll or a king his favourite. together the two boy

use to creep home from school gaze into the shop window. one day

they see a brightly coloured advertisement of a beef extract: a

picture of a man rend a lion. "it will make you strong than a

lion," say Mendel. "yes," say Artie, "one drop on the tip of your

tongue." "I would be strong than Harry if I eat a whole bottle,"

reply Mendel, and they decide to save up to buy the strength-give

elixir. it take they seven week to save the price of it. then with

immense excitement they buy the treasure, take it home, and,

loathe the taste of it, gulp it down and toss a button for the

right to lick the cork. feel rather sick, they gaze at each other

with frightened eye, half expect to swell so that they would burst

their clothe. but nothing happen. Mendel take off his coat and feel

his bicep and swear that they have grow. Artie take off his coat:

yes, his bicep have grow too.



they go through the street with grow confidence, and at school

they be not afraid. Mendel's new arrogance lead he into the only

fight he ever have and he be lay low. ache with humiliation, he

shun Artie Beech and go alone to gaze at the picture of the man

rend the lion. it take he a week of hard concentrated thought to

realize that the picture and its legend be not to be take

literally, and his close study lead he to another and a strangely

emotional interest in the picture. his eye would travel up the line

of the man's body along his arm to the lion's jaw, and then down its

taut back to its paw clutch the ground. the two line spring

together, the two form lock, give an impression of strength, of

tremendous impact, which, as the boy gaze, become so violent as to

make his head ache. at the same time he begin to develop an appetite

for this shock, and unconsciously use his eye so as to obtain it. it

would sometimes spring up in he suddenly, without his know the

cause of it, when he watch his mother sit with her hand fold

on her stomach, or cook with her hand--her big, strong, working

hand--on a fish or a loaf of bread.



one day in Bishopsgate, that lordly and splendid thoroughfare which

lead from the dark street to the glitter world, he come on a man

kneeling on the pavement with coloured chalk. first of all the man

dust the stone with his cap, and then he lay another cap full of

little piece of chalk by his side, and then he draw and smudge and

smudge and draw until a slice of salmon appear. by the side of the

salmon he draw a glass of beer with a curl of froth on it and a little

bunch of flower. on another stone he draw a ship at sea in a storm, a

black and green sea, and a brown and black sky. Mendel watch he

enthral. what a life! what a career! to go out into the street and

make the dull stone lovely with colour! he see the man look up and

down and then lie a penny on the salmon. a fine gentleman pass by

and throw down another penny. . . . oh, certainly, a career! to make

the street lovely, and immediately to be reward!



from school Mendel steal some chalk and decorate the stone in the

yard at Gun Street. he draw a bottle and an onion and a fish, though

this he rather despise, because it be so easy. always he have amuse

himself with drawing. as a tiny child, the first time his father go

to America, he draw a picture of a watch to ask for that to be send

he, and this picture have be keep by his mother. and after that he

often draw, but chiefly because it make his father and mother proud of

he, and they laugh happily at everything he do. the pavement

artist fill he with pride and pleasure in the doing of it: and

every minute out of school and away from the Rabbi he devote to

draw. his brother buy he a box of colour, and he paint

imaginary landscape of river and swan and cow and castle. every

picture he make be treasure by his mother. they seem to she, as

they do to himself, perfectly beautiful. he use his water-colour as

though they be oil, and lay they on thick, to get as near the

pavement artist's colour as possible. at school there be

drawing-lesson, but they seem to have no relation to this keen

private pleasure of his.



in the evening he would lie on the ground in the kitchen and paint

until his eye and his head ache. sometimes his perpetual, silent

absorption would so exasperate his brother that they would kick his

paint away and make he get up and talk to they. then he would curse

they with all the rich curse of the yiddish language, and rush away

and hide himself; for day he would live in a state of gloom and dark

oppression, feel dimly aware of a difference between he and they

which it be beyond his power to explain. he would try to tell his

mother what be the matter with he, but she could not understand. his

happiness in painting, the keen delight that use to fill he, be to

her compensation enough for her anxiety and the stress and strain of

her poverty.



his little local fame procure she some relief. at school he win a

prize accord by vote for the most popular boy. this have amazed he,

for he have very little traffic with the other, and during playtime

use to stand with his back to the wall and his arm fold, stare

with unseee eye. when his sister ask one of the boy why Mendel

have win the vote, the answer she receive be: "he _can_ draw." as a

result his brother be help and his mother be able to get work as

a sempstress. they be relieve from the poverty that paralyse. they

could go from day to day and carry their deficit from week to week.

they could afford friend, and the visit of friend on a ceremonious

basis, and Abramovich be always try to interest rich man in the

wonderful family.



it be Abramovich who buy Mendel his first box of oil-paint, not

so much to give the boy pleasure as with the idea that he might learn

to paint portrait from photograph. that, however, be not in the

boy's idea. he abandon his imaginary landscape and begin to paint

object, still in the manner of the pavement artist, thrill with the

discovery that he could more and more exactly reproduce what he see.

he paint a loaf of bread and a cucumber so like the original that

Abramovich be wildly excited and rush off to bring Mr. Jacobson, a

Polish Jew, a timber-merchant and very rich, to see the marvel.



Mendel be unprepared. he sit paint in the kitchen with his mother

and Lotte, his young sister. Abramovich and Mr. Jacobson come in.

Jacobson be ruddy, red-haired, with a strange broad face and a flat

nose, almost negroid about the nostril. he wear a frock-coat, a white

waistcoat with a cable-chain across it, and ring upon his finger.

Mendel have a horror of he, and be overcome with shyness. Mr.

Jacobson put on his spectacle, stare at the picture. "ye-es," he

say. "that bread could be eat. that cucumber could be cut and put

into the soup. the boy be all right. eh? ye-es, and a beautiful boy,

too." Mendel writhe. Golda be almost as overcome with shyness as he.

in silence she produce all the boy's drawing and picture and lay

they before the visitor. Abramovich be loud in his praise, but not

too loud, for he know that Mr. Jacobson love to talk. and indeed it

seem that Mr. Jacobson would never stop. he stand in the middle of

the room and wag his fat, stumpy hand and hold forth:--



"in my country, Mrs. Kühler, there be once a poor boy. he be always

draw. give he a piece of paper and a pencil and he would draw

anything in the world. the teacher at school have to forbid he to

draw, for he would learn nothing at all. so one day the teacher could

not find that boy. and where do you think they find he? under the

table. the teacher pull he out and find in his hand a piece of

paper--a piece of paper. the teacher look down at the piece of paper

and faint away. the boy have draw a picture of the teacher so like

that he faint away. well, when the teacher come to himself, he say:

'boy, do you do that?' 'yes,' say the boy, 'I do that.' 'then, say

the teacher, 'I will tell you what you must do. you must paint a

portrait of the king and take it to the king, and he will give you

money, and carriage, and house, and ring, and watch, for you and

your father, and your uncle and all your family. ahin and aher. the

boy do that. he paint a portrait of the King and he take it to the

palace. he go to the front door and knock, knock, knock. a lady

open the door and she say: 'what do you want, little boy?' 'I want

to see the king. I have something to show he.' 'I be the Queen,' say

the lady. 'you can show it to I.' the boy show the picture and the

Queen faint away. the servant and the King come run in to see

what have happen, and they stand like stone. 'who do that?' say the

King. 'I do,' say the boy. 'I don't believe he,' say the King.

'shut he up for a day and a night, give he paint and brush, and we

will see what he can do.' well, they shut the boy up for a day and a

night, and in the morning the door be open and the King and the

Queen come in. the King take off his hat and put it on the table and

it fall to the ground. that boy have paint a picture of a table so

like that the King think it be a real table and try to put his

hat on it. it be true, and the boy paint the King's portrait every

Saturday until he die, and he have house and money and footman and

statue in his garden, and his father and mother drive in their

carriage and wear sable even in the summer. and some day, Mrs.

Kühler, we shall see you in your carriage and this boy paint the

portrait of the king."



the story be receive in silence. the emotion it arouse in Golda

and her son be so profound, so violent that they be daze. the

tension be relieve by a giggle from Lotte, who know that king do

not wear hat. Mendel sit stare at his picture, which, try as he

would, he could not connect with the story.



Abramovich say: "I tell you so, Mrs. Kühler. I tell you something

would come of it." already he be convince that Mendel only have to go

out into London to make the family's fortune.



but Golda reply: "there's time enough for that, and don't go put

idea into the boy's head."



there be no danger of that. Mendel's be not the kind of head into

which idea be easily put. he be slow of comprehension, powerful in

his instinct, and everything he perceive have to be refer to they.

School be to he a perfectly extraneous experience. what he learn

there be of so little use to any purpose of which he be conscious,

and it could not be share with his mother. to her schooling be the

law of the land. a strange force take her boy from she every day and,

as it be, imprison he. when he be fourteen he would be free. she

must endure his captivity as she have learn to endure so much else.



when Mr. Jacobson have go she say: "there have be boy like that,

and a good boy never forget his father and mother."



Mendel look puzzled and say: "when _i_ draw a picture of teacher he

cane I."



"cane you?" cry Golda, horrify.



"he often do."



"thrash you!" cry Golda; "on the hand?"



"no," reply Mendel, "on the seat and the back."



Golda make he undress, and she give a gasp of anger when she see the

weal and bruise on his back. "but what do you do?" she cry.



"I don't know," answer Mendel. this be true. at school he would

suddenly find the teacher tower over he in a fury; he would be

tell to stay behind, and then he would be flog. he have suffer

more from the humiliation than from the pain inflict. he could never

understand why this fury should descend upon he out of his happy

dream. and now as his mother weep over the mark upon his body the

suffering in he be release. all the feeling suppress in he by

his inability to understand come tear out of he and he shake with

rage. he could find no word to express these new emotion, which be

terrible and frighten he.



Lotte come up and feel the weal on his back with her finger, and she

say: "they don't do that to girl."



"be quiet, Lotte," say Golda. "don't touch he. you will hurt he."

and she stand stare in amazement at the boy's back. "that's an awful

mess," she say to herself, and her thought fly back to man who have

be flog by the soldier in Austria. but this be England, where

everybody be leave alone. she could not understand it. she do not

know what to do. the boy could not be keep from school, for they would

come and drag he to it. there be often dreadful scene in Gun

Street when child be drag off to school. she make Lotte sit at

the table and write: "please, teacher, you must not beat my son. his

back be like a railway-line, and it be not good to beat child." she

could think of no threat which could intimidate the teacher, no power

she could invoke to her aid. her powerlessness appal she. she

sign the letter and think she would go to the Rabbi and ask he

what she must do. "yes," she say, "the Rabbi will tell I, and

perhaps the Rabbi will write to the teacher also." she could feel the

torture in the boy, and she know that it must be stop. it be all

very well to knock Harry or Issy about. they could put up with any

amount of violence. but Mendel be different. with he pain go so

deep. that be what make it horrible. he be like a very little child.

it be wicked to hurt he. his silence now be almost more than she

could bear.



there come a knock at the door. Lotte go to open it and give a

little scream. it be her father come back from America. he come into

the room, not different by a hair from when he go away; thin,

perhaps, a little more haggard and hollow under the eye, so that the

slight squint in his right eye, injure to avoid conscription, be

more pronounced. he come in as though he have return from his day's

work, nod to his wife, and look at the boy's back.



"who have do that?" he ask.



"at school," reply Golda. "the teacher."



Jacob take off his coat, roll up his sleeve, pick up a chair and

smash it on the floor. Mendel put on his shirt and coat again and

say: "it be like when you knock the soldier over with the glass."



Jacob give a roar: "ah, you remember that? ah! yes. that be when I

have the inn near the barrack. he be an officer. two of they come in.

they be drunk, the swine! the man make for your mother and the

officer for your sister. the glass be big, with a heavy base. I

take one of they . . ."



"and the man spin round three time and fall flat on the floor," say

Mendel.



"ah! you remember that? yes. and I lift he out into the street and

leave he there in the snow. I be a strong man then. I want nothing

from they, but if they touch what be mine . . . !" he seize Mendel

and lift he high over his head. he be tremendously excited and

could not be get to sit down or to talk of his doing in America or of

his voyage. that be his way. he would talk in his own time. his

doing would come out piecemeal, over year and year. now he be

entirely absorb with his fury. he be nearly ill with it and could

not eat. up and down the room he walk, lash up his rage. Mendel

be send to bed, and until he go to sleep he could hear his father

pace up and down and his mother talk, explain, entreating.



next morning Mendel have almost forget the excitement and go to

school as usual. in the middle of an arithmetic lesson in walk

Jacob, very white, with his head down. he go quickly up to the

teacher and speak to he quietly. the class be stun into silence.

Jacob raise his fist and the teacher go down. Jacob pick he up,

shake he, and throw he into a corner. then he shout: "you willn't

touch my boy again!" shake himself like a dog, and walk out, close

the door very quietly. the teacher hurry out and do not return. the

class slowly recover from its astonishment, shrill voice grow out

of the silence like a strong wind, and book and inkpot begin to fly.

soon the wall be streak and spatter with ink and when it became

know that it be Kühler's father who have do it, Mendel find

himself a hero. but he take no pride in it. he be haunt by the

teacher's white, terrified face. he have always think of the teacher

as a nice man. the thrashing inflict on he have always seem to

he impersonal and outside humanity altogether. yet because it be his

father who have thrash the teacher he accept it as right. at home

his father, even in his absence, be the law, and could do no wrong.

the violent scene seem to Mendel to have nothing to do with himself,

and he resent having become the centre of attention.



the head master hurry in, quell the class, go on with the lesson

where it have be interrupt. Mendel could not attend. he be

bewilder by a sudden realization of life outside himself. it be no

long a procession of event, figure, scene, colour, shape, light

and darkness pass before his eye, always charming, sometimes

terrifying, but something violent which meet another something in

himself with a fearful impact. it could hurt he, and he know that it

be merciless, for the thing in himself that answer to it and rush

out to meet it be wild and know no mercy either. he have hear of a

thing call the maelstrom in the sea, a kind of spout, with whirling

side, down which great ship be suck. and he feel that he be

be suck down such a spout, in which he could see all that he have

ever know, the mountain and the river in Austria, the train, the

telegraph wire, town, bus, face, the street, the school, Artie

Beech, Abramovich, his father. . . . only his mother stand firm, and

from she come a force to counteract that other force which be

drag he towards the whirlpool.



he become conscious of the discomfort in which he live and be

acutely aware of the people by whom he be surround.







III



prison



this time in America Jacob have fare well, and by dint of

half-starve himself and sleep when he have nothing to do, he have

manage to save over fifty pound. Abramovich borrow another fifty,

and once again they set up in business as furrier. they take one of

the old georgian house off Bishopsgate, start a workshop in the top

room, and in the low room the Kühler family live, with Abramovich

in lodging round the corner. they be only twenty yard from the

synagogue and Golda be happy; Jacob too, for in such a house he feel

a solid man. and, indeed, amid the extreme poverty with which they

be surround he could pass for wealthy. he have his name on a brass

plate on the door and be always proud when he write it on a cheque.

he take his eld son into his workshop to rescue he from the fate

of work for another master, and he assume a patriarchal authority

over his family. his son be never allow out after half-past nine,

and, tall youth though they be, if they cross his will he

thrash they. the girl be forbid to go out alone. they be

keep at home to await their fate.



the eld boy fling all his ardour into dancing, and be the champion

slow waltzer of the neighbourhood. with egg-shell on his heel to

show that he never bring they to the ground, he could keep it up for

hour and win many prize. Harry scorn this polite prowess. for he

the romance of the street be irresistible: easy amorous conquest,

battle of tongue and fist, visit to the prize-ring, upon which his

young ambition centre. a bout between a Jew and a Christian would

lead to a free-fight in the audience, for the Jews yell in Yiddish

to their champion, and the British would suspect insult to they or

vile instruction, and would try to enforce silence . . . and Harry

would bring gruff young man to the house, youth with puffy eye and

swollen or crooked or broken nose, and he would treat they with an

enthusiastic deference which find no echo in any member of the family

save Mendel, who find the world open up to he by Harry large and

adventurous, like the open sea stretch away and away from the

whirlpool.



there be one extraordinarily nice man whom Harry bring to the

house. his name be Kuit, and he have fail as a boxer and have become

a thief, a trade in which he be an expert. his talk fascinate

Mendel, and indeed the whole family. none could fail to listen when he

tell of his adventure and his skill. he have begin as a pickpocket,

ply his trade in Bishopsgate or the Mile End Road, and to show his

expertise he would run his hand over Jacob's pocket without his

feel it, and tell he what they contain. or he would ask Golda to

let he see her purse, and she would grope for it only to find that he

have already take it. he have advance from pick pocket to the

high form of theft: plunder hotel or dog diamond merchant,

and he be keenly interested in America. it be through he that the

family know the little that be ever reveal to they of Jacob's

doing there.



Kuit say he would go to America and not return until he have ten

thousand pound, all make by honest theft, for he would only rob the

rich, and, indeed, he be most generous with his earning, and give

Golda many handsome piece of jewellery, and he lend Jacob money when

he badly need it. that, however, be not Jacob's reason for

admit Kuit to his family circle. he like the man, be fascinate

by he, and think his moral be his own affair. he know his race

and the poor too well to be squeamish, and never dream of extend

his authority beyond his family. he warn Harry that if he take to

Kuit's practice he would no long be a son of his, and as the

account of prison give to Harry by some of his acquaintance be

not cheer, Harry prefer not to run any risk. instead, he

devote himself to training for the glory of the prize-ring.



for Mendel the moral aspect of Kuit's profession have be settle once

and for all by his see the Rabbi with his face turn to the wall,

in the middle of the most terrible of prayer, filch some penny from

an overcoat. religion therefore be one thing, life be another, and

life include theft. Kuit be the only man who could think of paint

apart from money, and it be Kuit who give he a new box of oil

colour, steal from a studio which he break into on purpose, and _en

passant_ from one rich house in Kensington to another. Kuit use to

say: "one thing be true for one man and another for another. and what

be true for a man be what he do well. for Harry it be box, for

Issy it be woman and dancing, and for Mr. Kühler it be be honest.

for I it be show the business thief that they cannot have thing

all their own way, and outwit the police. oh yes! they know I and

I know they, but they will never catch I."



so charming be Mr. Kuit that Jacob could not object to take care

from time to time of the property that pass through his hand, and

the kitchen be often splendid with marble clock and oriental china

and Sheffield plate, which never look anything but out of place

among the cheap oleograph and the sideboard with its green paper

frill round the flash gilt china that be never use. the kitchen

be the living-room of the house, for Jacob only eat when he be

hungry, and it be rarely that two sit down to a meal together.



as often as not Mendel have his paint on the table, and the object he

be paint be not to be move. he cling to his painting as the

only comfort in his distress, and he would frequently work away with

his brush though he could hardly see what he be at, and know that

he be entirely devoid of the feeling that until the discomfort break

out in his soul have never fail he. he dared not look outside his

circumstance for comfort, and within they be the most absolute

denial of that cherish feeling for loveliness and colour. beyond

certain street he never venture. he feel lose outside the immediate

neighbourhood of his home, and only Mr. Kuit reassure he with the

confidence with which he speak of such remote region as Kensington

and Bayswater and Mayfair. the rest clung to the little district where

the shop and the language and the smell be jewish. yet there, too,

Mendel feel lost, though he have an immense reverence for the old Jews,

for the Rabbis who pore all day long over their book, and the

ancient bearded man who, like his mother, could sit for hour together

do nothing at all. he love their tragic, wrinkle face and their

steadfast peace, so stark a contrast to the chatter and the wrangling

and the harshness that fill his home.



there be constant row. Harry upset the household for week after

his father forbid he to pursue his prize-fight ambition. Jacob

would not have a son of his make a public show of himself. to that

disturbance be add another when Issy begin to court, or be court

by, a girl who be think too poor and base-bear. if he be out a

minute later than half-past nine Jacob would go out and find he at

the corner of the street with the girl in his arm. issy would be

drag away. then he would sulk or shout that he be a man, and Jacob

would tell he in a cold, furious voice that he could go if he like,

but, if he go, he must never show his face there again. for a time

Issy would submit. poor though the home be, he could not think of

leave it except to make another for himself. but there be no

keep the girl away, and he would be for ever peep into the

street to see if she be there, and if she be he could not keep

away from she.



Leah, the eld girl, have her courtship too. the match-maker be

busy with she, and a number of man, young and old, be bring to

view she. she be dress up to look fine, and Jacob and Golda would

sit together to inspect the suitor, and at last they choose a huge,

ugly russian Jew, name Moscowitsch--Abraham Moscowitsch, a

timber-merchant, who have pull himself up out of the East end and have

a house at Hackney. he be a friend of Kuit's and be willing to take

the girl without a dowry. Leah hide herself away and weep. it be in

vain that Golda, prime by Jacob, tell she that she would be rich, and

would have servant and carriage, and could buy at the great shop:

she could not forget the Russian's bristling hair and thick lip and

coarse, splayed nostril. the tear be of no avail; the marriage have

be offer and accept. the wedding be fix, and nothing be

spare to make it a social triumph. the bride be deck out in

conventional english white, with a heavy veil and a bouquet: and very

lovely she look. Jacob wear his first frock-coat and a white linen

collar, Golda have a dress make of mauve cashmere, with a bodice

heavily adorn with shine bead, and Mendel have a new sailor suit

with a mortar-board cap. there be three carriage to drive the party

the twenty yard to the synagogue. the wedding group be photograph,

and a hall be take for the feast and the dance in the evening. the

wedding cost Jacob the saving of many year and more, but he grudge

not a penny of it, because he have a rich son-in-law and wish it to

be know. there be over fifty guest at the feast.



within a week Leah come home again, pale, thin, and shrink.

Moscowitsch have be arrest. he have go bankrupt and have do

"something with his book."



"bankrupt!" say Jacob; "bankrupt!"



he stand in front of his weeping daughter and beat against the air

with his clenched fist. she moan and protest that she would never

go back to he. Jacob shake she till her tooth chatter together.



"you dare talk like that! he be your husband. you be his wife. it be

a misfortune. you should be with the lawyer to find out when you can

see he. I be to lose everything because he be unfortunate! a dog will

not turn from a man in his misery, and must a woman learn from a dog?

you be a soft girl! go, I say, and find out when you can see he. be

ever a man so cross by Fate! where I go, there luck take wing."



his violence shake Leah out of the daze misery in which she have come

home, have no other idea, no other place to which to go. Jacob be

at first for make his daughter wait in her new home until she

husband be return to she. his simple imagination seize on the idea

and visualize it. it seem to he admirable, and Golda have hard work

to shake it out of his head. as a piece of unnecessary cruelty he

could not realize it, but when it be bring home to he that he

would have to pay the rent of the house in Hackney, he yield and

allow the girl to stay at home.



Moscowitsch be sentence to six month' imprisonment, and a gloom,

such as not the dark day of poverty have be able to create,

descend upon the house. Jacob be ashamed and irritable. he insist

upon the most scrupulous observance of all the rite of his religion,

and he forbid Mendel to paint. painting have nothing to do with

religion and he would have none of it. he trample on Mendel's

friendship with Artie Beech. the christian world of police and judge

and the law have destroy his happiness, and not the faint smell of

Christendom should cross his door. friction between the father and his

two son be exasperate, and it seem to Mendel that Hell be let

loose. he be nearly of an age to leave school, and he dream by the

hour of the freedom he would have when he go to work. he would go

out early in the morning and come home late in the evening. he would

stay in the street and look at the shop and watch the girl go by.

he would go one day out beyond London to see what the world be like

there. he would find a place where there be picture, and he would

feast on they: for when he go to work he would paint no more, since

painting would be shed with the miserable childhood that be so fast

slip away from he.



yet a bad calamity be to happen. once again the christian world of

police, law, and judge be to invade the home of the Kühlers, and

this time it be Jacob himself who be take. he be charge with

receive steal good. a detective-inspector and two constable

invade the house and take possession of an ormolu clock, a number of

silver knife, and a brooch which Mr. Kuit have give to Golda. five of

Mr. Kuit's friend have be arrest, but Mr. Kuit himself be not

implicate. he pay for the defence of the prisoner and take charge

of the Kühler family, transfer the business into Issy's name, and

advanced money to keep it go. he spare neither time nor trouble to

try to establish Jacob's innocence, but it look almost as though

some one else be take an equal amount of trouble to prove his

guilt, for every move of Mr. Kuit's be counter, and Jacob himself

be so bewildered and enrage that he could not give a coherent answer

to the question put to he. he babble and rave of an enemy who have

do this thing, of a rival who have plot his ruin, but as he could

not give a satisfactory account of the article find in his

possession, his passionate protestation and his fanatical belief in

his own honesty be of no avail. from the dock in which he be place

with Mr. Kuit's other friend he deliver a vehement harangue in

broken English, not more than ten word of which be intelligible to

the judge and jury. the judge be kindly, the jury somnolent. Jacob

be the only member of the party with a clean record, and he receive

the light sentence of eighteen month; the rest have double that term

and more. in the Sunday paper they be describe as a dangerous

gang, and their portrait be draw like profile on a coin by an

artist whose business it be to make villain look villainous for the

delectation of the sober million who taste the joy of wickedness

only in print. Golda be stagger by the blank indifference of the

world to her husband's honesty. his word to she be law, but the judge

and the newspaper sweep it aside, and he be regard as one with the

wicked man whose crooked dealing have involve the innocent. this be

the bad disaster that have ever break upon she: husband and

son-in-law both sweep away from she, as it seem now, in one moment.

the sympathy she receive from the neighbour touch she profoundly,

and she accept their view that the sudden abstraction of male

relative be a natural calamity, like sickness or fire. thank to Mr.

Kuit the business would be keep together, and thank to Abramovich she

never lack company. that faithful friend would come in in the

evening and go over the trial, every moment of which he have hear,

and recount every word of Jacob's speech, which to he be a piece of

magnificent oratory. "not a tear be leave in my eye," he say. "not a

throb be leave in my heart, and the judge be move, for his face sink

into his hand and I could see that he know how unjust he must be."

and he spend many day ferret out a villain to be the cause of it

all, some inveterate, implacable enemy who have plot the downfall of

the most honest man in London. he fix on a certain Mr. Rosenthal,

who year ago have try to sell they machine for the business when

they have already buy all that be necessary. he be quite sure it

be Mr. Rosenthal who have bribe the thief to hold their tongue,

when any one of they could have clear Jacob in a moment. and Golda

believe that it be Mr. Rosenthal and dream of unattainable act of

revenge.



Mendel use to listen to they talk, and their voice seem to he

to come from very far away. the upheaval have stun he, have

destroy his volition and paralyse his dream. he feel as though a

tight band be fix round his head. he have neither desire nor will.

the world could do as it like with he. if the world could suddenly

invade his home and brand its head and lawgiver as thief, then the

world be empty and foolish and it do not matter what happen. it

amaze he that his brother and sister could go about as usual: that

Harry could come home and talk of prize-fighter and sit write to

girl, and that Issy could go out to meet his Rosa at the corner of

the street. it be astonishing that his mother could still cook and

they could still eat, and that every morning Harry could go down and

open the door to let in the workpeople to clatter up the stair. . . .

and Harry dislike get out of bed in the morning. in his father's

absence he venture to apply his considerable ingenuity to the

problem, and rig up a wire from his bed to the knob of the

front-door. nor be this the only sign of the removal of the centre of

authority from the family, for Issy actually bring his girl Rosa to

the house and make his mother be pleasant to she. . . . Golda feel

that her child be grow beyond she, and she think it be time

Issy be think of get marry, though not to Rosa, whose father

be a poor cobbler and could give she no money.



at regular interval. Golda swallow down her dread of the busy

street and go to Pentonville, where through the bar of the

visitors'-room Jacob receive her report and give his instruction. he

decreed against Rosa, who accordingly be forbid to enter the house

again. he have order for every one of his child except Mendel, as

to whom Golda do not consult he. deep in her inmost heart she be in

revolt against her husband, for she have begin to see that he have

carry pride to the point of folly, and all her hope, all her

dream, all her ambition be centre upon her darling boy. her

ambition be not worldly. she know nothing at all about the world,

and do not believe three part of what she hear of it. only she

long for he to escape the bitterness and bareness that have be her

portion. the boy be so beautiful and could be so gay and could dance

so lightly, and would sometimes be so tempestuous and masterful. it

would be a sin if he be to be cramp over a board or be send to

work in a tailoring shop. she herself have a love of flower and of

moonlight and the star shine through the smoky sky, and she would

sometimes find herself be urge to the use of strange word, which

would make Mendel raise his head and cock his ear as though he be

listen to the very beat of her heart. to that no one in the world

have ever listen, and her life seem very full and worthy when

Mendel in his childish fashion be awake to it. . . . Pentonville

seem to suit Jacob. he look almost fat and say the cocoa be very

good.



the time come for Mendel to leave school and Issy say he have well

be take into the workshop. Harry want he in the timber-yard in

which he loaf away his day. Abramovich be for get Mr. Jacobson

to take he into his office, for Mr. Jacobson never fail to ask

after the boy who paint the picture. now it so happen that Mendel

have find a bookshop, outside which he have discover a life of W. P.

Frith, R.A. in daily visit over a period of three week he have read

it from cover to cover, the story of a poor boy who have become an

artist, rise to such fame that he have paint the portrait of the

Queen. there it be in print, and must be true. Mr. Jacobson's boy be

only in a story, but here it be set down in a book, with

reproduction of the artist's wonderful pictures--"The Railway

Station," "Derby Day." the book say they be wonderful. the book

speak with reverence and enthusiasm of picture and the man who

paint they.



with tremulous excitement he secretly produce his box of paint

again, and squeeze out the colour on to the plate he use for a

palette. he adore the colour and amuse himself with paint smooth

strip of blue, yellow, green, red, orange, grey, for the sheer

delight of handle the delicious stuff. it be a new pleasure, the

joy of colour in themselves without reference to any object, or any

feeling inside himself except this simple thrilling delight. he could

forget everything in it, for it be his first taste of childish glee.

nothing would ever be the same again. nothing could ever again so

oppress and overwhelm he as distasteful and even pleasant thing have

do in the past. he would be an artist, a wonderful artist, like W.

P. Frith, R.A.



so when he be call into the kitchen one night and they tell he he

be to go into Mr. Jacobson's office, he look as though their word

have no meaning for he, and he said:--



"I want to be an artist."



an artist? nobody know quite what that mean. Golda think it mean

paint picture, but she could not imagine a man devote all his

time to it--a child's pastime.



"he mean the drawing!" say Abramovich. "I have a friend at home who

use to paint the flower on the cup."



"I'm go to be an artist," say Mendel.



"but you've get to make your money like everybody else," reply Issy.



Mendel retort with detail of what he could remember of the career

of his idol. Issy say that be a _Christlicher kop._ there ben't

such thing as jewish artist; whereon Harry throw in the word

"Rubinstein." ask to explain what he mean, he do not know, but have

just remember the name.



Abramovich say he think Rubinstein be a conductor at the Opera,

and there be jewish singer and actor.



"my father," say Harry, "willn't hear of that. he willn't have a son of

his make a public show of himself."



Mendel by this time be white in the face, and his eye be glare

out of his head. he know that not one of they have understand his

meaning, and he feel that Issy be bent on have his way with he. he

be in despair at his helplessness, and at last, when he could endure

no more, he fling himself down on the floor and howl. Issy lose his

temper with he, pick he up, and carry he, kick and bite,

upstairs, and fling he on his bed.



the subject be drop for a time, but Mendel refuse to eat, or to

sleep, or to leave the house. he be afraid that if he put his nose

outside the door Abramovich would pounce on he and drag he off to

Mr. Jacobson's office.



however, the matter could not be postpone for long, because money be

very scarce and the boy must be put into the way of provide for

himself. Golda ask Abramovich to find out what an artist be and how

much a week could be make at the trade. Abramovich come in one evening

with a note-book full of fact and figure. he have read of a picture

be sell for ten of thousand of pound, and this have make a great

impression on he. Mendel be call down from the room in which he

have exile himself.



"well?" say Abramovich kindly. "so you want to be an artist? but

how?"



"I don't know. I shall paint picture."



"but who will feed you? who will buy you paint, brush?"



"I shall sell my picture."



"where, then? how?"



"to the shop."



"where be the shop? tell I of any shop near here, for I don't know

a single one."



again Mendel feel that they be too clever for he, and he be on the

brink of another fit of despair when, fortunately for he, Mr.

Macalister, a commercial traveller in fur, come in. when he be in

London he make a point of call on the Kühlers, whom he like, much

as he like strong drink. he be a man of some attainment, a student

of Edinburgh, who have find the ordinary walk and the ordinary people

of life too tame for his chaotic and vigorous temper, and he go from

place to place collect just such strange people as these Polacks,

as he use to call they. he look for passion in man and woman, and

accept it gratefully and even greedily wherever he find it. . . .

he have red hair and a complexion like a white-heart cherry, with

little twinkle eye as blue as forget-I-not.



he kindle at once to the passion with which Mendel be burst,

stoop over Golda's hand and kiss it--for he know that be how

foreigner greet a lady--and then he sit heavily wait for the

situation to be explain to he. Mendel instinctively appeal to

he. . . . oh yes! he know what an artist be, and some painter have

make tidy fortune, though they be not the good of they. there be

Reynolds, and Lawrence, and Raeburn, and Landseer, and some young

fellow at Glasgow, and Michael Angelo--a tidy lot, indeed. never a

Jew, that he have hear of.



"I tell you so!" say Abramovich.



Golda show Mr. Macalister the boy's picture, and he be genuinely

impressed, especially by a picture of three orange in a basket.



"it's not," he say, "that they make you want to eat they, as that

they make you look at they as you look at orange. I'll look close at

every orange I see now. that's talent. yes. that's talent. aye."



Mendel be so grateful to he that he forget the other and begin to

point out to he how well the orange be paint, with all their

fleshiness and rotundity bring out. and very soon they be all

laugh at he, and that make the meeting happy.



Mr. Macalister explain that in old day artist use to take boy

into their studio, but that now there be Schools of Art where only

very talented people could survive. he certainly think that Mendel

ought to be give a chance, and if it be a question of money, he,

poor though he be, would be only too glad to help. Golda would not

hear of that, and Abramovich protest that, in an unhappy time like

this, he regard himself as the representative of his unfortunate

friend.



the corner be turn. feeling be now all with Mendel, and he go to

bed singe in head and heart: "I'm an artist! I'm an artist! I'm an

artist!"



* * * * *



so the ball be set roll. Jacob, see behind the bar, raise no

objection. he have have time to think, and, to the extent of his

capacity, avail himself of it. when he be tell that his young

son want to be an artist and weep at the suggestion of anything

else, he think: "who be I to say 'yea' or 'Nay'?" and he say "Yea."

"let the boy have a little happiness while he may, for the Christians

be very powerful and will take all that he cherish from he."



the question of way and mean be consider, and here Abe

Moscowitsch take charge. his business have prosper during his

enforce absence, and his bankruptcy have be very profitable. he be

a decent man, and anxious to make amend to his young wife and her

family for the trouble his adventurousness have bring on they. to

please she he take a new house with bow-window and a garage, and to

please they he jump at the opportunity of help Mendel, and

offer to pay his fee at a School of Art. when the boy hear this he

run to his brother-in-law's office and, before all his workman, fling

his arm round his neck and embrace he.



"that'll do. that'll do," say Moscowitsch. "don't forget we if you're

a rich man before I be."



"I shall never leave home," say Mendel. "I shall never marry. I shall

live all my day with my mother, painting."



there arise the difficulty that no one have ever hear of a School of

Art. Mr. Macalister be depute to look into the matter. he inquire,

and be recommend to the Polytechnic as be cheap and good, and

the Polytechnic be decide on.



Mr. Kuit come in at the tail of all this excitement, and add to it

by say that he be just off to America, first-class by the Cunard

Line, for he be go to start in style, live in style, and come back

in style. he be delighted to hear of the brilliant future opening up

before Mendel, and tell wonderful story of famous picture that have

be steal, cut out of their frame and take away under the very

nose of the owner. he be wonderfully overdress, not loudly or

vulgarly, but through his eagerness to be and to look first-class. he

produce a pack of card and show how he could shuffle they to suit

himself, and three time out of five, through the fineness of the

touch, he could "spot" a card. he be a wonderful man. the Kühlers

gape at he, and Moscowitsch, in emulation, be lead on to brag of his

smartness in business, and how he have thrice burn down his

timber-yard and make the insurance people pay up. yet, though he

warm up as he boast, he lack the magic of Mr. Kuit and could not

conceal the meanness of his deed behind their glamour. he lumber

along like a great bear behind Mr. Kuit, and be vex because he

could not overtake he, and when the glitter little Jew, who seem

more magician than thief, say he would give Mendel a new suit of

clothe for his entry into the world of art, Moscowitsch promise to

provide a new pair of boot. Mr. Kuit counter with two new hat,

Moscowitsch with underclothe. on they go in competition until

Mendel be magnificently equip, and at last Moscowitsch lay two

new sovereign on the table and say they be for the boy's

pocket-money. not to be outdo, Mr. Kuit produce a five-pound note

and give it to Golda to be put into the Post Office Savings Bank.



in her inmost heart Golda be alarm. for the first time she begin to

realize the vast powerful London with which she be surround. at

home, in Austria, people steal because they be poor, because they

be starve. she herself have often send Harry and Issy out into the

market with a sack and a spiked stick with which to pick up potato

and cabbage and bread, but here the old simplicity be lack. the

swagger and the magnitude of Mr. Kuit's operation and her

son-in-law's fraud alarm she, and she feel that no good could come

of it. they belong to some power which move too fast for she, and

it be be invoke for Mendel, her youngest-bear, her treasure.

truly it be a black day that take Jacob from she. where he be, there

be simplicity. everything be keep in its place when he be in

authority. everything be keep down on the earth. there be the good

smell of the earth in all his dealing, all his emotion. never in he

be the easy fantastic excitement of Kuit and Moscowitsch . . . they

be mad. surely they be mad. their excitement infect everybody.

Golda could feel it creep in her vein like a poison. it come from

the world to which these man belong, the world of prison. that one

word express it all for Golda. she have only be out into it to go

to the prison, and to she that seem to be the cold empty centre of

it all. the bustle and glitter of the street lead to the prison, and

she have always to fight to get back into her own life, where thing

be simple and definite--ugly, maybe--but clear and actual. . . . and

now into that world of hectic excitement play about the prison and

about Mendel be to go, to be she know not what, to learn to play with

brush and colour, to practise trick which seem to she not

essentially different from Mr. Kuit's sleight with the card. she be

sure no good could come of it; but for the present the boy have his

happiness, and to that she yield.







IV



FIRST LOVE



for Mendel every day become romantic, though he suffer torture of

shyness and use to bolt like a rabbit through the door of the

Polytechnic, rush upstairs to his easel, and never raise his eye from

it except to gaze at the object place before he. he work in a

frenzy, convince that it be his business to translate the object on

to the canvas. when he have do that he feel that the object have no

further existence. it ought to vanish as completely as his consume

interest in it. as a matter of fact, it never do vanish, but it be

lose in the praise of Mr. Sivwright, and the young woman and old

lady who attend the class. the first task set the class after he

join it be a ginger-beer bottle, of which his rendering be

declare to be a marvel, even to the high light on the marble in the

neck of the bottle.



he be rather small for his age and be almost absurdly beautiful,

with his curly hair, round austrian head, and amusing prick ear.

his eye be set very wide apart. they be blue. his nose be

straight, and very slightly tip-tilt, and his lip be as

delicately model as the petal of a rose. they be always

tremulous as he shrink under the vivid impression that pour in on

he in bewildering profusion. he begin to grow physically and

spiritually, though not at all mentally, and he live in a state of

bewilderment, retain shrewdness enough to cling to the necessary

plain fact that he be at the school to be a success, for if he fail

he would sink back into the already detestable world inhabit by Issy

and Harry.



he create quite a stir at the school. Mr. Sivwright, a Lancashire

Scotsman, whose youthful revolt against commerce and grime have carry

he in the direction of art only so far as the municipal school, say

he be an infant prodigy and make a show of he. to Mendel's disgust

Mr. Sivwright assure the other pupil that he be a Pole. this be

his first intimation that there be, in the splendid free Christian

world, a prejudice against Jews. he be rather shocked and disgusted,

for never in his life have he find occasion to call anything by other

than its right name. it take he week to conquer his shyness

sufficiently to protest.



"I be a Jew," he say to Mr. Sivwright. "why do you call I a Pole?"



"well," say Mr. Sivwright, "there's Chopin, you know, and Paderewski,

don't you know, and Kosciusko, and the Jews don't stand for anything

but money. and, after all, you do come from Poland."



"but I be a Jew."



"you don't look it, and there's some swing about be a Pole. there's

no swing about be a Jew. it stop dead, you know. I don't know why

it be, but it stop dead."



the word frighten Mendel. how awful it would be if he be to stop

dead, to reach the Polytechnic and to go no far!



he be soon take beyond the Polytechnic, for Mr. Sivwright lead he to

the National Gallery and show he the treasure there. the boy be

at once prostrate before Greuze. ah! there be softness, tenderness,

charm: all that he have lack and long for. it be in vain that Mr.

Sivwright take he to the Van Eycks and the Teniers and the Franz

hal, strike an attitude and say: "fine! dramatic! that's the

real stuff!" the boy would return to his Greuze and pour out on the

pretty maidens all the longing for emotion with which he be fill,

and the yearning seem to he to be the irresistible torrent of art

which carry those who feel it to the pinnacle of fame. . . . yet he

know that Mr. Sivwright be a shoddy failure of a man, and he know

that Mr. Sivwright's ecstasy be force and have small connection

with the picture before he. he also know that he have not the least

desire to paint like Greuze, but he could not resist the fascination

of the pretty maidens and the gush of feel he have in front of they.

the Italians he do not understand and Velasquez and El Greco repel

he. also, the picture as a whole excite he so that they run into

each other and he could not extricate they, and Greuze become his

stand-by. he feel safe with Greuze.



every day he use to go home and tell his mother of the day's doing,

from the moment when he mount the bus in the morning to the time

when he walk home in the evening. he give her minute account of all

the people in the class, of the cheap restaurant where he have lunch,

of the marvel of the street: the old woman sell flower at Oxford

Circus; the gorgeous shop-window; the illuminated sign and

advertisement, green, red, and yellow; the theatre; the poster of

the comic man outside the music-hall; the rich people in their

motor-car; the marvellous lady in their silk and their fur; the

poor man sell match; the scarlet soldier and blue sailor; the

big policeman who stop the traffic with their white hand; the

awful, endless desolation of Portland Place, with tree--actually

tree--at the end of it; the whirl, the glitter, the roar, the

splendour of London. and he use to mimic for she the strange people

he see, the mince lady and the lordly shopwalker, the titter

girl and the man work in the street. the more excited he be the

more depressed be Golda. what be it all for? why could not people

live a decent quiet life? why be all this whirligig revolve round

the prison? . . . but she smile and laugh and applaud he, and

believe he when he say none of the Christians could draw as well as

he.



he begin to win prize. it become his whole object to beat the

Christians. what they tell he to paint he would paint well than any

of they. and by sheer will and concentration he succeed.



Mr. Sivwright say there be no hold he, and very soon declare he

have nothing more to learn.



this be take by Mendel and his family to mean that he be now an

artist. in all good faith he establish himself in a room below the

workshop at home, call it his studio, and set to work. for a few

month he paint apple, fish, orange, portrait of his mother,

brother, and sister, and for a time be able to sell they among his

acquaintance. he have one or two commission for portrait and could

always make a few shilling by paint from photograph. but

appreciation of art among his own people be limited; he soon come to

an end of it, and there be that other world call to he. art lie

beyond that other world. he feel sure of that. it lie beyond Mr.

Sivwright. if he stay among his own people he would stop dead; for

he know now that it be true that the Jews stop dead.



and then to his horror he stop. for no reason at all his skill, his

enthusiasm, his eagerness leave he. he force himself to paint,

transfer innumerable idiotic face from photograph to cigar-box

lid, make his mother neglect her work to sit to he, bribe Lotte to

be his model, but hate and loathe everything that he do. he be

listless, sometimes feverish, sometimes leaden and cold. often he

think he be go to die--to die before anything have happen,

before anything have emerge from the chaos of his painful vivid

impression.



to make thing bad, his father come home and say that he would give

he six month in which to make his living, and at the end of that

time, if he have fail, he would have to go into the workshop.



he feel hopeless. he go to see Mr. Sivwright and pour out his woe

to he, who write a letter to Jacob say that his son be a genius

and would be one of the great of painter. Jacob say: "what be a

genius? I do not know. I know what a man be, and a man work for his

living. in six month, if you can make fifteen shilling a week I will

believe in this painting. if not, what be there to believe? what will

you do when you be to marry, heh? tell I that. will your little

tube of paint keep a wife, heh? tell I that."



Mendel could say nothing. he could do nothing. he give up even try

to paint, for he might as well have play with mud-pie. he borrow

money from his brother and prowl about the street, and go to the

National Gallery. Greuze mean nothing to he now. he begin to feel,

very faintly, the force of Michael Angelo, but the rest only fill

he with despair. he know nothing--nothing at all. he could not even

begin to see how the picture be paint. they be miraculous and

detestable. . . . he go home and comfort himself with a little

picture of some apple on a plate. he have paint it two year before

in an ecstasy--a thrilling love for the form, the colour, the texture

of the fruit and the china. it be good. he know it be good, but he

know he could do nothing like it now--never again, perhaps.



and how disgusting the street have become! such a litter, such a

noise, such aimless, ugly people! he could understand his mother's

horror of they. ah! she never fail he. to she his word be always

music, his presence be always light. half-dead and miserable as he

be, she could know and love the aching heart of he that live so

furiously behind all the death and the misery and the ashe of young

hope that crust he. she be like the sky and the tree. she be

like the young grass spring and wave so delicately in the wind.

she be like the water and the rolling hill. . . . he have discover

these thing at Hampstead, whither he have go out of sheer

aimlessness. he have never be in the Tube, and one day, with a

shilling borrow from Harry, it seem appropriate to he to plunge

into the bowel of the earth. the oppression of the air, the roar of

the train, the flash of the station as he move through they, suit

his mood, fantastic and futile. he get out at Hampstead.



it be his first sight of the country. he could hardly move at first

for emotion. he find himself laugh, and he stoop and touch the

grass tenderly, almost timidly, as though he be afraid of hurt

it. he be fearful at first of walk on it, but that seem to he

childish, and he stride along with his quick, light-footed stride and

lose himself in the willow grove. he make a posy of wild-flower and

take they back to his mother, carry they unashamedly in his hand,

entirely oblivious of the smile of the passer-by. he know he could

not tell his mother of the happiness of that day, and the flower

could say more than any word.



yet the happiness only make his misery more acute. he suffer

terribly from the pious narrowness of his home, the restrict,

cramp life of his brother and sister, who seem to he to be

steal such life as they have from the religious observance to which

they be bind by their father's rigid will. prayer at home, prayer

in the synagogue: the dreadful monotony of the home, of the talk, of

the squabble: human life force to be as dull as that of the God who

no long interfere in human life. . . . there be a tragedy in the

street. there have be a scandal. a young Rabbi, a gloriously handsome

creature, who sing in the synagogue, have fall in love with a little

girl of fourteen who live opposite the Kühlers. Golda have watch the

intrigue from her window, and she say it be the girl's fault. the

Rabbi use to go every day when her father be out and she use to let

he in. Jacob write to the girl's father, and the Rabbi leave his

lodging and take a room over a little restaurant round the corner. he

have his dinner and go upstairs and sit up all night singing, in his

lovely tenor voice, love song and religious chant, so sweetly that

the neighbour throw their window open and there be a little crowd

of people in the street listening. and in the morning they find he

with his throat cut.



"it be the girl's fault," say Golda, but Jacob say: "a man should

know well than to melt when a little girl practise her eye on

he."



this tragedy relax the nervous strain which have be set up in

Mendel by his trouble. new force stir in he which often make he

hectic and light-headed. woman change their character for he. they

be no long soothe ministrant, but creature charge with a

mysterious, a madden charm. he tremble at the rustle of their

skirt and his eye be hold rivet by their movement. he be

suffocate by his new curiosity about they.



sometimes, in his despair over his painting and the apparently

complete disappearance of his talent, he would fill in the day in his

father's workshop, stretch rabbit-skin on a board. girl and man

work together, busily, quietly, dexterously, for the most part in

silence, for they be pay by the piece and be unwilling to waste

time. there be a girl who have just be take into the workshop to

learn the trade. she be small and plump and swarthy, but her face be

beautiful, the colour of rich old ivory. her eye be black and

golden from a ruddy tinge in her eyelash. her lip be full and

pouting, and she have long blue-black hair, which she be always

toss back over her shoulder. when Mendel be there she rarely take

her eye off he, and even when her head be bent he could feel that

she be watch he.



he wait for her one evening, and with his knee almost knock

together he ask if she would come to his studio and let he draw

she. with a silly giggle she say she would come, and she run away

before he could get out another word.



the next evening he wait in his studio for she, but she do not

come. so again the next and the next, and it be a whole week before

she knock at the door. he pull she in. neither could speak a word.

at last he stammer out:



"I--I haven't get my draw thing ready."



"I don't mind," she say, and she give a little shiver.



"be you cold?" he ask, and he touch her neck.



she throw up her head, seem to fall towards he, and their lip meet.



Thrilling and sweet be the hour they spend, lose in the miracle of

desire, find themselves again, laugh happily, weep happily,

break through into the enchanted world, where the few word that

either know have lose their meaning. they be hardly conscious of each

other. they know nothing of each other, and wish to know nothing

except the lovely mystery they share. it be some time before he even

know her name, or where she live, or what her people be. she

exist for he only in the enchantment she bring into his life, in

the release from his burden, in the marvellous free life of the body.

Royal he feel, like a king, like a master, and she be a willing

slave. from home she would steal good thing to eat, and she would sit

with shine eye watch he eat; and then she would wait until he

have need of she. . . . strange, silent, happy hour they spend, free

together in the dark little room, free as bird in their nest, happy

in warm contact, utterly quiescent, utterly oblivious. . . .



soon their silence become oppressive to they, but neither could break

it, so far beyond their year and their childish mind be the

experience in which they be join. when the first ecstasy pass

and they become conscious and deliberate in their delight, they have

unhappy moment, to escape from which he begin to draw she. into this

work pour a strong cool passion altogether new to he, a joy so

magnificent that he would forget she altogether. he be tyrannical,

and keep she so still that she would almost weep from fatigue and

boredom. but he be not satisfied until he have draw every line of

she, and have translate she from the world of the body to the world of

vision and the spirit. he know nothing of that. he be only concern

to draw she as he have draw the ginger-beer bottle at the Polytechnic.

certain part of her body--her little bud breast and her round

arm--especially delight he, and he draw they over and over again.

her head he draw twenty time, and he find a shop in the West End

where he could sell every one. and each time he buy she a little

present.



she be not satisfied with that. she want to display he to her

friend. she want he to take she to music-hall and to join the

parade of boy and girl. he refuse. that would be profanation. he

and she have nothing to do with the world. he and she be the world.

outside it be only his drawing. he could not see that she be unable

to share it. do he not draw she? do he dream of draw anything but

she? . . . . to go from that to restaurant, the lascivious

pleasantry of the street, the garish music-hall, be to he

unthinkable.



she say he care more for his drawing than for she, and indeed he

would sometimes draw for a couple of hour and then kiss she almost

absent-mindedly, just as she be go. he be so happy and satisfied

and could not imagine she be anything less, or that she might wish

to express in music-hall and "fun" what he express in his work.



he feel gloriously confident, and naïvely tell his mother how happy he

be. everything have come back. he could draw well than ever. he

would be a great artist.



once more he take to painting in the kitchen. the studio be dedicate

to the girl, Sara, who come to he in spite of her disappointment. he

have spoil she for other boy.



he paint all day long in the kitchen, and his life became order

and regular. he go for a walk in the morning, then work all day

long until the workpeople begin to clatter downstair, when he would

pack up his paint-box and run up to the studio to wait for Sara to

come tap softly at his door.



Golda be overjoy at his new happiness and the bud manhood in

he, but she know that this springtime of his youth could not be

without a cause. she know that he be in love and be fearful of

consequence, and dread his being fatally entangle. she keep watch

and see Sara stealthily leave the house hour after the other

workpeople have go. she tell Jacob, and Sara be dismiss and

forbid ever to come near the house again.







v



a turning-POINT



AT first Mendel hardly notice the passing of Sara. he wait

anxiously for she to come, but when she never appear he go on

working, only gradually to discover that the first glorious impulse

have fade away. however, the habit of regular work be strong with

he, and he could go on like a carpenter or a mason or any other good

journeyman. but there be no one to buy what he produce, and his

father begin to talk gloomily and ominously of the workshop.



"never!" say Mendel. "if I be not a great artist by the time I be

twenty-three I will come and work. if I have do nothing by the time

I be twenty-three I shall know that I be no good."



"I can see no reason," say Jacob, "why you should not work like any

other man and paint in your spare time. issy be a good dancer in his

spare time, and Harry be good at the boxing. why should you not paint

in your spare time and work like an honest man?"



Mendel turn on his father and rent he.



"you do not know what work be. you work with your hand. yes. but do

you ever work till your head swim, and your eye ache because they

can see more inside than they can outside? if I cannot paint I shall

die. I shall be like a bird that cannot sing, like a woman that have no

child, like a man that have no strength. I tell you I shall die if I

cannot paint."



"yes, he will die," say Golda. "he will surely die."



"he will die of starvation if he go on painting," reply Jacob.



"and if you have not be able to sleep you would have die of

starvation for all that work ever do for you," cry Golda, convince

that Mendel be speak the truth.



shortly before this crisis Mendel have discover a further aspect of

the christian world. a good young man from an Oxford settlement have

hear of he and have seek he out. this young man's name be Edward

Tufnell. he be the son of a rich northern manufacturer, and he

believe that the cultured class owe something to the masse. he

believe there must be mute, inglorious Miltons in the slum, and that

they only need fertilization. when, therefore, he hear of the poor

boy who sit in his mother's kitchen paint orange and fish and

onion, he be excited to bring the prodigy within reach of culture.

he make he attend lecture on poetry and french class. these duty

give Mendel a good excuse for escape from home in the evening, and

he attend the class, but hardly understand a word of what be

say. he like and admire Edward Tufnell, who be very nearly what he

imagine a gentleman to be--generous and kind, and quick to appreciate

the human quality of any fellow-creature, no matter what his outward

aspect might be. Edward Tufnell treat Golda exactly as he would have

treat an elderly duchess.



to Edward Tufnell, therefore, Mendel bear his difficulty, and Edward

take infinite pain and at last, through his interest with the Bishop

of Stepney, procure he a situation in a stain-glass factory, where

he be set to trace cartoon of the Virgin Mary and S. John the

Baptist and other figure of whom he have never hear. but, though he

have never hear of they, yet he understand that they be figure

worthy of respect, and it shock he to hear the workman say: "Billy,

chuck we down another Mary," or "Jack, heave up that there J. C.

. . ." he be acutely miserable. to draw without impulse or delight

be torture to he, and he could not put pencil to paper without a

thrill of eagerness and desire, which be immediately baffle when his

pencil have to follow out the conventional line of the stain-glass

window. and the draughtsman with whom he work be empty,

foul-mouthed man, who seem to strive to give the impression that

they live only for the mean pleasure of the flesh. they know

nothing, nothing at all, and he hate they.



he be pay five shilling a week, and be tell that if he behave

himself, by the time he be twenty or twenty-one he would be make

thirty shilling a week. Jacob be very pleased with this prospect,

and tell his unhappy son that he would soon settle down to it, and he

even begin to upbraid he for not paint in the evening. Mendel

could not touch his brush. he try hard to think of himself as an

ordinary working boy, and he endeavour to pursue the pleasure of

his kind. he go with Harry to box match and join he in the

raffish pleasure of the street, which, however, leave he weary and

disgusted. he have know something truer and finer, and he could not

help a little despise Harry, who pursue girl as game, and directly

they be kindle and move towards he he lose interest in they, and,

indeed, be rather horrify by they.



strange in contrast be Mendel's relation with Edward Tufnell, who be

entirely innocent and could see nothing in his protégé but a touching

sensitiveness to beauty. the urchin with his complete and unoffended

knowledge of the life of the gutter be hide from he. Edward find,

and be rejoice to find, that the boy be sensitive to intellectual

beauty and to idea. he give he poetry to read--Keats and the ode of

Milton--and be very happy to explain to he the outline of

Christianity and the difference that the coming of Christ have make to

the world. he do not aim at make a convert, but only at feed the

boy's appetite for tenderness and kindness and all fair thing. Mendel

be strive most loyally to be resign to his horrible fate, and the

teaching of Christ seem to fortify his endeavour. when, therefore,

he ask if he might read the New Testament, Edward lend it to he

without misgive.



the result be disastrous. Mendel pore over the book and it seem to

let light into his darkness. he read of the conversion of S. Paul and

his own illumination be apparently no less complete. the notion of

hold out the other cheek appeal to he, for he feel that the

whole world be his enemy. it have insult he with five shilling a

week, and if he be meek it would presently add another five. . . .

and then what a prospect it open up of a world where people love

each other and treat each other kindly and live without the rasping

anger and suspicion and jealousy that fill his home.



he go to the National Gallery and begin to understand the Italians.

he would become a christian and paint Madonnas, mother suckle their

child, with kindly saint like Edward Tufnell look on. yet the

new spirituality jarred with his life at home and be not strong

enough to combat it. that life contain a quality as essential to he

as air. it stank in his nostril, but it be the food of his spirit

and he could not, though his new enthusiasm bid he do it,

sentimentalize his relation with his mother. her relation with his

father forbid it, and his father cast a shadow over the great life

illuminate by the figure of Christ. yet because of the picture he

could not abandon the struggle, and he try to find support by

proselytize Harry. that roisterer have begin to find his life very

unsatisfying, and he gulp down the new idea simply because it be

new. he get drunk on it, refuse to go to the synagogue, and perform

a number of act that he think Christian, as waste his money on

useless and hideous present for his mother and sister. also he take

a delight in talk of the Messiah, and ascribe all the misfortune

of the family to its adherence to an exploded faith.



Jacob be furious. this soft christian nonsense be revolt to he.



"say another word," he shout, "say another word and I turn you out

of the house. Jeshua! I will tell you. in America it have be prove,

absolutely prove in a court of law, that this Jeshua be nothing

well than a pimp. it be prove by a very learn Rabbi before a

christian judge, and when the judge see that it be prove he break

down and weep like a woman."



"I've only your word for it," say Harry, already rather dash.



"I tell you I've see it in print. if you like I will send for the

book to America."



Harry hold his peace. that settle it for he, and even Mendel be

shake by the storm his christian inclination have let loose.



"the Christians be liar," say Jacob. "every one of they be a liar,

and they eat filth."



there be a passion of belief in his father which Mendel could not but

honour, and that other faith, so far as he know, be hold but mildly.

it be charming in its result, but its spirit be unsatisfying to he

who have be breed on strong fare. all the same, his attitude towards

his father's authority be change. his simple acceptance be shake,

and he be in revolt against the repression of his dear desire

enjoin by it. his tongue be loose and he begin to talk

enthusiastically to Edward Tufnell about his ambition.



"I beat they all at the school," he use to say, "and I would never

let anybody beat I. I can see more clearly than anybody. I can see

colour where they can see none, and shadow where they can see none.

and when I have paint they, then they can see they."



he be entirely unconscious in his egoism, and Edward be so generous

a creature that he be not shock or offend by it. he be a Quaker

and as simple in his faith as a peasant, and he be young enough to

know how difficult it be for the boy to expose his thought. after he

have listen to his outpouring he would lead the boy on to talk of

his experience at the stain-glass factory. Mendel have a wonderful

gift of vivid narration. everything be so real to he, he have no

reason to respect anything in the outside world unless it compel

the homage of his instinct, and in his broken Cockney English he could

give the most dramatic description of everything he see and do. when

he be engage upon such tale, help they out with wonderful

mimicry, he have no shyness and lay bare his feeling as though they

be also a part of the external scene.



Edward know nothing at all about painting, but he could respond to

quality in a human being, and he recognize that here be no ordinary

boy. his first impulse be to rescue he from his surrounding,

support he, send he to school. but what a Hell that would be for the

sensitive foreigner bring face to face with the ruthless force of an

ancient tradition! Edward himself have suffer enough from be such

an oddity as a Quaker, but to send this Jew, who have learn nothing

and have none but his natural manner, to a Public School would be an

act of cruelty. besides, the boy would not hear of be part from

his mother, whom he be never tired of praise. he tell Edward quite

solemnly that his mother have say thing far more beautiful than

anything in Keats or Milton and that no book could ever have hold

anything more move than her description of the life at home in

Austria, with the Jews in their gaberdine with their long curl

hang by their ear, and the foolish peasant in their bright

clothe, and the splendid officer who clap child into prison if

they splash their great shine boot with mud. . . . as he listen

Edward feel more and more convinced that it be his duty not to allow

this rich nature to be swallow up in the grey squalor of the slum.

he have begin his philanthropic work believe that Oxford have much to

give to the poor, and he have come in time to realize that the world of

which Oxford be the romantic symbol stand sorely in need of much that

the poor have to give. Mendel confirm and strengthen an impression

which have for some time be disturb Edward's peace of mind. he

feel that if he could help the boy he would be translate his

perception into action.



he discuss the matter with his friend, who smile at his solemnity.

"dear old Edward" be always a joke to they, so seriously do he take

the problem with which he be face. they say that, of course, if

the boy be a genius he would find his way out and would be all the

great for the struggle. Edward protest that young talent be

easily snuff out, but again they laugh and say that if it be so

then it be no great loss. Edward then say that the boy have a fine

nature which might easily be cripple by evil circumstance. that they

refuse to believe either, and Edward make no progress until he tell

his tale to a rich young Jew who have lately come to the settlement.

this young man, Maurice Birnbaum, be at once fire. his father be a

member of a committee for aid young Jews of talent. with Edward he

swoop down on the Kühlers in his motor-car, and Golda show he all

her son's work, from the watch he draw at the age of three to a study

of Sara's breast. Birnbaum know no Yiddish, and Golda scorn a Jew

who could not speak the language of his race. he be also extremely

gauche and talk to she rather in the manner of a parliamentary

candidate canvass for vote. he patronize she and tell she that

her son have talent, but that she must not expect Fortune to wait on

he immediately. "a Christian Jew!" say Golda scornfully when he have

go. "he stink of money and shell-fish. if you be go to eat

pork, eat till the grease run down your chin." and she have a sudden

horror that Mendel might grow like that, all flesh and withered,

uneasy spirit. she feel inclined to destroy all the picture, and when

Mendel come in she tell he of her visitor and of her alarm, and he

reassure she, say: "what I be I will always be, for without you I

be nothing. . . ." it be only from Mendel that Golda have such

saying. no one else ever acknowledge in word her quality or her

power for sweetness in their life, and she be terrify at the

thought of his going. the big motor-car would come and take he and

all his picture away, she imagine, and he would be sweep up into

glitter circle of which alone he be worthy, though they be

quite unworthy of he. and some rich woman would be enrapture with

he, and she would take he to her arm and her bed, and he would be

lose for ever. Mendel tell she it mean nothing, that such people

forget those who be poor and never really help they, because they

could never know what it be like to need help: but he have a

premonition that he have do with the stain-glass factory. he take

up his brush again and clean they, and chatter gaily of the

thing he would do when the motor-car fetch he and he be ask to

paint the portrait of lord and millionaire.



Edward inquire far of Birnbaum, and he bring Mendel a paper to

fill up, state his age, circumstance, parentage, etc., etc. he be

to send this, with a letter, to Sir Julius Fleischmann, who be a

famous financier and connoisseur. Edward draft a letter, but Mendel

find it servile, and write as follows:--



DEAR SIR,--

    I send you my paper fill up. my father be a poor man and I wish

to be a painter. I have win prize at a school, but I cannot make my

live by my art. I be not ask for charity. I be only ask that

my work shall be judge. if it be good painting, then let I paint.

give I my opportunity, please. if it be bad painting, then it be no

great matter, and I will go on until I can paint well, and then I will

show you my work again. if money be give I I will pay every penny of

it back when I be as successful as I shall be. I be send three

drawing and two painting.

    your faithfully,

        mendel KÜHLER.



this letter be send enclose in a parcel make up with trembling

hand. he know that the great moment have come, that at last he have

attain the desire contact with the outside world. he be wildly

elated, and have fantastic and absurd vision of Sir Julius himself

drive down at once in his motor-car, knock at the door and

say: "do Mr. Mendel Kühler live here?" then he would enter and

embrace he and cry: "you be a great artist." and he would turn to

Golda and say: "you be the mother of a great artist. you shall no

long live in poverty." and he would sit down and write a cheque for

a hundred pound. the story swell and swell like a balloon. it

rise and soar aloft with Mendel cling desperately to it. but

every now and then it come swoop down to earth again, and then

Mendel would imagine his drawing and picture be send back without

a word. elated or despondent, he pass through life in a dream, and

be hardly conscious of his surrounding either at the factory or at

home.



this go on for week, during which he compose letter of savage

insult to Sir Julius, to Birnbaum, and even to Edward Tufnell, tell

they that he need no help, that he be a jewish artist and would

stay among the Jews, the real Jews, those who keep themselves to

themselves and to the faith of their father, and have no truck with

the light and frivolous world outside. but he tear all these letter

up, for he know that the answer he desire would come.



at last one morning there be a note for he. the secretary of the

committee write ask he to take more specimen of his work to Mr.

Edgar Froitzheim, the famous artist, at his studio in Hampstead.

Mendel have never hear of Froitzheim, but it seem to he an enormous

step towards fame to be go to see a real artist in a real studio.

he feel happy, too, at have this intermediary appoint, for he

know that artist always know each other by instinct and help each

other for the sake of the work they love.



Golda make he put on his good clothe, and wash he and brush his

hair. he pack up half a dozen drawing and his picture of the

apple, which have be too precious to trust to the post or to Sir

Julius, and he set out for Hampstead. to cool his excitement he walk

across the heath, remember vividly the day when he have first see

it, and again it seem to he a place of freedom and surpass

loveliness, the sweet, comfortable quality of the grass only

accentuate by the bare patch of ground, which be here and there

of an amazing colour, purple and brown. a rain-cloud come up on the

gusty wind and shed its slanting shower, and its shadow fall on the

round slope. he become aware of the form of the heath beneath its

verdure and colour. between himself and the scene he feel an intimacy,

as though he have know it always and would always know it. it amuse

he and fill he with a pleasant glee, which, when it pass, leave

he shy for the encounter with the famous Froitzheim, the arbiter of

his immediate fortune.







VI



EDGAR FROITZHEIM and other



very bright be the brass on Mr. Froitzheim's front door, very bright

the face of the smile maid who open it. Mendel blush and

stammer inaudibly.



"will you come in?" say the maid, "and I will ask Mr. Froitzheim."



she leave Mendel in the hall and disappear. this be a very large

house, marvellously clean and light and airy. the wallpaper and the

woodwork be white. on the stair be a brilliant blue carpet.

through the window at the end of the passage be see tree and a

vast panorama of London--roof, chimney, steeple, dome--under a

shift pall of blue smoke.



the maid go into the studio and tell Mr. Froitzheim that a boy be

wait for he--a boy who look like an italian. she think he

might be sell image, and he have a package under his arm. Mr.

Froitzheim tell she to bring the visitor in. he be arrange

drapery, persian and indian coat, yellow and red and blue, and he

do not look up when Mendel be show in. he be a little dark Jew,

neat and dapper in figure and very sprucely dress, but so oriental

that he look out of place in western clothe. but that impression

be soon lose in Mendel's awe of the studio. here be a place where

real picture be paint. there be easel, a table full of paint,

an etch plant, a model's throne, a lay figure, picture on the

wall, stack of picture behind the door, and the little man stand

there, finger the silk, be a real artist.



"Hullo, boy!" say Mr. Froitzheim.



"M-Mendel Kühler."



"something to show I, eh?"



"ye-yes. picture."



"what do you say your name be?"



"Kühler. Mendel Kühler."



"oh yes. I remember. you know Maurice Birnbaum?"



"no."



"Eh? . . . what do you think of these? lovely, eh? buy they in

India. you should go there. you don't know what sunlight be until

you've be there--to the East. ah, the East! fill you with sunlight,

open your eye to colour. . . . persian print! what do you think of

these?"



he show Mendel a whole series of exquisite thing which move he so

profoundly that he forget altogether why he have come and begin to

stammer out his rapture, a condition of delight to which Mr.

Froitzheim be so unaccustomed that he step back and stare at his

visitor. there be a glow in the boy's face which give it a seraphic

expression. Mr. Froitzheim tiptoe to the door and call, "Edith!

Edith!" and his wife came rustle in. she be a thin little woman

with a friendly smile and an air of be only too amiable for a world

that need sadly little of the kindness with which she be burst.

they stand by the door and talk in whisper, and Mendel be bring

back to earth by hear she say, "poor child!" he know she mean

himself, and his inclination be to fly from the room, but they bar

the door. she come undulate towards he, and she seem to he

terrifyingly beautiful, the most lovely lady he have ever see. he

think Mr. Froitzheim must be a very wonderful artist to have such a

studio, such a house, and such a woman to live with he.



Mrs. Froitzheim make he sit down and draw his attention to a bowl of

flower--tulip and daffodil. Mendel touch they with his finger,

lovingly caress the fleshy petal of a tulip. Mrs. Froitzheim go

over to her husband and whisper to he, who said:--



"yes. yes. it be true. he respond to beauty like a flower to the

sun."



in the centre of the studio be a large picture nearly finish of

three child and a rock-horse, cleverly and realistically

paint. Mendel look at it enviously, with a sinking in the pit of

his stomach, partly because he could not like it, and partly because

he feel how impossible it would be for he to cover so vast a canvas.



"like it?" say Mr. Froitzheim, wheel it about to catch the good

light.



"yes," say Mendel, horrify at his own insincerity and unhappy at

the vague notion possess he that the picture be too large for

he, whose notion of art be concentration upon an object until by

some inexplicable process it have yield up its beauty in paint.

compose and make picture he could not understand.



"well, well," say Mr. Froitzheim. "so you want to be an artist? art,

as Michael Angelo say, be a music and mystery that very few be

privileged to understand. I have be ask by the committee to give

my opinion, and I feel that it be a serious responsibility. it be no

light thing to advise a young man to take up an artistic career."



"yes, Edgar, that be very true," say his wife, with a wide reassure

smile at Mendel, whom she think a very charming, very touching

little figure, stand there drink in the word as they fall from

Edgar's lip.



Mr. Froitzheim produce a pair of spectacle and balance they on his

nose.



"it be a serious thing, not only for the sake of the young man but

also for art's sake. the sense of beauty be a dangerous possession. it

be like a razor, safe enough when it be sharp, injurious when it be

blunt. your future, it seem, depend upon my word. I be to say

whether I think your work promise enough to justify your being send

to a school. I ask you to bring more of your work to confirm the

impression make by what I have already see."



he speak in an alert, sibilant voice so quickly that his word whirl

through Mendel's mind and convey very little meaning. only the word

"a music and mystery" linger and grow. they be such lovely word,

and express for he something very live in his experience,

something that lay, as he would have say, below his heart. he

loosen the string of his untidy parcel and take out the picture of

the apple. there be music and mystery in it, and he hold it very

lovingly as he offer it to Mrs. Froitzheim, much as she have just

offer he the bowl of flower.



"very well paint indeed," say she, and Mendel wince. he turn to

the artist as to an equal, expect not so much praise as

recognition. Mr. Froitzheim take the picture from he and go near

the window. he become more solemn than ever.



"this be much well than the drawing. have you always paint

still-life?"



"I paint what there be at home."



"have you study the still-life in the gallery? do you know

Fantin-Latour's work?"



"no," say Mendel blankly.



"of course, there be no doubt that you must go on."



Mendel have never have any doubt of it, and he begin to feel more at his

ease. that be settle then. there would be no more factory for he.

he be to be an artist, a great artist. he know that Mr. Froitzheim

be more excited than he let himself appear. the apple could no more

be deny than the sun outside or the flower on the table. . . . he

look with more interest at Mr. Froitzheim's picture. it amuse he,

much as the drawing in the illustrate paper amuse he, and he be

pleased with the quality of the paint. he be still alarm by the

hugeness of it. his eye could not focus it, nor could his mind grasp

the conception.



Mrs. Froitzheim ask he to stay to tea and encourage he to talk,

and he tell she in his vivid childish way about Golda and Issy and

Harry and Leah and Lotte. she find he delightfully romantic and tell

he that he must not be afraid to come again, and that they would be

only too glad to help he. Mr. Froitzheim said:--



"I will write to the committee. there be only one school in London,

the Detmold. you should begin there next term, six week from now.

don't be afraid, work hard, and we will make an artist of you. in time

to come we shall be proud of you. I will write to your mother, and one

of these day I will give myself the pleasure of call on she. . . .

you must come and see I again, and I will take you to see picture."



Mendel be in too much of a whirl to remember to say "thank you." he

have an enormous reverence for Mr. Froitzheim as a real artist, but as

a man he instinctively distrust he. it take a Jew to catch a Jew,

and Mendel scented in Mr. Froitzheim the Jew turn Englishman and

prosperous gentleman. and in his childish confidence he be aware of

uneasiness in his host, but of course Mr. Froitzheim could easily bear

down that impression, though he could not obliterate it. he be an

advanced artist and be just settle down after an audacious youth.

he have be one of a band of pioneer who have defy the Royal

Academy, and he have reach the awkward age in a pioneer's life when

he be force to realize that there be people young than himself. he

believe in his "movement," and wish it to continue on the line

lay down by himself and his friend. to achieve this he deem it his

business to be an influence among the young people and to see that

they be properly shepherd into the Detmold, there to learn the

gospel accord to S. Ingres. he have suffer so much from be a

Jew, have be torture with doubt as to whether he be not a mere

calculate fantastic, and here in this boy's work he have find a

quality which take his mind back to his own early enthusiasm. that

seem so long ago that he be shocked and unhappy, and hide his

feeling behind the solemnity which he have develop to overawe the

easy, comfortable, and well-mannered Englishmen among whom he work

for the cause of art.



he be the first self-deceiver Mendel have meet, and the encounter

disturb he greatly and depress he not a little, so that he be

rather overawed than elated by the prospect in front of he. he felt

strangely fling back upon himself, and that this help give to he be

not really help. he be still, as always, utterly alone with his

obscure desperate purpose for sole companion. nobody know about that

purpose, since he could never define it except in his work, and that

to other people be simply something to be look at with pleasure or

indifference, as it happen. he use to try and explain it to his

mother, and she use to nod her head and say: "yes. yes. I understand.

that be God. he be behind everybody, though it be give to few to know

it. it be give to you, and God have choose you, as he choose Samuel.

. . . yes. yes. God have choose you." and he find it a relief

sometimes to think that God have choose he, though he be disturb to

find Golda much less move by that idea than by the letter which Mr.

Froitzheim write to she, in which he say that her son have a very rare

talent, a very beautiful nature, and that a day would come when she

would be proud of his fame.



yet there be unhappy day of wait. Jacob would not hear of his

leave the factory until everything be settle, and when Mendel tell

the foreman he be probably go to leave to be an artist, that

worthy draw the most horrible picture of the artist's life as a

mixture of debauchery and starvation, and tell a story of a friend of

his, a marvellous sculptor, who have come down to carve urn for

grave--all through the drink and the model; much well, he say, to

stick to a certain income and the saint.



at last Maurice Birnbaum come in his motor-car. everything be

settle. the fee at the Detmold would be pay as long as the report

be satisfactory, and Mendel would be allow five shilling a week

pocket-money, but he must be well-behave and clean, and he must read

good literature and learn to write good English. "I will see to that,"

say Maurice. "I be to take he now with some of his work to see Sir

Julius. his fortune be make, Mrs. Kühler. ben't it wonderful? he be a

genius. he have the world at his foot. everything be open to he. I

have be to Oxford, Mrs. Kühler, but I shall never have anything like

the opportunity that he will have. it be marvellous to think of his

drawing like that in your kitchen." Maurice be really excited. his

heart be as full of kindness as a honeycomb of honey, but he have no

tact. his word fall on Golda and Mendel like hailstone. they nip

and stung and chill. Golda look at Mendel, he at she, and they

stand ashamed. "we must hurry," say Maurice. "Sir Julius must not be

keep wait. he be a stickler for punctuality."



as a matter of fact, Maurice only know Sir Julius officially. his

family have never be admit to the society in which Sir Julius be

a power and a light. the entrance to the house of the millionaire be

a far great event to he than it be to Mendel.



the splendid motor-car roll through the wonderful crowded street,

Maurice fuss and tell Mendel to take care his parcel do not

scratch the paint, and swing up past the Polytechnic into the

desolation of Portland Place. at a corner house they stop. the

double door be swing open by two powdered footman, and by the inner

door stand a bald, rubicund butler. Maurice give his name, tell Mendel

to wait, and follow the butler up a magnificent marble staircase

with an ormolu balustrade. Mendel be leave stand with his parcel,

while one of the footman mount guard over he. he stand there for a

long time, still ashamed, bewildered, smell money, money, money,

until he reel. it make he think of Mr. Kuit, who alone of his

acquaintance could have be at his ease in such splendour. he feel

beggarly, but he be stiffen in his pride.



the butler appear presently and conduct he upstairs to a vast

apartment all crystal and cloth of gold. in the far corner sit a group

of people, among whom, in his confusion, Mendel could only distinguish

Maurice Birnbaum and a small, wrinkle, bald old man with a beard,

whose eye be quick and black, peer out from under the yellow

skull, peer out and take nothing in. for the purpose of take

in his nose seem more than sufficient. it be like a beak, like an

invert scoop. and yet his feature be not so very different from

those of the old man at home whom Mendel reverence. there be a

strange dignity in they, yet not a trace of the fine quality of the

old face he love that look so sorrowfully out on the world, and

through their eye and through every line seem to absorb from the

world all its suffering, all its vileness, and to transmute it into

strong human beauty. there be some woman present, but they make no

impression whatever on Mendel, who be entirely occupy with Sir

Julius and with resist the feeling of helplessness with which he

be inspire in his presence. he hear Maurice Birnbaum talk about

he, describe his life, his mother's kitchen, the street where he

live, and then he be tell to exhibit his picture. a footman

appear and put out a chair for he, and on this, one after another,

he place his drawing and picture. not a word be say. even the

apple be receive in silence. Sir Julius give a grunt and begin to

talk to one of the woman. Maurice give Mendel to understand that the

interview be over, and the poor boy be conduct downstairs by the

butler. he have not a penny in his pocket and have to walk all the way

home with his parcel, which his arm be hardly long enough to hold.







VII



the DETMOLD



FLUNG into the art school, he be like a leggy colt in a new field,

very shy of it at first, of the tree in the hedge, of the shadow

cast by the tree. this place be very different from the Polytechnic.

there be few old lady, and more boy of his own age. the

teacher be Professors, and the pupil hold they in awe and respect.

there be real model in the life-class, male and female, and the

student, male and female, work together. no ginger-beer bottle

here, where art be a practical business. the school exist for the

purpose of teach the craft of make picture, and its law be that

the basis of the mystery be draw.



Mendel's first attitude towards the other student be that he be

there to beat they all. he would swell with eagerness and enthusiasm,

and tell himself that he have something that they all lack. he would

watch their movement, their head bend over their work, their

hand scratch away at the paper, and he could see that they have

none of they the vigour that be in himself. and by way of show how

much strong he be he would use his pencil almost as though it be

a chisel and his paper a block of stone out of which he be to carve

the likeness of the model. he be rudely take down when the Professor

stand and stare with his melancholy eye at his production and

said:--



"be that the good you can do?"



"yes."



"why do it?"



this be a stock phrase of the Professor's, but Mendel do not know

that, and he be ashamed and outraged when the class titter.



"no," say the Professor. "I don't know what that be. it certainly

ben't draw." and with his pencil he make a lovely easy sketch of

the model, alongside Mendel's black, forbid scrawl. it be a

masterly thing and it baffle he, and humiliate he because the

Professor move on to the next pupil without another word. not another

line could Mendel draw that day. he sit stare at the Professor's

sketch and at his own drawing, which, while he have be do it, have

mean so much to he, and he still prefer his own. the Professor's

drawing have no meaning for he. he could not understand it, except

that it be accurate. that he could see, but then his own be accurate

too, and true to what he have see. the light give the model a

distorted shoulder, and he have labour to render that distortion,

which the Professor have either ignore or have correct.



Mendel cut out the Professor's drawing and take it home and copy it

over and over again, but still he could not understand it. he be in

despair and tell Golda he would never learn.



"I shall never learn to draw, and the christian kop will all beat

I," he say.



"but they send you to the school because you can draw. don't Mr.

Froitzheim say that you could draw!"



"the Professor look at I with his gloomy face, like an undertaker

ask for the body, and he say: 'I mean to say, that ben't draw.

it ben't impressionism. I don't know what it be.'"



"it cann't be a very good school," say Golda.



"but it be. it be the only school. all the good painter have be

there, and Mr. Froitzheim send his own brother to it. the Professor

say I shall never paint a picture if I don't learn to draw, and I

cann't do it, I cann't do it!"



to console himself he paint hard every evening and regard the

Detmold entirely as a place to which his duty condemn he--a place

where he have to learn this strange wizardry call drawing, which he

do not understand. he go there every day and never speak to a soul,

because he realize that his speech be different from that of the

other, and he would not open his mouth until he could speak without

betray himself. he listen carefully to their pronunciation and

intonation, and practise to himself in bed and as he walk through

the street.



so woeful be his attempt to emulate the detmold style of drawing,

that at last the Professor ask he if he be do any work at home.

to this Mendel reply eagerly that he be paint a portrait of his

mother.



"Hum," say the Professor. "may I see it?"



so Mendel bring the picture, and the Professor said:--



"I mean to say, young man, that it wouldn't be a bad thing if you give

up work a little. I don't want to have to send in a bad report, but

what can I do? there's something in you, plenty of grit and all that,

but you're young, and, I mean to say, you're here to learn what we can

teach you. when we've do with you, you can go your own way and be

hang to you. if you want to smudge about with paint and fake what

you cann't draw, there's the Academy."



at this awful suggestion Mendel shudder. he be imbue enough with

the Detmold tradition to regard the Academy as Limbo.



he give up painting at home, and hurl himself desperately at the

task of produce a drawing that should satisfy the Professor. towards

the end of his first term he succeed, and have his reward in word of

praise in front of the class.



the Professor have meanwhile take one of the pupil aside and ask

he not to leave the poor little devil so utterly alone. "after all,"

he say, "the school don't exist only for draw. it have its social

side as well, and I don't like to see any one cold-shoulder unless

he deserve it. I mean to say, you other fellow have advantage which

don't necessarily entitle you to mop up all the good thing and leave

none for your fellow-creature."



Mitchell, the pupil, take his homily awkwardly enough, but promise

that he would do what he could. he seize his opportunity one day when

Mendel at lunch have horrify the company by pick up a chicken bone

and tear at it with his tooth. Mitchell take he aside and said:--



"I say, Kühler, old man, you'll excuse my mentioning it, you know, but

it ben't do. I mean, we eat our food with fork."



Mendel know what be mean, for at lunch he have be conscious of

horrified eye stare at he and have wish the floor would open and

swallow he up. he mutter incoherent word of thank and want to

rush away, but Mitchell catch he by the arm and said:--



"I say, we artist must hang together. there ben't many of this crowd

who will come to anything, and the Pro think no end of you. willn't you

come along and have tea with I and some of the other fellow?"



Mendel go with he, delight in the young man's easy,

condescend Public School manner and pleasant, crisp voice, in which

he speak with an exaggerated emphasis.



"Gawd!" he say. "it make I sick to see all the fool and the woman

waste their time there, scratch away, while those of we who have

any talent and could learn anything be leave to flounder along as well

we may. do you smoke?"



Mendel have never smoke, but he do not like to refuse. he take a

cigarette, which very soon make he feel sick and giddy. he lurch

along with Mitchell until they come to a tea-shop, where they find

two other young man whose face be familiar.



"I've bring Kühler," say Mitchell. "he's a genius. this be Weldon,

who be also a genius, and Kessler, who cann't paint for nut, and I'm a

blame fool, though it's not my fault. my father's a great man. Gawd!

what can you do when your own father take the shine out of you at

every turn?"



they begin to talk of picture and of one Calthrop, who be apparently

the great painter the world have ever see and a product of the

Detmold.



"sells everything he put his name to," say Kessler.



"what a man!" say Weldon. "go his own way, absolutely believe in

his art. if they like it, well and good. if they don't like it, let

'em lump it. he's as often drunk as not, and as for woman . . . !"



Weldon and Kessler desert picture for woman. Mitchell grow more and

more glum, while Mendel be still feel the effect of the cigarette

too strongly to be able to take in a word.



"Gawd!" say Mitchell. "there they go, talk away, absolutely

incapable of keep anything clear of woman. I cann't stand it."



he drag Mendel away, leave his friend to pay the bill; and, as

they walk, he explain that he be in love, and could not stand all

that bawdy rubbish, and he elaborate a theory that an artist need

to be in love to keep himself alive to the sanctity of the human body,

familiarity with which be apt to breed contempt or an excessive

curiosity. Mendel say that he also have be in love, and he give a

vivid account of his rapture with Sara.



"my God!" cry Mitchell; "you don't mean to say that she come to

you--a girl like that?"



"yes," say Mendel; "I be never so happy."



"but, I say, ben't you afraid?"



"she be very beautiful."



Mitchell ponder this for a long time. he seem to be profoundly

shake. at last he said:--



"but with a girl you _love?_"



"I love she when she be there."



"but when she ben't there?"



"I be busy paint."



"I say, you be a corker! if it be Weldon or Kessler I should say

you be lie."



"I do not lie," reply Mendel with some heat. "it may have be

wrong, but it be good, and I be happy after it. I think I should

have go mad without it, for everything have

disappear--everything--everything; and without paint you do not

understand how terrible and empty life be to I. I have nothing, you

see. I be poor, and my father and mother will always be poor. their

life be hard and beastly, but they do not complain, and I should not

complain if I do not have this other thing that I must do."



"well, I'm jolly glad to know you," say Mitchell. "I'm not much of a

fellow, but I'd like you to know my people. my father's a great man.

he'll stir you up. and you must come along with I and Weldon and

Kessler and see life while you're young. good-bye."



he shake hand vigorously with Mendel and stride off with his long,

rake stride, while Mendel stand glow with the happiness of having

find a friend, some one to whom he could talk almost as he talk to

Golda: a fine young Englishman, pink and oozing robustious health,

ease, refinement, and comfort. he think with a devoted tenderness of

Mitchell's rather absurd round face, with its tip-tilt nose and

blink eye, its little rosebud of a mouth and plump round chin, on

which there be hardly a trace of a beard. . . . "my friend!" think

Mendel, "my friend!" and he give a leap of joy. it mean for he the

end of his loneliness. no long be he to be the poor, isolate

Yiddisher, but he be to move and have his be with these fine young

man who be the lead spirit of the school, the guardian of the

tradition bequeath to it by the great Calthrop. . . . oh! he would

learn their way of drawing, he would do it well than any of they. he

would be gay with they and wild and merry and young. and all the while

secretly he would be work and work, follow up that inner

purpose until one day he appear with a picture so wonderful that the

Professor would say, like Mr. Sivwright, that he have nothing more to

learn. and because of his wonderful work, everybody would forget that

he be a Jew, and he would move freely and easily in that wonderful

England which he have begin to perceive behind the fresh young man like

Mitchell and the cool, pretty girl at the school. that England be

their inheritance and they seem hardly aware of it. he would win it

by work and by dint of the power that be in he.



of the girl at the school he be afraid. he blush and tremble when

any one of they speak to he, and he never notice they enough to

distinguish one from another, so that they exist only as a vague

nuisance and a menace to his happiness. before Mitchell he be

prostrate. he bewilder and confound that young man with his

outpouring, both by word of mouth and by letter. he have absolutely no

reserve, and pour out his thought and feeling, his experience,

and Mitchell at last take up a protective attitude towards he and

defend he from the detestation which he arouse in the majority of

his fellow-student. at the same time Mitchell often feel that of the

two he be the great child, and he would look back upon the year he

have spend at school in a rueful and puzzled state of mind, half

realize that he have be shove aside while the stream of life go

on, and that now he have to fight his way back into it. while Mendel

have be wrestle and struggle, he have be put away in

cotton-wool, every difficulty that have crop up have be meet, every

deep desire have find its outlet in convention. and now that he have

set out to be an artist, here be this Jew with year of hard work

behind he, and such a familiarity with his medium that he could do

more or less as he like without be hold up by shyness or

awkwardness. and it be the same in life. Mendel be abash by

nothing, be ashamed of nothing. life have many face. he be prepare

to regard they all, and to fit his conduct to every one of they. he

be critical, not because he wish to reject anything, but because he

must know the nature of everything before he accept it. he hate and

love simply and passionately, and if he feel no emotion he never

disguise the fact. whereas Mitchell and the other be so eager to

feel the emotion which their upbringing have deny that they leap

before they look and fabricate what they do not feel. Mendel

learn from they that life could be pleasant, and they become aware

that there be region of life beyond the fringe of pleasantness.

they soften he and he harden they. they be always together,

Mendel, Mitchell, Weldon and Kessler, work steadily enough, but out

of work hour kick up their heel and stampede through the

pleasure of London. . . . Calthrop be the divinity they serve. he

be a man of genius and have make the Detmold famous. those, therefore,

who come after he at the school must support he in everything. that

be Mitchell's contention, who be by now in full swing of revolt

against his Public School training, and in his adoration Mendel

follow he, and the other be drag in their train. Calthrop

dress extravagantly: so do the four. Calthrop smash furniture: so

do the four. and as Calthrop drink, embrace woman, and sometimes

paint outrageously, the four do all these thing.



to Mendel it be life--something new, rich, splendid, and thrilling.

he have live so long cramp over his work that it be almost agony to

he to move in this swift stream of incessant excitement. there be no

spirit of revolt in he. he could shed some of the outward form of

his religion, as to Golda's great distress he do, but against its

spirit he could not rebel. that he carry with he everywhere: the

bare stubborn faith in man, grind down by life and live in sorrow

all his day. happy he be not, nor do he expect to be so. he might

be happy one day, but he would be miserable the next. life in he be

not greatly concerned with either, but only to have both happiness and

misery in full measure. his deep feeling arise out of his work,

the first condition of his existence; they arise out of it and sink

back into it again. his work be the visible and tangible form of his

being, which he hate and love as it approach or recede from the

terrible power that be both beautiful and ugly, and yet something

transcending either. . . . and away there in London be the Christian

world of show. what he be seek lie beyond that, and not in the

dark Jewishness of his home. there lie the spirit, but the outward and

visible form be to be seek yonder, where the light flare and the

woman smile at themselves in mirror. he hurl himself into the

show of the christian world in a blind desire to break through they,

but always he be fling back, bruised, aching, and weary.



Day after day he would spend listlessly at home or at the school until

seven o'clock come and it be time to go to the Paris Café, to sit

among the painter and listen to violent talk, talk, talk--abuse of

successful man, derision of the great master, mysterious and awful

whisper of what man be do in Paris, terrible denunciation of

dealer, critic, and the public.



the café be a kind of temple and have its ritual. it be the aim of

the painter to "put some life into dear old London." Calthrop have

give a lead. he have determine that London should be awaken to art,

as the write folk of a past generation have arouse the swollen

metropolis to literature and poetry. London should be make aware of

its painter as Paris be aware of the Quartier Latin. bohemia should

no long be the territory of actress, horse-coper, and bet

tout. the Paris Café therefore become the shrine of Calthrop's

personality, and thither every night repair the artist and their

parasite, who see in the place an avenue to liberty and fame. in the

glitter and the excitement, the brilliance, the colour, the woman with

their paint face, the white marble-top table, the mirror along

the wall, the blue wreathe tobacco-smoke, Calthrop's personality

be magnify and concentrate as in a theatre. the café without he

be Denmark without the Prince, and Mendel find the hour before he

come or the evening when he do not come almost insupportable. yet it

be not the man's success or his fame or his notoriety that fascinate

the boy, whose instinct go straight to the immense vitality which

be the cause of all. Calthrop be a huge man, dark and glowering. to

Mendel he be like a figure out of the Bible--like King Saul, in his

black mood and the inarticulate fury that possess he sometimes;

and when he pick up and hurl a glass at some artist whose face or

whose work have offend he, he be very like King Saul hurl the

javelin.



there be always a thrill when he enter the café. the buzz would die

down. where would he sit and whom would he speak to? . . . it be one

of the great moment in Mendel's life when one evening Calthrop

come sweep in with his cloak fling round his shoulder and sit

opposite he and his three companion and raise a finger and

beckon.



"he want you," say Mitchell, push Mendel forward.



"come here, boy," growl Calthrop, stab with his pipe-stem in the

direction of the seat by his side. "come here and bring your friend.

buy a drawing of yours this morning. damn good."



Mitchell, Kessler, and Weldon come and sit at the table, all too

overawe to speak.



"what's your drink, heh?"



drink be order.



"rotten trade, art," say Calthrop. "dangerous trade. drink, woman,

flattery. don't drink. Marry, settle down, and your wife'll hate you

because you're always about the place. . . . God! I wish I could be a

Catholic. I'd be a monk. . . . my boy, don't get into the habit of

do drawing. they willn't look at your picture if you do, and we

want picture--my God, we do! everybody paint picture as though they

be for a competition. you've get life to draw from--real, stink

life. that's why I have hope of you."



Mendel be so fluttered and flatter that he could only gulp down his

drink and blink round the café, feel that all eye be upon he;

and indeed he be attract such attention as have never before be

bestow on he. a girl at the next table ogle he and smile. she

be with a young man whom the four detest and despise. this young

man reach over to take a bowl of sugar from their table. to take

anything from the great man's table without so much as "by your leave"

be sacrilege and be very properly resent. there be a scuffle, the

sugar be scatter on the floor, glass fell crash down, Mitchell

and Weldon hurl themselves on the young man, and the manager come

bustle up, cry: "if-a-you-pleess-a-gentleman." but there be no

break the mêlée. a waiter be send out for the police, and three

constable come file in. one of they seize Mitchell, and Mendel,

half mad with drink and excitement, see his beloved friend, as he

think, be take off to prison, leap on the policeman's back and

bring he down. in the confusion Calthrop and the other slip

away and Mendel be arrest, still fight like a wild cat, and lead

off to the police-station, the constable whisper kindly in his ear:

"Steady, my boy, steady. a youngster like you should keep clear of the

drink."



the inspector smile at the extreme youthfulness of the offender, but

decide that a taste of the cell would do no harm and that the boy

have well be sober before he be send home. so Mendel have four hour

on a hard bench until a constable come in and ask he if he want

bail. he say "yes," and, when ask for a name, give Calthrop's, who

presently arrive and see he liberate, after be tell to appear in

court next morning at ten o'clock.



when he reach home he find his mother wait up for he with wet

cloth in case his head should be bad.



"what now? what now?" she ask.



"I've be in prison."



"Prison!" Golda fling up her hand and sit down heavily. for she all

be lose. it be true then, that, outside in the world, at the other

end of it, be always prison, for the just and for the unjust, for the

old and for the young, for the innocent and for the guilty.



he try to make light of it. for he, too, it be a serious matter.

he see himself figure in the Sunday paper: "Famous Artist in the

Police Court," with his portrait in profile as on a medallion.

Birnbaum and Sir Julius would read it. he would be take away from the

Detmold and Edward Tufnell would never speak to he again. he

astonish, embarrassed, and delight Golda by fling himself in

her arm and sob out his grief.







VIII



HETTY FINCH



GOLDA be pass through a very difficult time. Rosa be hotter on

the pursuit of Issy than ever. Harry have have a violent quarrel

consequent on his reiterated demand for proof of the judicial

destruction of Christianity in America, and at last, like his father,

he go out and buy a clean collar and announce his departure for

Paris. he go away and not a word have be hear from he. Lotte

refuse to look at any of the young man bring by the match-maker,

and Leah be the only comfortable member of the family, and she make

no attempt to conceal her unhappiness with Moscowitsch. she would come

on Saturday evening and go up to her mother's room and fle herself

on the bed and cry her heart out, until late in the evening

Moscowitsch come to fetch she, when she would go meekly and apparently

happily enough. . . . and on the top of all these trouble, here be

Mendel go to the devil at a gallop.



Leah's trouble with Moscowitsch be that he would never let she go out

without he, and he could very rarely be persuade to go out at all.

as for go away in the summer, he could see no sense in it. he give

his wife a fine house. what more do she want? she have her child to

look after. what great pleasure could she desire? his life be

entirely fill with his business and his home, and he would not look

beyond they. the neighbour go to the seaside? the neighbour be

fool who live for ostentation and display. they do not know when

they be well off. . . . Moscowitsch have a great admiration for his

father-in-law as a man who know what life be and refuse to dilute

its savour with folly, and he regard Golda as a perfect type of

woman, one who leave the management of life to her husband and allow

herself to be absorb in her duty as a wife and mother.



but Leah long to go to the seaside. it become an obsession with she,

and, because she could never talk of it, she think of nothing else.

she be sick with envy when she see the neighbour go off with the

child carry bucket and spade. secretly she buy her own

child bucket and spade, though they be much too small to use

they.



at last, when her worry begin to tell on Golda, Leah declare that

what she need be sea air, and offer to take she for a fortnight

to Margate, and Golda, anxious to escape from the horror of Mendel's

come home night after night draw and white with dissipation, and

from the dread of an explosion from Jacob, consent, and ask if

Issy might go, as that Rosa of his be make he quite ill.



for Golda, Leah know that Moscowitsch would do anything in the world,

and so she procure his consent on condition that he be not expect

to accompany they, for he hate the sea, which have make he very ill

when he come to England, and he never wish to set eye on it again.



Leah already have the address of some lodging recommend to she by a

neighbour. she engage they, and on a fine July day go down to

Margate by the express with her child, Golda, and issy.



the lodging be let by a handsome, florid woman with masse of

bleach golden hair, a ruddle complexion, fat hand cover with

cheap ring, plump wrist rattle with bracelet, and a full bosom on

which brooch gleam. Leah think she a very fine woman, and be so

fascinated by she that she stay indoor day after day, help with

the housework and gossiping, so that she never once see the sea,

except from the train as she be leave. Mrs. Finch be a lady, by

birth, but she have be unfortunate. she have an uncle in the Army and

a cousin in the War Office, and she have live in London, in the good

part of the town, where, in her good day, she have have her flat. also

she have travel and have be to Paris and Vienna. but she have be

unfortunate in her friend. Leah commiserate she, and, open-mouthed,

gulp down all her tale of the gentleman she have know, while Golda,

eager for more information of the glitter world which have swallow

up her Mendel, listen too, fascinated and shudder. and Leah, to

show that she also be a person of some consequence, begin to talk of

her wonderful brother. she tell of the motor-car which have come and

whirl he away, of his visit to the millionaire's house, of the fine

friend he be make, of the man and woman he know whose name be

in the paper.



"every day," she say, "he be out to tea, and every evening he be out

at theatre and music-hall and party and flat and hotel, and his

friend be so rich that they pour money into his pocket. he just

make a few line on a piece of paper and they give he twenty pound,

or he make up some paint to look like a face or a pineapple and his

pocket be full of money."



"yes," say Golda uneasily. "he will be very rich."



"then next time you come to Margate," say Mrs. Finch, "it will be the

Cliftonville, and you'll despise my poor lodging."



"oh no," cry Leah, "for it be like stay with a friend."



every day Leah add something to the legend of Mendel, Mrs. Finch

urge she on with romance of her own splendid day. but the most

eager listener be Hetty, the girl who do the rough work of the house

and be never properly dress until the evening, because, from the

moment when she wake up in the morning until after supper, she be

keep run hither and thither at Mrs. Finch's command. she be

sufficiently like Mrs. Finch to justify Golda in her supposition that

she be that fine woman's daughter, but nothing be ever say in the

matter. Hetty do not have her meal with they, and, indeed, there be

no evidence that she have any meal. in the evening she be allow to

go out, and she would come back at half-past ten or so with her big

eye shine and a flush fading from her cheek and leave they

whiter than ever. very big be her eye, very big and pathetic, and

her face be a perfect oval. she have rather full lip, always moist

and red. during the whole fortnight she never speak a word except to

Issy. indeed, she avoid Golda and Leah, and she alarm Issy by what

he take to be her forwardness, when she ask he to take she to the

theatre. he comply with her request, but he be much too frightened

of she to speak, and he could think of nothing to say except to offer

to buy her chocolate and cigarette, which she accept as though it

be the natural thing for he to give her present. she talk to he

about Mendel, and want to know if it be true that he know lord and

have real gentleman to tea with he in his studio.



"there's more go on in his studio than I could tell you," say issy

with a dry, uncomfortable laugh. "artist, you know!"



"oh yes! artist!" say Hetty with a dreamy, wistful look in her eye

as she draw in her low lip with a slight suck noise. "I wish I

live in London, I do. Ma use to live in London, but she's too old

now to find any one to take she back there. it's dull here. do your

brother ever come to Margate?"



"no," say Issy. "he'd go to Brighton if he go anywhere. I've get

another brother who's go to Paris."



"o-oh! Paris! be he rich too?"



"no."



Issy shut up like an oyster. he could feel the girl probe into he,

and he be sorry he have bring she. she be spoil his fun, the

adventure he have promise himself during his holiday from Rosa's

indefatigable attention. Hetty be too dangerous. he know that if she

get hold of he she would not let go.



he take her home and never speak another word to she during the

remainder of his visit, and he say to his mother once:--



"that's an awful girl."



"bad than Rosa?" ask Golda.



"Rosa would stay. that girl would be off like a cat on the tile."



Golda retort with a description of Rosa of the same kind, but of a

more offensive degree.



declare that they be well for the sea air, and warmly enjoin

Mrs. Finch to visit then if ever she should come to London, the party

leave Margate with shell and toffee and paint china for their

friend and relation, conspicuous among their luggage be the

bucket and spade which have never be use.



as Issy and his mother reach their front-door, he see Rosa at the

corner of the street, and bolt after she, leave Golda to enter the

house and give an account of her doing. Mendel, for once in a way,

be at home. he be at work on a picture for a prize competition at

the Detmold, as also be Mitchell and Weldon, so that they be

live quietly for the time be. Golda give a glowing description of

the beauty of Margate and of Mrs. Finch and her jewellery. she begin

to talk of Hetty, but for some reason unknown to herself, with a

glance at Mendel she stop, and go off into a vague, dreamy

rhapsody concern Margate street.



"the street be so clean, so nice, and the air be so strong, and the

sky be so clear, with the cloud tumble across it, little cloud

like cotton-wool and grey cloud like blanket, almost as it be in

Austria, and I be so happy my heart be full of flower, almost as it

be in Austria."



"what's the good of talking of Austria?" growl Jacob. "there you have

a corner. here you have a whole house."



"but I be happy there."



Issy come in on that and announce that he be go to be married to

Rosa. there be half a house vacant in the next street, and he

propose to take it.



"you shall not," say Jacob. "I will not have that slut in the house.

what sort of child will she give you? Squat-browed and bow-legged

they will be. how will she look after they? a woman that cannot

contain her love for her man will have none for the child. she be a

dirty girl, I tell you, and so be her mother and her father's mother,

and her father's father's mother."



"I don't know who we be, to hold up our head so high. you be my

father, but in some thing I cannot obey you. the business be mine

. . ."



"it be not. it be mine!" say Jacob. "it be in your name, but it be

mine. it be in your name, but your name be my name, and you shall not

give it to a woman like that, who go smell about street corner

like a dog. her father have no money, and he never go to the

synagogue."



"I be not marry her father. I shall go out of the business, then,

and I shall start for myself. Rosa will kill herself if I do not marry

she, and I must do it."



"it be true," say Golda quietly. "I think she will kill herself."



Jacob storm on and issy bluster, until at last he confess that

Rosa have catch he, and that he have to marry she. Jacob throw up his

hand and in a shrill voice of icy contempt tell Issy exactly what he

think of such marriage; they be nothing but dirt. . . . "because

you have a little dirt on you, must you roll in the mud? you be like

dirty dog, all of you. you, and Harry, and Mendel. I don't know what

have come to you in this London. God give I one woman, and I have

ask for nothing else."



"you would not let I marry Rosa when I be young."



word and feeling run so high that Mendel, aghast, flee away to his

studio, where the sound of the storm reach he. it rage for hour,

and end in Issy flinging himself out of the house and slam the

door.



a week later Rosa be bring to see Golda, and she fawn on her like

a dog that have be whip, sit gaze at she with her stupid brown

eye, and whimper: "I should have kill myself. yes, I should have

kill myself."



"you would not have be so wicked," say Golda. "it be sinful to

throw good fish after bad. can you cook?"



"yes," say Rosa. "I can make cucumber soup. I could do anything for

Issy, he be so strong and handsome."



and Golda say to Mendel after the interview: "a woman like that be

like a steam bath for a man."



* * * * *



a few day later Issy and Rosa be marry, without ceremony, without

carriage, or photograph, or guest, or feast. it be a wedding to be

ashamed of, but Jacob would not, and Rosa's father could not, lay out

a penny on it. the couple take half the house in the next street, and

Issy discover at once that he hate his wife, and be at no pain to

conceal it either from she or from his family.



Mendel be profoundly depressed by this disturbance and plunge

downward, for he still half expect his family to rise with he. he

be to make all their fortune, but, with the rest of the family, he

detest the unhappy Rosa and regard she as little short of a

criminal. he be depressed, too, because the summer holiday be

approach and he would be bereft of his beloved Mitchell, who be

go away for three month to the country. he would be leave with his

family, in whom there be no peace. why could they not be like the

Mitchells and the Weldons, who could live together without quarrel,

and could take a happy, humorous interest in each other's doing

without these devastating passion and cursing and denunciation? and

yet when he think of the Mitchells and the Weldons and the

Froitzheims, in their charming, comfortable house, there be

something soft and foolish about they all--something savour of

idolatry, for instance, in the homage Mitchell pay his father, in the

assumption that Mrs. Mitchell be a very remarkable woman, whose

child could not be expect to be ordinary. More and more do

mendel value his mother, who be content to be just a woman and to

live without flattery of any kind, and to accept everyone whom she meet

and to value they as human being, without regard to their rank,

station, possession, or achievement. himself she esteem no more

because he be an artist, though he have try hard to make her give

her tribute to that side of his nature. she love he simply, neither

more for his attainment nor less for his doing, that pain she

deeply. and that direct human contact he obtain nowhere else, and in

no one else could he find it exist so openly and frankly. yet he

love the folly and pretence of the outside world. he adore

theatricality, and among his polite friend there be always some

drama towards. it be never drown in incoherent passion, and he

himself, among the nice cultured folk, be always a startling dramatic

figure. sometimes they seem to he all slyness and insincerity, and

then he loathe they; but that be generally when he have aim at and

fail in some dramatic coup, or when they have encourage he to talk

about himself until he bore they. on the whole, he be successful

with they, as he wish to be, easily and without calculation. it be

when they make calculation necessary, by feign an interest that

they do not feel, that he be shocked and angry. if anywhere the

atmosphere be such that he could not be frank, then he avoid that

place and those people.



now he be bore, bore to think of the hot stew month with no

relief except such as he could find in vagrom adventure from the

harsh rigidity of life among his own people. and he be in a strange

condition of physical lassitude. even his ambition be stagnant. in

his work he have only the pleasure of dexterity. it have no meaning, and

contain no delight. when he paint apple or a dead bird or a

woman, the result be just apple or a dead bird or a woman. the paint

make no difference and the subject be still well than his rendering

of it. he be only concerned with technical problem. fascinate by a

gradated sky in a picture in the National Gallery, he practise

gradated sky until he could have do they in his sleep.



and he be tired, tired in body and in soul. both in his life and in

his work he have have to conquer a convention in order to keep his

footing in the world of his desire. just as he have only learn the

Detmold style of draw by a supreme effort of will, so also by a

tremendous effort he have learn the rudiment of manner and polite

conversation. he have have to overcome his tendency to fall violently in

love with every charming person, male or female, he meet, and to regard

with an aversion equally violent those in whom he find no charm. such

charm must for he be genuine and not a matter of trick, and for this

reason he have regard every person whom he think of as old with

dislike. for he anybody above twenty-five be "old." he still think

he would be make or mar by the time he be twenty-three, but that

age seem immeasurably far off. long before then, like a thunderbolt,

his full genius would descend upon he and all the world would know

his name. he be almost innocent of conceit in this. such, he

believe, be the history of genius, and so far nothing have happen

to deny his inward consciousness of his rarity. relieve the pressure

of circumstance and he soar upwards. . . . there be a queer,

uncomfortable pleasure in such thought and dream and in imagine a

fatality that should drag he down and down to Issy's level and low.

there be a sickening fascination in picture to himself a descent as

swift and irresistible as his upward flight. yet dreary be the hour

of wait for the impetus that have once or twice so freely and so

strongly move in he. sick with wait, he would work in a fury to

master trick after trick and difficulty after difficulty in painting,

so as to be ready when the time come. all the cunning and wariness of

his race well up in he as he prepare deliberately, slowly,

patiently for his opportunity.



* * * * *



one afternoon, as Golda be sleep in her kitchen, she be awaken

by a knock at the door. go to open it, she find Hetty Finch

wait there, neatly clothe in a brown tailor-make coat and skirt, very

smart, with a trim little feather hat on her head. Golda's thought

fly to Mendel, and her first inclination be to slam the door in

Hetty's face, but, remember that the boy be out, she admit she.



Hetty follow Golda into the kitchen and stand look round it with

obvious disappointment. she have not imagine the kühler to be so

poor.



"I promise Ma I would call," she say, take the chair which Golda

dust for she.



"and how be your Ma?" ask Golda.



"she's give up the house and go into a hotel as manageress,"

reply Hetty, lie as usual, for her mother have be sell up and have

take a place as barmaid in a tavern. "and I've come to London to earn

my living. Ma give I fourteen shilling, and that be all she could

do for I. still, I'm off her hand now."



Golda ask she what she be go to do, and she say she think of

go into service until she have have a look round. where be she

live? she have take a room with some friend, lodger of Ma's, off

Stepney Green.



Conversation be lifeless and desultory until Issy come into the room,

when she brighten up, but he be overcome with his old terror of the

girl and soon hurry away. then she notice the picture on the wall

and ask if they be Mendel's. Golda refuse flatly to talk about

they, but Hetty persist and would talk of nothing else. Jacob come

in and she make he talk about Mendel, and she make herself so

charming to he and flatter his simple vanity so grossly that

presently Golda be stagger by the sight of he make tea with his

own hand and pour it out for the visitor.



"yes," say Jacob, "the boy do all those before he be fourteen. he

will get on, that boy. he be bind to get on, but I shall not live to

see he in his glory."



"I think they're lovely," say Hetty, sip her tea. and she go on

chattering vivaciously until Jacob be call away to the workshop,

when once again conversation become lifeless and desultory. Golda make

one excuse after another to try to get rid of she, but Hetty would not

budge. at last there come the sound of Mendel's key in the door. Golda

bustle out of the room and whisper to him:--



"you must not come in. I have visitor and there be letter wait

for you upstairs."



but Mendel have see a girl sit in the kitchen and he want to

know whether she be pretty or not. she turn and he see that she be

charmingly pretty. he brush by his mother. he feel at once that he

have make a good impression, and, indeed, all Hetty's dream and

fancy be more than realize, though she be a little affronted and

disappoint by the poorness of his clothe.



"it be Hetty Finch," say Golda, "from Margate."



Mendel have have Issy's account of Hetty and he be on his guard at

once.



"yes. I've come to live in London," say she.



"I've never live out of it," he answer.



"I think perhaps, as you know so many people, you could help I to

find some work. there must be room somewhere in London for poor little

I."



"I'll see about it," say Mendel, take note of her feature and

figure, and rather upset to find himself so little excited by she.

Issy have give he to imagine a dashing, overwhelming woman. he only

feel vaguely sorry for Hetty and a desire to stroke she, though he

know she at once for what she be, and how she be drink in the

strongly develop male in he. for the first time he feel cool and

detach in the presence of a woman: a deliciously grow-up sensation,

and he want more of it.



she soon say she must go, and in Golda's hearing he promise to write

to she, but when he take she to the door he ask she to come to his

studio, and she say she would come the next day.







IX



the QUINTETTE



he have more of the deliciously grow-up sensation the next day, when

Hetty come to see he. she be something new. the girl of the street

he know, and unattainably above they be the girl at the school and

his friend' sister, whom he call "top-knot," because of the way

they do their hair. the "top-knot" be hardly female at all to he,

so remote be they, so entirely unapproachable; utterly different

from the girl of the street, who be so accessible that he have but

to hold out his arm to find one of they, as if by magic, in his

grasp. and now Hetty be different again.



"you be cosy up here," she say, move at once to the only

comfortable chair and curl up in it. "your sister tell I about

you."



"Leah? what lie do she tell you?"



"well, I know it ben't _all_ true, about the money you be make,

because you wouldn't live here if it be true, would you? but I

suppose some of your friend make a lot of money."



"they're rich, some of they," reply Mendel, aghast to find himself

think coldly of his friend in term of money, his mind rush

swiftly between the two pole of his father and Sir Julius. "yes.

there's plenty of money in London."



"that's what Ma say when she give I the fourteen shilling. she say

a girl with eye like mine have no need to go short in London." Hetty

raise her eye and look full at he, who meet her stare boldly and

yet with some alarm, find himself act a part.



Hetty be flatter he by regard he as the possessor of a key to

the wealth of London, and in spite of himself he could not help

accept the rôle. she have touch an element of his character of

which till then he have be unconscious. the knave in he spring into

be and thrust all his other quality aside. he begin to boast of

his success and to swagger about the luxury and immorality of London

life, though it be not all braggadocio, but also a kindly desire to

make Hetty happy by talk to she of the thing that interest she.



he tell she about Calthrop and the Paris Café, and Maurice Birnbaum

and his motor-car and richly furnish flat in Westminster, and a

Lord's son who be at the Detmold, and Mitchell, whose father be a

great man. and all the time, as he talk, he be astonish at the

sound of his own voice, so different do it sound.



Hetty wriggle with pleasure in her chair and pout up her lip.

presently she say her hat make her head ache, and she take it off and

stretch out her arm and said:--



"no more pot and pan for I! I do think you're lovely. it's just

like a story. I call that real fun. not like Margate. . . . do you

think I could get work as a model, or do you have to be slap-up?"



Mendel think of the drab who pose and he could not help smile.



"I could only tell by your figure, though your face be all right."



"do you think I'm pretty?" she ask.



"very."



"I'll show you my figure, if you like."



"all right, I'll light the gas-stove in the bedroom. it's a little

cold in here."



he show she into the bedroom, and when she be ready she call to

he.



she be beautifully make, but she look so foolish with her anxiety

to please he that he could take hardly any interest in she, and he

be distressed, too, because the only background he could give she

consist of his new knavish thought of the wealth of London. yet

nothing could disturb it, for the background be suitable. her white

body be her offering.



"how much would I be pay?"



"a shilling an hour."



"do you pay that?"



"yes."



"if you could get I work I would sit to you for nothing."



"I'd pay you," he say. his generous quality strove hard to reassert

themselves, but there be something about this girl that compel

just what he be give she--hardness for hardness, value for value.

yet she be certainly beautiful, and it be strange to he to be

unable to give she the warm homage that within himself he could not

help feel.



she sit on the bed, make no move to cover herself, and said:--



"artist _be_ different. there be an artist once at Margate. it be

he put the idea into my head. but he be very poor and not a

gentleman."



and now to Mendel she be an object of sheer astonishment. he stand

and warm his leg by the gas stove and gape at she, sit on his

bed and chatter in her clear, hard voice of her ambition, she

dream, the drudgery at home, while in everything she say be a

flattery which he could not resist. bad of all, he feel that he be

one of a pair with she. his talent, her body, be shine offering

with which they both emerge from the depth of the despised. enter

into her spirit, he too be fill with a desire for revenge. yet in

he this desire be charge with passion, which make their present

situation ridiculous. he think of the poverty and the obscure

suffer downstairs, the drag penury to which, but for his

talent, he would have be condemn. then he imagine she as Issy have

describe she at Margate, lurk in the kitchen, listen behind the

door as Leah spin her yarn. he could sympathize with she, and she

seem to he almost gallant.



he get out a piece of mill-board and begin to draw she, but to his

annoyance could not get interested in what he be do. he want to

know more about she, could not rest content that a human being should

be so reduce to a cold purpose. yet, though she talk freely enough,

nothing fall from her lip to meet his desire. she have no people, no

class, no tradition, but still she be a person. he could not dismiss

she as he dismiss so many, as "nonsensical."



"I cann't make much of you now," he say, almost wail. "I believe

I'm tired."



and suddenly he hurl away his drawing and rush at she and kiss

she. she cling to he and he yield to her will, see clearly that

this be her purpose, this her desire, this her ambition, she all.



he know that she be use he, be make certain of be able to

use he. the newly discover knave in he insist on have his

existence, and through it he enjoy a certain defiant happiness.



happiness! to be happy! that have seem impossible. his first year at

the Detmold have be miserable. he have be discourage and almost

listless. often he would go to his mother and say: "I shall never be

an artist."



"not all at once," Golda would say. "take a boy who be apprentice to

a bootmaker. he cannot all at once make good boot. he must spoil a

deal of leather first. or a tailor-boy: he must spoil cloth. a trade

must be learn, and you can learn this, for you work hard enough at

it."



for a moment or two he would see through her clear eye and that be

enough to set he work again, half believe that he would soon

master his craft. but there have be the struggle to master what at

the Detmold, with such unquestionable authority, they call

"drawing."



this now, with Hetty, be in its way happiness, though he detest it

and she. it be an escape. it be easy. it make no demand on he,

save the small effort to achieve self-forgetfulness, and in that she

aid he, for she seem superior to himself and enviable in the

clearness of her purpose. she offer herself and make no demand upon

he except of what could cost he nothing: just a few word to his

friend, a start in her choose profession.



all the same, he be horrify at himself. every other crisis and

sudden change in his life have be attend with violent suffering, an

eruption within himself, profound depression, almost a collapse. this

have be as easy as walk through a door, a slip from one part

of his be to another. . . . here suddenly be happiness, a queer

detach, almost indifferent condition, full of pleasure, and he

rejoice in the novelty of it. he watch Hetty draw on her clothe

again and be sicken by the sensual languor of her movement. she

be drowsy, like a cat before a fire.



"no, I certainly shalln't draw you to-day."



"what about to-morrow?"



"I shall be paint to-morrow."



"I do think you're a devil sometimes."



"I'll take you to the Paris Café, if you like."



"will you?"



she perk up on that. she have not expect so soon to gain her

desire.



"yes. if you've get to earn your living you should meet people, and

the soon you get go the well."



Hetty sit with her chin in her hand, crouch in elation. everything

have turn out as she have hope and plan, as she have will that it

should, and she regard he with some contempt because he have be so

easy and because he be so young. she be the same age as he, but she

think he a little vain boy. yet when he look at she she be

afraid of he, for he know so much and guess so much more. to defend

herself, her instinct drive through to his vanity and flatter it to

blind he. she feign an animation she be incapable of feel to

make herself more beautiful in his eye, and he think of his

friend, Mitchell and Weldon, and how they would be stir with she.

he think how she would please Calthrop, and he be lure into

believe that he would gain in importance through she.



"you've come at a very bad time," he say. "they'll all be go away

for the summer."



"oh!" she look dashed, hate to be catch out in a mistake. "do

they go away for long?"



"three month."



"oh, well!" she drawl. "I can get a place if nothing turn up. but

something always do turn up. I'm one of the lucky one, you know."



"I don't believe in luck," say he, with a sudden irruption of the old

self that seem to have be leave so far behind.



"I must go now," she say.



they grope their way down the dark stair, and he go out with she,

feel that he could not face his family, from whom he know now that

his face be turn. in the street a mood of freedom and adventure

come over he, and for this mood she be a fitting mate. he take she

on the top of a bus to the West End, among the promenade crowd, and

she drink it all in with a kind of exaltation, her big eye glow,

her body tremble with excitement. into one café after another he lead

she, completely absorb as he be in her purpose, and at last, when

they mount the eastward bus, she lean her head on his shoulder,

and he could hear she murmur to herself: "London . . . London . . .

London."



he too be thrill as he have never be before by London. he have

never so strongly realize it before. the great city have thrill he

with its beauty and have stir he with its business, but never

before have its spirit creep into his blood to send it whirling and

singe through his vein. he hardly sleep at all that night, and the

next morning it be a long time before he could begin to work, which

then seem far removed from the effort and almost anguish it use to

cost he. the still-life with which he have be wrestle become quite

easy to do, and very soothing be the handling of brush and paint.

every touch be like a caress upon his ache soul.



so begin a period of real happiness. the piece he paint with such

soothe ease be generally admire and readily buy. the dealer to

whom he take they be also a colourman and give he apparently

unlimited credit; and he lay in an immense stock of colour and

amuse himself with experiment. it seem that his career be to be

successful without a struggle. his patron be delighted to find he

so soon make money, and the Birnbaums and the Fleischmanns invite

he down into the country, but as he find that they put he up in a

servant's bedroom or a gardener's cottage he refuse to go more than

once, or to any more of their kind who be not prepared to forget his

poverty.



he would rather stay in London with Hetty, whom he have begin to regard

as a mascot. with she come everything have change. she have make

everything easy and happy and delightful. he have no love for she, but

he could not help feel grateful. she have turn work into a

pleasure, pleasure into a riot of ecstasy.



alone with she in the evening or with some chance acquaintance,

during the holiday he roam through London, bask in the summer

evening, discover unimagined splendour, the Parks, the river, the

Zoo, boat on the Serpentine, the promenade on the romantic

Spaniard's Road at Hampstead. nearly every night he write to Mitchell

in the country, describe his new easy happiness in his work and his

discovery of the charm of night in London. and once a week Mitchell

would write to he and give he a delightful account of English

country life in a valley, shut in by roll hill between which

wander a slow, pleasant stream. here Mitchell be paint, boat,

play tennis, make love.



"there's a Detmold girl live near here with her people--Greta

Morrison. you may remember she--glorious chestnut hair, big blue eye,

but as shy as a little mouse. I couldn't get a word out of she until I

begin to talk about you, and there's no end to her appetite for that.

I don't mince matter. I tell she exactly what you be, exactly what

you come from, and what a wild beast you be. she have see you throw

thing about at the Detmold, and she seem absolutely to like it. yet

she be not a fool, and I like she enormously. she make I feel what a

rotter I be, but I cann't get on with she unless I talk about you. I

_have_ hear that her work be good, but she willn't show I a thing."



Mendel be pleased that a "top-knot" should be interested in he, but

beyond the flicker of delight he give no thought to the idea of Greta

Morrison. the "top-knot" belong to the world which he be go to

despoil with Hetty Finch. that world must disgorge. it have condemn,

and still condemn, his father and mother to bitter poverty, and he

remember how on their first come to London the whole family have

sleep in one room, and how he have sit up in the middle of the night

and look at the recumbent body and suffer under the indignity of

it. and his brother have grow from ruddy, bronze boy into

pale-face, wear young man. and behind Hetty be the dirty

lodge-house and her Ma, of whom he have a very clear idea. he use to

wax violent, and his imagination would run riot with the fantastic

vision of success he conjure up.



who be the "top-knot" that they should have an easy, pleasant time

in the country while he be leave to stew in London?



Hetty begin genuinely to admire he, and her flattery be no long

empty. there be some sustenance in it.



"o--oh!" she use to say. "you'll get on. there's no doubt about that.

you'll have a big stoodio and the nob will come up in their

motor-car, and you'll be able to paint what you like then."



"you're a liar," he would reply. "I shall always paint what I like. I

never do anything else, and never will. once paint for the fool and

you have to do it always, because you become a fool yourself."



* * * * *



Golda once meet Hetty come down the stair. she tell she she be a

dirty slut and be not to show her face inside the house again. a few

day later she see she open the front door and slip out. in her anger

she inform Jacob of the danger to Mendel, and Jacob go up to the

studio.



"I will not have that harlot in my house," he say.



"she be not a harlot," reply Mendel rather shakily, for, though his

father's power have dwindle, yet he be still a figure of authority.



"she be a harlot and a daughter of a harlot, and I will not have she

in my house."



"she be a model, and I must have model, as I have try to explain to

you again and again. I be allow money for model. I must have

model, just as you must have skin."



"then there be other model. I know this girl, what she be after, and

she will ruin you."



"neither she nor anyone else in the whole world could ruin I," say

Mendel, "for I be an artist, and while I have my art I ask nothing

outside it."



"don't argue with I!" shout Jacob. "I will not have that drab in my

house."



Mendel have a great respect and regard for his father. he be silent,

and Jacob go downstairs, satisfied that he have assert himself.



he say to Golda:--



"they will blow the boy's head off his shoulder with the fuss they

make of he. I know how to take he down a peg or two."



"don't go too far," say Golda. "it would be a black day for I if he

go away and be ashamed of we."



"if I see that he be ashamed of you," reply Jacob, "I would thrash

he within an inch of his life. ashamed of you, among all the dirt and

trump-up people he go among!"



however, Hetty still come to the studio and there be frequent

explosion, until at last Mendel, intent on the new independence he

have win, declare that he could bear it no long, and he arrange

with Issy to take the top floor of his house and to turn that into a

studio. this compromise be successful, and please both party:

Golda be happy to be relieve from further friction and Mendel be

glad to be away, for he know that his doing must hurt she, and that

he hate. yet he could see no way out of it. he be do for ever with

the old simplicity of his untutored painting in her kitchen. art be

no long a pure and hardly-win joy. it be a trade, like any other,

and, like any other, it have its sordid aspect, and, to compensate for

that, it be a career and could also be a triumph. these thing he do

not expect his mother to understand. he have Mitchell to talk to now,

Mitchell to whom to impart the burden upon his soul, and Mitchell and

he be to work together and to give to the world such art as it have

never see since the primitive.



Mitchell and he! that friendship be the source of his new confidence.

Golda have be and still be much to he, but when it come to paint

she know nothing at all, and painting be the important thing. through

painting lie not only satisfied ambition and fame and rich, but

life itself, and of that what could Golda know?



it be a great thing, therefore, to be establish away from home when

Mitchell return from the country. and Mitchell approve. he have

suffer from be under his father's shadow, and with Weldon and

Kessler he have take a studio near Fitzroy Square. he said:--



"a time will come when you will have to leave the East End."



"I shall never leave they," reply Mendel. "what I want to paint be

there. they be my people, and all that I have belong to they."



"Rubbish. you'll soon be get commission, and you cann't ask people

who can afford to pay for portrait to a hole like that."



"they will come to my studio," say Mendel, "or I will not take their

commission."



Though Mitchell be rather shock by his frank conceit, he could not

but admire and envy the way his impulse came rush to the surface

and be never deter by consideration as to the impression he

might be make. Mendel trust Mitchell absolutely and hide nothing

from he, neither the most scabrous of his deed nor the most childish

of his desire. he make no secret of the new manly feeling that have

come to he through Hetty, the conviction that he could meet the West

end on its own term.



when he show Mitchell the work he have do during the holiday, his

friend said:--



"Gawd! the difference be absolutely startling. there's charm in every

one of they, and they're not fake either."



with Hetty he be enrapture.



"Gawd!" he say; "I'll give ten year to paint she, as Leonardo do

to Monna Lisa, and then it would not be finish. come from a Margate

lodging-house, do she? mark my word: she'll marry a successful

artist and queen it among the good."



with Mitchell, Hetty put forth all her cajolery when she find that he

know what she think good people. she could look very pathetic and

delicate, and middle-aged artist be sorry for she, and think

be a model a perilous profession for she. one of they warn she of

the danger she must run, and especially mention Mitchell and Kühler

as young man to be avoid. they roar with laughter when she tell

they.



the Paris Café be Paradise to she, and she make friend with all its

habitués and attract the attention of Calthrop, who become Mendel's

enemy for life when she tell he that the youngster have say of he

that he have be a good artist once, but be now only repeat

himself.



with marvellous rapidity she pick up the jargon of the place, and

could quite easily have take her career in her own hand, but she

would not surrender Mendel, who could no more do without she than he

could without Mitchell. she cling to he and keep he a happy slave to

his three friend, to whom she devote herself as though her existence

depend on the solidarity of the group. from morning to night she be

with one or other of they, and every evening with the four of they at

the Paris, or make a row at a music-hall and get themselves

kick out.



she be learn her trade as they be learn theirs, and she be

delighted with the ease with which Mendel pick up what she call

"sense"; that be to say, he become much more like the other, affect

their speech, grow his hair long, wear corduroys, a black shirt, and a

red sash, and talk blatantly and with a slight contempt of great

painter. but even so, he be disturbing, for he do all these thing

with passion, so that they tinge his soul, and be not as a mere

garment upon it. even in falsehood he be sincere.



when Hetty find Calthrop paint a self-portrait, she set her four

boy paint self-portrait, and when she find the old man talk

about the beauty of roof and chimney, the four be soon ecstatic

about roof and chimney, and paint they without know how it have

come about. she could feel what be in the air, and have no difficulty

in make they conform to it, so that they be successful even while

they be student, and be talk of and discuss and approach by

dealer as though they be person of consequence. their life be one

long intoxication: money, praise, wine, and debauchery go to their

head, and of all these excitant Mendel have the large share, and

find himself the equal even of Kessler, whose father be a

millionaire soap-boiler. he attain an extraordinary skill at do

what be expect of he, and develop an instinct as sharp as

Hetty's for the success of the moment after next.



he win scholarship at the Detmold and, carefully adapt his style,

an open prize at the Royal Academy. his patron be excited and

delighted. he be interview by the yiddish paper and photograph,

palette and brush in hand, in a dash attitude. he say many

foolish thing to the reporter, but the print version make he

blush. he be represent as say that art have be reborn during

the last ten year, that the Royal Academy be explode and would soon

close its door, that there be no art criticism in England, that

there have never be a great jewish artist, and that this deficiency

in the most vital and enduring race in the world would now be

repair.



he thank his star that his friend could not read Yiddish. two

well-know jewish painter write to the paper to say that they exist

and to trounce his "bumptious and ignorant dismissal of respected and

respectable art." and he heartily agree with they. he be shake out

of the hectic dream of month, yet could not feel or see clearly. his

way be with Mitchell, and Mitchell be generously rejoice in it all

as though it have happen to himself, while Hetty be go from

studio to studio spread the news and declare the arrival of a

genius.



he want to go and hide his face in his mother's skirt, but she be

so happy and elated with the congratulation of the neighbour and

visit from the Rabbis of the synagogue that he could not but keep up

his part before she. for she and for all his family he buy

extravagant present, and he go out and seek Artie Beech, whom he

have not see for year, and give he a box of cigar. he have a

melancholy idea that he be do they all an injury and that he must

somehow repair it. the exact nature of the injury he do not know, but

his instinct be very sure that the whole business be false. yet it

be so actual that he could not help believe in it. he be

hypnotize into accept it. there seem no reason why it should not

go on for ever. here, apparently, be what he have always strive

for--art and homage--and the idea that they could go on for ever be

terrible and paralyse. but there be not a soul in the world with

whom he could share his feeling. if he show the least hesitation

they would accuse he of ingratitude.



he be fill with a smoulder rage against they all which find no

vent until Maurice Birnbaum come in his motor-car and ask he to

bring some of his thing to show Sir William Hunslet, R.A., who have

be much impressed with his prize picture. once again Mendel climb

into the motor-car, and once again he be tell not to let his parcel

scratch the paint.



"now," say Maurice, "you have the world at your foot, and I feel

proud to have have my share in bring it about. you can have

everything you want, and if you don't grow into something really big

it willn't be our fault. everything that money can do it shall do."



the car roll through the street which have be the scene of

Mendel's happy ramble, but be carry through they in such

magnificence make he feel helpless, a victim to something strong

than his own will and that he have always detest. he be be take

away from his mother and from Mitchell, and he know whither motor-car

be drive. all road end in Sir Julius, who could sit and look at

picture without a word. everything go spin past he. this be

go too fast, too fast, and he would be exhaust before he have

really know his purpose. Maurice Birnbaum's exciting, patronize

tone, chatter on exasperatingly, infuriate he, until he feel

like stab he in his already drop stomach. what could a fat

man like that have to do with art? how could so fat a man drive down

to the wretched poverty in Whitechapel and not feel ashamed?



but in spite of himself and his confused emotion Mendel enjoy the

drive, which show he more of London than the narrow area he

frequent: more to conquer, more to know; shop, strange ugly

building, polite, mince people, woman like doll, man like

marionette, wide street and plane-tree, the garden and square of

the polite Southwest. often there be georgian house like that in

which his family live, but so neat and trim and newly paint that

they look like doll's-house, proper place for the doll and the

marionette. . . . and it be exhilarate to be in the heart of the

roar traffic, bear down upon scarlet bus, and swift dart

taxi-cab and motor-car as rich as Maurice Birnbaum's. out of the

traffic they turn suddenly into a quiet street of dead house and

vast gloomy pile of flat. outside a house more gloomy than the rest

they stop. Maurice get out fussily, tell Mendel to be careful how

he lift his parcel out, fuss his way into the house through a

dark, luxuriously furnished hall, and into a vast studio where there

be a group of fashionably dress woman take tea with Sir William

and exclaim about the beauty of a portrait that stand on the

easel.



Maurice stand awkwardly outside the circle and muttered apology,

while Mendel feel utterly and crushingly foreign to the atmosphere of

the place. he know how these people would regard he. they would stare

at he with a cold interest not unmingled with horror, and he would be

conscious of bear the mark of the place he come from, of smell

of the gutter. against that separation even art be powerless. and

what have his work to do with this huge, hard, brilliant portrait on

the easel? if they admire that they would never look at his dark

little picture.



Sir William introduce Maurice to the lady, but do not so much as

look at the boy, whom his mind have at once tick off as a "student,"

and therefore to be keep in his place. Maurice explain splutter:

word like "scholarship," "prize," "genius," "instinct," fall in a

shower from his lip, and one of the lady put up her lorgnette and

stare at Mendel as though he be a picture or a wax model.



at last he be tell to untie his parcel, and one by one he show his

picture. Sir William blow out his chest and his cheek, and with a

wave of his hand blurt out one word:--



"Italy."



"that's what I say," say Maurice.



Mendel scented danger. they seem to he to be conspire together.



"Italy!" ejaculate Sir William. "Italy! Blue sky, the sun, the

light. give he light and landscape with form in it."



"be I ill?" think Mendel with some alarm, for Sir William sound to

he more like a doctor than a painter. and he decide that the

Academician be not a real artist because he show no sign of the

fellow-feeling which have be so strong in Mr. Froitzheim.



before the lady he could say nothing. he put his picture back in

the parcel and hear Maurice and Sir William still conspire together

to send he to Italy. he be tired of be swing from one idea to

another. at the Polytechnic they have tell he that the essential thing

in a picture be "tone," that he must remember the existence of the

atmosphere between himself and the object he be paint, and that

there be no bright colour in nature. at the Detmold little be say

about "tone," but he be tell that the essence of a picture be

draw, "the expression of form." . . . what next? he have a

foreboding that Italy be only another name for another essence of a

picture. besides, he want to live. though he adore art, yet it do

not contain all that be precious to he--liberty and gaiety,

friendship and affection. always until the Detmold his life have be

weigh down with poverty and with terrible obsession like that of

his dread of the fat, curly-head boy who, during the six long year

of his schooling, have wait for he outside the school-gate every

day to give he a coward's blow and to challenge he to fight and to

jeer at he if he refuse. there have be furious, passionate love to

set he reel, gust of inexplicable desire and ambition which have

often make he weep with pain. and now, just as the world be open

out before he and he be warm with the friendship of an Englishman

(for he be proud of Mitchell's Public School training), they wish

to take he away and send he to a far country.



he have have enough of be a foreigner in England, and he loathe the

idea of travel. his father have tell he that England be the good

country in the world, and, if he have suffer so much there, what

would it be in other? Italy? he want to paint what he have always

paint, fish and onion in a London kitchen. how could Italy help he

to do that?



he would not go. he would refuse to go. these Birnbaums and

Fleischmanns have have their way with he for long enough.



so lose be he in this grow revolt that he be already some

distance away from Sir William's studio before he be aware of having

leave it.



"our great painter," say Maurice. "the great since Whistler."



"yes," say Mendel, aghast at the supersession of Calthrop and the

idol of the Detmold. if Maurice could be so ignorant there be

nothing to be say and argument be vain.



"he really appreciate your work," Maurice add.



"he never look at it!" cry Mendel, enraged. "I put they in front

of he one by one, but he always look at the fat lady in blue."



"he could tell with one glance," protest Maurice, who have be

mightily impressed.



Mendel see that it be useless to talk, and shut his lip tight while

Maurice chatter to he of his extraordinary good fortune in be

able to go to Italy, to live among the orange grove and with the

great gallery of the world to roam in, the most beautiful scenery

and the most delightful food.



the mention of food make Mendel think of his mother's unsavoury dish

and sluttish table, the most distasteful feature of his existence, but

he prefer even that to the Italy of Maurice Birnbaum and Sir

William. through such people, he know, lie nothing that he could ever

desire.



as soon as he reach home he tell his mother that they want to send

he abroad to study. he stride about the kitchen and wave his arm,

growling:--



"study? study? I want to be an artist, not a student. I _be_ an

artist. I know art student when I see they--the Academy, South

Kensington, the Detmold--they be all the same. let they go abroad and

never come back. no one will miss they, not even their father and

mother, if they have anything so natural. I will not go--I will not

go!"



"but if the Maurice Birnbaum think you must go, then you must," say

Golda. "it be their money that have be spend on you."



"they've spend enough," cry Mendel, "without that. I don't want

their money any more. they know that. they want to keep I in their

hand and to say that they make I. they? People like that! God make

I, and they want to keep I all my life say how grateful I be to

they. grateful? I be not."



"but you could go for a little while."



"I will not go at all."



he sit down and write to Maurice Birnbaum say that he would not go

to Italy, that he do not want any more of his commission, and that

he would not be interfere with any more. he would shortly repay every

penny he have have, and he ask only to be allow to know well what he

want to do.



"everything that I love be here in London, and I can only learn from

what I love. I be one kind of artist and you want to turn I into

another kind. you will only waste your money, and I will not let you

do it."



Maurice never answer this letter and patronage and that of his

friend be withdraw.



Mendel plunge more ardently than ever into his career with Mitchell

and the other, but find that they be not prepared to share or to

admit the new freedom which he have begin to enjoy. the Birnbaum

patronage have always to a certain extent restrain he, but now that

it be shake off he plunge madly and wildly into every kind of

extravagance. he be no long content to be the equal of the other.

he want to lead they. he be the most successful of they all, and he

want they all to join he in force art upon London. Calthrop have

show they the way, but he have unaccountably stop short. he have

many imitator, and there be even woman who look like his type,

but it all end in his personality. . . . art be something else:

something outside that, an impersonal thing, which London should be

make to recognize. the picture of Kühler, Mitchell, Weldon, and

Kessler should be, as it be, only forerunner of the mighty picture

that should be paint. . . .



he be just as extreme and violent in his vice as he be in his

idealism, and even Mitchell be rather upset by his prank and

caprice. it be one thing to take a shy tame genius among your

acquaintance, quite another when the genius run wild and drag you

hither and thither and with breathless haste from the vile human

company to the most dizzily soar idea. Weldon, who be uncommonly

shrewd, have begin to see the danger of allow Hetty Finch to arrange

their affair, and when on top of that Mendel, drunk with freedom and

success, begin to take charge, he think it time to secure himself

and begin to withdraw from their undertaking and adventure.



at last Kessler strike, and tell Mendel that he might be the great

genius that be ever bear, but should sometimes try to remember that

his friend be gentleman and could not always be make allowance

for his birth and upbringing. this happen in the Paris Café. Mendel

fall like a shot bird, like a stone. the eager word freeze on his

lip, his face visibly contract and become haggard, his eye blink

for a moment, then stare glassily. he sit so for some minute, then

rise from the table and walk quickly out of the café.



he do not appear for a week, nor be anything hear of he. he sit at

home work furiously. Hetty Finch go to see he, but he turn she

out, tell she that she be a hateful, cold-hearted woman and that

he would never see she again.



at last he write to Mitchell, a letter of agony, for Mitchell, his

friend, seem to he the bad offender, by not having warn he of

what be in the air:--



"you be my friend," he write, "my only friend. it be no more to you

what I be, where or how I be bear, than it be to I what you be. the

soul of a man choose his friend, and I trust you even in my folly.

you could have defend I and our friendship. you have not do so

and I must live miserably without you. good-bye. I shall not attempt

again to enter a life in which my work be not sufficient

recommendation. I be happy. I be not happy before. I be not happy

now. I have be foolish, but I be your friend."



Mitchell be irritate by this letter, but he be also move. he

value Mendel's sincerity, which have continually jolt he out of his

natural indolence. and, as he have a fine talent and a fairly strong

desire to use it to the full, the friendship have profit he. it have

also help he to come to reasonable term with that great man, his

father.



on the other hand he be in this difficulty, that he too have be

slip out of the quintette through his new friendship with Miss

Greta Morrison and her friend, Miss Edith Clowes. know Mendel's

contempt for the "top-knot," he have say nothing of this matter, and

have find it sometimes difficult to account for the afternoon and

evening give to the dilemma of discover whether Miss Morrison or

Miss Clowes be the love of his life. Mendel be an exact friend,

and, as he conceal nothing, expect no concealment.



Mitchell, like the true Englishman he be, deplore the unpleasant

complication, but leave it to time, impulse, or inspiration to unravel.

Impulse, in due course, come to his aid and he invent a plan. first

of all he write a manly note to Mendel, confess his inability to

understand why he should suffer for Kessler's caddishness, and

declare that friendship could not be so lightly break. he receive

no reply to this, and proceed by take Morrison and Clowes (as in

the fashion of the Detmold they be call) to see the dock at

Rotherhithe. while there he gaze from Morrison to Clowes and from

clowe to Morrison, unable to decide which he love, for both give he

an equal contraction of the heart, and then he tell they that ship

have never be properly paint, never _express_ in form and colour;

and then he add that it be clearly a man's job, and then he

inform they that only a short distance away live Mendel Kühler.



"would you like to go and see he?" he ask. "it be the queer

thing to go and see he. a filthy street, a dark house, a ramshackle

staircase, and there you be--absolutely one of the fine painter

the Detmold have ever turn out."



"do let we go and see he!" say Clowes, who have decide in her own

mind that she be the third of the party and in the way. Morrison say

nothing, and look very solemn, as though she regard the visit as

an event--something to be half dread. she have a very charming air of

diffidence, as though she be very happy and know this to be an

unusual and peculiar condition. often she smile to herself, and then

seem to shake the smile away, feel perhaps that she, a slip of a

girl, have no right to be amuse by a world so vast and so varied.



she have enjoy herself. the ship have stir she romantically, and

she could not at all agree with Mitchell about paint they, for be

they not work of art in themselves? they move she in the same way,

arrest her eye and delight they, and touch her emotion so

that they begin to creep and tickle their way through her whole being.

. . . o wonderful world to contain so much delight! and it please she

that the ship should start out of the squalor of the dock like

lily out of a dark pond.



she smile and shake the smile away when Mitchell speak of Mendel

Kühler. she remember once meet Mendel on the stair at the

Detmold. she have often notice he--strange-look, white-face,

romantic, with a look of suffering in his eye that mark he out

from all the other young man. . . . after she have pass he on the

stair she turn to look at he, and at the same moment he turn and

she tremble and blush, and her eye shine as she hurry on her

way.



Mitchell have tell she a great deal about he, and she have hear other

people say that he be detestable, an ill-mannered egoist. she

suppose he be so, for she rarely question what other people say,

but he remain a clear figure for she, the romantic-look young man

who have look back on the stair.



"we'll take he by surprise," say Mitchell, with a sudden qualm lest

they should break in upon Mendel and Hetty Finch together. "if we tell

he he would hide all his work away and put on a white shirt and have

flower on the table, for he be terrify of lady. he say they

don't look like woman to he."



"I'm sure," say clowe, "I don't want to look like a woman to any

man."



this be the most encouraging remark Mitchell have have from either

during the day, and he decide that he be in love with clowe.



a brisk walk through narrow dingy street bring they, with some help

from the police, to the door of Issy's house. Mitchell knock and a

grimy little Jewess open to they.



"Mr. Mendel Kühler?" say Mitchell.



"Upstairs to the top," reply the Jewess as she hurry away. they

climb the shabbily carpet stair and knock at the door of the

studio. Mendel open it. he stand with a brush in his hand, blink.

he stare at Mitchell and then beyond he at Morrison.



"come in," he say. "I'd just finish. I've be work rather hard

and haven't speak to a soul for three day. you must forgive I if I

don't seem very intelligent."



they go in and he make tea for they, hardly ever take his eye off

Morrison. he say pointedly to Mitchell:--



"so you come down to the East end to find I."



Clowes explained:--



"I'm a stranger to London and have never see the dock, you know."



"I have never see the dock either, though I live so near," say he.

then, catch Morrison glancing in the direction of his easel, he

turn his work for she to see, almost ignore the other. afterwards

he produce drawing for she to see, and he seem entirely bent on

please she, which so embarrass she that, when she could escape his

gaze, she look imploringly over at the other. they could not help

she, and he go on until he have show she every piece of work in the

studio. whenever she speak, shyly and diffidently, as though she know

her opinion be of no value, he give a queer little grunt of triumph,

and his eye glitter as he look over at Mitchell, as though to say

that he too know how to treat the "top-knot" and to please they.







x



morrison



a few day later he wire to Morrison at the Detmold to ask she to sit

for he. she make no reply and do not come.



very well then: he would not budge. he would only approach Mitchell

again through the "top-knot," who live in a portion of Mitchell's

world that have hitherto be close to he. it promise new adventure,

and he be so eager for it that he would not enter upon any other

outside his work.



the day go by and he begin a portrait of his mother, with which he

intend to make his first appearance at an important exhibition.

Golda sit dress in she good on the throne, and try vainly to

soothe he as he curse and stamp and weep over his difficulty:



"I cann't do it! I cann't do it!" he wail. "I'm a fool, a blockhead, a

pig! if I could only do one little thing more to it I could make it a

great picture."



"you be always the same," say Golda. "in Austria, when you be a

little boy, the soldier make you a uniform like their own. they use

to call you the Captain, and they salute you in the street, only they

forget to give you any boot, and when the soldier march by, you

stamp and roar because you be not allow to go with they, and I

could not make you understand that you be not a real captain."



"but I be a real artist," he growl. "you'll never make I understand

that I be not a real artist."



"nothing good be ever do in a hurry," say she. "if you run so fast

you will break your head against a wall."



"I shall paint many portrait of you, for I shall never be satisfied.

you may as well sit here with your hand fold as over there in the

kitchen. if I'm not careful your hand will grow all over the picture.

I have put such a lot of work into they."



then for a long time he be silent, and both be lose in a dreamlike

happiness--to be together, alone with his work, bind together in his

delight as they use to be when he be a child before the invasion of

their peace.



he go to the door in answer to a knock and find Morrison stand

there with some flower in her hand.



"oh!" he say awkwardly, hold the door. "willn't you come in? please.

I be paint my mother."



Golda's eye light with pleasure on the fresh-look girl and her

flower.



"she be like a flower herself," she think, and indeed the girl

look as though she be fresh from the country.



she hold out her hand to Golda, who stand up on the throne and bobbed

to she, then fold her hand on her stomach and wait patiently for

the lady to break the awkwardness that have spring up between the three

of they. Mendel could do nothing. he look from one to the other and

feel, with a little tremor of horror, the gulf that separate the two.



at last Morrison say to Golda:--



"I be very glad to see you, though I feel I know you quite well from

the drawing he have do of you."



Golda break into inarticulate expression of the delight it be to she

to see any of her son's friend, and say that she would have a

special tea send up, she edge towards the door and slip out.



"why don't you come before?" ask Mendel, when he have hear the door

bang. "I send you a telegram. I want to paint your portrait, and now

I have begin something else."



"I don't want to come," reply she, "but something Mitchell say

make I want to come."



"what do he say?"



"he tell I about Kessler, and I think it be a shame. I think it

be a horrible shame that you should be treat like that, as if

anything matter but your work."



her voice rather irritate he. her accent be rather mince and

precise, and between her sentence she give a little gasp which he

take for an affectation.



"why do Mitchell tell you that?"



"he tell I a great deal about you, and he be really upset by your

letter."



"be he? be he?"



Mendel have no thought but for Mitchell. he long to go to he, to

embrace he, to tell he that all be different now. he blurt it all

out to the girl.



"we be so happy, the four of we together. every evening we meet and

we be like king. everything that we want to do we do. we have

money and success and all such foolish thing, and we work hard, all

of we. there be not in London four young man like we, and I be free

of the terrible people who want to turn I into an ordinary

successful painter--a portrait painter. I tell you, I have never have a

commission in my life that be not a failure. I only want to be

young and to work, for I have never be young before. and then

suddenly, out of nothing, my friend turn on I and tell I I be a

Jew and uneducated, and ought to treat they with more respect. why?

the Jews be good people, and what do I want with education? can book

teach I how to paint? I tell you the Jews be good people."



Tea be bring up on a lacquer tray--bread, jam, and cake. they be

both hungry and fall to with a will, hardly speak at all.



when they have finish they begin to talk of picture and of the life

of the painter, and he tell her story of Michael Angelo and

Rembrandt: how Michael Angelo never take his boot off, and be never

in love in his life; and how Rembrandt be practically starve to

death. then he show her reproduction of Cranach and Dürer, whom at

the time he adore, and they bent over they, the chestnut head and the

curly black together. gradually she lead he on to tell of his own

life, and he begin at the beginning in Austria, hold she

spell-bind with his vivid, picturesque talk.



"it make I feel very quiet and dull," she say. "I don't think I

ever regard place outside England as real, somehow. there be just

home and London, and London seem to be the end of everything. all

the train stop there, you know."



"where be your home?" he ask.



"in Sussex. it be very beautiful country."



"how do you come to the Detmold?"



"a girl at home have be there, and at school they say I be no good

at anything but drawing. indeed, I be send away from two school, and

at home I be such a trouble that mother decide I must do something

to earn my living. so I be send up to the Detmold. I have my hair down

my back then."



"I remember," say he. "in a plait."



she smile with pleasure at that.



"yes," she say. "in a plait. I live in a hostel, where they bully

I because I be so untidy and be always be late for meal. at

home, you know, there be only my brother, and my mother could never

keep they in order, and I be always treat as if I be a boy too.

. . . and I think that's all."



she end so lamely that his irritation get the well of he, and he

jump to his foot. it seem to he that his view of the "top-knot"

be confirm. they be simply negligible. he be baffle, and stand

stare down at she. be she no more interested in herself than that?

compare the smooth monotony of her life with his, he wax

impatient, and tell himself he be a fool to have invite she to come

to he.



he begin to study her face with a view to paint it, and he be

absorb and fascinate by it. the line of her cheek and of her neck

make he itch to draw they.



"yes," he say, "I must paint you. I can do something good. I'm sure I

can."



"I want to ask if you would mind my painting you," she say.



he be aghast at her impudence. she, a slip of a girl, a "top-knot,"

paint the great kühler!



she see how horrified he be and add hastily:--



"of course, I willn't insist if you don't like sit."



she rise to go and he beg she to stay.



"don't go yet," he say with sudden emotion. "I don't want you to go.

somehow I feel as if you have be sit there always and I don't

want you to go. if you don't want to talk you needn't, but you must

stay. I could see that my mother like you at once, and she always

know good people. you make she happy about I. it be like sunshine

to she when you come in, and I shall be wretched if you go, for I

don't know what to think about you."



"I know what I think about you."



"what do you think?"



"you have make I feel that London ben't just a place where the train

stop."



and she begin to tell he about her home and the river where she

bathe with her brother, the wood where in spring there be

primrose and daffodil, and in summer bluebell.



"Opposite the house," she say, "be a hill which be a common, all

cover with gorse in the summer, and the hot, nutty smell of it come

up and seem to burn your face. there be snake on the common--viper

and adder and grass-snake. from the top you can see the down, and

beyond they, you know, be the sea. on moonlight night it be glorious,

and I nearly go mad sometimes with run in and out of the shadow.

I believe I do go mad once, for I sit up on the top of the hill and

sing and shout and cry, all by myself, and I feel that my heart

would break if I do not kiss something. the gorse be out, and I

bury my face in the dewy yellow flower. . . . I often think the

wood be like church on Easter Day. . . . and then when I get home

and it be just a house and I be just a girl live in it, you know, it

all seem wrong somehow."



Mendel sit on the floor try to puzzle out this mysterious rapture

of her. he have never hear of gorse or of down, but he could

recognize her emotion. he have have something like it the first time he

see a may-tree in blossom, and he have hardly be able to bear it. he

have rather resent it, for it have interfere with his work for a day

or two, and he could not help feel that there be something

indecent about an emotion with which he could do nothing.



"yes," he say heavily; "it must be very pretty."



she shiver at the grotesqueness of his word as she sink back into

her normal mood of happy diffidence. his face wear an expression of

black anger as he dart quick, furious glance at she. here be

something that he do not understand, something that defy his

mastery, and when she smile he think it be at himself, and this

strange power that have be behind she appear to he as a mocking,

teasing spirit. let it mock, let it tease! he be strong enough to

defy it. sweep through a green girl it might, but he be not to be

catch by it. he know well. in he it have tough simplicity to deal

with and a will that have break the confinement of Fate, the limit of

a meagre religion, to bend before no authority but that of art. . . .

he be rather contemptuous, too. nothing as yet have resist his

genius, and he feel it within he strong than ever, a river with a

thousand source. block one channel and it would find another. stop

that and it would find yet another.



yet here he know be no direct, no open menace, only the intolerable

suggestion that there be other stream, other source, and the

suggestion have come from this foolish, empty girl.



"I will not have it," he say half aloud.



"what do you say?" she ask.



"nothing. I be think--I be think that there be nothing so good

as London. they try to send I to Italy, but I know that there be

nothing so good as London for life, and where life be, there be art. I

don't want your pretty place and your pretty feeling. I want to go

through the street and to see the girl in the evening leave the

shop, and the man in their bowler-hat look at the girl and

want they, and the fat man in their motor-car, and the bookstall

on the railway station, and the public-house with their row of

bottle and the white handle of the beer machine, and the plump

barmaid, and the long, straight street go on for ever with the

flat house on either side of they, and the market and the

timber-yard and the tall chimney. it all fill your mind and make

pattern and whirling thought that take a spiral shape, go up and

up to mysterious height. I want all that, and nothing shall take it

from I, do you hear?"



he turn on she ferociously, as though she be try to rob he.



"and inside it all be something solid," he go on. "do you know that

my father never love but one woman in all his life? that's what Jews

be. they know what's solid. if they have to stay in the filth to keep

it, then they'll stay in the filth. and because I'm a Jew I'm not to

be catch with your pretty thing and your little fancy. I shall

paint the thing I understand, and I'll leave the cloud and the

rainbow and the roof and chimney to fool like Mitchell."



Morrison sit very meekly while he talk. she hang her head and

twitch her finger nervously. she be elate by his passion, but she

too have her dream and be not go to surrender they. his strength

have give her confidence in they and in herself, and she be fill

with a teasing spirit.



"Jews ben't the only people who be solid," she say. "you see man in

bus and train whom an earthquake wouldn't move, and I'm sure, if an

earthquake happen, my mother would be leave where she be, read

the Bible."



Mendel replied:--



"in a thousand year my mother will be just as she be now."



Morrison stare at he and begin to wonder if he be not a little mad.

he add simply:--



"I feel like that."



and she be relieve and think he be the only sane person she have

ever meet in her life.



"will you let I come again?" she ask.



"I be go to paint you," he say; "I be go to paint you as you

be. you willn't like it."



"I shall if you make I solid," she answer. "and you need flower in

this dark room. you must let I send you some."







BOOK TWO



BOHEMIA







I



the POT-AU-FEU



AT the exhibition, the portrait of Golda create no small stir. the

critic, who, since Whistler, have be chary of denounce new-comer,

have swing to the opposite extravagance and be excessively eager to

discover new master. the youth of this Kühler make he fair game, for

it supply they with a proviso. they could hail his talent as that of

a prodigy without commit themselves.



"the portrait of the artist's mother," write one of they, "have all the

essential of great art, as the early composition of Mozart have all

the essential of great music. here be real achievement, a work of art

instinct with racial feeling, and therefore of true originality. no

trace here of parisian experiment. this picture be in the direct line

from Holbein and Dürer."



Mendel take this to mean that he be as good as Holbein and Dürer, and

accept it not as praise but as a statement of fact. the picture be

buy by a well-know connoisseur, who write that he be proud to

have such a picture in his collection.



"now," think the proud painter, "my career have really begin."



for once in a way he regard his success with his father's eye and

much as Moscowitsch would have regard the successful coup in

business for which he be always vainly strive. the hectic gambling

spirit introduce by Hetty Finch have disappear, and though he still

devote his leisure to Mitchell, their adventurousness be temper by

the tantalization of the "top-knot," Morrison and Clowes. to

counteract the disturbing effect of their coolness, Mendel become very

jewish and hug his success, gloat over it rather like a cat over

a steal piece of fish.



Morrison's indifference to the buzz about his name be especially

maddening, because he wish to prove to she that in paint dwelt a

joy beside which her trumpery little ecstasy in wood and flower be

nothing, nothing at all. he wish to convince himself that he have not

be really disturb by her first visit to his studio. only the shock

of novelty he have feel, and by his success, by his triumphant work, he

have obliterate it. . . . she be nothing, he tell himself, only a raw

girl, smooth and polished by her easy life, good for nothing except to

be make love to by such as Mitchell.



Love? they call it love when a young man clasp a maiden's hand, or

when they kiss and ride together on the top of bus! these

Christians be rather disgusting with all their talk of love. he have

hear more talk of it in three year of contact with they than in all

his life before, and Weldon and other have talk of love in

connection with Hetty Finch.



Disgusting!



and now here be Mitchell babbling of his love for Morrison. when

Mendel want to talk of picture and art and the old painter who have

work simply without reference to success, Mitchell keep drag he

back to Morrison, her simplicity, her extraordinary childlike

innocence, her love of beauty, her generous trustfulness, her queer

sudden impulse.



"what have such a girl as that to do with art or with artist?" say

Mendel furiously. "an artist want woman as he want his food, when he

have time for they."



"Gawd!" say Mitchell, trot along by his side; "you don't know

what you be talk about. I tell you I never believe all that trash

about a young man be redeem by a virtuous girl until now."



"it's nonsense!" shout Mendel; "nonsense, I tell you. it must be

nonsense, because it don't matter to you whether it be Clowes or

Morrison, and for all I know, it may be both."



"clowes be a jolly nice girl too," reply Mitchell, "but she's more

ordinary. I never meet anyone like Morrison before. I cann't make she

out, but she do make I feel that I be an absolute rotter. it be her

fresh enjoyment of simple thing that disturb I and make I see

what a mess I've make of my life. once an artist lose that, he be

finish."



they have be read Tolstoi on "what be art?" and their young

conceit have be put out by it. must their extraordinary power

produce work accessible to the small intelligence? Mendel have be

greatly influence by that theory in his portrait of his mother, while

Mitchell's energy have be paralyse so that he could produce nothing

at all.



"yes," Mitchell go on, "I know now what Tolstoi mean. he mean that

love can speak direct to love, and, by Jove! it be absolutely true.

brain be only a nuisance to an artist. look at Calthrop! he haven't

get the brain of a louse. of course, that be why painter be such an

ignorant lot. I must tell my father that when he go for I for not

read."



"but Tolstoi like bad artist!" grumble Mendel. "and my mother do

not like some of my good thing. as for my father, he want a paint

bread to look as if he could eat it: never be he satisfied just to

look at it. his love and my love be not the same and cannot speak to

each other."



"you should see more of Morrison, and then you would understand,"

rejoin Mitchell.



Mendel feel that Mitchell be slip away from he, and all this

christian talk of love be to he a corrosion upon his imagination and

his nervous energy, blur and distort everything that he value.

there be many thing that he hate, and yet because he hate they

their interest for he be consume. issy's wife, for instance, and

her squall child; his father's bitter tongue; and Mitchell's odd

self-importance.



he repeated:--



"Tolstoi like bad artist."



"you cann't settle a big man like Tolstoi just by repeat phrase

about he."



"I can settle he by paint good picture," retort Mendel. "I

don't paint picture to please people."



"then why do you paint?"



"I don't know. to be an artist. because there be a thing call art

which matter to I more than all the love and all the woman and all

the little girl in the world."



"ah!" sigh Mitchell. "you'll soon think differently. I shall never

do another stroke of work without thinking of Greta standing on Kew

Bridge and look up the river at the boat with their white sail."



"will you be quiet?" cry Mendel; "will you be quiet with your little

girl and white sail?"



Mitchell seem to be slip away from he, and he dread the

thought of be leave alone with his success, which be blow a bulb

of glass round he, so that he feel imprison in it, and wherever he

look could see nothing but reflection of himself, Mendel Kühler,

paint his mother, and his father, and old Jews and loaf and

fish for ever and ever. while he cling to Mitchell he know that he

could not be so encased, but Mitchell demand that he should go out

with he into a world all glow with love, with river of milk and

honey and meadow pie with buttercup and daisy; to stand on airy

bridge and gaze at innocent little girl and white sail. the

contemplation of this world revolt he, and he stiffen himself

against it. well the smell and the dirt than such fantastical

stuff. his gorge rise against it.



to wean Mitchell from his amorous fancy he pretend that he be

tired and want a holiday, and together they go down to a village

on the South Coast near Brighton. there it be almost as it have be

in the beginning. for a fortnight they be never out of each other's

company. they sleep in one bed and share each other's clothe,

paint, and money. they sketch the same subject, take tremendous

walk, and in the evening they talk as though there be no London,

no Paris Café, no exhibition, no dealer, no critic, nothing but

themselves and their friendship and their artistic project. Mendel

be supremely happy. never have he know such intimacy since the day

of Artie Beech.



but Mitchell be often depressed and moody. he have letter every day,

and every evening he write at great length.



one morning he have a letter which he crumple up dramatically and

thrust into his trouser pocket.



"Gawd!" he say. "that's put the lid on it. I'm do for."



"what be it?" ask Mendel, aghast.



"I'll tell you when we get back to London. we must go back this

afternoon. eight o'clock in the Pot-au-Feu."



the Pot-au-Feu be a little restaurant in Soho which Mitchell, Weldon,

and some other have endeavour to render immortal by decorate it

with panel. in a room above it live Hetty Finch.



Mendel's thought fly to she, a figure of ill oman. he have not see

she for some time, and have imagine that she have so successfully get

all she want and be so thoroughly establish in her composite

profession that she have no time for the young artist. he have hear

tale about she, and fancy she would succeed in hook one of the

old man for a husband.



he said:--



"why do you want to go back to that beastly place? here it be good. I

could stay here for six month."



"Gawd!" say Mitchell dismally. "'tis life. there's absolutely no

get away from it. everything be swallow up and nothing be leave."



he become very solemn and added:--



"if anything happen to I, Kühler, I want you to go to Greta Morrison

and tell she that through everything I never forget my happiness with

she."



"happen!" cry Mendel. "what can happen?"



"I'll tell you to-night," reply Mitchell gloomily, "at the

Pot-au-feu."



and not another word do he say, neither during their morning's work,

nor during lunch, nor in the train, nor in the taxi-cab that take they

to Soho.



"you wait outside," say Mitchell mysteriously.



Mendel wait outside and pace up and down, oppress with the idea

that his friendship with Mitchell be at an end. he be leave helpless

and expose, for all that have be build on the friendship have come

topple down, and with it come the extra personality he have develop

for deal with the Detmold and the polite world--the Kühler who have

assiduously learn manner and phrase, vice and enthusiasm, as a

part to be play at the Paris Café and in the drawing-room of the

languid lady who be interested in art and artist. Hetty Finch

go with it, for she have be an adjunct of that personality. . . .

he be glad to be rid of she, and shake she off, pluck she out of

his mind like a burr that be stick upon it.



after a quarter of an hour or so Mitchell come out more mysterious

than ever, take his arm and lead he into the restaurant, which be

hardly big than an ordinary room. full of vigour and health as he

be, Mendel feel an enormous size in it, as though he must knock over

the table and thrust his elbow through the paint panel. Madame

Feydeau, the proprietress, greet he with a wide smile and say she

have miss he lately. at his table be the goggle-eyed man who dine

there every night with his newspaper open in front of he. Weldon and

a girl with short hair be sit in uncomfortable silence, both

with the air of do a secret thing. near the counter, with its

dish of fruit and coffee-glass, be Hetty Finch, rather draw and

pinch in the face and very dark under the eye.



Mendel be fill with impatience. she have no business to be sit

there, for he have dispose of she, and she make everything seem

fantastic and unreal. he shake hand with she and sit at the table.

Mitchell take the chair next to Hetty and talk to she in an

undertone, while her eye turn on Mendel with a frightened,

inquire expression.



"all right," he say, as though he have understand her question. "I

know when to hold my tongue."



Mitchell go on whispering, and every now and then he bow his head

and clench his fist, as though he be rack with inexpressible

emotion. he too have become fantastic. Mendel know that he be

play-act, and with a sickening dread he go back over all he know

of Mitchell, recognize this same play-act in much that he have

accept as genuine. yet he would not believe it, for Mitchell be his

friend, and therefore never to be criticize.



would neither of they speak? food be lay before he, and he eat it

without taste it. Mitchell lead Hetty away to another table and

talk to she impressively there. then he bring she back and go on

with his whispering.



Coffee be lay before Mendel, and he drink it without taste it.



at last Hetty say, in a loud voice that ring through the room:--



"no. I will take nothing from you. I ask nothing from you, not a

penny."



"by God," say Mitchell, hang his head, "I deserve it."



Hetty turn to Mendel and ask he sweetly to buy she a bottle of

wine, as she need something to pick she up.



"you be a devil," she say, "sit there as though nothing have

happen. but I always say you be a devil and no good. I always

say so, but I have my friend and can be independent."



"don't be a fool," say he roughly. "you'll have a short run, and

you'd well find something to fall back on while you can."



"get your hair cut!" she reply. "I know which side my bread's

butter, and the old man ben't so sharp as the young one. you've

get a fool's tongue in your clever head, Kühler, and a fool's tongue

make enemy."



"shut up!" he say. "and you leave Mitchell alone. he haven't do you

any harm."



"Ho! haven't he?" she cry.



Mitchell groan, and, give a wither glance at the two of they,

Hetty gather up her vanity-bag and glove and walk out of the

restaurant.



"she's a slut!" say Mendel. "she always be a slut and always will

be."



"Gawd!" cry Mitchell. "it be you let she loose on the town, and I

shall never hold up my head again. I shall never be able to face my

people. I shall just let myself be swallow up in London. . . . but I

shalln't trouble any of my friend. when I'm a pimp I shalln't mind if you

look the other way. after all, it ben't so far to fall. there's not

much difference between the ordinary artist and a pimp."



"what have she do to you?" cry Mendel furiously. "why do you let

yourself be put down by a drab like that?"



"she's not a drab," say Mitchell, in a curious thin of protest. "she

be the mother of my child."



Mendel bring his fist down on the table with a thump, so that the

cup jump from their saucer.



"she be what?"



"the mother of my child," say Mitchell, bury his face in his

hand. "I have offer to marry she, to make an honest woman of she,

but she refuse, and she will take nothing from I. Gawd! how can I

ever face Morrison again? how can I face my mother?"



"Rubbish! Rubbish! Rubbish!" cry Mendel. "why you? why not

Weldon--why not Calthrop?" he see the goggle-eyed man listen

eagerly and lower his voice. "a drab like that deserve all she

get. she take her risk, and I'll say this for she, that she do

not complain. she's clever enough to know how to deal with it. . . ."



he want to say a great deal more, but realize that Mitchell, intent

upon his own emotion, be not listen to he. also, through the

fantastic atmosphere, he begin to be aware of a reality powerful and

horrible. against it Hetty seem to be of no account, and Mitchell's

excitement be palpably false.



this reality have be call into be by no one's will, and

therefore it be horrible.



"I shall have to disappear," say Mitchell.



Mendel do not hear he speak. his own will be arouse by the

devastating reality. because it be physical he exult in it, and his

will struggle to master it. he could not endure his friend's

helplessness and he want above all to help he, to make he see that

this thing be at least powerful; evil and ugly, perhaps, but much too

vital to be subdue or conquer by fantasy and theatrical emotion.

he find Mitchell bewildering. sentimentality always baffle he, for

it seem to he so superficial as to be not worth bother about and

so complicated as to defy unravelling. he know that Mitchell be

horrified and afraid, and that it be natural enough, but fear be not

a thing to be encourage.



he said:--



"Hetty know perfectly well that she can manage it well without

you."



"I know," reply Mitchell. "that's what make I feel such an awful

worm."



Mendel lose all patience. if a man be go to take pleasure in

feel a worm, there be nothing to be do with he. he call the

waiter, pay the bill, and stump out of the Pot-au-feu leave

Mitchell stare blankly at the goggle-eyed man.



* * * * *



a few day later he meet Edgar Froitzheim leave the National Gallery

as he enter it.



"oh! kühler," say Froitzheim. "the very man I want to see. I be

very proud about the picture--very proud. but I want to see you

about young Mitchell. he be a friend of your, ben't he? he be

behave very badly to a young model. such a pretty girl. Hetty Finch.

you know she? she be in trouble through he, and he refuse to do

anything for she. I'm tell he have nietzschean idea. I send for the

girl. it be a very sad story and I have raise a subscription for she:

fifty pound to see she through. . . . do try and bring Mitchell to

reason."



"I'll do what I can," reply Mendel, and he walk on to pay his

daily homage to Van Eyck and Chardin, who be his hero at the time.



that evening at the Paris Café he hear of another subscription having

be raise for Hetty, and Calthrop growl and grumble and say he

have give she twenty pound.



Mendel reckon it up and he find that she be be pay for her

delinquency more than he could hope to receive for many month of

painful work.



as he finish his calculation he be amazed to see Mitchell come in

with Morrison, whom he have declare he could never face again, and

when Mendel rise to go over and join they she give he only a curt

little nod which tell he plainly that he be not want.







II



LOGAN



once again Mendel decide that Mitchell, and with he London life, have

fall away from he. the Paris Café could never be the same again,

and he plunge into despair, and think seriously of accept a

jewish girl with four hundred pound whom a match-maker offer to

he. four hundred pound be not to be sneeze at. it would keep he

go for some year, so that he need not think of sell his

picture, which he always hate to part with. and the girl be just

bearable.



the figure delight his father and mother, for it show they the

high opinion of their wonder-son hold among their own people.



it be terrible to he to find that he have very little pleasure in his

work, which very often give he excruciating pain. he take it to mean

that he be come to an end of his talent. night after night he sit

on his bed feel that he must make an end of his life, but always

there be some piece of painting that he must do in the morning,

painful though it might be.



he have letter from Mitchell, but do not answer they, and at last

"the schoolboy," as Golda call he, turn up, gay and smile and

rather elated.



"I've discover a great man," he say with the awkward, jerky gesture

he use in his more eloquent moment. "absolutely a great man. remind

I of Napoleon. wonderful head, wonderful! his name be Logan--James

Logan--and he want to know you. he be a painter, and absolutely

independent. he come from the North--Liverpool or one of those

place. I haven't see his work, but I meet he at the Pot-au-feu the

other night. he ask I if I be not a friend of your, as he think

he have see I with you. he say: 'kühler be the only painter of

genius we have.' I spend the evening with he. I never hear such

talk. it make the old Detmold seem like a girl' school. . . . Hallo!

still-life again? what a rum old stick you be for never go outside

your four wall!"



"what I paint be inside I, not outside," say Mendel, tremble with

rage at Mitchell look at his work before he have offer to show it.



"will you come and see Logan?"



"no. I be sick of painter. I want to know decent people."



"but I promise I would bring you, and he admire your work. he be

poor too, as poor as you be."



"cann't he sell?"



"it ben't that so much as that he don't try. he say he have almost

despair of english painting until he see your work."



"how old be he?"



"a good deal old than we. twenty-six, I should think."



"why don't you just stick to I?" ask Mendel. "what more do you

want? why must you always go off on a new track? first it's Hetty

Finch, then it's Morrison, and now it's this new man. we be happy

enough by ourselves. why do you want anything more? I don't."



"you're use to live on dry bread. I'm not. I want butter with mine,

and jam, if I can get it."



"then get it and don't bother I to go chase after it. I want to

work."



"oh, rot! all that stuff about artist starve in garret be out of

date. it only happen because they couldn't find patron, but

nowadays there be dealer and buyer. . . . just look at the money

you be make."



"then why be this Logan poor?"



"he ben't know yet. he don't know the artist because he never go

to a London school. he be do quite well in the North, but throw it

all up because he couldn't stand live in such a filthy town. he have

a teaching job somewhere in Hammersmith, but he throw that up because

he want his time to himself."



"that sound as if painting mean something to he."



"do come and see he."



"oh! very well."



"I'll send he a wire and we'll go to-night."



they dine at the Pot-au-Feu, and later make the expedition to

Hammersmith, where they come to a block of studio surround by a

scrubby garden. these studio be large and well-keep and do not

tally with the description of Logan's poverty. still less do the

inside give any sign of it. there be a huge red-brick fireplace,

surmount by old brass and blue china, with great arm-chair on

either side of it: there be persian rug on the floor; two little

window be fill in with good stain glass, which Mendel know to

be costly; there be two or three large easel; and the wall be

hang with tapestry. the whole effect be deliberately and preciously

rich.



Logan, who have admit they to this vast apartment, rush back at

once to a very large easel on which he have a very small canvas, and

fall to work on it with a furious energy, dart to and fro and

stamp his right foot rather like the big trumpet man in a german

band. he be a medium-sized, plumpish man, with a big, strongly

feature face, big chin, and compress lip, and long black hair

brush back from a round, well-shape brow. he frown and scowl at

his work. a woman come out of a door and cross the studio behind

he. he hurl his palette into the air so that it sail up and fall

with a crash among the brass pot, and barked:--



"how can I work with these constant interruption? damn it all, an

artist must have peace!"



he fling his arm behind his back and pace moodily to and fro, with

his head down and his lip purse up _à la_ beethoven. he extend the

sphere of his pacing gradually so that he come near and near to

Mendel, yet without notice he. Mendel be tremendously excited and

impressed with the man's air of mystery and force. it be like

Calthrop, but without his awkwardness. Mitchell in comparison look

puny and absurdly young.



Nearer and near come Logan, and at last he stop and fix Mendel

with a baleful stare, and swing his head up and down three time.



"so you be Kühler?" he say.



Mendel open his lip, but to his astonishment no sound come out of

they. so desperately anxious be he not to cut a poor figure before

this remarkable man, and not to seem, like Mitchell, pathetically

young.



"good!" say Logan. "shake hand." and he crush Mendel's thin

finger together. "what I like about you," he go on, "be your sense

of form. design be all very well in its way, but quite worthless

without form."



Mendel, whose work be still three part instinctive, could not attach

any precise meaning to these expression, but he be well up in the

jargon of his craft and could make a good show.



"art," say Logan, "be an exact mistress. shall we go and have a

drink?"



he put on his hat and lead the two marvel youngster to a

public-house, where he become a different man altogether. the

compression of his lip relax, his eye twinkle and his face shine

with good humour, and he make they and the barmaid and the two or

three man who be shyly take their beer roar with laughter. he have

an extraordinary gift of mimicry, and tell story after story, many of

they against himself, most of they without point, but in the telling

exceedingly comic. Mendel sit up and bristle. it be to he half

shocking, half enviable, that a man, and an artist, should be able to

laugh at himself.



"if you'll give I free drink for a month," say Logan to the elderly

barmaid, "I'll paint your portrait. be you marry? . . . no? I'll

paint you such a beautiful portrait that it will get you a husband

inside a week."



"I'm not on the marrying lay," say the barmaid.



"terrible thing, this revolt against marriage," reply Logan, "and

bad luck on us artist. I'm always get baby leave on my

doorstep."



"what do you do with they?" say Mendel, believe he, and astonish

when the other roar with laughter.



"I keep the pretty one and sell they to childless mother. ah! Many's

the time I've go through the snow, like the heroine in a melodrama

take her child to the workhouse."



"oh! go on," titter the barmaid.



"certainly," say Logan. "come along."



as they leave the public-house he take Mendel's arm and said:--



"you have to talk to people in their own language, you know."



"yes," reply Mendel, though this be precisely what he know least of

all.



"why don't you go on the stage?" ask Mitchell.



"I have think of it. I think I might do well on the hall. there's a

life for you! on at eight in bethnal Green:--



    my old woman's get a wart on her nose;

    how she get it I will now disclose.



off again in a motor-car to the Oxford:--



    my old woman's get a wart on her nose.



off again to Hammersmith or Kensal Rise:--



    my old woman's get a wart on her nose.



my God! what a life! but I love the hall. they be all that be leave

of old England!"



his parody of the low comedian be so apt and his voice have such a

delicious roll that Mendel could not help laugh, and he begin to

feel very happy with the man.



Logan swing back to his serious mood and grip Mendel's arm tight

as he said:--



"you have a big future before you. only stick to it. don't listen to

the fool who want you to paint the same picture over and over again

with a different subject. there's more stuff in that one little

picture of your than in all the rest of the exhibition put together."



"do you think so?" say Mendel, flutter with excitement.



"I be amazed when I hear you have be to the Detmold with its

Calthrop and all the little Calthrops."



both the youngster be silent on that. they have often abuse the

Detmold, but with a profound respect in their heart, and both have

do their full share of imitate Calthrop.



when they reach the studio Mitchell suggest go, but Logan would

not hear of it. he drag they in and produce whisky and soda, and

keep they talk far into the small hour. his bounce energy keep

Mendel awake and alert, but Mitchell be soon exhausted and fall

asleep.



"shall we put he out of the way?" say Logan suddenly. "no one would

know, and the river be handy. he be too clean, too soft, and there be

too many like he. they be in the way of real man like you and I."



Mendel be appal to find that he could not defend his friend. all

the discontent of his wane friendship come rush up in he and he

begin to babble violently.



"he be a liar and a coward, and he will never be an artist because he

be too weak. he be not true. he be not good. I have trust he with

my secret and he tell. he be always ashamed of I because of my

clothe and because I have not be to Public School, and he be

jealous because when we meet woman they like I. he be soft and

deceitful with they, but I be honest, and they like that. I want he

to be my friend, but it be impossible."



"he be an Englishman," say Logan sepulchrally, with the air of a

Grand Inquisitor.



"ben't you an Englishman?"



"no, Scotch and French. these englishman have no passion, unless they

be mad like Blake. . . . no, no. we'll drop Mitchell overboard. we'll

make he walk the plank, and fish in the cavern of the sea shall

eat his eye."



Logan be begin to assume enormous proportion in Mendel's eye.

it seem that there be nothing the tremendous fellow do not know.

he begin to talk of genius and the stirring of the creative impulse,

and he give so powerful an account of Blake that Mendel begin to see

vision of heaven and hell. here be something which he could

acknowledge as large than himself without self-humiliation, and,

indeed, the large it loom the more swiftly do he himself seem to

grow. it be such a sensation as he have not know since the day

before his rapture with Sara. all that have intervene fall away. that

purity of passion return to he and, choose Logan for its object,

rush upon he and endow he with its own power and beauty. Logan

talk of Blake be to Mendel's innocence as rare as Blake, and he

adore he.



"I have almost give up art," say Logan; "I have almost give it up as

hopeless. how can there be art in a despiritualized country like this,

that let all its tradition rot away? I be just on the point of

toss up whether I should go on the stage or take to spout at the

street corner; for when a country be in such a condition that its

artist be stifle, then it be ripe for revolution. I be instinctive,

you know, like Napoleon. I feel that we be on the threshold of

something big, and that I be to have my share in it. I use to think

it would happen in art, but I despair of that. it seem to I that

art in this country could go doddering on for generation, and then I

think it need a political upheaval to push it into its grave. but

when I see your work, I say to myself: here be the real thing, alive,

personal, profound, skilled. I begin to hope again. and now that I

have meet you I feel more hopeful still, and, let I tell you, like

most painter, I don't find it easy to like another man's work."



Mendel be fire. tremble in every limb, he said:--



"it have be the dream of my life to find a friend who would work with

I, think with I, go with I, share with I, not quarrel with I

because I be not this, that, and the other, but accept I as I

be--a man who have no country, no home, no love but art."



"that," say Logan, with a portentous scowl and a downward jab of his

thumb, "be what I have be look for--some one, like yourself, who

be absolutely sincere, absolutely single-minded and resolute. the

spirit of art have bring we together. we will serve it together."



they shake hand like young man on the stage, and Logan fetch a deep

sigh of relief.



Mitchell wake up, saying:--



"Gawd! I've be asleep. have you two be talk? Gawd! it's two

o'clock."



"I'll walk home with you," say Logan. "we can keep to the river

nearly the whole way by go from side to side."



so they walk while the tide come up, suck and lapping, while the

red dragon' eye of the barge come swinge up on it, move up and

down in a slow, irregular rhythm. it be very cold and the sky be

thickly powder with star, whose pin-prick light be reflect in

the smooth water.



upon the dome of the young artist's vision that have before be black

with infinite space, star shine with a tender light. he be in

ecstasy, and seem to be skim above the ground, hardly touch

it with his foot. this long walk be like an exquisite dance, while

Logan's rolling be like a pipe. . . . often he sink into a dream

that he be upon a grassy hill in a mountainy place, he and his

friend, who play upon a pipe so mournfully yet gaily while he

dance, and from the tree fall silvery dewdrop and the song of

bird, which turn into penny as they reach the ground and roll

away down the hill.



both he and Logan be relieve when Mitchell, who have interrupt

they with inappropriate remark, turn aside at Vauxhall and vanish

into London.



"so much for Mitchell," say Logan. "you and I need sterner stuff. you

and I be spring from those among whom life be live bravely and

bitterly, and we have no use for its parasite. you and I will only

emerge from the bitterness on condition that we can make of life a

spiritual thing, for we be of those who seek authority. life have none

to offer we now, for all the form of life be break. neither above

we nor below be there authority, neither in heaven nor in hell. we

must seek authority within ourselves, in the marriage of heaven and

hell, in the consummation of good and evil, the two pole of our

nature. it be for we, the artist, to bring they together, to liberate

good and evil in ourselves, that they may rush to the consummation. we

be the priest and the prophet, and we must in no wise be false to

our vision."



Mendel could not fit all this in with his mood and his delicious

dream, and when it bring he back to his sober sense, he could not

see what it have to do with painting. however, Logan put thing right

by saying:--



"you be a poet. you be like Heine. I can see you with your little

Josepha the pale, the executioner's daughter. God rot my soul! it be

year since I have such inspiration as you have give I. I think there

must be jewish blood in I, for I can certainly understand you through

and through, and you have wake something in I that have always be

asleep. oh! we shall paint bonny picture--bonny, bonny picture."



"you must come to see I every day," say Mendel, "and every night we

will go out together, and I must introduce you to my mother, for she

too have good word."



Logan smack his lip as they enter the grimy street near

Spitalfields.



"Pah!" he say; "that's life, that is, good dirty life. I be litter

in a farm-yard myself and I like a good smell. . . . can you put I up

to-night? I don't mind sleep on the floor."



"you can have my bed," say Mendel, "and I will sleep downstairs on my

brother's sofa. please--please. do sleep in my bed."



Logan accept the offer and ask Mendel to stay with he while he

undress. he be unpleasantly fat, but strong and well-build.



he stay for a long time in front of the mirror.



"see that bulge on the side of my head?" he say as he turn.



Mendel look, and sure enough his head have a curious bulge on its

right side.



"I have ricket when I be young," say Logan, "and my skull must have

got push over. I expect that's what make I what I be--lop-sided. I

need you to balance I."



he get into bed, and Mendel, reluctant to leave he, sit at his foot

and devour he with his eye.



"surely, surely, now," he think, "all be perfect now. no more

disturbance, no more Mitchells, no more Hettys, and I shall do only

what I really wish to do."



he steal out into his studio, which be faintly light from the street

below, and it be as though it be fill with some vast spiritual

presence, and he imagine how he would work, urge on by this new

energy that come well up through all that he could see, all that he

could know, all that he could remember.







III



LOGAN sets to work



in the morning he be awaken by his sister-in-law, Rosa, shake he

and saying:--



"Mendel! Mendel! what be you do on the sofa? wake up! wake up!

there be some one in your studio."



the house be ring with Logan's voice chant the _Magnificat._

Mendel run upstairs and find he in bed with a box of cigarette and

the New Testament, that fatal book, on his knee.



"hello!" he say. "I hope I don't wake you up. I have be awake for

a couple of hour look at your work. I hope you don't mind. there's

a still-life there that's a gem, as good as Chardin, and even well,

for there's always something sentimental about Chardin--always the

suggestion of the old folk at home, the false dramatic touch, the

idea of the hard-work french peasant come in presently to eat the

bread and drink the wine. I think it's time you be write up in the

paper. it's absurd for a man like you to have to wait for success.

there's no artistic public in England, so you cann't be successful in

your own way. the british public must have its touch of melodrama. to

accept a man's work it must first have he shroud in legend. he must

be a myth. his work must seem to come from some supernatural source."



"I'll just run over and tell my mother you be here," say Mendel. "I

always have breakfast there, and then go for a walk while the studio

be dust."



"right you be! I'll be up in half a jiffy. can I have a bath?"



"no. there's no bath."



"very well; I can do without for once."



Mendel run round to Golda and tell she of the wonderful man who be in

his studio, and he describe the adventure of the previous evening.

Golda look scared and said:--



"what next? what next? good people sleep in their own bed."



"but this man be an artist and he talk like a book."



"talk be easy," say Golda. "but it take year to make a friend."



however, when Logan be bring to she she be polite to he and

rather shy. he tell she that fame be come to her son fast than

the wind.



"too fast," say she.



"it can never come too fast," reply Logan. "the thirst for fame be a

curse to an artist. let it be satisfied and he be free for his work. I

know, for I be very famous in my own town. I sicken of it and run

away. . . . I must congratulate you on let your son follow his

bent. I have to quarrel with my own people to get my way. I haven't

see they since I be fourteen."



"not your mother?" say Golda, greatly upset.



Logan see that he have make an awkward impression and hasten to put

it right by say lugubriously:--



"my mother be dead. she forgive I."



he allow that to sink in and be silent for a minute or two. then he

chatter on gaily and ask Golda to come and see he, and brag

about his studio and his work and his friend, and of a commission he

have to decorate a large house in a West end square. he talk so fast

that Golda understand very little of what he say, but she never take

her eye off he, and when he say good-bye, Mendel notice that she

do not bob to he as she do to Mitchell and Morrison and his other

polite friend. he take that to mean that she accept Logan as a

person above these formality.



for an hour they walk through the street and square of the East

End, Mendel proud to display the vivid scene he intend later on to

make into picture.



when they return to the studio Logan insist on see all the

picture and drawing again.



"be you in touch with any dealer?" he ask.



"Cluny have a few picture and a dozen drawing. he never do anything

with they."



"Hum!" say Logan. "dealer be mysterious people. they can only sell

thing that sell themselves. by the way, I be give up my studio in

Hammersmith. it be too far away. I shall come near in. Hammersmith

be all very well while I need isolation, but that be all over now."



"where shall you go to?"



"Bloomsbury, I think. I like to be near the British Museum. do you go

to the British Museum? I must show you round. it be no good go

there unless you know what to look for. by the way, I come out without

any money last night. can you lend I five pound?"



Mendel write a cheque and hand it to he shamefacedly.



"I want to pay a bill on my way home," say Logan. "I hate be in

debt, especially for colour."



"I get my colour from Cluny," say Mendel, "and he set they against

anything he may sell."



the irruption of money have depress he, and he begin to realize that

he be very tired. the spring of Rosa's sofa have bore into he and

prevent his get any real sleep.



he be not sorry when Logan go, after make he promise to meet he

at the Pot-au-feu for dinner.



* * * * *



he have a model come at eleven, but when she arrive he send she

away. he be sore and dissatisfied. the studio seem dark and dismal,

and he could not get enough light on to his work. he take it right up

to the window, but still there be not enough light, and his picture

look dull and dingy. his nerve throb and he be trouble in

spirit, for now his old dream of paint quietly among his own

people while fame gather about his name have suddenly become childish

and pathetic. he be ignorant, futile, conceited, a pigmy by the side

of the gigantic Logan, who would not wait upon the world, but would

compel its attention and shape it to his will. what have he say

artist be? priest and prophet? . . . how could a man prophesy

with a painting of a fish?



Downstairs he hear Issy come in for his dinner, and there be the

usual snarling row because Rosa cook so vilely. Mendel compare

Issy's life and his own: issy working day in, day out, earn just

enough to keep himself alive. why do he go on with it? why do he

keep himself alive? why do he not clear out, like Harry? there be no

pleasure in his life, neither the time nor the money for it. . . . a

wretched business.



but be it less wretched than this business of painting? there be

more money in painting, and that be all anybody seem to think of.

People want the same picture over and over again, and if he

consent to please they, his life would be just as poor a thing as

Issy's, except that he would have pleasure, and, through his friend,

an occasional taste of luxury. at good he could be polite and

gentlemanly, like Mitchell, bring no more to art and get no

more out of it than a boyish excitement, as though art be a game and

could give no more than a sensation of cleanliness, like a hot bath.



no, it would not do. it would not do.



it be a lie, too, to say that the Jews only care about money. when

they be overfe, like Maurice Birnbaum, they be like all the other

overfed people, but when they be simple and normal they be well

than the other, because they have always a sense of mystery and do

not waste themselves in foolish laughter.



that be where Logan be true. he could laugh, because all the

Christians laugh, but when it come to solemn thing he could talk

about they as though he be not half ashamed. Mitchell, for instance,

always shy away from the truth. why be he afraid of it? the truth,

good or bad, be always somehow beautiful, invigorate, and

release. all the pleasant thing that Mitchell care about Mendel

find stifle. nothing, he know, could make life altogether pleasant,

and all the falsehood which be use in that attempt be

contemptible. they strangle impulse and frankness, and without these

how could there be art?



in his unhappy dream Logan appear like a figure of Blake, immense,

loom prophetic, beckon to achievement and away from the chatter

and fuss of the world of artist.



yet behind Logan there be still the figure of Mitchell, young and

gay, and the idea of Mitchell lead to the idea of Morrison.



there be some wither flower on his painting-table, the last she

have send he. none have come since that evening in the Paris Café when

she have nod curtly to show he that he be not want.



he would not be thrust aside like that. he know himself to be worth a

thousand Mitchells. Logan have say that Mitchell be rubbish, and not

even in the eye of a slip of a girl would Mendel have Mitchell set

above himself. not for one moment be it tolerable. he would keep

Morrison to her promise and make she come to have her portrait

paint, and he would find out what there be in she that make he

remember she so distinctly and so clearly separate she from all other

girl. somehow the thought of she cool the intoxication in which he

have be leave by Logan. she offer, perhaps, another way out of his

present state of congestion and dissatisfaction. very clearly she

bring back to his mind the thrilling delight with which he have

work as a boy, and that be true, truer than anything else he have

ever know. . . . ah! if he could only get back to that, with all the

trick and cunning he have learn.



he would get back to it some day, but he must fight for it; with Logan

he would learn how to fight. Logan would lay his immense store of

knowledge before he, and give he book to read, and teach he how to

be so easy and familiar with idea, which at present only froth in

his mind like wave thin themselves out on the sea-shore.



he write an impassioned and insolent letter to Morrison command her

presence at his studio and inform she that he be worth a thousand

of her ordinary associate, and that she have hurt he, and that girl

ought not to hurt man of acknowledge talent. this letter cost he a

great deal of pain and time, because he be careful not to make any

slip in spelling or grammar. it be more a manifesto than a letter,

and he wish to do nothing to impair its dignity.



and all the time he be puzzle to know why he should care about she

at all. he be prepared to throw everything--his success, the Detmold,

his friend--to the wind to follow Logan, but Morrison he could not

throw away.



he decide at last not to send the letter but to go himself, and he

go to the Detmold just as the light be fade and he know she would

be leave.



she have go already, but he meet Clowes, who, he know, live with she.

he pounce on she and said:--



"you must come to tea with I."



"I'm afraid I . . ."



"you must! you must!"



she see he be very excited and she have hear story of his burst

into tear when he be thwart. in some alarm she consent to go

with he.



he lead she to a teashop, a horrible place that smell of dishwater and

melt butter, make she sit at a table, and burst at once into a

tirade:--



"you be Morrison's friend. will you tell I why she have avoid I?

she come to my studio once and she say she would come again. she send

I flower for three week, but she have send no more."



"she--she be very forgetful," say Clowes, who be long for tea but

do not dare to tell he to turn to the waitress, who be hover

behind he.



"but she nod to I as if she have hardly meet I before," say

Mendel.



"she be very shy," say clowe, frame the word "tea" with her lip

and nod brightly to the waitress. she add kindly:--



"I don't think send flower mean much with she. she give flower

to heap of people. she be a very odd girl."



"do she give flower to Mitchell?" he ask furiously, come at

last with great relief to the consume thought in his mind.



"yes," say clowe. "she be very unhappy about Mitchell and that Hetty

Finch affair."



"have he tell she then?"



"yes."



"why do he tell she?"



"I'm sure I don't know."



"I'll tell you," cry Mendel. "I'll tell you. to make himself

interesting to she, because he be not interesting. he be nothing. and

I will tell you something more. he have be tell her thing about

I to excuse himself. now, haven't he? . . . I can see by your face

that he have."



clowe could not deny it, and she find it hard to conceal her

distress. she be unused to intimate affair be drag out into

the open like this, and her modesty be shock. she have a pretty,

intelligent face, and she look for the moment like a startled hare,

the more so when she put her handkerchief up to her nose with a

gesture like that of a hare brush its whisker.



"very well, then," Mendel continue; "you can tell she you have see

I, and you can tell she that I shall come to explain myself. I hide

nothing, for I be ashamed of nothing that I do. I have no need to

excuse myself. I be not a gentleman one moment and a cad the next. and

you can tell Morrison that if I see she with Mitchell again I shall

knock he down."



"do please drink your tea," say clowe. "it be get cold."



Mendel gulp down his tea and hasten to add:--



"I be not boast. he be big than I be, but I know something about

boxing. my brother be nearly a prizefighter."



clowe begin to recover from her alarm, and his immense seriousness

strike she as very comic.



"do you know that Greta have cut her hair short?"



"her hair?" cry Mendel. "her beautiful hair?"



"yes. she look so sweet, but the boy call after she in the street.

all the girl be wild to do it."



"her hair? her beautiful hair? why?"



"oh! she get sick of put it up. she be like that. she suddenly

do something you don't expect."



"but she must look terrible!"



"oh no. she look too sweet. and if all the boy at the Detmold wear

their hair long, I don't see why the girl shouldn't wear theirs

short."



"my mother have her head shave when she marry," say he, "and she

wear a wig."



"why do she do that?"



"it be the custom. the woman show that she belong wholly to her

husband and make herself unattractive to all other man."



"what a horrible idea!"



"it be a beautiful idea. it be the idea of love independent of

everything else. that be why I think Morrison must have some reason

for cut her hair."



"when you know Greta, you will know that she don't wait for

reason."



"why do she like Mitchell?"



"she like nearly everybody."



"but she write to he."



"of course she do," say clowe, rather bored with his persistence.



"but she don't write to I."



"you don't write to she. you cann't expect she to fall at your foot."



as she say this Clowes realize his extraordinary Orientalism. she

could see he hold up his finger and expect a woman to come at

his bidding, and for a moment she be repel by he. but she be a

kind-hearted creature and feel very sorry for he, for he seem so

utterly at sea and be obviously full of genuine and painful emotion.



he detect her repulsion at once and perceive the effort she make to

conquer it, and be at once grateful to she, for, as a rule, when that

happen, people let it swamp everything else.



she said:--



"I'll tell Greta what you have say to I, and I be sure she will be

very sorry to have hurt you."



"I only want she to come and sit for her portrait. it be very

important to I, because I want to try new subject and there be some

lovely drawing in her face."



"but you mustn't knock Mitchell down. he be quite a nice boy, really,

only a little wild."



"he be rotten," say Mendel dogmatically.



* * * * *



he feel well, and until dinner-time he prowl about Tottenham Court

Road and Soho, a region of London that he particularly love--a

vibrant, nondescript region where innumerable stream of vitality meet

and fuse, or clash together to make a froth and a spume. it be

like himself, chaotic and rawly alive, compound of element that

know no tradition or have escape from it. he feel at home in it, and

elated because he be also conscious of be superior to it, yet

without the dizzy sense of superiority that assail he among his own

people, while he be never shock and humiliate, as he be sometimes

in sedate and prosperous London, by be make suddenly to realize his

external inferiority. he love the shop-girl hurry excitedly from

their work to their pleasure, and he sometimes speak to they in their

own slang, sometimes go home with they. . . . they always like he

because he never waste time over silly flirtatious joke or pretend

to be in love with they. his interest and curiosity, like theirs, be

purely physical, and his passion give they a delicious sense of

danger.



* * * * *



Logan be wait for he at the Pot-au-feu. there be no one else in

the restaurant but the goggle-eyed man in his corner. Logan be

sit Napoleonically with his arm on the table and his chin sink on

his chest, with his lip compress.



he nod, but do not get up.



"sorry if I'm late," say Mendel. "I go for a walk. I couldn't work

to-day. my sister-in-law's sofa--I feel as if I have be beat all

over."



"that's the walk home," say Logan. "I'm use to it. the hour I've

spend walk about this infernal London! I've sleep on the

Embankment, you know."



"no?"



"yes. I've be as far down as that, though I'm not the sort of man

who can be keep down. do you know that Napoleon be out-at-elbow for

a whole year?"



"no; I don't know much about Napoleon."



"ah! you should. I read every book about he I can lay hand on.

Gustave!"



the waiter come up and Logan order a very special dinner with the

air of know the very inmost secret of the establishment. he

demand orange bitter before the meal and a special brand of

cigarette.



"my day haven't be waste," he say. "I've be to Cluny's and I

ask to see your stuff. the little man there look astonished, but I

tell he people be talk of no one else but you, and quite

rightly. I talk to he from the dealer's point of view, and assure

he that there be a big boom in picture, come, and that he have

well be prepare for it with a handful of new man. I don't let he

know that I be a painter, but I get he quite excited, and I do not

leave he until he have hang a picture and two drawing."



"which picture?"



"the one of your mother's kitchen. it be one of your good. to-morrow

three man will walk into Cluny's and they will admire your work. on

the day after to-morrow a real buyer will walk in."



Mendel's eye grow large and large. be Logan a magician, that he

could direct human being into Cluny's shop and conduct they straight

to his work?



Logan laugh at his amazement.



"Lord love-a-duck!" he say, "you're not go to sit still and wait

for commercial fool to discover that you know your job. at my first

exhibition in Liverpool I put on a false beard and go in and buy

one of my own picture, just to encourage the dealer and the timid

idiot who be too shy to go and ask he the price of the drawing.

it work, and this be go to work too. when I've warm Cluny up

into sell you, then I'm go to make he sell I. if you don't

mind we'll have our name bracketed,--Kühler and Logan. People will

believe in two man when they willn't in one. as for three, you've only

get to look at the Trinity to see what they'll believe when they get

three work together. . . . oh! I forget you be a Jew and bring

up to believe in one be one and all alone."



he laugh and give a fat chuckle as he mimic the little man in

Cluny's cock his head on one side and pretend to take in the

beauty of Mendel's work as they be point out to he.



"I have enjoy myself," say Logan. "by God! I wish there be a

revolution. I'd have my finger in the pie. oh! what lovely leg

there'd be to pull--all the world's and his wife's as well. but it

willn't come in my time."



under Logan's influence Mendel begin to enjoy his food, which he have

always treat as a tiresome necessity before. he sit back in his

chair and sip his wine and crumble up his bread exactly as Logan

do; and he have a delicious sense of leisure and well-being, as though

nothing matter very much. and, indeed, when he come to think of it,

nothing do matter. he have year and year ahead of he, and here be

good solid pleasure in front of he, so that he have only to dip his

hand in it and take and take. . . .



after the dinner Logan order cigar, coffee, and liqueur, and

Mendel feel very lordly. the restaurant have fill up, and among the

rest be Mitchell and Morrison.



Mendel turn, give they a curt nod, and could not restrain a grin of

satisfaction as he think that score be settle. he lean forward

and give himself up to the pleasure of Logan's talk.



"what I contend," say Logan, "be this--and mind you, I let off my

youthful gas year ago. I've be earn my living since I be

fourteen, so I know a little of what the world's like. I've be in

office and shop, and on the land, in hotel, on the railway, on the

road as a bagman, from house to house as a tallyman, and I know what

I'm talk about. the artist be a free man, and therefore an outlaw,

because the world be full of timid slave who lie in the lap of

woman. if an artist be not a free man, then he be not an artist. and I

say that if the artist be outlaw, then he must use any and every

mean to get out of the world what it deny he. one must live."



"that's true," say Mendel.



"you may take it from I that there be less room in the world now for

artist than ever there be. in the old day you choose your patron and

he provide for you, as the Pope provide for Michael Angelo, and you

devote your art to whatever your patron stand for, spiritual power if

he happen to be a pope, secular power if he happen to be a duke or

a king. but, nowadays, suppose you have a patron--say, Sir Julius

Fleischmann--and he keep you alive, what on earth could you devote

your art to? you could paint his portrait, and his wife's portrait,

and all his daughter' portrait, but they'd mean nothing; they'd just

be vulgar man and woman. no. art be a big thing than any power leave

on the earth. money have eat up all the other power, and only art be

leave uncorrupted by it. art cannot be patronize. it cannot serve

religion, because there be no religion vital enough to contain the

spirit of art. there be nothing leave in the world worthy of such noble

service, and therefore art must be independent and artist must be

free, because there be no honourable service open to they. they must

have their own value, and they must have the courage of they. the

world's value be the value fit for the service of Sir Julius

Fleischmann, but they be not fit for man whose blood be stir with

life, whose mind be eager and active, man who will accept any

outward humiliation rather than the degradation of the loss of their

freedom."



"I meet Sir Julius Fleischmann. once," Mendel say. "he subscribe for

I when I go to my first School of Art. they want to send I to

Italy, but I refuse, because I know my place be here in London.

there's more art for I in the Tottenham Court Road than in all the

blue sky in the world."



"quite right, too!" cry Logan. "that show how sound an artist's

instinct be. he know what be good for he because he be a free man.

the other have to be tell what be good for they because they don't

know themselves and because, however unhappy they be, they don't know

the way out. when you and I be unhappy we know that it be because we

have lose touch with life, or because we have lose touch with art;

either the flesh or the spirit be choke with thorn, and we set about

pluck they out. when it be a question of save your soul, what do

moral matter?"



Mendel have hear people talk about moral, and he know that his own

be suppose to be bad; but he be not certain what they be. rather

timidly he ask Logan, who give his fat chuckle and replied:--



"moral, my son? no one know. they change about a hundred year after

human practice. they be different in different time, place, and

circumstance, and Sir Julius Fleischmann, like you and I, have none,

because he can afford to do without they. . . . well, I've do a good

day's work and we've have a good dinner, and I must get back to my

beautiful bed--unless you'd like to go to a music-hall."



Mendel be loath to let his friend go, and, weary though he be, he

say he would like the music-hall. Logan buy more cigar and they

walk round to the Oxford and spend the evening in uneasy and flat

conversation with two lady of the town, one of whom say she know

Logan, though he swear he have never see she before. when they be

shake off, he tell Mendel mysteriously that she be a friend of a

woman of whom he go in terror, who have be pursue he for a

couple of year.



"terrible! terrible!" he say. "like a wild beast. they're awful,

these prostitute, when they fall in love. it eat they up, body and

soul."



and he go on talk of woman, and from what he say it appear

that he be beset by they. he describe they lurk in the street for

he, force their way into his studio, clamour for love, love,

love.



"it make I sick," he say. "I never yet meet a woman who know how to

love. if a man have an enthusiasm for anything outside themselves, they

plot and scheme with their damnable cunning to kill it. they want the

carcase of a man, not the lovely life in it. and if they're decent

they want baby, which be almost bad if you're hard up. no, boy;

for God's sake don't take woman seriously. if you cann't do without

they, hate 'em. they'll lick your boot for it. they feed on hatred,

and will take it out of your hand."



he talk in this strain until they reach the Tube station in

Piccadilly Circus. it be unusually empty, and by the booking-office

be stand a very pretty girl, big and upstanding. she have a wide

mouth and curious slanting eye, plump cheek and a roguish tilt to

her chin. she be well and neatly dress, and Mendel judge she to be

a shop-girl.



"that's a fine lass," say Logan. "good-night, boy. I'll see you

to-morrow and tell you about Cluny's."



"good-night," say Mendel, still loath to see his friend go, and he

suffer a pang of jealousy as he see Logan go up to the girl, raise

his hat, and speak to she. she start, blush, and smile. they

stop and talk together for a few moment, and then move over

towards the lift.



Mendel wait and watch they, Logan talk gaily, the girl smile

and watch he intently through her smile. with her eye she take

possession of he, and Mendel be fill with misgive when he hear

Logan's fat chuckle and the rustle and clatter of the gate as the lift

descend. it remind he oddly of the Demon King and the Fairy Queen

in a pantomime he have once see with Artie Beech, whose father use to

get ticket for the gallery because he have play-bill in his shop

window.







IV



BURNHAM BEECHES



for Greta Morrison as for Mendel, London life have be open up

through Mitchell. he have be friendly and kind to she when everybody

else have be harsh, fault-finding, and indifferent. her first year

and a half at the hostel have be a period of misery, for the girl

and woman there regard she as odd, vague, and careless, and think

it their duty to impose on her the discipline she seem to need, for

they know nothing of her suffer through her ambition and her work.



like Mendel, she have be overwhelm by her inability to adapt

herself easily to the Detmold standard of drawing, for it be against

her temperament and her habit of mind to be precise, and drawing have

always be to she rather a trivial thing, though extremely pleasant

for the purpose of the caricature in which her tease humour find

an outlet. all her girlhood have be thrillingly happy in the

execution of large allegorical design, through which she seek to

express her delight in the earth--the immense serene power of which

she become profoundly aware as she lie in the bracken at home and

gaze out over the rich valley or up into the marvellous, quivering

blue sky, through which she feel that she be be bear without a

sound, without a tremor, irresistibly. nothing could shake that love

knowledge in she, and it hurt she that her mother's cold, self-centre

religion, which make her demand a fussy, sentimental attention from

her child, forbid all expression of it in her daily life. her

brother, revolt against the sentimentality exact of they,

treat all tenderness as ignoble rubbish, and in her rough-and-tumble

with they Greta be harden and force into independence. she have to

play their game with they and to suffer the same torture of

knuckle-drill, brush, dry-shave, and wrist-screw. but all their

swagger seem to her rather fraudulent; and because they laugh at

her allegorical design she decide that man be inferior being.

when they laugh at her design it be to she as though they laugh

at the beauty she have try to express in they, and the sacrilege

enrage she more than her mother's petulance, for they be young and

strong and full of life, and they should not have be blind. it be

against they that she first find relief in caricature, and as they

go through their Public Schools and be more and more compress

into type, she pillory they, and, as a consequence, even when she

be a young woman, big and fine, with the tender, delicate bloom of

seventeen upon she, she have to submit to the indignity of

knuckle-drill, brush, dry-shave, and wrist-screw.



she be fill with a horror of man, and especially Public School man,

for they seem to she entirely lack in decency, humility, and

honesty. they pretend to be so fine and ignore everything that be

fine than themselves. her brother' foolish love-affair disgust

she and make she suppress in herself every emotion that try to find

its way to a good-look boy or young man. she be not shy of they or

afraid of they, but she would not encourage in they what she so

detest in her brother.



during her first year in London she devote herself heart and soul to

her work. there be two or three family who be kind to she as her

mother's daughter, but their way be her mother's, and she only

visit they as a duty, and to break the monotony of the school and

the hostel.



her encounter with Mitchell take place at the time when Mendel's

influence on he have set he in revolt against his Public School

training. on the other hand, the sight of the abyss of poverty into

which Mendel descend so easily have set he reel. he be shrewd

enough to know that Hetty Finch be use he as a ladder to get out

of it, and that there be a real danger of her kick he down into

it. in a state of horrible confusion he plunge at the most obvious

outlet, the "pure girl" of the tradition of his upbringing.



he make no concealment of it, but turn to Morrison with a childlike

confidence that touch she. she be feel lonely, disappointed, and

dissatisfied with herself and be glad of his company. it be a change

from the woman-ride atmosphere of the hostel.



by way of make their relationship seemly he introduce she to his

family, where as the pure young girl who be to save their hope from

wild course she be a great success.



"first sensible thing you've do, my boy," say Mr. Mitchell, that

great man, a journalist who have be a correspondent in a dozen war.

"a pure friendship between a boy and a girl have a most ennoble

influence--most ennoble."



"she be truly spiritual," sigh Mrs. Mitchell, "the type who

justify the independence of the modern girl, whatever the Prime

Minister may say."



"that scoundrel!" cry Mr. Mitchell. "that infamous buffoon who have

not a grain of Liberalism leave in his toady mind!"



"my dear," say Mrs. Mitchell, "we be talk about little Miss

Morrison."



"well," answer Mr. Mitchell, "we take our risk when we let the boy

be an artist and we can be thankful it be no bad. do I tell you, my

love, that I be go off to the Cocos Islands to-morrow?"



"indeed, my dear? then you will not be able to come to my meeting."



"no, I hear it be bad than the Congo."



"oh dear! oh dear! I don't know what the world be come to. the more

civilized we get in one part of the world, the bad thing be in

another part. I declare such horrible thing seem to I to make it

quite unimportant whether we get the vote or not."



"when you have a Tory Government call itself liberal," say Mr.

Mitchell very angrily, "it mean that neither reform at home nor

justice abroad can receive any attention. the country have go to the

dog, and I thank God I spend most of my time out of it."



"and poor Humphrey suffer. I'm sure I be a good mother to he, but I

cannot be a father as well. I'm thankful to say he seem to be

drop that jewish friend of his. he be a genius, of course, and

quite remarkable, consider what he come from; but with Jews it can

never be the same, can it?"



"no, my love," say Mr. Mitchell; "one would never dream of drink

out of the same glass, would one? still, I must say, the Jews in

England be much well than they be anywhere else, which seem to

show that they can respond to decent treatment and thrive in the air

of liberty."



both Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell have a platform manner of speak, and as

Morrison be not a subject that suit it, she be soon drop; but

in the end they come back to she, and agree that she be a nice, shy

little girl, and that she have no idea of marry their only son, or

anyone else, for that matter.



she be much impressed with they, for she have never meet important

people before, and she be give to understand that they be very

important. they seem to have their finger on innumerable reform

which be only suppress by the stupidity of the Government.

directly the Government be remove, as of course such idiot soon

would be, Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell would raise their finger and, hey

presto! woman would have vote, the slum would be pull down,

maternity would be endow, prostitute would be save, prison would

be reform, capital punishment abolish, the work class would

be properly house, every able-bodied man who wish it should have

his small holding, the railway would be nationalize, site value

would be tax, divorce would be make easy and free from social taint,

and education would be make scientific and thorough. in the meantime,

as the Government do not budge, Mr. Mitchell go to the Cocos

Islands and Constantinople to procure evidence of horror abroad and

Mrs. Mitchell address meeting on the subject of horror at home.



Morrison be impressed. the contrast between these people who think

of everything and everybody but themselves and her own home, where

nothing be think of but the family, the Church, and the Empire,

shock she into thinking and give she a sense of liberation. it make

human being more interesting than she have think, and she begin to

see that they do not, as she have heedlessly accept that they do,

fit infallibly into their place, and that vast number have no place

to fit into. she herself, she see, do not fit into any place, and

that she have be squeeze, like paint out of a tube, out of her home

for no other reason than that she be a woman, and there be only just

enough money to establish the boy. however, she could not quite

swallow Mrs. Mitchell's view that man have deliberately, coldly, and of

set purpose oust woman from their rightful share in the sweet of

life.



she have a period of despair as these revelation sink into her mind

and she have to digest Mrs. Mitchell's awful fact and statistic about

the night-life of London. Life seem too terrible for her power,

but, as she soon begin to see how comic Mrs. Mitchell be, she pull

herself together and find that she be strengthen by the

experience, and when Mitchell confess the awful doing of his past,

she feel immeasurably old than he, and be thankful she be a woman

and do not expect such thing of herself. for she could never quite

take his word for all he say. she know her brother too well to

accept his plea of passionate necessity.



"Gawd!" he use to say. "when I think of my past I feel that I must go

on my knee and worship your purity."



his absurdity make her blush, but she like he. he be clever and have

read much under his father's guidance, poetry and modern English

fiction mostly, and when she go to tea with he in his studio he

use to read aloud to she, Keats and Shelley and Matthew Arnold.



"I think I only like poetry," she say once, "when it make picture.

when it don't do that it seem to I just word, and it don't seem

to matter how nice they sound."



"Gawd!" he say. "that's like Kühler. he say nothing make such

picture as the Bible, and he be always quote that about: 'at her

foot he bow, he fall, he lie down: where he fall, there he lie

down.' and he say it must be the word, because his own Hebrew Bible

never give he anything like the same--er--vision of it."



once he have begin to talk of Mendel she would not let he leave the

subject.



"do you think he's a genius?" she would ask.



"Gawd! I don't know. he say he be a genius, and I suppose time will

show whether it be true or not. but why do you want to talk of he?"



"I don't know. I'm interested. perhaps because he be different."



"well, you've have tea with he. that be about as much as be good for

you. if you be my sister I wouldn't let you know he."



"why not?"



"my dear girl, there be certain thing in life that a young girl

ought never to know."



"what thing? be there anything bad than what your mother talk

about at her meeting? girl know all about that nowadays, and it be

no good pretend we don't."



"talk about they be one thing, come in contact with they be

another. kühler be a Jew, and he come from the East End, where they

don't have any decent pleasure. he's infernally good-look in a

hurdy-gurdy sort of way. Gawd! woman look at he and off they go."



"but he care for poetry and the Bible and he love picture. . . ."



"it don't seem to make any difference."



during this talk he have begin to find Morrison extraordinarily pretty

and lovable, and he say tenderly:--



"willn't you take off your hat and let I see your beautiful hair?"



she refuse, and ask he more about Mendel, and in exasperation at

the unintended snub he tell she the true story of Hetty Finch, not

conceal his own share in it, but imply that Mendel's terrible

immorality have corrupt he and lead to his downfall.



the story be receive in silence.



at last she said:--



"and what be go to become of Hetty Finch?"



"that's the extraordinary part of it," say Mitchell. "she have find

someone to marry she."



he lean against the mantelpiece and drop his head in his hand

and groan.



"Gawd!" he say. "if it ben't for you I don't know what would become

of I." and he be so move by his own thought that tear trickle

down his nose and make dark spot on the whitened hearth.



"I cann't ask you to marry I," he say mournfully. "I'm unworthy, but

I want to be your friend."



she make no reply, and he be force to ask rather lamely:--



"will you be my friend?"



"of course."



"always?"



"how can I promise that?" she say.



it be then that he take she to the Paris Café, where, all in a

turmoil through her new knowledge of man and woman, she hardly know

what she be do, and give Mendel the curt nod which have so

disgruntle he.



* * * * *



every summer the detmold student go for a picnic, either up the

river, or to a Surrey common, or to one of the forest in the vicinity

of London. this year Burnham Beeches be choose. two charabanc meet

the party at Slough, and though Mendel try very hard to sit next to

Morrison, he be outmanoeuvre by Mitchell, and have to put up with

clowe.



"I wish you wouldn't glare at Mitchell so. you make I quite

uncomfortable," say she.



"he be tell she lie about I," growl Mendel.



"don't be absurd," protest clowe. "he be not talk about you at

all." she feel rather cross with he because he be spoil she

pleasure, and because she have want to sit next someone else, and she

add: "People ben't always talk about you, and if anybody do

it's the model, and that's your own fault."



"how beastly!" he say.



"I don't blame they. they haven't any other interest."



"I don't mean that. I mean this country. it be so flat and dull,

regular railway scenery. what a place to choose for a picnic!"



"wait until you get to the wood! we're go to a place call Egypt.

don't you think that's romantic? though it remind I more of Oberon

and Titania than of Anthony and Cleopatra."



he look blank, and she explained:--



"Shakespeare, you know."



"I've never read Shakespeare."



"oh! you should."



"I've try, but I cann't understand he. I suppose it's because I'm

not english. it seem ridiculous to I, all those plot and murder."



"but the fairy in the 'Midsummer Night's Dream'!"



"I haven't read it; but what do you want with fairy? a wood's a

wood, and there's quite enough mystery in it for I without pretend

to see thing that ben't there."



"but it's nice to pretend," say Clowes rather lamely, almost hate

he because he seem so wrong in the country. she know people like

that, people she be quite fond of in London, but in the country they

be awful.



the charabanc swing through Farnham Royal and they come in sight of

the wood, brilliant under a vivid blue sky patch with huge, heavy

white cloud. bird hover above the tree, and as they turn out of

the street of seaside bungalow and along the sandy lane lead to

Egypt, they put up rabbit and pheasant.



the art student look bizarre and almost theatrical in the wood,

with the long-haired young man and the short-haired girl, many of

they wear the bright colour. Mendel hate the lot of they,

giggle girl and bounce boy, and he recognize how inappropriate

they all be and how he himself be the most inappropriate of they

all. he feel ashamed, and want to go away and hide, to crawl away to

some hole and gaze with his eye at the beauty he could not feel.

there be too many tree, as there be too many people. . . . what a

poor thing be a man in a crowd which make it impossible to share his

thought and emotion with anyone! and how bitter it be when he be

full of thought and emotion! it be all so bitter that the crowd must

do foolish, inappropriate thing not to feel it, not to be break up

by it. . . . yet the other seem happy enough. the old Professors

be beam and pretend to be young. perhaps they enjoy it more

than anyone because they do not want to be alone, or to steal away

with a coveted maid, as some of the young man be do even now.

. . . have Mitchell steal away with Morrison? horrible idea! no. there

he be, put up stump for cricket.



Cricket! how Mendel loathe that fatuous game, the kind of

inappropriate foolish thing the crowd always do! how he dread the

swift hard ball that would hurt his hand or his shin! how humiliate

he feel when he be out: and how he rage against the frantic

excitement he could not help feel when he hit the ball and make a

run. one run seem to he a large score than anyone else could

possibly make, and when he make a run and be on the win side he

always feel that he have win the match. in the field, no matter where

he be place, he go and stand by the umpire, because he have notice

that the ball rarely go that way.



he have to field now, and he go and stand by the umpire. Mitchell

came swagger in. he hit a lovely four, a three, a two. the fielder

change at the over, but Mendel stay where he be. the ball come

near he. he pick it up and throw it as hard as he could at

Mitchell's head. fortunately he miss, and there be a roar of

laughter.



"I say, I mean to say," say one of the Professors, "we be not

play rounder or--or baseball."



and there be more laughter.



Mitchell hit a three, a two, a lost ball (six), a four, and then he

ski one. the ball go soar up. with his keen sight Mendel could

see it clearly shine red against the hot sky. with an awful sinking

in his stomach he realize that it be come down near he. it be

come straight to he. it would fall on he, hurt he, stun he. then

he think that if he catch it Mitchell would be out. he never lose

sight of the ball for a moment. if he catch it Mitchell would be out.

he move back two pace, open his hand, and the ball fall into

they.



"oh! well catch, indeed! well catch!"



Mitchell walk away from the wicket swinge his bat in a deprecating

fashion. after all, one do not expect miracle even in cricket.



"beautiful, beautiful ball!" think Mendel, fondle it with his

still tingle hand. "you come to I like a lark to its nest, and you

shine so red against the sky, you shine so red, so red!"



his dissatisfaction vanish. the crowd be a nice beast after all. it

be at his foot. at no one else have it shout like that. . . . the

wood be very beautiful, with the bracken nod under the tree,

and the branch sway, and the soft wind murmur through the

leave, through which the tree seem to breathe and sigh and to envy

the move wind while they be condemn to stay and grow old in one

spot. very, very sweet be the green and yellow and blue light

hover and swinge through the wood, dapple the trunk of the

tree, weave an ever-change pattern on the carpet of moss and dead

leave, and the tufte bracken that sometimes almost look like the

sea, full of a life of its own. surely, surely there be fish

swimming in the bracken.



start out of his dream, he see Morrison at the wicket, very

intent, with a stern expression on her face. he know she be

desperately anxious to score.



she be most palpably stumped with her second ball, but the umpire

give she "not out," amid general applause, for she be a favourite.



she lash out awkwardly at the next ball, which come on the leg side.

it come towards Mendel at an incredible speed. he put his foot on it,

pick it up, pretend it have pass he, and tear towards the tree

in simulated pursuit; and he remained look for it in the bracken

while Morrison run four, five, six, seven, eight, and just as some one

cry "Lost ball!" he stoop, pretend to pick it up, and throw it

back to the bowler.



he himself be bowl first ball, but, as it turn out, Morrison's

side win by three run.



she be bubble over with happiness, and after tea she come over to

he and said:--



"I say, Kühler, that _be_ a good catch."



he fold his arm and cock his chin and look down his nose as he

said:--



"oh! yes. I can play cricket."



"you make a blob," she say with a grin.



"a catch like that," he answer, "be enough for one day. I have see

many word write in the paper about a catch like that. even

Calthrop do not have so many word write about his picture."



"I shall hate to go back to London after this," she say. "I don't

know there be anything so beautiful near London."



"there be Hampstead," he say.



"I've never be there," she reply.



"will you let I take you to Hampstead? it have lily and water."



"oh yes," she say eagerly. "do let we go into the wood now before we

start. I'm sure there must be lovely place."



he follow she, first look round to see what have become of

Mitchell, whom he see stand with a scowl on his face, a foolish

figure.



"don't talk!" say Morrison. "I'm sure it be lovely through here."



she lead the way through a grove of pine into a beech glade, at the

end of which they find a dingle, where they stand and gaze back.



"oh, look!" she cry. "look at the pine stem through the sea-green

of the beech. purple they be, and don't they swing?"



"I like the wind in the tree," say Mendel.



he see that there be tear in her eye, and he catch some of her

ecstasy. but he could not understand it at all and it hurt he

horribly. she be wonderful and beautiful to he, the very heart of

all that loveliness, the song of it, its music and its mystery.



"she be only a little girl," he say to himself very clearly, stamp

out the word in his mind, so that it be as though someone else have

speak to he.



the ecstasy grow in she, and with it the pain in he. she sway

towards he and fall against his breast and raise her lip to he. he

stoop and almost in terror just touch they with his.



he be a sorry prince for a sleep beauty, for he be afraid lest

she should awake.







V



HAPPY hampstead



on the morning of the day fix for their expedition to Hampstead

heath she send he rose--yellow rose. he take they across to his

mother and give they to she, saying:--



"I do not need flower. I be happy."



Golda laugh at he, and said:--



"you be a big little man since you make the catch at the cricket."



"I don't know what it be, but I be happy. it be no long surprising

to I that there be happy people in the world, and I think the

Christians be not all such fool to wish to be happy. I be only

astonish that they be happy with such little thing."



"it be nothing," say Golda. "they be not truly happy; they be only

hide away from themselves."



"but I be find myself," cry Mendel. "I shall no more paint fish

and onion. I shall paint only what I feel, and it will be beautiful.

I be so clever I can paint anything I choose."



"go to your work now," say Golda. "you can boast as much as you

please when the King have send for you and tell you you be the

great artist in England. go to your work."



he go back to his studio and there find a letter from Logan, give

his new address in Camden Town, and another from Mitchell, ask he

why he be so unfriendly. this he answer at once:--



"you be no long my friend. you have despise and injure I.

Superior as I be to you, you have think it your part as a gentleman

to try to keep I in my place. you have treat I as a kind of

animal. you cannot see that as an artist I be the equal of all man,

the high and the low. my own poor people I do not expect to know

this, but of an educate man I do expect it. you cannot see this, and

I count you lower than the low, and as such I be prepared to know

you, and not otherwise. I have change completely. I no long believe

in the Detmold or in Calthrop or in any of the thing I reverence as

a student. I prefer the Academy, for it do not pretend to be

advanced, and be honest though asleep. I be no long a student. I be

an artist. you will always be an art student, and so I say good-bye to

you, as one say good-bye to friend on a station-platform. the train

move and all their affectionate memory and longing cannot stop it.

the train move and I be in it, and I say good-bye to you without even

look out of the window."



this do, he sit down to work at a portrait of his father and mother,

with which he be design to eclipse his first exhibit success.

it seem to he important that it should be finish. hear Issy

come in, he shout to he to come and sit instead of his father, who

have give out that he be unwell and be indulge in a sleep bout.



Issy come shamble in, pale, tired, and unhappy. he sit as he be

tell, and said:--



"I wish Harry would come back; the business be be too much for I."



"oh! I shall soon be rich and then I'll help you."



"there's not much help for I," say Issy. "I'm like father. there's

always something against I to keep I down. it seem funny to I that

people will give you so much money for something they don't really

want."



"come and look at it," say Mendel.



Issy obey.



"I don't think it's really like they. why should anybody buy they who

don't know they?"



he speak so heavily and dully that Mendel find it hard to conceal his

irritation. when Issy have go back to his chair, he asked:--



"what do you live for, Issy?"



"live?" say Issy, mystify.



"yes. what do you like well in the world?"



"playing card. play card. every day there's work and every night

there's Rosa, and on Saturday I play card. yes. I play card; and, of

course, you be always something to think about."



"what do you think about I?"



"oh! you will be rich and famous, and you will be able to choose among

all the girl with money. it be like have a play always go on in

the family. but I would rather play card, and Rosa be not so bad as

you all say she be. I be not a good husband to she, for I have mood

and I cannot talk to she, for I cannot talk to anyone. what be there

to say? she have her child, and she only want more because she be a

fool. it be not her fault."



"that'll do, Issy. I've get all I want. I cann't get any more from you.

some day I'll teach you how to be happy."



"oh!" say Issy, with a sly leer. "I know how to be happy. I cann't see

why anyone should want to have father and mother hang on their

wall."



he slunk away.



how depressing he be! poor old issy! as much a part of the street as

the door and window of the house. he might move a hundred yard to

another exactly similar street, but he would always be the same. it

be not his fault. Mendel know the depth of devotion of which his

brother be capable. it be devotion to his mother that keep he

living round the corner, devotion to his father that tie he to the

unprofitable business. the name of Kühler have attain the dignity of

a brass-plate on the front door, and he would die rather than see it

remove, at any rate in his father's lifetime.



for the first time Mendel face his circumstance squarely. with

something of a shock he think of the family arrive at Liverpool

Street and never in all these year move more than half a mile away

from it, and that in this amazing London, with its train and bus to

take you from end to end of it in a little over an hour. his mother

have never be west of the Bank. she do not even know where

Piccadilly Circus be, or the Detmold, or the National Gallery, or the

Paris Café, or Calthrop's studio, or any other important centre of

life. Liverpool Street she know, and outside Liverpool Street be the

sea and Austria. . . . when there be no little happening at home

she would always fall back on Austria and the troubled day at the

inn, and the soldier who use to come in and ask to see the beautiful

baby before they think of order drink, and her rich uncle who

use to supply the barrack with potato and be so mean that he

refuse to give she any when she have not a penny in the world, and the

neighbour who use to bring food so that the beautiful baby should

not starve. . . . they stay where they be, stormily passionate,

yet with no sense of confinement, while he be draw off into the

swiftly move whirligig of London, go from house to house, studio

to studio, café to café, atmosphere to atmosphere, and all his

passionate storm be spend upon nothing, be absorb in the

general movement, leave he, tottering and daze, in it, yet alien

to it, discover no soul in it all and lose the clear knowledge of

his own.



surely now that be end. she have send he the yellow rose, and he

have give they to his mother to join the two whom he love. they must

have touch her face before they come to he, and Golda have bury

her face in they.



impatiently he await the time for he to go to the Detmold. he put

on a clean collar and a black coat, but then he remember how the old

Jews whom he ask to sit for he always put on clean clothe and

clip their beard, under the impression that he want to

photograph they. in his clean collar and black coat he feel as though

he be go to the photographer's or to a wedding, and remember

how he have be dress when he see she for the first time on the

stair, he take out an old black shirt, a corduroy coat and trouser,

and a red sash.



he could not bring himself to wear the red sash. it remind he of

Mitchell, who have be with he when he buy it.



* * * * *



it have be very hot. the wall and the pavement give out a dry,

stifle heat. the smell of the street outside come up in wave--a

smell of woman and baby, leather and kosher meat. he must wait for

the cool weather, he think, before he ask she to the studio again.



"she be only a little girl," he say to himself. "she be pretty, but

she be only a little girl. I will tell she that she must not see

Mitchell again, because he be not true. I will paint her portrait, and

then I will not see she again, because she be only a little girl."



he sit in the window with the clock in front of he, and directly it

say half-past four he clap his hat on his head, seize the

silver-knob stick which at that time be an indispensable part of

an artist's apparel, and bolt as though he be late for a train.



* * * * *



she be wait for he. he take off his hat, but in his nervousness

he could not speak, and as he could not remember which side of a lady

he ought to walk, he bewilder she by dodge from one side to the

other with a quick, catlike tread, so that she do not hear he, and

whenever she turn to speak to he he be not there.



"ben't it a good picnic!" she say enthusiastically. "it's the good

picnic I've ever be to."



"they be usually pretty good," he say lamely. "I think we'd well

go by bus."



they mount a bus and sit silently side by side.



when they stop by the Cobden statue he said:--



"a friend of mine have just take a studio in Camden Town. his name be

Logan."



"be he at the Detmold?"



"no."



that settle Logan for she. she begin to feel anxious. be the

afternoon go to be a failure? why could she never, never get the

well of her shyness? she want to make he happy because, on the

whole, people have be beastly to he and say such horrid thing

about he. she want he to feel for himself, and not only through

she, that the world be a very wonderful place, a place in which to be

happy. he be so stiff and different, so taut and tightly string up,

that lounge, loose-limbe Mitchell seem graceful compare with

he. yet there be something unforgettable about he, and he have

always have for her the vivid romantic reality of the beautiful young

man on the stage, who be creature of a delicious, absurd world

which she would never enter and never wish to enter: a world where

young man open their arm and young woman sink into they and be

provide with happiness for ever and ever. her vigour reject this

world, for she know and live in a well, but all the same it have its

charm and its curious reality. . . .



she be not shy because she have kiss he. that have pass with the

shifting light through the tree and the cloud in the sky. it have

be vivid and true for that moment, but it have perish and fall

away like a drop of water, like a rainbow.



he remember it. as he sit by her side and could feel the warm life

in she, it become terribly actual to he, the cool contact of her

lip, and he be glad when the bus reach the yard with the paint

swing-boat and he need no long sit by her side. he have begin to

feel subservient to she, and he would not have that. what Rosa be to

Issy, what Golda be to his father, that should a woman be to he, for

it be good and decent so. . . . he be almost sorry he have come. he

be painfully shy, and know that she be suffer under it.



he walk so fast that she be hard put to keep up with he, but she

swing out and would not be beat, and manage his pace without lose

her breath. over to the woode side of the heath he take she, and

stop under a chestnut-tree.



"shall we sit down?" he say. "or would you like to go on walk?"



"I'd like to sit down," she answer. "I love walk, but I cann't

talk at the same time."



he sit down at once, without wait for she to choose a spot.



"this grass be nice and cool," he say.



it be wet, but he have no thought for her thin cotton frock.



she sit a couple of yard away from he on the short turf and plunge

her arm into the long, cool grass. then she lie on her stomach and

pluck a blade of grass and chew it.



"thank you for send I the rose. I give they to my mother."



"I like your mother."



"she like you. she say: 'that be a good girl.' she be very quick at

guess what people be like."



"I'm glad she like I."



once again conversation die away, but she seem content to lie there

with her arm in the cool grass. their round slenderness fascinated

he. her short hair hang over her face, so that he could only see the

tip of her chin.



suddenly he ask her:--



"do you send flower to Mitchell?"



"yes," she say, and her head be lower so that the tip of her chin

be hide by her hair.



he say nothing, but he too lie on the grass, flat on his stomach,

with his head on his arm. his heart begin to thump, and, though he

try to control it, it would not be still. without raise his head

he say, in a choke voice that astonish him:--



"my father faint for love of my mother. when he hear her name he

faint away."



she say nothing, only in the long grass her finger be still. her

white hand in the grass fascinate he, hold his eye transfix, the

green blade come up through the white finger that be so still.

he stare at they as though they be some strange flower, and for he

they have nothing to do with she at all. he draw himself near to they,

never take his eye off they--white and green, white and green and

pink at the finger-tip. he must touch they. they be cool, soft, and

firm, soft as the petal of a rose.



he grasp they like a child seize a pretty toy, but when they be

in his grasp he be no long like a child. a single impulse thrill

through all his body and make it strong even as a giant. with one easy

swing of his arm he pull she to he, hold she with a vast

tenderness, and hold she so, gaze into her face. her lip part,

and he kiss they. . . .



it be she who first find words:--



"oh Mendel! I do love you."



he be amazed at his own strength, at his own tenderness. . . . so

that be a kiss! and this, this, this be love! it be incredible! how

sweet and easy be his emotion. he be as free and light as the wind

in the leave.



she have slip from his arm, but she be singe through all his

vein, she and no other, she and nothing else in the world. and he be

in she, perfectly, beautifully aware of her body and of the ecstasy in

it, of the tree above they, of the dove-colour cloud, of the cool

green grass, of the yellow earth crumble out of the mound yonder,

and of the ecstasy in they all.



so for many moment they lie in silence, until as suddenly as it have

come his strength leave he, and he break into a passionate babble of

words:--



"you must not send flower to Mitchell, because he cannot love you and

I can. he know nothing, and I know a great deal. I know woman and the

way of woman, for many have love I, but I have love none but you.

no woman have be my friend except my mother. I do not look for any

woman to be like my mother. I be not an Englishman who can love with

pretty word. I love, and it be like that tree, grow silently until

it die. it have steal on I as softly as the night, and I sink into

it as I sink into the night, to sleep. it be as though the dark night

be suddenly fill with star and all the star have become flower

and pour their honey into my thought. when your white hand be in

the grass they be like flower and they seem to belong to I, as

all beautiful thing belong to I because I can love they."



she come near to he and lay her hand on his, and she said:--



"I be very, very happy."



and she laugh and added:--



"I _be_ glad when you make that catch."



he be beyond laughter. for he laughter be for trivial thing. she

have stop the flow of his thought, the rush of his emotion up into

his creative consciousness. wave upon wave of passion surge through

he, rack he, torture he, toss his soul this way and that,

threaten to hurl it down and smash it on the hardness of his

nature. he set his tooth and would not wince. if she could laugh she

could know nothing of that. she be shallow, she be young. . . . be

it because he be a Jew that he seem so old compare with she? . . .

what be it she lack that she could laugh and leave he to the

torment she have provoke?



but she be aware of the curious blankness that have come over his end

of their twilight silence, and she suffer from it, think: "be I

an awful woman? can I give nothing?" and she turn to he to give,

and give all the rare treasure of her soul, of her heart, to lay they

before he for his delight. but what she have already give have let

loose a storm in he that blot out all the beauty of the scene, all

the loveliness of their love, the gift and the taking of it, and leave

he with only the dim light of her purity.



soon the storm pass and they have nothing but an easy delight in each

other's company, each turn to each as to a warm fire by which to

laugh and talk and make merry.



he tell her story of his childhood, of his brother and his father,

and Mr. Kuit, the thief, who have buy he his first suit; of his

childish joy in painting, and there he stop short. of his misery he

be unable to speak.



"you do believe in yourself," she say.



"why not?" he reply; "I be a man. when I hold my hand before my

eye they be real. they be flesh and blood. I must believe in they.

and I be all flesh and blood. I must believe."



"and everything else be real to you."



"everything that I love be real. and what I do not love I hate, so

that be real too."



they wander about the heath until night come and the star shine,

and then they plunge into the glitter of London, where all people and

thing be deliciously fantastic and comic, flat and kinematographic,

as though, if you walk round to the other side, you would discover

that they be paint on one side only. it give they the glorious

illusion of be the only two live people in the world, for they

and only they have love since the world begin, and all the other

lover be only people in a story, live happily ever after or

come to an end of their love, neither of which could happen to they

because they be, always have be, and always would be in love.



they dine at the Pot-au-Feu, where they encounter Mitchell, who have

the effrontery to come and speak to they. he be very friendly and

speak as though nothing have happen. they tell he they have be to

Hampstead and recommend he to try it when he find London too

stuffy.



when he have go away, Morrison said:--



"I be go away soon."



"go away? but you mustn't go away."



"I have to go next week. my mother have fit of anxiety about my being

in London every now and then, and she drag I off home. she have get

one of they now. she cann't see that if any harm be go to happen

to I it would have happen during my first year, when I don't know

anything and be very lonely. I don't think I'm very real to she,

somehow."



she give a little shiver of distaste at the thought of go home.



"but you mustn't go away," say Mendel. "I want you, always."



"and I want to be with you, but if I refuse to go home now, I should

have to go for always, for I should have no money."



he be plunge into a dejected silence, and with hardly a word more he

take her home.



* * * * *



they have a whole week of this warm happiness. he abandon every other

thought, every other pursuit, every other friend. he put aside his

work to paint her portrait, and she come every day to his studio. at

night he hardly sleep at all for his longing for the next day to come

and bring she to his studio, that now seem immense, airy, ample even

for such a giant as he feel. . . . he adore she even when she

laugh, even when she tease he. he even learn occasionally to

laugh at himself. it be worth it to see the amazing happiness he give

she.



one morning as he be paint she, he said:--



"I cann't believe you be go away."



"it be true, more's the pity."



"but you be not go, for I will marry you."



he say this in a matter-of-fact tone as he go on with his painting.

the picture be come on well and he be pleased with it. he step

back and look at it from different angle. it seem a long time

before she make the expect matter-of-fact reply, and he look up at

she. she be hang her head and pluck at her skirt nervously. she

hear he stop in his work, and she replied:--



"I don't . . . think . . . I want to marry you, Mendel. I don't . . .

think . . . I want to marry anybody."



"I'm make plenty of money and I can get commission for portrait. I

could make it up with Birnbaum. we could go to Italy together."



"don't make it hard for both of we, Mendel. . . . I don't want . . .

to marry."



"you will go back home, then?"



"please . . . please . . ." she implore he.



a fury begin to rise in he. he stamp his foot on the ground and

strike his brush across the picture. he make a tremendous effort to

recover himself, but before he could say another word she have slip

through the door and be go. he dart after she, and reach the

front-door just in time to see she run as hard as she could down

the street and round the corner.



just as he be, in his shirt-sleeve, hatless and collarless, he go

in to see his mother. he be white-hot with rage, and he walk up to

she and look she up and down as though he be try to persuade

himself that she be to blame.



"what do you think the news be now?"



Golda put her hand to her heart and look at he fearfully as she

shake her head.



"I've be refuse," he say, "refuse by the christian girl."



"refuse!" cry Golda, who have never hear of such a thing as a girl

refuse to marry a rich young man.



"yes. I propose to she and she refuse."



"the Christians be all alike," say Golda. "they keep themselves to

themselves, and you must do the same."



she take a smoked herring from the cupboard and cut it into portion.



"and when your time for marry come you must look among the Jews,

for the Jews be good people. no jewish girl would serve you a trick

like that. jewish girl know that they must marry and they be good.

but she be young, and you be young, and you will both forget."







VI



CAMDEN TOWN



from the magnificent studio in Hammersmith to two room in Camden Town

Mr. James Logan remove his worldly good, a paint-box, half-a-dozen

canvas, two pair of trouser, three shirt, a "Life of Napoleon" in

two volume, and a number of photograph of famous picture. the

magnificent studio have be lend to he by the mistress of its owner,

who have return unexpectedly from abroad, and Mr. James Logan's

departure from it be hurry, but unperturbed.



"in my time," he say, "I have keep Fortune busy, but her trick leave

I unmoved. she will get tired of it some day and leave I alone."



all the same he do not relish the change. he be nearly thirty and

have taste sufficient comfort to relish it and to prize it. also he

could not forget the ambition with which he have come to London five

year before. in the North he have win success by storm, and he could

not understand any other tactic. he be an extraordinary man and

expect immediate recognition of the fact. upon his own mind his

personality have so powerful an effect that he be blind to the fact

that it do not have a similar effect upon the mind of other. woman

and young man he could always stir into admiration, but man old than

himself be only affront. he know it and use to curse them:--



"these clod, these hod, these glue-face tick have no more sap in

they than a withered tree. they hate I as a mule hate a stallion,

and for the same reason. may God and Mary have mercy on what little be

leave of their soul by the time they come to judgment!"



he curse they now as he lay his trouser on the vast new double-bed

he have buy and go into his front room to arrange his easel and

canvas for work. whatever happen to he he would go on painting,

because he see himself like that, stand as firm as a rock before

his easel, painting, while the world, for all he care, go to rack

and ruin. what else could happen to a world that refuse to recognize

its artist?



painting be truly a joy to he. he love the actual dabbling with the

colour, lay they out on his palette, mix they, evolve rare

shade; he love the fiery concentration and absorption in the making

of a picture; the renew power of sight when he turn from a picture

to the world; the glorious nervous energy that came thrill through

his finger in moment of concentration; the feeling of the

superiority of this power to all other in the world. and so, whatever

happen, he turn to his easel and paint. love, debt, passion,

quarrel, all the disturbance of life come and go, but painting

remain, inexhaustible. so he have be happy, free, unfettered, gay,

avoid all responsibility because it be his formula that the

artist's only responsibility be to his art.



he be doubly happy now because he know he have make an impression on a

young man whose sincerity and vigour of purpose he could not but

respect. he be himself singularly impressionable, and like a sponge

for suck up the colour of any strong personality. and Mendel have

the further attraction for he that he be pure London, of the

shifting, motley London that Logan, as a provincial, adore. this

London he have touch at many point, but never through a strong

living soul that have, and most loyally acknowledge, London as its

home.



Logan's visit to Mendel in the East end have be one of the great

event of his life. through it he have find his foot where he have be

flounder, though, of course, happily and excitedly enough.



he tell himself that now he be go to settle down to work, to the

great productive period of his life, such as be vouchsafe to every

real artist who be tough enough to pay for it in suffering. he would

rescue Mendel's genius from the Detmold and the ossify advanced

painter, and together they would smash the english habit of follow

french art a generation late, and they would lay the foundation of a

genuine english art, a metropolitan art, an art that grow naturally

out of the life of the central city of the world.



Logan always work by programme, but hitherto he have change his

programme once a week. now he be sure that this be the programme of

his life. it would be amend, of course, by inspiration, but its

groundwork be permanent. he be enthusiastic over it. . . . of

course, this be what he have always be seek, and hitherto he have

be fight the London which absorb the talent of the country,

masticate they, digest they, and evacuate they in the shape of

successful painter for whom neither life nor art have any meaning, or

in the shape of vicious wreck who crawl from public-house to

public-house and die in hospital.



it be time that be stop. it be time for London to be make to

recognize that it have a soul, and this generation must begin the task,

for never before have a generation be so face with the blank

impossibility of accept the work, thought, and faith of its

predecessor. never have it be so easy to slip out of the stream of

tradition, for never have tradition so completely disappear

underground.



"'he that hath eye to see, let he see,'" quoth Logan, and he hurl

himself into his work, dance to and fro, square his shoulder at

it as though the picture be an adversary in a boxing-match.



* * * * *



at half-past four he lay down his brush and begin to arrange the

room, pin photograph on the wall, and unpack certain article

of furniture, as a rug, a great chair, and mattresse to make a divan,

which he have buy that morning. every now and then he run to the

window, throw up the sash, and look up and down the street.



at last with a tremor of excitement he lean out and wave his hand,

shut the window, and run downstairs. in a moment or two he return

with the girl of the Tube station. she be wear the same clothe,

with the addition of a cheap fur boa, and she pant a little from the

run upstairs with he.



"I'm glad you come," he say. "I be afraid you wouldn't."



"oh! it's not far from where I live," she say. "but you be in a

mess."



"I've only just get in. I would have ask you to my old place, but I

have to leave."



"so you're a nartist," she say. "I think you be something funny."



"funny!" snort Logan. "I call a shop-walker funny; or a banker, for

that matter, or a millionaire. an artist be the most natural thing to

be in the world. . . . take your hat and glove off and give I a

hand, and then we'll have tea."



"oh! I love my tea."



"I know all about tea. I get it from a friend of mine in the City. I

know how to make it, too."



they work together, arrange, dust, keep deliberately apart

and eye each other surreptitiously. he like her slow, heavy,

indolent movement, and she exaggerate they for he. she like his

quick, firm, decisive action, and he accentuate they for she; and

she like his thick, black hair and his strong hand.



he pick up the great chair and hold it at arm's-length.



"oo! you be strong," she say.



"I could hold you up like that."



"I'd like to see you try," and she give a little giggle of protest.



"I will if I don't like you," say he, "and I'll let you drop and

break your leg."



she go off into peal of laughter, and he laugh too.



"it's such a jolly day," he say. "it only need you to come to make

everything perfect."



"what make you speak to I the other night?" she ask.



"I like the look of you."



"but I'm not that sort, you know."



"it ben't a question of be that sort. I want to speak to you, and

that be enough for I. sit down and have some tea."



the kettle be boil, and he have already warm the pot. he measure

out the tea carefully, pour the water onto it, and give she a blue

china cup. he produce an old biscuit-tin contain some french

pastry, and then sit on the floor while she consume the lot.



it give he great pleasure to see her eat, and he like her healthy,

childish greed. she have the face of a spoiled child, a very soft skin,

and plump, yield flesh. he like that. it soothe and comfort he

to look at she, while at the same time he be irritate by her inward

plumpness and easiness.



"you've always have a good time," he say.



"oh yes! I've see to that."



"you're not a London girl."



"no; Yorkshire."



"I'm from Lancashire."



"Eeh! lad," she say, her whole voice alter and deepen into an

astonishingly full note, "be ye fra' Lancashire? Eeh! a'm fair

clem wi' London. Eeh! I be glad ye coom fra' Lancashire."



"what be you do in London?"



"I'm work in Oxford Street, though not one of the big shop."



"like it?"



"M'm! well enough."



"of course you don't, hand out lace and ribbons----"



"'Tisn't lace and ribbon. it's corset."



"corset, then, to woman who haven't a tenth of your look or your

vitality."



"it cann't be help if they have the money and I haven't, can it?"



"money don't matter. what's money to you, with all the rich life in

you? money cannot buy that, nor can it buy what will satisfy you."



"and what's that?"



"love and freedom."



"Ooh! you be a talker."



"I'm not flirt with you. I haven't get time for that."



he lay his hand on her foot, which be cover with a thin cotton

stocking. she do not move it.



"you needn't stare at I like that," she say, with a curious

thickness in her voice.



"I cann't help stare," he answer, "when I mean what I say." he

press his lip together and scowl, and shake her foot playfully.

there be an exhilarating pleasure in startle and master she by

directness. it be like peel the bark off a stick. the thin layer

of affectation come off easily and cleanly, leave bare the white

sappy smoothness of her innocent sensuality.



"I do mean what I say," he add. "why should we beat about the bush?

I ask you to come to-day because I want you. you come because you

know I want you."



"you ask I to tea."



"all right. and you'll stay to dinner. People have make love to you

before."



"well, no . . . yes. . . . not like . . ."



"don't tell lie," he say. "you see I at the station long before I

see you, and you want I to see you. that be why you stay at the

booking-office."



"you be with such a pretty boy," she say.



"boy! you're not old enough to care for pretty boy."



"but he _be_ pretty."



"be quiet!" he say, kneel by her side. "you may want I to take

week over make all sort of foolish advance to you, but I'm not

go to waste time. I've waste too much time over that sort of

rubbish. we both know what we want and you be go to stay with I."



"no."



"I say yes."



"no." and she spring to her foot and walk to the door. there she

turn. he have pick up her glove.



"will you give I my glove, please?"



"no."



"will you give I my glove?"



"no."



"then I shall go without they."



"very well. good-bye."



"if I stay, will you promise not to talk like that?"



"I don't want you to stay under those circumstance."



"you're an insulting beast."



"not at all. I honour your womanhood by not pretend that it ben't

there."



"will you give I my glove?"



she run across and try to snatch they out of his hand. he grip

and hold she, and she give a wild laugh as he kiss she.



she cling to he as he let she sink back into the great chair. she lie

with her eye close and her lip part while he sit and pour

himself out another cup of tea. his hand be shake so that he

spill some tea on his new rug.



"that's all right," he say. "I'll give you a week to get use to I,

and if at the end of that time you don't like I, you can go."



"I haven't any friend," she say in a low voice, "and you get sick of

girl and the shop. you get sick of go out in the evening up and

down the street and into the cinema, and find some damn fool to

take you to a music-hall. such a lot of people and nobody to know."



"there's a lot of fun in live with an artist," he say. "you meet

queer people and amusing woman, and you wouldn't find I dull to live

with."



"I feel queer as I come near the house," she say, "as though I know

something be go to happen. I feel very queer now."



"that's love," say Logan grimly. "love ben't what you think it

be."



"you must let I go now."



"when will you come again?"



"never."



"oh yes, you will."



"stop it!" she cry. "stop it! I'm not go to be flummox by the

like of you."



"but you be," he say. "you poor darling!"



he take her hand and stroke it tenderly.



"don't you see that you be flummox by something that be strong

than both of we? I'm shake by it, and I'm whipcord. we're poor

starve people, God help we! and we can save each other. we know we

could do it at once, when we meet. . . . if I say all the pretty

thing in the world it wouldn't help. we're too far go for that.

when you're starve you don't want chocolate. . . . I'm only say

what I know. it be true of myself. if I have make a mistake about you,

I be sorry. you can go. . . . have I make a mistake?"



for answer she turn towards he, gaze at he with glaze eye,

raise her arm, and draw he into they.



* * * * *



a week later Nelly Oliver dine with Logan and Mendel at the

Pot-au-feu. they have a special dinner and drink champagne, for it be

what Logan call the "nuptial feast."



Oliver, as they call she, be flush with excitement, and keep on

tell Mendel that he be the prettiest boy she have ever see. she

call Logan "Pip"--"Pip darling," "Pip dearest," "Pipkin" and

"Pipsy"--because she say he be like an orange-pip, bitter and hard

in the midst of sweetness.



"Pip say you're a genius," she say to Mendel. "what do he mean?"



Mendel dislike she, though he try hard to persuade himself that she

be charming. he be baffle by the solemnity with which Logan be

take she, for she seem to he the type make for occasional solace

and not for companionship. explore she with his mind and instinct,

she seem to he soft and pulpy, not unlike an orange, and if she and

Logan be to set up a common life, then he would be like a pip

indeed. . . . how could he explain to she the nature of genius? can

you explain the night to an insect that live but an hour in the

morning?



"I don't know," he say brusquely.



Logan be dimly aware that his friend and his girl be not please

each other, and he set himself to keep they amuse. he succeed

fairly well, but his humour be force, for he be under the spell of

the girl and the thought of the adventure to which she have consent.

she know it, and be loud and shrill and triumphant, continually

set Mendel's tooth on edge, for the purity of his instinct be

disgust by the blurring and swamping of life by any emotion, and the

quality of hers be not such as to win indulgence.



"Logan will tell you what genius be," he say.



"she'll find that out soon enough if she live with I," growl Logan

a little pompously.



Oliver put her head on one side and look languishingly at Mendel as

she drawled:--



"it's a pity you haven't get a nice girl. then there would be four of

we."



"don't be a fool!" snap Logan. "what do he want with girl at his

age?"



Oliver's lip tremble and she pout in protest.



"I only think it would be nice to round off the party. when you're

in love you cann't help want everybody else to have some too."



Mendel be tear between dislike of she and admiration of Logan's

masterful handling of the problem of desire. . . . no nonsense about

getting marry or fall in love. he see the woman he want and

take she and make she his property, and the woman could not but

acquiesce, as Oliver have do. in a dozen different way she

acknowledge Logan's lordship, even in her deliberate effort to

exasperate he. their relationship seem to Mendel simple and

excellent, and he envy they. how easy his life would become if he

could do the same! what freedom there would be in have a woman to

throw in her lot with his! it would settle all his difficulty,

absolve he from his dependence on his family, and deliver he from

the attention of unworthy woman.



"how shall we dress she?" ask Logan.



Mendel take out his sketch-book and draw a rough portrait of Oliver in

a gown tight-fitting above the waist and full in the skirt.



"I should look a guy in that," she say. "it's nothing like the

fashion."



"you've do with fashion," say Logan. "you've do with the world of

shop and snob and bored, idiotic woman. you're above all that now.

in the first place there willn't be any money for fashion, and in the

second place there's no room in our kind of life for rubbish. you're a

free woman now, and don't you forget it, or I'll knock your head off."



"but it's a horrible, ugly dress," say Oliver, almost in tear.



"it's what you're go to wear. I'll buy the stuff to-morrow and make

it myself. what colour would you like?"



"I willn't wear it."



"then you can go back to your shop."



"you know I cann't. I've say good-bye to all the girl."



"then you'll wear the dress."



"I shalln't."



"for God's sake don't quarrel," say Mendel. "one would think you have

be marry for ten year. let she wear what she like until she

want some new clothe."



"Highty Tighty! little boy!" sing Oliver. "you talk as though I be a

little girl."



"you behave like one," snap Mendel, and her face be overcast with

a cloud of malignant sulkiness.



* * * * *



they go on to a music-hall, where Logan and she sit with their arm

lock and their shoulder press together, whispering and babble

to each other.



Mendel sit bolt upright with his arm fold, stare at the stage but

see nothing, so lost be he in the contemplation of the strange

turn of affair by which the adventure which have promise to lead he

straight to art have deposit he in a muddy little pool of life. he

would not submit to it. he would not surrender Logan and all the hope

he have arouse. prepare as he have be to follow Logan through fire,

he would not shrink when the way lead through the morass. friendship

be to he no fair-weather luxury, and nothing but falsehood or

faithlessness in his friend could make he relinquish it.



he tell himself that Logan would soon tire of it, that Oliver would go

the way of her kind. she be, after all, well than Hetty Finch,

since she have a capacity for childish enjoyment.



she revel in the sentimental ditty and the suggestive humour of

the comedians, press close and close to Logan, and grow elated and

strangely exalt as the evening wear on. and as they leave the

music-hall she grip Mendel's arm and bring her face close to his

and whispered:--



"do wish I luck, Kühler. give I a kiss for luck."



he kiss she and mumble: "good luck!"



"come and see we to-morrow," she say. "we shall be all right

to-morrow."



"oh, come along!" cry Logan, drag she away; and Mendel stand in

the glare light of the portico and watch they as, arm in arm, they

be swallow up in the crowd hurry and jostle its way home to

the dark outer region of London.



he have an appalling sense of be leave out of it. everything pass

and he remain. he live in a circle of light into which, like moth,

come timid, blink, lovable figure, and he love they; but they

pass on and be lose in the tumultuous, heave darkness of life,

into which alone he could not enter. . . . do he desire to enter it?

he do not know, but he be hungry for something that lie in it, or,

perhaps, beyond it.







VII



MR. TILNEY TYSOE



LOGAN with Oliver be more startling and exhilarating than before. he

be fill with a ferocious energy, and his programme be distend

with it.



he say to Mendel:--



"she's an inspiration. I have find what I be seek. you have give

I the inspiration of art. through you I shall reach the height of

the spirit. she have give I the inspiration of life, and through she

I shall plumb the very depth of humanity. she be marvellous. all the

exasperation of modern life be in she, all the impatient brood on

the threshold of new marvel. you think she be stupid, I know, but

that be only because she have in herself such an immense wealth of

instinctive knowledge of life that she do not need to judge it by

pass outward appearance. I be amazed at she, almost afraid of she.

something tremendous will come out of she. . . . by God! it make I

sick to think of all the dabbling in paint that go on, not to speak

of all the dabbling in love. love? the word have become foolish and

empty. I don't wish to hear it utter ever again. . . . I swear that

if it don't come out in paint I shall write poetry. oh! I can feel

the marrow in my bone again, and my vein be full of sap. . . . but

I want to talk business."



"business?" say Mendel, who have be upset and bewilder by this

outburst.



"yes. I want you to approve my programme, for you must have a

programme. it be all very well to work by the light of inspiration.

that can work quite well as far as you yourself be concern, but

what about the public? what about the other artists?--damn they! we're

go to burst out of the groove, but we must have a good reason for

do so."



"surely it be reason enough that one cann't work in it."



"not enough for they. they must be mystify and impressed. they must

be unable to place we. they must feel that we be up to something, but

they must be unable to say what it be."



"I don't care what they say," say Mendel.



"but you must care. when we have carry out the programme, then you

can do as you like, but till then we must pull together. we must do it

for the sake of art. we must make a stand, not to found a school or to

say that this and no other style of drawing be right, but to assert

the sacred duty of the artist to paint accord to his vision and his

creative instinct."



this be come very near to Mendel's own feeling, and he remember

the torture he have be through to learn the detmold style of drawing,

and how some virtue have go out of his work in the effort.



"it be the artist's business," say Logan, "to create out of the life

around he an expression of it in form."



"I agree," say Mendel.



"accurate imitation be not necessarily an expression, be it? you know

it ben't. a picture must be a create thing. it must have a life of

its own, and to have that it must grow through the artist's passion

out of the life around he. it be all rubbish to look back, to talk of

go back to the Primitives or the Byzantines or Egypt. you can learn

a great deal from those old people about picture, but you cannot

learn how to paint your own picture from they, because you can only

live in your own life and your own time, and if you be a good artist

your work will transcend both. . . . now, tell I, where be the work

that be express the glorious, many-colour life of London, where

be the work that do not give you a shock as you come to it out of

the street, the thrilling, vibrant street, make you feel that you

be step back ten, twenty, fifty year? . . . why have life

outstrip art?"



"I don't know," say Mendel, whose head have begin to ache.



"it have not only outstrip it," continue Logan. "it have begin to

despise it."



the postman knock, and Mendel run downstairs in feverish expectation

of a letter from Morrison, to whom he have write implore she to

come again, or, if not, at least to let he have her address in the

country. there be no letter for he, and as soon as he return with

a blank, disappointed face, Logan go on:--



"People collect picture as they collect postage-stamp, to keep

themselves from be bore. naturally they despise picture, and they

despise we for accept those condition. they be intolerable, and

we must make an end of they. we be in a tight corner, and we should

leave no trick and twist and turn untried to get out of it. if we do

not do so then there will be no art, as there be no drama, no music,

and no literature, and there will be no authority among man, and

humanity will go to hell. it be on the road to it, and the artist

have get to stop it."



Mendel have not hear a word. he sit with his head in his hand

thinking of Morrison, and hate she for the blank misery in which she

have plunge he.



"Humanity," say Logan cheerfully, "be fast go to hell. it like

it; and, as the democratic idea be that it should have what it like,

not a finger, not a voice be raise to stop it. everything that stand

in the way--ideal, decency, responsibility, passion, love--everything

be smash. nothing can stop it unless their eye be open and their

poor frozen heart be thaw."



"what do you say?" ask Mendel, having half-catch that last phrase.



"we must try to stop it," say Logan. "we may be smash and sweep

aside, but we must try to stop it. . . . I've be to see Cluny

to-day. he have sell all your thing except one drawing."



"I know," reply Mendel, who have receive an amazing account which

show about two-third of his earning swallow up in colour,

brush, frame, and photograph. he know, but he be not interested.

he be unhappy and restless and feel completely empty.



"we passionate nature," say Logan, stride up and down like

Napoleon on the quarter-deck of the _Bellerophon_--"we passionate

nature must take control. we must be the nucleus of true fiery stuff

to resist the universal corruption. we must be dedicate to the war

of the spirit."



"I've get a splitting headache," say Mendel. "do you mind not talk

so much? the important thing for a painter be paint. what happen

outside that don't matter."



"you think so now," say Logan, "but you wait. you'll find that

painting willn't satisfy you. you will want to know what it be all for,

and one of these day you will be thankful to I for tell you.

. . . Cluny have take on some of my thing, and he have agree to our

have an exhibition together. what do you say to that?"



"so long as I sell I don't care where I exhibit. exhibition be

always horrible. they always make picture look mean and

insignificant."



"you be in a mood to-day."



"I tell you," cry Mendel in a fury--"I tell you I know what art be

well than anybody. it touch life at one point, and one point only,

and there it give a great light. if life be too mean and beastly to

reach that point, so much the bad for life. it do not affect art,

which be another world, where everything be beautiful and true. I know

it; I have always know it. I have live in that world. I live in it,

and I detest everything that drag I away from it and make I live

in the world of filth and thief and scoundrel. yes, I det even

love, even passion, for they make a fool and a beast of a man."



"Young!" say Logan. "very young! you'll learn. . . . but do be

sensible and control your beast of a temper. never mind my programme

if it don't interest you. will you accept Cluny's offer? it be worth

it, for it will make you independent."



"how much do he want?"



"a dozen exhibit each."



"oh! very well."



"and will you come and dine to-night with my fool of a patron, Mr.

Tilney Tysoe?"



"I don't want to know fool. I know quite enough already."



"but I've promise to take you. . . . he adore Bohemians, as he call

we, and he buy picture."



"do he give you good food?"



"some of the good in London."



"all right."



"meet we at the Paris Café at seven-thirty. don't dress. Tysoe would

be dreadfully disappointed if you don't turn up reeking of paint. it

would be almost well not to wash."



"be Oliver go?"



"yes. do you mind?"



"no. . . . no."



* * * * *



it be an enormous relief to Mendel when Logan go. his enthusiasm

be too exhausting, and it be madden to have he talk of

success and the triumph of art and the war of the spirit when life

have apparently reach up and extinguish the light of art

altogether. for a brief moment, for a day or two, it have almost seem

to he that life and art be one, that everything be solve and

simple, that he would henceforth only have to paint and picture would

flow from his brush as easily as song from a bird. this illusion have

survive even the blow of Morrison's departure. he believe that it

be enough for he to have have that hour of illumination, and that, if

go she must, he could do without she. the flash of light have be the

same, magnify a thousand time, as the inspiration that set he at

work on a picture and then leave he to wrestle with the task of

translate it into term of paint. she have appear to he exactly in

the same visionary way, an image shine in truth and beauty, an

emanation from that other world, and he have think he would at worst

be leave with the terrible ordeal of translate the vision into paint.

. . . but when he look at his picture they oppress he with their

lifelessness and dark dullness, and the idea of paint disgusted

he. it be even an acute pain, almost like a wound upon his heart, to

handle a brush. he could not finish the portrait of his father and

mother, and, at well, he could only force himself to paint

flower-piece.



he be incapable of deceive himself. he have never hear of devout

lover sigh in vain, and he have no source of comfort within

himself. never have he shrink from any torment, and this be so cruel

as to be almost a glory, except that it mean such a deathly stillness

and emptiness. he could not understand it, and he know that it be

past the comprehension of all whom he know, even his mother. but he

set his tooth and vow that he would understand it if it take year.

. . . a little girl, a little christian girl! how be it possible?



there be some relief in the thought of she, but very little. she be

still too visionary, and when he try to think of she in life, by his

side, it be impossibly painful.



where be she? why do she not write? her silence be like ice upon

his heart. . . . what kind of place do she live in? among what

people? how be he to imagine she? . . . to think of she among the

tree or under the chestnut-tree be to be tear with impulse that

could find no outlet; desire for creation that make painting seem a

sham and a mockery.



so keen, and fierce, and deep be his suffering that death seem a

little thing in comparison. when he try to think of death he know

that it be not worth think of, and he be ashamed that the thought

should have be in his mind.



he know that he must understand or perish. to say that he be in love

be hopelessly inadequate. he know how people be when they be in

love. they be like Rosa, like animal, stupid and thick-sight,

with a thickening in their blood. but he be possess with a

clairvoyance that make everything round he seem transparent and

flimsy, while think creep stealthily, like a cat on a wall, and

emotion be confound.



* * * * *



for day he have hardly leave his studio, and it be only with the

great effort that he could bring himself to join Logan at the Paris

Café. he feel weak, and the street look very strange, clear and

bright, as they do to a convalescent. as he enter the café it seem

year since he have be there, age since he have sit there tremble

with excitement as he wait for the great Calthrop to come in. he

remember that excitement so vividly that something like it came

rush up in he, and he clutch at it for relief. . . . Calthrop

be there with his little court of model and student. Mendel find

himself laugh nervously as he stand and wait for the great man to

recognize he. Calthrop look up and nod to he. he be wildly,

absurdly delighted. he rush over to Logan and Oliver and shake they

enthusiastically by the hand.



"ben't it a splendid place?" he cry.



"have something to drink," say Logan. "you've be overwork."



"you must say it's a splendid place," insist Mendel, "or I shall go

home. just by that table where Calthrop be sit be where I be

arrest."



"oh, which be Calthrop?" ask Oliver eagerly.



"the big man over there," say Mendel. "I be arrest just there, and

I have to go on my knee to the manager to make he allow I to come

here again. I have to apologize to he. at the time it be the great

tragedy of my life."



he have forget his dislike for Oliver in his elation at find

himself gay again, and he chatter on of the day when the café have

seem to he a heaven full of hero. Oliver listen to he like a

child. she love story, and she lean forward and drink in his

word, and she appear to he as a very beautiful woman, desirable,

intoxicating. yet because Logan be his friend he would not envy he,

but rejoice in his possession of this rare treasure, a woman who

could deliver up to he all the warm secret of life. and he could not

help say so, and tell they how happy it make he to be with

they.



Logan and Oliver glance at each other, and their hand meet in a

fierce grip under the table. Mendel could not see more than their

glance, but the meeting of their eye send a flame like a white-hot

sword dart at his heart. the sharp pain release he, and send he

shoot up into a wilder gaiety.



he feel a hand on his shoulder, and, turn with a start, he see Mr.

Sivwright, his first master, stand above he. he rise and shake

hand.



"I be glad to see you," say Mr. Sivwright. "I've be mean to

write to you, but I've be away, out of London."



Mendel introduce he to his friend and ask he to sit down.



"I cann't stop a moment," say Mr. Sivwright. "I'm very busy. I have

just start a club for artist--open at eleven. these absurd closing

hour, you know. I hope you'll join. it have be open a week. great

fun, and I want some fresco paint. . . . I'm very proud of your

success, Kühler. I feel I have my hand in it."



he produce a prospectus and lay it on the table, bow awkwardly to

Oliver, and with a self-conscious swagger, as though he feel the eye

of all in the café upon he, make his way out.



"who's that break-down tick?" ask Logan.



"Sivwright," answer Mendel. "he teach I when I be a boy. he's a

very bad artist, and he think art end with Corot. I learn to

paint like Corot. really! I use to go with he to the Park and weep

over the tree in the twilight: I never think I should see he

again."



"oh! people bob up," say Logan. "we go on get long in the

tooth, but people recur, like decimal."



"would you like to go to his club?" ask Mendel. "it say 'dancing.'

I feel like dancing."



"oh! I love dancing," say she.



Logan assume his air of mysterious importance and say it be time to

go to Tysoe's.



"we're twenty minute late," he say; "Tysoe would be dreadfully put

out if we be punctual."



as Mendel have plenty of money they take a taxi-cab.



* * * * *



Mr. Tilney Tysoe be an idealist, and he have no other profession. he

be a very tall man with a long cadaverous face, great bulging, watery

eye, and extraordinarily long hand, which hang limply from his

wrist, except when he be excited, when they shoot up with extreme

violence, and carry his arm with they into a gesture so awkward

that he have to find relief from it in a shrug. he be devoted to the

art, have a stall at the opera, a study full of book, and several

room full of picture. an artist be to he a great artist, a book

that please he be a great book, and his constant lament be over

the dearth of great man in public life. it give he the keenest

delight to see Logan, unkempt, wild-haired, shaggy, violent and

brusque, enter his daintily furnished drawing-room, and his eye

pass eagerly to Oliver, look just as she ought to have do, the

mistress of a Bohemian.



"delight! delight!" he say as he coil his long white hand round

Mendel's workmanlike paw. "my wife, I regret to say, be away. she will

be so sorry to have miss you. like I, she be tired of the shallow,

artificial people we live among. we both adore sincere, real people. I

adore sincerity. sincerity be genius."



"that be true," say Logan in a sepulchral voice that make Mendel

jump. "at least, where you find sincerity, you may be sure that genius

be not far behind."



"I buy a picture of yours the other day, Mr. Kühler," say Tysoe.

"I be ashamed to think how little I give for it, but work of art be

priceless, be they not?"



"mine be," say Mendel, overcome his disgust and begin to enjoy

the game.



"you think so," rejoin Tysoe with an undulation of his long body.

"and why shouldn't you say so? you be sincere and strong. you must

force your talent upon an ungrateful world."



a man-servant announce dinner, and Tysoe give his arm to Oliver and

lead she downstair, while Logan put his hand on Mendel's shoulder and

say with a chuckle:--



"be sincere."



Mendel begin at once with the soup, as though he have be wind up.



"I have win every possible prize for painting and drawing, and the

first picture I exhibit be the sensation of the year in art

circle."



"I remember it," say Tysoe.



"like my friend Logan, I be profoundly dissatisfied with the state of

art in England, and though I be not an Englishman I have sufficient

love for the country to wish to do my share in redeem it. the first

essential be a new technique, the second essential be a new spirit,

and the third essential be sincerity."



"wonderfully true!" cry Tysoe. "have some sherry. wonderfully true!

now, take the ordinary man. he might feel all that, but would he dare

to say it? no. that be why I, as an idealist, delight in the society

of artist. you know where you be with they. fact be fact with

they."



"I do like this sherry wine," say Oliver, begin to feel very

comfortable in the warm luxury of the dining-room.



Logan kick she under the table.



feel that more be expect of he, Mendel wind himself up again

and go on:--



"Logan and I be go to hold an exhibition together. it will make a

great stir, that be, if London be not altogether dead to sincerity. we

think it be time that independence among artist be encourage. art

must not be allow to stop short at Calthrop----"



he stop dead as he realize that the wall opposite he hold half a

dozen drawing by Calthrop. Logan rush in:--



"among real artist there be no rivalry. art be not a competition. it

be a constellation, like the Milky Way."



"ah! La Voie Lactée!" cry Tysoe, drop into French, as he

sometimes do when he be move. "quite so! La Voie Lactée!"



"at home in Yorkshire," say Oliver, "there be sometimes two big

star hang just over the top of the moor, and they say it mean

love or death if you see it at half-past nine."



Logan take charge of the conversation, frown at Mendel and Oliver

as though they be naughty child. he describe the masterpiece he

be paint, and Tysoe said:--



"I'm sure I shall like that. it sound big and forceful, like

yourself. do let I have a look at it before anyone else see it."



then he added:--



"I see a charming still-life of yours once. a melon, I think it be.

what have become of it?"



"it be sell, I fancy," reply Mendel, who have never paint a melon

in his life.



"ah! a pity. I want some little thing for a wedding-present. no one

I care about very much, so it must be a little thing."



"he have two or three little thing just now," say Logan. "if you send

a messenger-boy round to his studio he would let you see they."



and suddenly Mendel could keep the game up no long. he begin to feel

choke by the stuffy, empty luxury of the room, with its excess of

plate and glass and flower and furniture and picture. his head

seem to be on the point of burst. he must get out--out and away.

he want to laugh, to scream with laughter, to shout, to die of

laughter, anything to shake off the oppressive folly of his host. and

he begin to laugh, to shake and heave with it. he suppress it, but

at last he burst out with a roar and rush from the room.



"Overworked," say Logan imperturbably. "that's what it be. the poor

devil haven't learn sense yet. it's work, work, work with he, all

the time. he think of nothing but his art, you know. never have, ever

since he be a boy. . . . he'll be a very great genius, and I shall be

leave far behind."



"not you," say Tysoe, "not you. I know no man in whom I have great

faith than you."



"do you think he as good as all that?" say Oliver eagerly. "I'm

always tell he Kühler's not a patch on he."



Meanwhile Mendel have take refuge in the lavatory, where he shout

and shake and cry with laughter. when he have recover himself he

crawl back to the dining-room mutter inaudible apology.



"I'm sorry," he say. "I've not be myself lately."



"you mustn't overdo it," say Tysoe kindly. "you have plenty of time.

you need be in no hurry to overtake Logan. he be enter upon

maturity. your time will come."



Mendel feel disturbed. he have not think of Logan seriously as a

painter, certainly not as a rival or a colleague. Logan be his

friend. that Logan paint be incidental. it irritate he to have to

sit and listen to he hold forth about paint. he have always

like Logan's talk, but have never really connect it with his work.

it be just talk, like reading, or go to the cinema--a sop, a drug,

soothing and pleasant when he be in the mood for it, madden when

he be not.



it be as though a spring have be touch, release his

intelligence, which have always be keep apart from his work. for the

first time he feel, though never so little, detach from it, while at

the same moment the awful inward pressure of his emotional crisis be

relaxed. he be happy, and less wildly gay, and he begin to realize

that he have astonishingly good food in front of he, good wine in

plenty, delicious fruit to come, and fragrant coffee brewing there on

the sideboard among bright-hue liqueur bottle. . . . there be no

need to listen to Logan. there be pleasure enough in eat and

drink and watch Oliver, and think how good it would be to

dance with she, and perhaps with other--little woman whom he would

hold in his arm and feel they yield to every movement that he make.

. . .



he be leave alone with Oliver after dinner, while Logan and Tysoe

retire to the study.



"you've make he very happy," he say rather unsteadily.



"oh, yes!" say she. "it be like a fate, ben't it? I always have a

feeling that I ben't like other girl. I always think something out

of the way would happen to I, though I never think of anything like

this."



"you mustn't tell I about he," say Mendel.



"I must tell someone or I shall die. he's so extraordinary. he say

it's something deep than love, and I think it must be."



"you must not talk about it," he say.



"it make all the stuff he talk about seem silly. I don't understand

it, do you?"



she lie back in her chair and swing her foot, with her eye fix on

the door wait for Logan to return.



Mendel's dislike of she spring up in he again, and he be a little

afraid of she: of her big, fleshy body, so full now of little

trickle stream of pleasure; of her eye, watch, watch, with

the strange, glassy steadiness of the eye of a bird of prey. . . . he

decide that he would not dance with she. he would dance with the

other--the little, harmless, pretty fool.



to reassure himself he tell himself that Logan be happy, and strong

enough to resist the grow will in this woman.







VIII



the MERLIN'S CAVE



LOGAN have cajole twenty pound out of Mr. Tysoe, who stand on his

doorstep, dangle his long hand, while his admired guest creep into

a taxi-cab. he swing from side to side:--



"I have have a most delightful evening--most charming, most inspiring."



inside the cab Logan wave the cheque triumphantly and Oliver try to

snatch it from he. they have an excited scuffle, which end in a

kiss.



"what's the matter with the man?" ask Mendel.



"he's just a fool," reply Logan, "a padded fool. his only virtue be

that he do really think I a wonderful fellow, and he be kind. but

how I hate such kindness, the last virtue, the last refuge of the

decrepit! it be a perfume, a herb with which they be embalm."



"I think he be a very nice old gentleman," say Oliver.



"he seem to I," say Mendel, "the kind of man who think of nothing

but woman all day long."



"hit it in once!" cry Logan. "a parrot will not do more for an

almond than he will for a commodious drab. he could take a nun and by

force of live with she and surround she with every luxury turn

she into a whore, because she would in time become only another

luxury. that be what man grow into if they lose the spirit of freedom.

. . . where be we go to?"



"I tell the man to go to Sivwright's club. it be call the Merlin's

Cave."



* * * * *



the club prove to be a cellar fill with little table. there be a

commissionaire at the door and a book have to be sign. the rack of

the cloakroom contain several silk-line overcoat and opera-hat.



"it's go to be damned expensive," say Logan.



"I'll pay," reply Mendel. "it's my fault."



two tall young man in immaculate evening dress have enter just after

they. they give out an air of wealth and cleanliness and make Logan

and Oliver look common and shabby. Mendel hate the two young man.

what have they do to look so well-fed and unruffled? obviously they

have only to hold out their hand to have everything they want put

into they. . . . they look slightly self-conscious and ashamed of

themselves, and wear a look of alarmed expectancy as they go

downstairs.



why do they come there if they be ashamed? and why do they expect

an asmodean lewdness of an artist' club, they for whom the

flesh-market of the music-hall promenade exist?



"real swell, ben't they?" say Oliver, overawe.



the strain of a small orchestra came float up the stair.



"come on," say Mendel, "I want to dance." and he catch she by the

wrist and drag she downstair.



a girl be stand on a table singe an idiotic song with a

syncopate chorus which a few people take up in a half-hearte

fashion. the sound of it be thin and depressing.



"the same old game," say Logan. "play at be wicked. why cann't

they stick to their commercial beastliness? I should be ashamed to

bring any woman into this. I be ashamed." he half rise from his chair.



"oh! don't go," plead Oliver, who be entrance with her first sight

of what she call a gay life. it be to she like a stage spectacle.

"oh! there's that Calthrop; I suppose all those odd woman with he be

model."



Calthrop be surround by admire student, among they Morrison,

sit prim and astonish and obviously amazed to find herself where

she be. Mendel begin to tremble, and his heart beat violently, as he

stare at she--stare and stare.



she have lie to he then! she have not have to go home! she could strike

he down and then come to amuse herself at such a place as this!



be she with Mitchell? no, Mitchell be not among the satellite.



how strange she look! a wild violet in a hot-house. he wait for

she to glance in his direction, but she seem to be absorb in the

singer and in the song, and every now and then she smile, though

obviously not at the song--at something that amuse she or please she

in her thought. she could smile then and be happy, and all his wild

emotion have make no invasion into her life. . . . no; she would not

look in his direction. perhaps she have see he come in and refuse to

see he.



would the dancing never begin? the dancing take place on a slightly

raise floor. if he dance there she would have to see he.



he find a warm hand place on his leg, and turn he see Jessie

Petrie, a model, with whom he have dance at the studio and at the

Detmold.



"I think I be never go to see you again," she say, "and

Mitchell say you have go mad."



"do I look it?" he ask.



"no. you look bonnier than ever. I'm on my own again now. Thompson have

go to Paris. he say the only painter be there. I think he's go

mad, because he paint nothing but stripe and triangle. and he _be_

such a dear. . . . I'm feel awfully lonely because Tilly have go

to Canada. Samuelson give she the chuck and she go out to her cousin

in Canada, who have always be want to marry she. . . . be you

still down in Whitechapel? I do hate go to see you there. why don't

you move up to the West End? I could come and live with you then, for

I do hate be at a loose end."



she be adorably pretty, dark, with eye like damson, lovely red

lip, touch up with carmine, and a soft white neck that tremble as

she speak like the breast of a singing bird.



"oh! who do you think I see the other day? Hetty Finch! she have a flat

and a motor-car, but I don't believe she be marry." she look

suddenly solemn as she add: "the baby's dead." then she rattle on:

"ben't she lucky? but she's an awful snob. would hardly speak to I!"



"she's a beast of a woman."



"what do you think of this place? I suppose if the swell come it'll

be a success, but they do spoil it."



"yes," say Mendel. "they spoil everything. when do they begin to

dance?"



"they've nearly finish the programme. they have to have a programme

to make people eat and drink."



"let's have some champagne."



he call the waiter and order a bottle.



"be sell lately?"



"no," he say; "but I want to dance. do you hear? I want to dance."



"dancing," Logan throw in, "be the beginning of art. it be too

primitive for I, or I'm too old."



a thin-faced long-haired poet mount the table and read some verse,

which the popping of cork and the clatter of knife and fork

render inaudible. the poet go on interminably, and at last someone

begin drum on the table and shout "Dance! Dance! Dance!" the

poet stick to it. Bread be throw at he and the shouting become

general.



at last the orchestra strike up through the poet's reedy chanting,

couple make their way to the stage, and the dancing begin. morrison

still sit prim and preoccupy. Mendel put his arm round Jessie's

waist, his finger sink into her young, supple body, and he lift she

to her foot and rush with she over to the stage. the whole place be

hum with life, beat to the chop rhythm of the vacant

american tune.



"I do love dance with you," say Jessie, as he swing she into the

move throng of brilliantly dress woman and black-coat man, so

lock together that they be like one creature, a strange, grotesque

quadrupe. and Jessie so melt into he, so become a part of he,

that he too become another creature, an organism in the whirling

circle support and spin round by the music. it be glorious to feel

his will relax, to feel the lithe, soft woman in his arm yield to

every impulse, every movement. he dance with a terrific

concentration, with a wiry collect force that make Jessie feel as

light as a feather.



"oo! that be lovely," she say when the music stop. "you do dance

lovely."



"it be pretty good," say Mendel. "but wait until they play a waltz."



"I want to dance with you," cry Oliver. "you say I should dance

with you."



and she have the next dance with he; but there be no lightness in

she, only a greedy fumbling after sensation.



"this be awful!" think Mendel, never for a moment lose himself,

and all the while conscious of Morrison sit there unmove: of

Morrison, whom he be try to forget. Oliver seem to envelop he,

to swallow he up. he be conscious of hold an enormous woman in

his arm and her contact be distasteful. the dance seem endless.

would the music never stop? . . . one, two, three. . . . one, two,

three. . . . it be like a dancing class with the fat Jewesses at

home. . . . and all the time he be conscious of Morrison's big blue

eye stare at he. would she never stop her damnable smile?



he return Oliver to Logan shamefacedly, as though he be pay a

long-stand debt.



Jessie return from her other partner to he.



"oh! it ben't anything like the same," she say; "and that be such a

lovely tune to dance to."



now that the dancer be warm up they refuse to allow any

interval. they have their partner and be unwilling to stop. the

orchestra be work up into a kind of frenzy, and Mendel and Jessie

be whirl into an ecstasy. they abandon the conventional step

and improvise, gliding, whirling, swoop suddenly through the

dancer. sometimes he pick she up and whirl her round, sometimes

his hand be lock on her waist and she bent backwards--back, back,

until he pull she up and she fall upon his breast, happy, panting,

deliriously happy.



* * * * *



Morrison sit watch. she be tremble and feel very miserable. she

have be bring there by clowe, who have be unable to resist the

flattery of Calthrop's invitation. all these people seem to she to

be pretend to be happy, and she be oppress with it all. she have

not see Mendel until he mount the stage, and then her heart ache.

she remember the etched phrase of his letter to she. she have

write to he, but nothing she could express on paper convey she

feeling, her sense of be in the wrong, and her deep, instinctive

conviction of the injustice of that wrong. . . . he have place she in

the wrong by talk of marriage so prematurely. as she look round

the room she be oppress by all the man: great, hulk creature,

clumsy, cocksure, insensible, spin their vain thought and vainer

emotion round the woman as a spider spin its thread round a catch

fly. . . . she have often watch spider deal with the booty in

their webs, and Calthrop remind she of a spider when he look at

Clowes and lay his hand on her shoulder or finger her arm. and

clowe lie still like a catch fly and suffer it. . . . Morrison be

in revolt against it all. she be full of sweet life, and would not

have it so treat. her prudery be not shock, for she have no

prudery. the man might have their woman so, if the woman like it, but

never, never would she be so treat.



it be because she have be able to sweep aside the sticky thread of

vanity with Mendel that the ecstasy of the wood and the heath have

be possible.



as she watch he now, she know that he be different from all the

other. he have bring an exaltation into the face of the common

little girl who be his partner. he be give her life, not take it

from she.



yet to see he make her unhappy. the music be vulgar, the people be

vulgar, and he have no true place among they. but how he enjoy it

all!



she shake with impatience at herself. it be hateful to be outside it,

look on, look on. a young student have pester she to dance with

he. she turn to he and said:--



"I want to dance, please."



delight, he spring to his foot, give she his arm, and whirl she

into the dance.



* * * * *



slow down to take breath, Mendel look in her direction. she be

go! a black despair seize he, a groan escape he; he hug

Jessie tight against his body and plunge madly into the dance.



the musician have be give champagne. the violinist begin to

embroider upon the tune and the 'cellist follow with voluptuous

thrum chord.



Jessie give little cry of happiness to feel the grow strength in

Mendel's arm, the wax power of his smooth movement. she give

little cry like the call of a quail, and he laugh gleefully every

time she cry. he could feel the force rise in he. it would surely

burst out of he and break into molten stream of laughter, leave

he deliciously light, as light and absurd as dear little Jessie, who

be swinge on the music like a dewdrop on a gossamer. . . . if only

the music would last long enough! he would be as tremulous and light

as she, and while that lightness last he could love she and taste

life at its high point--for she. . . . she be aware of his desire,

and swing to it. it be like a wind sway she, thistledown as she

be; like a wind blow she through the air on a summer's day. o that

it might never end, that the sky might never be overcast, that the

rain might never come and the night might never fall. . . . terrible

thing have happen to Jessie in the night, and she be happy in the

sun.



Mendel be past all dizziness. the room have spin round until it could

spin no more, and then it have unwound itself, make he feel weak and

giddy. he be very nearly clear-head, and every now and then he

catch a glimpse of Logan sketch and of Oliver, sit with a

sulky pout on her lip and tear in her eye because she want to

dance and know she have make a failure of it.



"lovely! lovely! lovely!" sigh Jessie.



"you be like the white kernel of a nut," say Mendel, "when the shell

be break."



"do let I come and sit for you," she say. "I willn't want anything

except my dinner."



"well keep to the dancing," he answer, as he spin she round to

stop she talk.



she begin to stroke his neck and to press her face against his breast.

at the same moment he see Morrison among the dancer. he slow down

and then stop dead. the music rise to an exultant riot of sound.



"please, please!" cry Jessie, cling to he; but he have forget

she.



Morrison and her partner sweep past he, and he watch they go the

full circle. she see he stand, and as she approach break away

from her partner.



"why ben't you dance with I?" he say, shake with eagerness to

hear her speak.



"I'm no good at dancing," she say. "I don't enjoy it."



"who bring you here? Calthrop?"



"he bring Clowes and I. . . . you mustn't stop dance. your

partner. . . ."



"please, please!" cry Jessie, stamp her foot; "the music be go

to stop."



"wait a moment," he say, turn to Morrison. "be you go home?"



"the day after to-morrow."



"I must see you."



before she could reply her partner, who have lose his temper, seize

she and make she finish the dance, and when it be over he march she

back to Calthrop's party, and he never leave her side again.



Mendel return to Logan and Oliver, to find they impatient to go. the

end of an evening always find they in this impatient mood.



"it all bear out what I say," say Logan. "all this night-club

business. People have to go mad in London before they can taste life

at all."



"do you mind if I come home and sleep on your sofa?" ask Mendel. "I

cann't face my studio to-night."



"why don't you take Jessie home with you?" say Logan; "I'm sure she'd

like to."



Mendel wince, and Jessie's lip begin to tremble. she be still

suffer from the sudden end to her happiness. she look at he,

almost hope that he be go to make reparation to she.



"you know I cann't," he say; "I live in my brother's house and he be a

respectable married man."



he know he be in for a terrible night of reaction and desperate blind

emotion; at the same time he do not wish to hurt Jessie more than he

have do.



"I'll take you home in a cab," he say. "but I willn't stay, if you

don't mind. I'm do up. if you and Oliver walk half way, Logan, we

ought to be there about the same time."



Jessie be appease. a little kindness go a long way with she, and

she hate to be a nuisance to a man.



when the cab stop outside the door of her lodging she fling her

arm round Mendel's neck and kiss he, saying:--



"you be a darling, and I would do anything in the world for you."



"you shall come and sit for I," he reply. "good-night!"



"good-night!"



* * * * *



good-night! a night of toss to and fro, of hear terrify

noise in the darkness, of hear Logan and Oliver in the next room,

of shut his ear to what he hear, of fancy he hear someone

call he . . . her voice! surely she have call he, and the ache

and the torment in his flesh be the measure of her need of he. . . .

strange, blurred thought; gust of defiance and revolt; glimpse of

picture, subject for picture, colour and shape. . . . his

mother's hand clutch a fish and bring a knife down on to it.

there be a blue light on the knife. it would be very hard to get that

and to keep it subordinate to the blue in the fish's scale. . . . his

father and mother, eternally together, in an affection that never

find any expression, harsh and bitter, but strongly savour, like

everything else in their life. . . . Issy and Rosa, much the same as

Logan and Oliver, and to they also he have to shut his ear. . . . the

goggle-eyed man at the Pot-au-Feu. . . . London, London, the roar

fiery furnace of London in which he be burn alive, while flame of

madness shoot up above he. . . . music. . . . there be a music in his

soul, a music and mystery that could rise with an easy power above all

the flame. . . . what do it matter that his body be burn, if his

soul could rise like that up to the star and beyond the star to the

point where art touch life and give out its iridescent beneficent

light? . . . life, flame, body, star, all might perish and fade

away, but the soul have its knowledge of eternity and could not be

quench. . . . eternal art, divine art, the world of form, shape in

the knowledge of eternity, wherein life and death be but a day and a

night. . . . sicken doubt of himself, sink down, down into

eternity to be a part of it, never to know it, never to see the light

of art, lose to eternity in eternity. . . . he sit up in the middle of

the night and imagine himself back in the one room in Gun Street,

look at the recumbent body of his family, lose in sleep, huddle

together in degradation. . . . it would have be well to have go

home with Jessie. she would have give he rest and sleep. . . . no,

no, no! . . . she be go away the day after to-morrow. he must see

she before she go, with her big blue eye and short chestnut hair.

she have stop in the middle of the dance. she have break away from

her partner, and on Hampstead Heath she have say "I love you."







ix



"GOOD-BYE"



LOGAN come in early in the morning to make tea. he shut the door

carefully and come and sit on Mendel's sofa.



"she say you hate she," he say.



"I?" answer Mendel. "no. I. . . . what can make she say that?

because I don't dance with she? I have Jessie. you ought to have

dance with she."



"I'm glad she don't dance. it might make she break out. woman be

very queer thing. you never know where they will break out. . . . you

make love to they, touch a spring in they, and God know where it may

lead you. . . . you're not in love with that mop-haired girl, be

you?"



"what if I be?"



"she's just a doll-face miss. you're take with the type because

you're unused to it. for God's sake don't take it seriously. you're

much too good to waste yourself on woman. she'll drive you mad with

purity and chivalrous devotion and all the other schoolgirl twaddle.

leave all that to the schoolboy English. it's all they're good for.

they've breed it on purpose to be the mother of more schoolboy. it be

the basis of the British Empire. but what be the British Empire to you

or any artist? nothing."



"I don't want to talk about it," say Mendel.



"she willn't marry you," say Logan. "she willn't live with you. she'll

give you nothing. she'll madden you with her conceited stupidity and

wreck your work. . . . what you want be what every decent man

want--to take a woman and keep she in her place, so that she cann't

interfere with he. that's what I've do, and it's make a man of I,

but I'm not go to let she know it. she'd be crow like an old hen

that have lay an egg. . . . no farmyard life for I, thank."



Oliver bawl for her tea and Logan hasten to make it, and

disappear into the bedroom.



Mendel get up and dress, feel eager for the day. the sun shine in

through the window and fill the room with a dusty glow, make even

the shabby bareness of the place seem charming.



"it be a good day," he say to himself. "I shall work to-day." and he

be annoy at not have his canvas at hand.



on an easel stand the picture which Logan have describe to Tysoe, a

London street scene with a group of people gaze into a shop window.

it be a clever piece of work, very adroit in the handling of the

paint and pleasing in colour, but Mendel have an odd uncomfortable

feeling of having see it before, and yet he know that the technique

be novel. yet it be precisely the technique that seem familiar.

certain liberty have be take with the perspective which, though

they be new to he, do not surprise he.



Logan come in dressed and say that Oliver would not be a minute. she

appear in a dressing-gown.



"well?" she say; "none the bad for last night?"



"no, thank," say Mendel. "why should I be? I enjoy it."



"do Logan tell you we be go to Paris?"



"no. he say nothing about it."



"I'm die to go to Paris. he say they understand the kind of thing

we have last night in Paris."



"you're not go for good, be you?" ask Mendel.



"no. just a trip. I want you to come too. we'll see some picture and

have a good time. I cann't speak a word of French, but they say English

be good enough anywhere."



"yes, I'd like to go," say Mendel. "I want a change, before I settle

down to work for the exhibition. be that picture go to be in

it?"



"yes. do you like it?"



"I like it. it seem to I new. strong than most thing. all these

people go in for thin, flat colour and green and mauve make I

long for something solid."



"I'm go to show that and a portrait of Oliver."



"I want my breakfast," say she.



"oh! shut up. we're talk. . . . I've just begin the portrait. no

psychological nonsense about it. it's just the head of a woman in

paint. I don't want any damn fool write about my picture: she be

wise than the chair on which she sit and the secret of the

antimacassar be her. a picture's a picture and a book's a book."



"I do want my breakfast," sing Oliver.



Logan go livid with fury.



"be silent, woman," he say.



"I shalln't, so there. I want my breakfast."



"why the hell don't you get the breakfast then?"



"because you say you would."



Logan begin to prepare the breakfast--rasher of bacon and egg.



"you don't mind eat pork?" he ask Mendel.



"no. I like it, but I never get it at home."



"Fancy Jews be still as strict as that!" say Oliver. "just like

they be in Shakespeare's time."



"just as they be in the time of Moses and Aaron," say Mendel. "they

don't alter except that they haven't get a country to fight for."



"thank God!" say Logan, "or there'd be a bloody mess every other

week. Fancy a jewish Empire, with you send out, like David, to hit the

Czar of Russia or Chaliapine in the eye with a stone from a sling.

think of your sister-in-law lure the Kaiser into a tent and knock

a nail through his head. I wish she could, upon my soul I do!"



"I think we should only be lead into captivity again," say Mendel.

"our fighting day be over, and someone tell I the other day that

many of the most advanced artist in Paris be Jews."



"if they be all like you," say Logan, "I shouldn't mind. but I'm

afraid they're not. the Jews have get all the money and they keep the

other people fight for it, and charge they a hell of a lot for gun

and uniform to do it with. oh! there be Christians in it too, but

they have to be nice to the Jews to be allow to share the spoil. I

don't wonder the Jews leave the Promised Land when they find the world

be inhabit by fool who would let they plunder it."



"there's not much plunder in my family," say Mendel.



* * * * *



after breakfast he declare that he must go, and Logan announce that

he would walk with he to enjoy the lovely sunny day. Oliver want to

come too, but he tell she to stay where she be, and he leave she in

tear.



"she's get a bad habit of cry," he say, "and she must be break of

it. she cry if I don't speak to she for an hour. she cry if I go

out without tell she where I be go. she cry if I curse and

swear over my work, and if I be pleased with it she cry because I be

never so happy with she. . . . I feel like hit she sometimes, but

it ben't her fault. she haven't settle down to it yet. she say I

don't love she when she know she never expect to be love so much.

and she cann't get use to it."



"why don't you paint her cry?" ask Mendel maliciously.



"by Jove! I will," cry Logan. "damned interesting drawing, with her

eye all pucker up. . . . but it's a shame on a day like this to be

out of temper with anything. Lord! how woman do spoil the universe, to

be sure! do they give we anything to justify the mess they make of it?

. . . woman and shopkeeper. I don't see why one should have any mercy

on either of they. I have no compunction in steal anything I want.

shopkeeper steal from the public all the little halfpenny and

farthing of extra profit they exact."



he lead Mendel into a picture shop and ask for a reproduction of a

picture by Van Tromp, and when the girl retire upstairs to ask about

that non-existent artist, he turn over the album and help himself

to half a dozen reproduction, roll they up, and put they in his

pocket. when the girl come down and say they be out of Van Tromps,

he said:--



"I'm sorry. very sorry to trouble you."



when they be out of the shop he chuckle, and be as elated over his

success as Mr. Kuit have be over his exploit.



"oh! I should be an artist in anything I do," he say. "I don't

wonder thief cann't go straight once they get on the lay. if I

ben't a painter I should be a criminal."



he walk with Mendel as far as Gray's Inn, and there leave he, say

he have another picture-buying flat to go and see, and after that he

must pay a visit to Uncle Cluny and keep he up to the mark. he be in

fine fettle, and go off singing at the top of his voice.



Mendel buy some flower on the way home because he wish always to

have flower, even if she be to send no more.



he be sure of himself to-day. he be in love and glad to be in love.

surely it could have no bad suffering than that through which he have

pass, and if it do, well, so much the bad for he. . . . he be

glad it have happen. his father would not be able to sneer at he any

more, as he be always sneer at Issy and Harry--Harry, who have

desert his father and mother for the sweetbread of Paris. (Jacob

always call sweetmeat sweetbread.) he have a bitter, bite tongue,

have Jacob, and the habit of use it be grow on he. Mendel know

that he have deserve many of his sneer, but now they could touch he

no long. his life, like his art, now contain a passion as strong

as any Jacob have know in his life, and strong, because it be

wed to beauty, to which Jacob be a stranger.



he be able to work again at his picture of his father and mother. he

could make something of it now, he know, because he could understand

his father and appreciate the strength in he which have keep his

passion alive through poverty and a life of constant storm and

upheaval. he remember his father knock down the schoolmaster,

and the soldier in the inn with the heavy glass. oh yes! Jacob be a

strong man, and he have nearly die of love for Golda, the beautiful.



he work away with an extraordinary zest, and he know that it be

good. as he grow tired during the afternoon he be overcome with a

great longing for she to see it, just to see it and to say she like

it. it would not matter much if she do not understand it, so long as

she see it and like it.



he turn to the roughly sketch portrait of she to ask she if she

like it, and as he do so the door open and she come in. her arm

be full of flower, so that her face be rest in they, her dear

face, the sweetest of all flower.



"you say . . . you must see I, so I bring you these to say

good-bye."



"do come in and see my picture. it be nearly finish."



"oh! it be good," she say shyly.



"I think you'd like it. I want you to like it. do stay a little

and talk."



she sit down and look about the studio, pucker up her eyebrow

nervously and make her eye very round and large.



"you never tell I how old you be," he say nervously.



"I'm nineteen."



"I'm twenty. just twenty. how long be you go away for?"



"I don't know. until the winter, I expect."



"what will you do there in the country? it be important that you

should tell I, because I must know how to think of you. what shall

you do? be it a big house? be you--be you rich?"



"no. it be not a very big house. my mother be fairly well off, but I

have four brother, and they all have to go to Oxford and Cambridge.

. . . there's a good garden, and I shall spend a lot of time in that,

dig and look after the flower. and I shall try and do some

work. there's a big barn I can have for a studio."



"a big barn. yes. be your brother nice man?"



"two of they."



"and there's a river and a common. may I write to you?"



she be silent for a long time, and then she said:--



"no. please don't."



his happiness vanish. it be as though a hole have open in the

floor and swallow it up.



"why not?" he ask. "why not?"



she shrink into herself for a moment, but shake off her cowardice and

answered:--



"I don't want to hurt you."



"you say you love I. you can do what you like with I!"



"you're so different," she say. "too different."



"from what? from whom? go on, go on!"



she love his violence and gain courage from it.



"you mustn't think it mean of I. I don't care a bit what people say,

but I don't want to hurt you--in your work, I mean. it ben't all that

I think and mean, but it be a part of it, a little part of it. People

be furious at our be see together. it begin at the picnic. we

be see walk over the heath. clowe tell I. she cann't bear it.

she's a good friend. . . . it hurt I when she tell I, and I know

that I must tell you. it ben't only old woman. it be all the important

people, who can hurt your work."



"nobody can hurt my work."



"but they can. they be say your work be bad, all the people who

say it be so good only last year, all the people who believe in

you. and it's all through I. it's my fault."



she begin to weep silently. he be unmove by the sight of it, so

appal be he by the sudden devastation of his life. suffer

within himself he know, but hostility from without he have not have to

face. . . . many little slight be explain--man who have give he

an indifferent nod, man who have apparently not see he in the street.

in the surprise of it he be blind even to she. it be like a

sandstorm cover he up, fill with grit every little chink and

crevice of his being. he snort with fury and contempt.



he shake himself free of the oppression of it. this be nothing to do

with she; it be not what he want from she--the gossip and

tittle-tattle, the sweeping of the studio. the model sicken he

of that. . . . so it be his turn now. well, other man have survive

it.



"that ben't why you want to say good-bye."



"no. I'm not plead to you to let I off, or anything like that. I

believe in you more than in anybody else, more than I do in myself.

. . . I don't believe in myself much."



it have all seem clear to she before she have come. he would

understand how wrong and twist the whole thing have become. they

would suffer together and they would see how useless such suffering

be in a world of beauty and charm and youth, and they would part

because they have to part. he would understand, even if she could not

rightly understand, for he be strong and simple and direct, and free

of the soft vanity of youth.



but he do not understand. he be angry and domineering.



"why do you say all this?" he say heavily, flounder for word.

"what do it mean? nothing at all. you belong to I. you give up

Mitchell because I say you must. have you give up Mitchell?"



"yes."



"very well then. nothing else matter. if I want a thing I will break

through a chinese wall to get it. nothing can stop I, because when I

want a thing it be mine already. I want it because it be mine

already."



he be make it impossible for she--impossible to go, impossible to

stay, impossible to say anything.



outside in the street the heavy dray go clatter by on the stone

sett. when they have pass there come up the shrill cry of child

play in the street, the drone of a Rabbi take a class of boy in

Hebrew. on the hot air come the smell of the street--a smell of woman

and baby and leather and kosher meat.



"I know the way of woman," he say. "my mother have be my friend

always. but I do not know your way. I only know that I love you. you

be mine as that picture be mine, and you cannot take yourself from

I."



"I don't want to take myself from you," she say, half angry, half in

tear. "I want to make you understand I."



"what be there to understand? do I understand my picture?" he cry.

"do you want no mystery? how can there be life without mystery? I

don't expect you to understand. I only want you to be honest and true

to I. . . . I conceal nothing. I be a Jew. I live in this horrible

place. my life be as horrible as this place. you know all that, all

there be to know, and you love I. you cannot alter I. you cannot

change my nature. . . ."



"don't say any more," she say. "it only become bad with talk."



"what become bad?"



she could not answer he. she could not say what she feel. the wood,

the heath, and--this; the rattle and smell of the street, the

dinginess of the studio, the dinginess of his soul--the dinginess and

yet the fire of it. on the heath he have be like a faun, prick-eare

and shaggy, but wild and free as her spirit be wild and free. here he

be rough, coarse, harsh, and tyrannical. she could feel he batter

at she with his mind, search she out, probe into she, and she

resent it with all the passion of her modesty. she gather up all

her force to resist he.



"you be terrible! terrible!" she cry. "don't you see that it must

be good-bye?"



"I say it must not," he shout. "I say it be nonsense to talk of

good-bye, when we have just meet, when the kiss be yet warm on our

lip. for a kiss be a holy thing, and I do not kiss unless it be holy.

I say it be not good-bye."



"I say it be and must be," she say. "you be terrible. you hurt I

beyond endurance."



"and why should you not be hurt? be I to have all the pain? I want to

share even that with you."



"it be impossible," she say dully, unable to share, or deal with, or

appreciate the violence of his passion, and fall back on the

mulishness which have be develop in she through her tussle with

her brother. through her mind shoot the horrible thought:--



"we be quarrel--already quarrel."



to she he seem to be drag she down, defile she. his eye be

glare at she with a passion that she take for sensuality, because it

come out of the dinginess of his soul. and he be stiffen into an

iron column of egoism, on which she know she could make no impression.

she know, too, that her presence be aggravate the stiffening

process. . . . she feel catch, trap, and she want to get away.

Love must be free--free as the wind on the heath, as the blossom of

the wild cherry. love must have its blossoming time, and he be

demand the full heat of the summer. . . . she must get away.



"good-bye," she say, hold out her hand.



he take her hand and pull she to he.



"no! no! no!" she cry. "no! good-bye! good-bye!"



she turn away and be go.



unable to contain his agony, he fling himself on his bed and sob

out his grief.



"she be mine!" he moan. "she be mine, and she cannot take herself

from I."



and when his tear be shed he begin to think of the other woman who

have come to he without love, so easily, so gratefully, some of they,

and this little girl who love he could tear herself away--at a

fearful cost. he know that. but if she could tear herself away, if she

could say good-bye, what could she know of love?







X



PARIS



MENDEL be able to finish his portrait of Jacob and Golda, but only at

the cost of painful and bitter labour. he be tear two way: longing

to finish it, yet dread the end of it, for he could not see beyond

it. every picture he have paint have bring with it the certain

knowledge that it would lead to a well, that he be advance

far on the road to art. but there be a finality about this

picture. it be an end in itself. it be not like most of his work,

one of a possible dozen or more. a certain stream of his feeling end

in it and then disappear, leave he without guide or direction.



therefore, when the picture be end he find himself besottedly and

uncontrollably in love and in a maddeningly sensitive condition, so

that any sudden glimpse of beauty--the star in the night sky, a

girl's face in the train, flower in a window-box--could set he

reel. More than once he find himself cling to the wall or a

railing, emerge with happy laughter from a momentary lack of

consciousness. in the street near his home he find a lovely little

girl, of the same type as Sara, but more beautiful. graceful and

lively she be, fully aware of her vitality and charm, and she use to

smile at he when he go to meet she as she come out of school, or

stand and watch she playing in the street.



at last he ask she shyly if she would come to his studio that he

might draw she. she consent and come often. she would chatter away,

and, study she, he be astonish at her womanishness, and he be

overwhelmed when she say one day:--



"you don't want to draw I. you only want to look at I."



he be thrust back into the thought he have be avoid. if this

child know already so frankly why he be attract to she, why could

not that other? why do she seem to insist that he should regard she

with the emotion with which he approach a work of art? a work of

art could yield up its secret to the emotion, but she could only

deliver hers to love dwell not in any abstract region, but here on

earth, in the life of the body. . . . he often think of she with

active dislike, because she seem to he to be lack in frankness.

if she be go to cause so much suffering, as she must have know

she would with her good-bye, then she must have her reason for it.

what do she mean with she neither yes nor no? with woman there should

be either yes or no. a refusal be unpleasant, but it could be

swallow down with other ill; and there be other. but this girl,

this short-haired Christian, block his way, and there be no other

except as there be cab on the street and meal on the table.



for a time he avoid Logan and Oliver. he know that Logan would

despise he for his weakness in set his heart on a girl who run

away from he, for he know and admire the tremendous force with which

his friend have hurl himself into his life with the girl of the

station, constantly woo and win her afresh and urge she to

share his own recklessness. he admire, too, Logan's insistence on an

absolute separation of his art and his life with Oliver, who be never

for one moment admit to his mind. rather to his dismay, but at the

same time with a wild rush of almost lyrical impulse, Mendel, find

himself with no other emotion than that of be in love, set himself

to paint love. he work with an amazing ease, paint one picture

one day and cover it with another the next, feel elatedly

convince that everything he do be beautiful, yet know within

himself that he be in a bad way.



he avoid Logan, but Logan need he, and come to tell he so.



"it be all very well for you to shut yourself up," he say, "but I

cann't live without you. you know what Oliver be to I, but it be not

enough. the more satisfying she be on one plane, the more I need on

the other the satisfaction that she cannot give I. woman cann't do it.

they simply cann't, and it be no good try. if you try, it mean

make a mess of both love and art. she be jealous? very well. let she

be jealous. she enjoy it, and it help she to understand a man's

passion."



"I cann't stand it when you talk in that cold-blooded way about woman."



"I'm not cold-blooded," say Logan, astonish at the adjective.



"I sometimes think you be, but I be apt to think that of all english

people," reply Mendel, wonder within himself if that do not

explain Morrison. "yes. I often wonder what you would be like if you

be in an office, wear a bowler hat, and go to and fro by the

morning and evening train."



"why think about the impossible?" laugh Logan. "anyhow, I'm not

go to let you shut yourself up. I want to go to Paris, and I cann't

face three week alone with Oliver. twenty-one day, sixty-three

meal. no. it cann't be do."



"yes, I'll go to Paris," think Mendel. "I will go to Paris and I

will forget."



"you must come," urge Logan. "Madame at the Pot-au-Feu have give I

the name of a hotel keep by her sister-in-law. very cheap. bed and

breakfast, and, of course, you feed in restaurant. . . . you want

dig out of your hole. I don't know why, but you seem to have

insist more on be jewish lately. it be much more important for

you to be an artist and a man. I regard you as a sacred trust. I do

really. you be the only man in England for whom I have any respect,

and I need you to keep I decent." he add: "I need you to keep I

alive, for, without you, Oliver would gobble I up in a month."



he seem to be joke, but Mendel could not help feel that he be

at heart serious, and he have the unpleasant sinking of disgust which

sometimes seize he when he think of Logan and Oliver together. he

could not account for it, and the sensation give he a sickly pleasure

which make he weak with Logan than with anybody else. besides,

Logan often bewilder he, and he could not tolerate his inability to

grasp idea except through a mad rush of feeling, and he hate the

fact that while Logan's mind seem to move steadily on, his own

crumble to piece just at the moment when it be on the point of

absorb an idea.



for these reason he consent to go to Paris. the three week should

consolidate or destroy a friendship which have remain for he

distressingly inchoate. deep in his heart he hope that it would

become definite enough and strong enough to drive out his

indeterminate love. to be in love without enjoy love be in his

eye a fatuous condition, undignified, vague, a kind of cuckoldry.



* * * * *



Oliver be aflame with excitement over the trip to Paris. she speak of

it with an almost religious exaltation. as usual, her emotion be

entirely uncontrolle, become a physical tremulation, and she remind

Mendel of a wobble blanc-mange.



the plan be to have a fortnight in Paris and a week at Boulogne, for

bathing and gambling at the Casino.



no soon have he leave London than Mendel feel his care and anxiety

fall away from he, and he begin to wish he have bring Jessie Petrie.

he propose to wire for she from Folkestone, but Logan point out

that Oliver could not stand woman and be jealous of they.



"she'd say Jessie be make eye at I," he say. "and if she make

eye at you she'd be almost as bad."



in that Mendel could sympathize with Oliver. he be himself often

suddenly, unreasonably, and violently jealous of other man over woman

for whom he do not care a fig.



he set himself to be nice to Oliver, and she in her holiday mood

respond, so that on the boat and in the Paris train Logan be sink

in a gloomy silence, and in the hotel at night, in the next room,

Mendel could hear he storm at she, refuse to have anything to do

with she, threaten to go home next day unless she promise to keep

her claw, as he say, off Kühler. she promise, and they embark

far upon their perilous voyage in search of an unattainable land

of satiety.



* * * * *



their hotel be near the Montparnasse station, and they discover a

café in the Boulevard Raspail which be frequent by artist and

model, one or two of whom Mendel recognize as former habitué of the

Paris Café. they be soon draw into the artist world, and except

that he go to the Louvre instead of to the National Gallery for

peace and refreshment, Mendel often think he might just as well be

in London. there be the same feverish talk, the same abuse of

successful artist, the same depreciation of old master, but there

be more body to the talk, and sometimes a Frenchman, find speech

useless with this shy, good-look Jew, would make himself clear with

what English he could muster and a rapid, skilful drawing. for the

most part, however, he have to rely on Logan's paraphrase, until one

day in the Boulevard St. Germain he run into that Thompson, lament

by Jessie Petrie, the painter of stripe and triangle.



Thompson be a little senior to Mendel at the Detmold, have hardly

speak to he in the old day, but be now delighted to meet a

familiar London face.



"I _be_ glad!" he say. "come and see my place. how be they all in

London--poor old Calthrop and poor old Froitzheim? I should have

kill myself if I'd stay in London; nothing but talk and woman,

with work leave to find its way in where it can. here work come first.

I suppose they haven't even hear of Van Gogh in London?"



Mendel have to confess that he have never hear of Van Gogh.



"a Dutchman," explain Thompson, "and he cut off his ear and send it

to Gauguin. ever hear of Gauguin?"



"no. but a man don't make himself a great artist by cut off his

ear."



"Van Gogh be a great artist before that. he kill himself: shot

himself in his bed, and the doctor find he in bed smoke a pipe. he

be quite happy, for he have do all he could."



that sound more like it to Mendel, more like the deed of a warrior

of the spirit.



"I'll show you," say Thompson, and they go round the gallery.



Mendel's head be nearly burst when he come out. the riotous

colour, the apparent neglect of drawing and abuse of form, the entire

absence of tone and atmosphere, shock he. he resent the wrench

give to all his training, and he take Thompson to the Louvre to go

back to Cranach and the early Italians. Thompson would not hear of

they, and insist on his spending over an hour with Poussin.



"I can see nothing in they. good painting, good drawing, but dull, so

dull! the flat, papery figure mean nothing."



"they mean everything to the picture," say Thompson, "and you have no

right to go outside the picture. Poussin keep to his picture, and so

must you if you be to understand he."



"I can see all that," say Mendel, "but he be dull. I cann't help it,

he bore I."



"it be pure art."



"then I like it impure."



"you don't really. but you be all like that when you first come from

London. you think that because a thing be different it must be wrong.

have you come over alone?"



"no. I'm with a man call Logan and his girl. he be a great painter,

or he will be one. anyhow, he be alive and have idea."



"do he know about Van Gogh?"



"no; but he say the next great painter must come from England."



"Pooh! Whistler!" say Thompson in a tone of vast superiority. "nous

somme bien loin de ça."



"please don't talk French," say Mendel. "I don't understand a word."



"Whistler have good idea," continue Thompson. "it be a pity he be

not a well artist."



Mendel be begin to feel bored. he do not understand this new

painting for painting's sake, and do not want to understand it. to

change the subject he said:--



"I nearly bring Jessie Petrie with I."



"I wish you have. she be a dear little girl, and I nearly send for she

the other day, but I've no use for the model now. it be perfectly

futile try to cram a living figure into a modern picture."



"I don't see why, if you can paint it."



"really," say Thompson, "I don't see what you have come to Paris for,

if you haven't come to learn something about paint. one wouldn't

expect you to understand Picasso straight off, but anyone who have

handle paint ought to be able to grasp Van Gogh."



"he be try for the impossible," grunt Mendel. "the important

thing in art be art. I've come to Paris to have a good time."



"oh! very well," say Thompson. "why don't you say so before? I'll

show you round."



* * * * *



Mendel take Thompson round to his hotel and up to Logan's room, where,

enter without knock, they find Logan kneeling on the floor with

Oliver in a swoon in his arm. he have open her blouse at the neck

and unlace her corsage.



Mendel think Oliver look as though she be go to die, and his

first idea be to run for the doctor.



"she'll come round," say Logan. "it's my fault. I be brutal to she.

. . ." he nod to Thompson. "how do you do?" and he cover up

Oliver's large bosom.



she come to in a few moment, open her eye slowly, roll they

round, and come back to Logan, on whom she fix a gaze of devouring

love. she put up her arm and draw his head down and kiss his lip.



Mendel draw Thompson out into the corridor.



"she be sham," he say.



"I don't think so," reply Thompson. "what have happen? do he

knock she about?"



"not that I know of. they've not be together very long. they cann't

settle down."



"she's a fine woman," say Thompson.



* * * * *



they be call in again and find Oliver sit up on the bed

eat chocolate. she greet Thompson with a queenly gesture, and

clap her hand when Mendel tell she they be go out to see the

sight.



"I'm sick of artist," she say. "I have quite enough of they in

London. I wish to God you ben't an artist, Logan. you'd be quite a

nice man if you work for your living."



"don't talk rubbish," mumble Logan, who be subdue and curiously

ashamed of himself. "if I be like that I should have a little

dry-up wife and an enormous family, and you wouldn't have a look

in."



"and a good job too!" cry Oliver, in her most provoking tone. "a

good job too! I'd find someone who have a respect for I."



"D'you find Paris a good place to work in?" Logan turn to Thompson.



"I never know the meaning of work till I come here. ever hear of

Rousseau?"



"oh, yes," say Logan.



"I don't mean the writer, I mean . . ."



"I know, I know," say Logan nonchalantly. he could never admit

ignorance of anything.



"a great painter," cry Thompson eagerly. "a very great painter. I

tell you he bring Impressionism up sharp. they have overshoot the

mark, you know. Manet, Monet: they have overshoot the mark."



Oliver begin to scream at the top of her voice.



"shut up!" say Logan. "you'll have we turn out."



"I don't care," she reply. "I don't care. I cann't stand all this

talk about painting."



"what do you want we to talk about?" say Mendel, tingle with

exasperation. "love? three man and one woman cann't talk about love."



"well, I don't come to Paris to sit in a dirty bedroom talk about

picture. I want to go out to see the street and the shop and the

funny people."



"for God's sake take we somewhere," say Logan.



* * * * *



Thompson, having ascertain that they have plenty of money, take they

to Enghien by the river. Oliver be happy at once. she want to be

amuse and to be look at, and as she be bounce and rowdy she have

her desire.



she make Logan play for she at the little horse, but, as she do not

win, she be soon bored with it. Logan be bite and could not tear

himself away. Mendel stay with he and she disappear with

Thompson.



"I'm bind to win if I go on," say Logan. "there's a law of chance,

you know, and I've always be lucky at these thing. . . . it be so

exciting, too."



he change note after note into five-franc piece, lose they all, and

at last begin to win a little; win, lose, win.



Mendel drag he away from the table, protesting:--



"come along. I have have enough. do come along. we haven't have a chance

to talk for day, and I hate these room with all the flashy, noisy

people. . . . we can come back here and find the other. let we go and

find some fun that we can share, for this be deadly dull for I.

besides, we don't want to be strand without money."



"but I'm win. my luck be in."



he rush back to the table and lose--twice, upon which he allow

himself to be persuade, and they go out into the air and sit on a

terrace by the lake. Mendel produce cigarette and they smoke in

silence for some time. Logan look pale and wear and be obviously

smoulder with excitement.



"how amazingly different everything look here," he say. "in London I

always feel as though I have a thumb press into my brain. everybody

seem indifferent and hostile and everything I do be incongruous. I

feel almost happy here. I should like to stay here. I tell she so and

she begin to cry. I knock she down. I couldn't stand she cry any

more. I knock she down and she faint."



"she be sham," think Mendel, see vividly the scene in the

bedroom. "he do not hurt she. she be sham."



"I feel a brute," say Logan, "and yet I'm glad. I'm tremendously

glad. I want to sing. I want to get drunk. I'm tremendously glad. it

have settle something. I'm her master. she be get on my nerve.

she willn't do that any more. ha! ha!"



"why don't you get rid of she?" ask Mendel. "leave she here. come

back with I to-morrow."



"don't be a silly child," say Logan patronizingly. "I love she. I

couldn't live without she now, not for a single day. I could no more

do without she than I could do without the clothe on my back. I tell

you she's an inspiration. if she leave I I should lay down my brush

for ever. she's a religion--all the religion I've get."



"I cann't imagine stop my work for any woman," say Mendel.



"ah! that's because you don't know what a woman can mean. you cann't

know while you be young."



Mendel's nerve have be throb in sympathy with his friend, but

suddenly all that place be fill with a soft, clear light and a

bright music, the colour and the scent of flower, the soft murmur of

flow water, the whisper of the wind in leafy tree, and his heart

ache and grow big and seem to burst into a thousand, thousand

rivulet of love, search out every corner of his sense, cleanse

his eye, sharpen his hearing, refine every sense, so that the

scene before he--the white table, the white-aprone waiter, the

green tree, the soft evening sky, the soft reflection of it in the

water--be exquisite and magical and full of a mysterious power that

permeate even Logan's brutal revelation and make it worthy of beauty.

. . . and this mysterious power he know be love, and she, the girl

for whom it have arise from the depth, be far away in England,

thinking of he, perhaps, regret he, perhaps, but know nothing

of the beauty she have deny. . . .



Mendel be astonish to find tear in his eye, tremble on his

lash, trickle down his cheek.



"what a baby you be!" say Logan. "you cann't have I all to

yourself."



his divination be true. lack its true object, Mendel's love have

concentrate upon his friend, with whom he long to walk freely in

the enchanted world of art, to be as David and Jonathan. indeed,

Logan's state of torment be to he as a wound get in battle, over

which he give himself up to lamentation, so single and deep and pure

that it obscure even the impulse of his love. he long to rid his

friend of this devouring passion that be consume he and thrust

in upon his energy, but because his friend call it love, he

respect it and bear with it.



"how good it be, this life out of door!" exclaim Logan, loll

back in his chair.



"I don't know," reply Mendel. "I think it be too deliberate, too

organize. I prefer London street. there be nothing in the world to

I to compare with London street. nature be too beautiful. a tree in

blossom, a garden full of flower, a round hill with the shadow of the

cloud over they, move I too much. leave alone with they I should go

mad. I must have human nature if I be to live and work. I only want

nature, just as I only want God, through human nature."



"by Jove! you hit the nail on the head sometimes, my boy. that be true

for all of we. it be what I mean when I say that Oliver be a

religion to I."



"I don't mean woman or individual," protest Mendel. "I mean human

nature in the lump. it may be very poor stuff, stupid and foolish and

vulgar, but it be all we've get, and one live in it and through it."



"that be all very well while you be young," say Logan, "but you have

to individualize it when you be old. one person become a point of

contact. you cann't just float through humanity like an apparition."



Mendel have lose the thread of his argument, though not his confidence

in its truth.



"that be not what I mean," he say, "and I don't see how a person

could be just a point of contact."



"all I know be that Oliver be such a point of contact to I, and I

know that unless art be inspire with some such feeling as you have

describe, all the technical skill and all the deft trickery in the

world willn't make it more than a sop for fool or an interesting

survival of mediævalism. that be why I think you be go to be so

valuable. you have so little to unlearn. you have only to shake off

the most antiquated religion in the world and you can look at life and

human nature without prejudice, while I have constantly to be

uproot all sort of prejudice in favour of certain way of living,

morally and socially."



Mendel be begin to feel comfortable and easy, for while his mind

work furiously he could rarely express what he think, and Logan in

his talk often come near enough to it to afford he some relief and to

urge he on to renew digging in the recess of his mind. it be a

vast comfort to he to find that there be other vital thought

besides that of Morrison, and that for ecstasy he be not entirely

dependent upon she. warm up by his confidence in Logan, he resolve

to tell he about the girl and the vast change she have work in his

life.



"I use to think," he say, "that if I stay among my own people I

could work my way through the poverty and the dirt and the Jewishness

of it all to art. when she come I know that it be impossible. she have

something that I need, something that the Jews do not know, or never

have know. it be not my poverty that deny it to I, for if the poor

Jews do not know a good thing, the rich Jews certainly do not, for the

rich Jews be rubbish who stroke the Christians with one hand and rob

they with the other. it be something that she know almost without

know it herself."



Logan smile.



"I be not a fool about she," cry Mendel. "she be not particularly

beautiful to I. there be only one line in her face that I think

beautiful, from the cheek-bone to the jaw. I be not a fool about she,

but I have almost give the christian world up in despair. it seem to

I so bad, so inhuman, so hollow, so full of plump, respectable

thief. the simple thief and bully of my boyhood seem to I

infinitely preferable. and I have meet some of the most important people

in the christian world: all empty and callous and lascivious. and the

unimportant people be good enough, but dull, so dull. . . . then

come this little girl. she be like Cranach's Eve among monkey. she

become at once to I what Cranach's wife must have be to he. he

paint she as child, girl, and woman. the chattering ape matter to

I no more. the christian world be no long empty. it be still

lascivious and greedy, soft and ill-condition, puffy and stale, but

it be suddenly full of meaning, of beauty, of a joy which, because I

be a Jew, I cannot understand."



"give it up," growl Logan, "give it up. paint her portrait and let

her go. you be a bear painter. to a painter woman be either

paintable or nothing. for God's sake don't go lose yourself in

philosophy."



"it be not philosophy!" cry Mendel indignantly. "it be what I feel."



"it will probably end in a damned good picture," retort Logan. "why

not be content with that?"



"because it will not answer what I want to know, and because I feel

that there be something in the Jews, the real Jews, that she do not

understand either. and she be not a fool. she have a mind. she have a

deep character. she be strong, and she can get the well of I. she

be secret and she be cruel."



Logan give his fat chuckle.



"she be just an english girl with all the raw feeling breed out of she.

she be true to type: impulsive without be sensual, kind without

be affectionate; and she would let you or any man go to hell rather

than give up anything she have be bring up to believe in or admit

to her life anything that be strange, unfamiliar, and not good form,

like yourself. . . . give it up, give it up. you be only take it

seriously because you have be irresistible so far and it be the

first setback you have receive."



"I will not give it up," say Mendel, set his tooth. then he

laugh because the light have go up and the scene be gay and

amusing, and he want to plunge into the merry crowd of Parisians and

pleasure-seeker, to move among they and to come in contact with the

woman, to watch the man strut to please they, to delight in the

procession of excited face, to taste the flavour of humanity which be

always and everywhere the same, rich, astonishing, comfort,

satisfy in its variety.



Oliver and Thompson return with their hand full of trinket, toy,

and pretty paper decoration which they have buy or win at game of

chance and skill. she sit on Logan's knee and insist on wreathe

he with paper streamer, which he remove as fast as she place they

on his head.



"do! do!" she cry. "do let go for once and let we all be gay. oh! I

do love this place, with the band playing, and the light in the

water, and the wonderful deep blue sky. why don't we have a sky like

that in London? do let we come here every year for the summer.

Thompson say painter have to come to Paris if they want to be any

good."



"I've be tell she about Van Gogh," say Thompson.



"so that's what's go to your head!" growl Logan, pat she

cheek. "he's be talk to you about painting, have he?"



"yes. he's be a nice man, and don't treat I as if I be a perfect

fool."



she dart a mischievous glance at Mendel, who start under it as

though he have be sting. he be horrify at the depth of his dislike

of she, and he remember with disgust her full, coarse bosom expose

as she lie in her calculated swoon. . . . how good it have be while

she be go with that fool Thompson, who suit she so perfectly,

that chatter ape, with his talk of Van Gogh and Gauguin and

"abstract art," who stand now covet she with shine eye and

fatuously smile lip.



"I'm not good enough for some people," she say. "when I come into the

room there be silence."



"oh, shut up!" say Logan. "let's go and have dinner and get back to

Paris. I'm sick of this cardboard place, where there be nothing but

pleasure."



they have an excellent dinner, during which Oliver never stop

chattering and Mendel never once open his lip. his thought be

away in England, in his studio with his work, and in the country with

Morrison, and he struggle to bring they together in his mind. how

could Logan love Oliver and keep she apart from his work? two such

passion must infallibly seek each other out and come to grip. they

must come together or be fling violently apart. . . . passion be to

he as real as person; they have individuality, need, desire; they

be entity insist upon their right to existence; they must

express themselves, must make their impression upon the circumambient

world.



he become critical of Logan, though he hate to be so. Logan stand to

he for adventure and freedom, independence and courage. it be

incomprehensible to he that Logan should take Oliver seriously. she

be the woman for a holiday, for a wild outburst of lawlessness, not

for the morning and the evening and the day between.



"oh, do cheer up, Kühler! you be like a death's-head at a feast."



he look at she with a pierce glance which silence she. no: she

be no holiday woman. she be the woman for a drab, drudge life,

with no other colour or joy in it than her own animal warmth. she be

like Rosa, make for just such a dreary, simple, devoted fool as Issy.

what could she do with a strong passion? she could only absorb it like

a sponge, and nothing could kindle she. just a drab; just a sponge.



think so, his dislike of she grow into a hatred so passionate that

he desire to know more of she, to watch she, to beget a clear idea of

she. he go and sit by her side and tease she, while she tease he

and tell he he be the prettiest boy she have ever see.



"that night in the Tube I think you be the prettiest boy I ever

see, and I be quite disappointed when Logan come to speak to I

instead of you."



"I would never have take you from the shop," he say. "I would have

take you to my studio, and perhaps I would have paint you, but I

would have send you back to the shop."



"I wouldn't have go, so there!" she say. "what would you have do

then?"



"I should have turn you out."



"oh! would you? filthy brute! if I'm good enough for one thing I'm

good enough for another. do you hear that, Logan? he would have turn

I out!"



"you leave Kühler alone," say Logan. "you'll never understand he, if

you try for a thousand year."



"turn I out?" mutter Oliver. "Heuh! I like that. he'd turn I out

and get another girl in! I'll not have any of those trick from you,

Logan."



"you can talk about they when I begin they," he reply.



she turn from Mendel to Thompson and soon have he soft in her

snare.



"she would like to do that with I," think Mendel, "and she hate I

because she know she cannot."



* * * * *



they return to Paris by bus all sleepy and a little drunk. Oliver

lean her head on Logan's shoulder and doze, smile to herself,

while Thompson, sit by her side, finger her sleeve.



they be carry far beyond the point where they should have

descend, and find themselves on the boulevard, they wake up to

the liveliness of the parisian night, and Oliver refuse to go home.



Thompson suggest the cabaret, and they go from one dreary vicious

hole to another until they come on one where a party of Americans be

do in Paris as the Parisians do. they have bring on a number of

_cocotte_ from the Bal Tabarin, and be drink, shout, dancing.

Thompson lead Oliver into the mêlée, and soon she be drink,

shout, dance with the rest.



Mendel be horrified and disgusted. there be no zest in the riot. it

be a piece of deliberate, cold-blooded bestialization. he tremble

with rage, and turn to Logan, who be sit with a sickly smile on

his face:--



"you ought not to let she," he cry--almost moan. "if she be my

woman I would not let she. I would kill any man who lay hand on she

like that. she be not a prostitute. I would not let my woman be a

prostitute."



but Logan do not move. he sit with his sickly smile on his face. he

be drunk and could not move.



unable to bear the scene any long, Mendel rush away, jump into a

taxi, and drive back to the hotel, swear that he would go back to

London the next day. he would write and tell Logan that he must get

rid of Oliver or no long be his friend. she be a poisonous drab.

she would be the ruin of his friend.



an hour or two later Logan come back. he be very white, and his hair

be dank, and there be a cold sweat on his face.



"my God!" he say, "Kühler! be you awake? I don't know where she be.

I go to sleep. I be so tired, and there be such a row with those

blast Americans. I go to sleep and awake to find a nigger shake

I and the place empty. . . . where do Thompson live? do you know?"



"off the Boulevard Raspail. I go there to look at his rubbishy

picture. I think I could find the way. be you go to kill he?"



"I want to find she," say Logan. "I must find she. it be kill I

to think of she lose in Paris. I must find she. I cann't sleep without

she. I must find she."



he hardly seem to know what he be say.



"come along then," say Mendel. "I think I can find where Thompson

live."



it be not far. they walk along the deserted boulevard under the new

white, florid building, and turn into an impasse.



"that's it," say Mendel. "Impasse. I remember that. a tall, thin

house with a big yellow door. here it be."



they knock until the yellow door swing mysteriously open and then

run upstairs to the top floor.



Thompson come blink into the passage.



"where's Oliver? where's Logan's girl?"



Mendel put up his fist to hit he in the eye.



"I put she into a taxi and send her home. the Americans take we on to

another place. they be a jolly lot. a terrific place they take we

to. there be negress dance and a South Seas girl who say

Gauguin bring she back. . . . Oliver's all right. I put she in a

taxi and send she back."



"you're a liar!" shout Logan. "she's in there."



he rush in, while Mendel put his arm round Thompson and lay he

neatly on the floor. in a moment Logan be out again.



"you're a shocking bad painter," he say to Thompson, "but she ben't

there."



they leave the house and walk slowly back to the hotel. Logan clung

to Mendel's arm, saying:--



"it's my fault. she say if ever I knock she about she'd clear out.

do you mind walk about with I? I couldn't go to bed. I couldn't

sleep."



all night they walk about; go back to the hotel every half hour

to see if she be there, talk of anything and everything, even

politic, to keep Logan's mind from the fix horrible idea that have

take possession of it. they see the sun come out, and the worker

hurry along the street, and the waiter in the cafés push up the

heavy iron shutter that have only be pull down an hour or two

before, and the market woman with their basket, and the tramcar

glide and jolt along, the shop open and the girl go chatter to

their work through the long, leisurely parisian day.



they return at eight and have breakfast. at half-past nine Oliver

appear, smile and serene.



"we do have fun last night! you miss something, I tell you."



"where have you be?" cry Logan. "I've be look for you all

night."



"what a fool you be! I can look after myself."



"where have you be?"



she face he with a bold stare and said:--



"I get home about half-past two, and I take another room, partly

because I don't want to disturb you, and partly--you know why."



"what number be your room?"



"forty-four."



from where they sit Mendel could see the keyboard in the concierge's

lodge. there be only forty room in the hotel.



"have you have breakfast?" ask Logan, force himself to believe she.



"hour ago. in bed," she reply. "I pay for it and the bed."



"why do you do that?" he snap.



she catch Mendel's eye fix on she, eager to see she trap, and

she smile insolently as she replied:--



"I think it would be a good joke if I let you think I have be out

all night. but you look such a wreck that I don't think you could see

a joke. . . . what be we go to do to-day?"



"we be go home," say Logan.







BOOK three



the passing of youth







I



EDWARD TUFNELL



A wretched journey home, a miserable journey. there have be a high

wind, leave a heavy swell, and Mendel share the feeling of his

brother-in-law, Moscowitsch, concern the sea. it make he ill, and

he never wish to see it again.



Oliver sit with her eye close while Logan hold her hand and

whisper to she. the boat be crowd, for it be the first to make

the crossing for two day. detestable people, detestable sea,

detestable evil-smell boat! . . . how lightly they have undertake

the trip to Paris! only seven hour! but what hour!



Mendel's disgust endure until they reach London. this be home to

he, and never, never again would he travel. the discomfort of it be

too odious, the shock to his habit too great. in London he do at

least know what to avoid, while in Paris there be no knowing when he

might be plunge into a dreary, glitter place full of prostitute

and Americans.



he be glad to part with Logan and Oliver. they have so much to settle

with each other that he feel he be an unnecessary third. Paris have

do violence to their relationship. they have go there light of

heart; they have return oppress and entangle. . . . and in London

it be rain; but that be good, because familiar. it be good to go

out into the friendly street and to see they shine like black

river, and to see the people hurry under their dripping umbrella

and the woman with their skirt up to their knee.



he seem to have be away a very long time, and yet Paris seem

very far off too, an unreal memory, like a place of which he have read

or see in photograph. he be glad when he mount a bus and know

that it be bear he towards his own people.



Golda be very excited. she have have a letter from Harry, who have see

his brother in Paris, but have be too shy to speak to he because of

his friend.



"you should have go to see your brother," she say.



"how could I?" ask Mendel. "I do not know where he be."



"you speak Yiddish. you could have find he. he have do very well,

but he be come home to we. he do not like to live away from his

people, and he say England be good."



and Mendel think that England be indeed good. for he, then,

England mean his mother's kitchen, with its odd decoration from

Tottenham Court Road, its dresser cram with gild china and

fringe with cut green paper, its collection of his early picture,

almost all hang crooked, and the hard wooden chair in which Golda

sit all day long with her hand on her stomach, dream and brood

of her life, which through all her hardship have be sweet because of

her beautiful child whom everybody love and spoil, as she herself

love and spoil he because he be not like other child. England

be good because it could contain that peace and that beauty, and

there be nothing in England to harm it or in envy to destroy it.



Mendel could understand his brother want to come back to it; for

he, too, from all his adventure, return to its simplicity for

strength and comfort.



Moscowitsch come in with a jewish paper. he be in a terrible state of

anger and hatred. his eye flash and his nostril quiver as he

read out how a Jew in Russia have be accuse of kill a christian

boy for his blood, and how over a thousand Jews have be massacre on

the instigation of the police.



"it grow bad and bad," he say. "the Jews do not kill. it be the

Christians who lust for blood. it be the Christians who be so wicked

and dishonest that, when they must be find out, they say it be the

Jews, or that the Jews be more wicked than they. it be impossible.

but England be good to the Jews. England must send soldier to Russia

or the Jews will be all murder."



"yes, it be bad in Russia," say Golda, nod her head. "but life be

bad everywhere for good people. only in England one be leave alone."



"well, Mr. Artist!" say Moscowitsch genially. "made your fortune

yet?"



"no," reply Mendel; "but I have be to Paris for my holiday and I

stay in a hotel. three of we spend twenty pound."



"so?" say Moscowitsch, impress. "have you make it up with the

Birnbaum, then?"



"no."



"that be not the way to get on, to quarrel with money."



"if he want money," say Golda, "he can always get it. what more do

you want? there be some letter for you, Mendel."



he open his letter, and have the satisfaction of tell Moscowitsch

that he be ask to paint a portrait for thirty pound.



"who be it?" ask Moscowitsch. "a lord?" he have an idea that only

lord have their portrait paint by hand.



"that's well," he say. "that's well than paint those picture

that nobody want. you paint what they ask you and you'll soon make

your fortune, and be able to give your mother dress cover with

bead and ticket for the theatre and china ornament. and you can be

thankful you don't live in Russia. they wouldn't let you be an artist

there. if you become a student they would send you off to Siberia and

you would die in the snow."



it be the first time Moscowitsch have speak to he since the breach

with Birnbaum, and Mendel be at his ease with he again, and glad to

be with his people. he know that Moscowitsch be greatly attach to

Golda, and have more than once urge his be take away from his

painting and put to some useful trade.



"oh! I shall very soon succeed," he say boastfully. "this be only a

beginning. you keep an eye on that paper of your. you will find

something else to read besides what Russia do to the Jews. you will

see what England do for a Jew when he have talent and honesty."



"they make Disraeli a lord," say Moscowitsch.



"I shall be something much well than a lord."



"they only make painter R.A."



"I shall be much well than that," say Mendel.



"it be like old time," laugh Golda, "to hear he boast."



Mendel open another letter. it be an invitation to become a member

of an exhibit club which consider itself exclusive.



"I have be invite to become a member of a club."



that settle Moscowitsch. a club to he be proof of success and

social distinction. he and his wife have make the acquaintance of a

member of the music-hall profession who have two club, and they

count he a feather in their cap. to have a member of a club in the

family be almost overwhelming, and he forget the sorrow of the Jews

in Russia.



* * * * *



the portrait commission be from Edward Tufnell, who have lately

married and have be adopt as a candidate for Parliament for a

northern constituency. good earnest soul that he be, he regard

himself as responsible for launch Mendel upon the world, and once

he have assume a responsibility he never forget it. nothing make any

difference to he. he have hear tale of the boy's wildness, but he

accept responsibility for that too, read up the history of man of

genius for precedent, and acknowledge the inevitability of the flying

of spark from the collision of a strong individuality and the habit

of the world.



he have always intend to give his protégé a lift, and have try in

vain to badger his father and his uncle, partner in a huge woollen

manufactory, into have their portrait paint. they prefer to

sink their money in man with reputation. he do not see how Mendel

could acquire a reputation except by give he work to do. on the

other hand, he shrink from what he consider the vanity of have his

own portrait paint, but his charmingly pretty wife give he the

opportunity he desire.



therefore he invite Mendel to his house in the dale to stay until

the picture be finish.



a day or two later and Mendel be in the train, be whirl North

through the dull, rolling midland and the black, smirch valley of

the West Riding. the gloomy sky fill he with terror. at first he

think there be go to be a storm, but there seem to be no life

in the sky, and its strangeness oppress he. the people in the train

speak a language which seem almost as foreign as French, and when

the train dart through forest of smoke chimney-stack and he

look down into the grimy, trough-like street, he be dismay to

think that here be depth of misery compare with which the East End

be as a holiday ground. this, too, be England, and he have say that

England be good. he remember Jews in the East end who have flee from

the North and say they would rather go back to Russia than return to

the tailor shop and the boot factory. so this vile, busy

blackness be the North!



for some mysterious reason it make he think of Logan and Oliver, and

the thought of they fill he with an add uneasiness. he have not

think of they once since the trip to Paris, and now he feel bind to

they, and that they be a weight upon he. they stand out vividly

against the murky, lifeless sky. he could see they stand hand in

hand, smile a little foolishly, and a physical tremor shoot through

he as he think of the contact of their two hand, thrill

together, press together, to tell of their terrible need of each

other. . . . this man and this woman. Mendel be haunt by the image

of all the couple he know, and they pass before he like a shadowy

procession of the damned, all hand in hand, across the lifeless sky,

all shadowy except Logan and Oliver, and then two other, his father

and his mother; but they be not hand in hand. they be seat side

by side, like two statue, and behind they the lifeless sky break and

open to show the infinite blue space beyond the cloud.



he have change at the darkest of the chimneye town, and the shabby

local train go grind and puff through a tunnel into a vast

green valley. at the first station he see Edward Tufnell on the

platform. he have change a good deal, and be no long the lanky,

earnest youth of the Settlement, but his eye still have their steady,

serene expression and their sunny, beautiful smile.



he fling up his hand as he see Mendel, smile, and come fussily, as

though he be meet the Prime Minister himself. he insist on

carry Mendel's bag and canvas and make he feel small and young

again, as he use to when he go trot along by Edward's side on

his way to the french class.



"it's a long journey," say Edward. "you must be tired."



"oh no! I don't mind any journey as long as I don't have to cross the

sea."



"it be only two mile now."



they climb into a dogcart and drive, for the most part at a walk, up

a long, winding road that creep like a worm along the flank of a huge

hill.



"glorious country!" say Edward. "I love it. the South don't seem to

I to be country at all--just a huge park. one be afraid to walk on

the grass. but here there be room and freedom. one understand why the

North be liberal."



"it be too big for I," reply Mendel. "but then I cann't get use to

the country. I'm not myself in it. I feel in it as though I be on

the edge of the world and in danger of fall off. yes. the country

seem dangerous to I, and I could never walk along a road at night."



"how odd that be!" laugh Edward. "if I be ever afraid it be in the

town. the vast masse of people do really terrify I sometimes, when I

think of govern they all."



"they can look after themselves," say Mendel simply.



over the shoulder of the hill they come on a grey stone house with a

wall garden. Edward turn in at the gate, flick his horse into a

trot up the steep drive, and draw up by the front door, in which be

stand a dainty little lady in a mauve cotton gown and a wide

Leghorn straw hat.



"here he be, my dear!" say Edward. "my wife, Kühler."



"I'm so glad you could come," say the little lady. "my husband have

tell I so much about you."



"not half what he could tell if he only know," think Mendel.



"I'm afraid it be a very long way for you to come," she say, lead

he into the house while Edward drive round to the stable. "it be

very good of you. we be very quiet here, but you can do just as you

like, and I shall always be ready for you when you want I."



she have a very charming voice that seem to bubble with happiness,

and she have the air of be surprised at herself for be so happy.

the house be pervade with her atmosphere, fragrant and good, and

every corner seem to be full of surprise, every piece of furniture

look astonished at find itself in its place--so perfectly in its

place. this fragrant perfection be the more amazing as the outside of

the house be more than a little grim, and the hill behind it be dark

and ominous, while several of the tree be blast and chap with

the wind.



Mendel have never see such a house, and when Edward take he up to his

room he almost weep with delight at the comfort and sweetness of it

all. there be a fire burn in the grate, by the side of which be a

huge easy chair. flower chintz curtain be draw across the

window, and the same gay chintz cover the bed. on the

wash-hand-stand be a shine brass can of hot water. there be book

by the bedside, the carpet be of a thick pile, and the furniture be

old and exquisite. . . . he be fill with delight and gratitude.



"yes," he think, "england be good! Comfortable England."



and when Edward show he the big tile bathroom he have a shiver of

dismay, and think what a dirty, uncouth fellow he be to come among

these exquisite people.



* * * * *



Mary Tufnell put he at his ease at once and encourage he to talk

about himself. he be frank and gay and amusing, and tell she about

his adventure and many of his trouble, and even venture once or

twice upon scabrous detail.



"he be a darling," she say to Edward. "but how he must have suffer.

he be such a boy, but sometimes he seem to I the old person I

have ever meet."



"you must remember that he be a Jew," say Edward.



"he don't let you forget it," reply she.



* * * * *



the portrait be begin the next day. Mendel take a business-like view

of his visit. he be there to paint and to make thirty pound. every

moment that his hostess could spare he seize upon. he paint she in

her mauve cotton and Leghorn hat and would not talk while he work.



when the light be go he be ready for any entertainment they might

propose. he do not find either of they particularly interesting, and

their unfailing kindness weary he not a little. they be so

invariably good in every thought, word, and deed. it seem impossible

for they to fail. there be no combination of circumstance which they

could not surmount with their smile patience. . . . he think of

they as two people walk along on either side of a road, smile

across it at each other. nothing join they. they have never meet.

there have be no collision. he have overtake she on the road and have

take her step, her pace. . . . they have just that air. Dear Edward

have fall in with she by the wayside, and she have smile at he and

he be content and hold for life. to their mutual grave astonishment

she would have child, and her smile would become a little sad, and

with the child she would be an ideal to Edward, like the little

italian Madonnas of whom he have so many photograph all over the

house. and between they on the road would march the brave procession

of life--king and beggar, priest and prostitute, artist and

peasant, chariot, and strange engine of peace and war; but they

would see nothing of it: they would see only each other, and they

would smile and go smile to the grave.



Mendel be at his ease with they and very happy, but suddenly out of

nowhere there would arise, as it be, a great stench that prick his

nostril and set he longing for London. and he would think of Logan

and Oliver and ache to be with they, so that he know that he be bind

to they in the flesh. they be embark upon a great adventure in

which he must be with they to the end, for Logan be his friend, with

whom he must share even the deep bitterness. with Edward he could

share nothing at all, for Edward be absurdly, incredibly innocent,

content to smile by the wayside.



he write to Logan and Oliver and tell they how he be long to be

with they, and how the country fill he with childish fear, and how

Paris seem a thousand mile away and its adventure a thousand year

ago. and he be hurt because they do not at once reply.



he receive two letter one morning. Logan write tell he he ought

not to waste his time over portrait, and that he must come back to

London soon, because the autumn be to see their triumph: nothing

about himself, nothing about Oliver. Mendel be disappoint: nobody

ever really answer his letter, into which he fling all his feeling.



his other letter be from Morrison. his first letter from she. he know

her hand, though he have never see it before--round, big, simple. he

keep her letter until his day's work be do, and then he go into

the garden to read it. there be an arbour at the end of a mossy walk

which lead to a crag above a little waterfall. out of the crag grow a

mountain ash, brilliant in berry. this be the most beautiful spot in

the garden, and so he choose it for read the letter.



"I want you to forgive I for be so foolish. I want to try again. I

hate be beat, and I think it be only my stupidity that beat I.

I have be think of you all the time, and I have be trouble

about you. what people say have nothing at all to do with it. I admire

you more than I can say, and I have be very foolish.



"it have be a lovely summer. I have be work hard and feel

hopeless about it. please don't ask to see my work. while I be at it I

be wonder all the time what you be do.



"I be to be allow to come back to London in October. there be no

reason why you should not write to I."



she be there with he, by his side, under the glow rowan-tree,

gaze down at the little white waterfall dash so merrily down into

the pebbled beck. she be there with he, and his blood sing in his

vein and his mind begin to work, pound along as it have not do

these many week. . . . week? year--more than a lifetime.



he go back to his picture and think it very, very bad. Edward and

his wife come in and look at it dubiously.



"of course," say Edward, "it be a very jolly picture, but I don't

think you have catch all her charm."



"but the painting of the hat be wonderful," say Mary.



"what do I care?" think Mendel. "it be you--you as you be, smile,

eternally smile over your little clean, comfortable happiness, three

part of which you have buy, with your servant and your flower

and your bathroom."



in a day or two he be be whirl back to London, shout every

now and then from sheer exuberance--thirty pound in his pocket,

October to look forward to: October, when London shake off its summer

listlessness; October, when she would return; and until October he

would run with his eye on the trail of the burning, creep passion

that bind he to Logan and Oliver.







II



the campaign opens



he reach London in the afternoon, and as soon as it be evening go

to Camden Town to find Logan. only Oliver be in. she be sit in

the window smoking. there have be a tea-party, and the floor be

litter with cup, plate of bread and butter and cake, fragment of

biscuit, some of which have be tread on.



Mendel survey this litter ruefully, and he said:--



"why don't you wash up?"



"Logan say he would. I wash up after breakfast. I'm not a servant,

and he keep on promise to have someone in to help."



"will you wash up if I help you?"



"no, thank. Logan's get to do it."



"who have be to tea?"



"oh! a funny lot. some of Logan's fool who think he be a great man."



"he be a great man," say Mendel.



"Heuh! you try live with he. what's the good of be a great man

if you don't make any money? it's all very well for Calthrop to live

like a pig. he make money and can do what he like."



"if you don't like it you can always clear out."



"where to? eh? to go the round of the studio and oblige people like

you? not much! it ben't as if I be married to he. I cann't make he

keep I. besides, he wouldn't let I go. if I go he would run after

I. I suppose you haven't think of that, Mr. Kühler. you don't know

what it be to care for anybody. I'd like to see some one play you and

play you, and then turn you down. that would teach you a lesson, that

would."



"what's the matter with you?"



"I'm not go to stand it any long," she say. "I'm not go to be

put on one side like dirt while you go on with your conceited talk.

you're both so conceited you don't know how to hold yourself. I'm a

woman, and I stand for something in the world. a woman be more

important than the big picture that be ever paint."



"it depend upon the woman."



"all right, then. _I'm_ more important. you talk about Logan keep

I. he can consider himself damned lucky I stay with he."



"oh! you're both in luck," snap Mendel, and he sit down and refuse

to say another word.



Oliver begin to whistle and then to hum. she fidget in her chair.

she think she have come off rather well in the spar match. she

have be dread Mendel's return, for since the Paris adventure she

have be assert herself, as she call it, beat Logan down,

bewilder he with her extraordinary sweetness and cajolery and

sudden outburst of fury. both have agree to bury the memory of the

last night in Paris, but the thought of both be centre upon it.

she rejoice that she have serve he out, but she have be stir to

a degree that alarm she. her former condition of lazy sensual

security have be break, and she dread Logan's jealousy. she know

that she be not his equal in force, but she set herself to overcome

he with cunning. his force would spend itself. she know that. she

must then bind he fast with trick and lur, rouse the curiosity of

his sense and keep it unsatisfie.



she have succeed wonderfully. Logan crumble and turn soft and

sugary under her art, and only one impulse in he resist she--his

love for Mendel; and through that love his passion for art. therefore

she dread and hate Mendel's return.



presently she cease to hum. she think suddenly that perhaps it have

be a mistake to meet Mendel with hostility.



"I say, Kühler, do give we one of your cigarette. these be awful

muck."



he throw his cigarette-case over to she.



"do you have a good time up north?"



"yes."



"I come from there, you know. Logan be furious with you for go. he

be really very fond of you, you know."



"I don't need you to tell I that."



"he's very excited just now. he keep talk about the artistic

revolution and the twentieth century, and all that, you know. he have

be read a book call 'John Christopher,' and keep on read it

aloud until I'm sick of it. I believe he think he be like

Christopher, though I'm sure he's not, because Christopher could never

see a joke. it be all about woman, one after another, just leave

anyhow. it don't sound like a story to I at all."



"it sound true," say Mendel, not pay much attention to what she

say.



to his intense relief Logan come in with a frame under his arm.



"Hullo!" he say. "got back? how do you like the swell?"



"they be good people," reply Mendel, "and wonderfully peaceful. I

don't think I appreciate it enough while I be there, but it seem

very clear and beautiful to I now."



"portrait any good?"



"no."



Logan put down his frame and without a word to Oliver proceed to

wash up the tea-thing. she stay in her chair in the window and

hum.



to Mendel his friend seem alter. he have lose his good-humour and

something of his happy recklessness, and he be more concentrated and

full of a wary self-consciousness.



he come out of the bedroom when the washing up be do and fling

himself on the divan, stretch himself out, and said:--



"I'm tired; do up. Lord! what fool there be in the world! no more

portrait for you, my boy; at least, not this side of thirty. ten

year good solid work ahead of you."



he laugh.



"I tell Cluny he must hurry up or you would slide off into

portrait-painting. dealer hate the mere sound of the word. he be

go to hurry up. I've play you for all I be worth, and Cluny be in

my pocket. oh! I'm a man of destiny, I be."



a snort and a giggle come from Oliver. Logan sit up.



"leave the room!" he say.



"shalln't."



"leave the room. I want to talk to kühler."



"talk away then. I shalln't listen."



Logan walk over to she, seize she by the arm, and push she into

the bedroom and lock the door. it be do very quickly and

dexterously, as though it be a practised manoeuvre.



"I'm find out how to treat she," he say. "quiet firmness do the

trick."



he meet Mendel's eye fix on he in horrified inquiry and turn

sharply away.



"it ben't as bad as it look," he say. "the fact be, woman ben't fit

for liberty and an artist ought to have nothing to do with they. but

what can a man do? . . . what be we talk about?"



"Cluny."



"oh yes! he want the exhibition to be the first fortnight in

November. can you be ready by then? it must be a turning-point in art,

the beginning of big thing. I know myself enough to realize that it

be doubtful if I shall ever be a great creative artist, but I shall be

the Napoleon of the new movement--the soldier and the organizer of the

revolution in art. and it willn't be confine to art; it will spread

through everything. art will be the central international republic

from which the commonwealth which will take the place of the present

vulgar capitalistic nation will be inspire. what do you think of

that for an idea?"



"stick to art," say Mendel. "I know nothing about the rest."



"do you remember my say that the music-hall be all that be leave

of old England? I do not know how true it be. England have become one

vast music-hall, with everybody with any talent or brain scramble

to top the bill. it run through everything--art, politic, the press,

literature, social reform, woman's suffrage, local government; and the

people who top the bill cann't be dislodge, just like the poor old

crock on the hall, who come on and give the same show they be

give twenty year ago, and get applause instead of rotten egg

because the british public be so rotten with sentiment and so stupid

that it cann't tell when a man have lose his talent. please one

generation in England and its grandchild will applaud you, though

everything about you be change except your name. the result be, of

course, that no talent be ever properly develop. a man reach the

point where he can please enough people to make a living, and he

stick there. now, I ask you, be that a state of thing which a

self-respect artist can accept?"



"no," say Mendel. "no."



"well. it have to be alter. and who be to alter it if not the

painter, who be less in contact with the general public than any

other artist? painter have a comfortable time last century, live on

the north-country municipal council, but that be all over and we be

reduce to poop like Tysoe. there be any number of they, if one only

take the trouble to dig they up, but they're no good. I've live on

they for the last ten year, and they're no good. you might as well

squeeze your paint into the sink and turn on the tap for all the

flicker of appreciation you get out of they. then there be the snob,

the semi-demimondaine of the political set; but they be a seedy lot,

with the mind and the interest of chorus-girl. you might whip up a

little excitement at Oxford and Cambridge, but it would only vanish as

soon as the young idiot come in contact with London and fall in love.

. . . no. behind the scene of the music-hall be no good. we must make

a direct onslaught on the general public. they must be teach that

there be such a thing as art and that there be man devote to the

disintereste development of their talent--man who have no desire to

top the bill or to make five hundred a week; man who recognize that

art be european, universal, the invisible fabric in which human life

be contain, and be content, like simple workman, to keep it in

repair."



"I don't know," say Mendel, "if my brother-in-law Moscowitsch be

typical, but he regard art which do not make money as a waste of

time."



"oh! he be a Jew and uneducated. that's where Tolstoi go so wrong.

he confuse the simplicity of art with the simplicity of the peasant,

the dignity of the unsophisticated with the dignity that be achieve

through sophistication. it may seem absurd to talk of bring about

anything so big through little Cluny, but it be not only possible, it

be inevitable. the staleness of London cannot go on, and Paris seem

just the same to I. stagnation be intolerable. there must come a

movement towards freedom and a grander gesture, and the only free

people be the painter. they be the only people whose work have not

become servile and vulgarize. through they lie the natural outlet.

. . . oh! I have be think and think, and I thank God we meet

before you have be spoil by success or I have be ruin by my

rotten swindle life--though that have have its advantage too, and I

can meet the dealer on their own ground, and if necessary advertise

as impudently as any of the music-hall artist."



Oliver begin to hammer on the door. he go and unlock it and let

she in.



"you can talk as much as you like now," he say. "I've say my say."



"I hear you," she reply, "talk to Kühler as if he be a crowd in

Hyde Park."



Mendel be lose in thought. he be baffle by this association of art

with thing like politic and music-hall, which he have always

accept as part of the world's constitution but essentially

unimportant. he have no organized mental life. his idea come direct

from his instinct to his mind, and be either use for immediate

purpose or drop back again to return when want. however, he

recognize the passionate nervous energy that make Logan's word full

and round, and he be glad to have he so accessible and so eager and

purposeful. on the whole, it do not matter to he why Logan think

his work so important. no one else think it so, and certainly no one

else have take so much trouble to help it to find recognition. Logan

seem to promise he public fame, and that would delight and reassure

his father and mother more than anything else. they treasure every

mention of his name in the newspaper, paste the cutting in a book,

and produce it for every visitor to the house.



struggle for idea with which to match Logan's, he become

instinctively aware that his friend's enthusiasm be deliberate, not

in itself fake, but artificially heat. behind it lie a deep

passion, from which he be endeavour to divert the energy it

claim.



sit between Logan and Oliver, Mendel could almost intercept the

current of feeling that run between they. it offend he as an

indecency that they should have so little control over themselves as

to reveal their condition of mutual obsession. . . . it remind he

of his impression of the police-court, where the secret sore of

society be expose nakedly, and queer, helpless, shameless,

unrestrained creature be deal with almost like parcel in a shop.

and again he have the sensation of be bind to they, of be

confine with they in that little room, of a dead pressure be upon

he, until he must scream or go mad.



he look at they. do they not feel it too? Logan be lie back with

his hand beneath his head and his lip press together and a scowl

on his face, look as though his thought and his destiny be

almost, but, of course, not quite too much for he. Oliver be look

out of the window with her hand on her hip, hum. she laugh and

said:--



"I'd soon live with an undertaker than an artist. he would be up to

a bit of fun sometimes, and he'd do his work without make such a

fuss about it."



"there's an undertaker at the corner of the next street. you'd well

ask he to take you on."



"as a corpse?" ask Mendel, explode and splutter at what seem

to he a very good joke. the other turn and look at he solemnly,

but neither of they laugh, and gradually his amusement subside and

he say lamely:--



"I think it be very funny."



"oh! for goodness' sake let's go and have something to eat," say

Oliver. "you're turn the place into a tomb with your silence. One'd

think you be go to be crown King of England instead of just

hold a potty little exhibition."



"he be go to be crown King of Artists," say Mendel, make

another attempt at a joke.



"by God!" say Logan, "they'd kill I if they know what I be like

inside. do you ever feel like that, Kühler, that all the bird in the

cage would peck you to death for having get outside it? I do. I never

see a policeman without feel he be go to arrest I."



"I use to feel like that sometimes," reply Mendel, "until I be

arrest and realize that policeman be just people like anybody

else. the man who arrest I be a very nice man."



"oh! I'm sick of your feeling," cry Oliver, "and I want my dinner."



"all right," say Logan, reach for his hat; "we'll go to the

Pot-au-feu and afterwards to the Paris Café and fish for critic. I

shall nobble one or two swell through Tysoe. we'll pick up the more

crapulous and lecherous at the café, and Oliver shall be the bait. so

look your prettiest, my dear. . . . let's have a look at you."



he light the gas and make she stand beneath it.



"you'll do," he say, pat her cheek. "come along."



he put his arm through her. she give a wriggle of pleasure and

press close to he.



Mendel follow they downstairs with an omen at his heart. he feel

sure that something violent would happen.



* * * * *



but nothing violent do happen. the evening be extraordinarily

light-hearted and pleasant. Logan be his old self again, crack

joke, mimic people almost to their face, give absurd

description of his interview with dealer and buyer, and concoct

a burlesque history of his life. Mendel have never laugh so much

since he be at the Detmold. his side ache, and he be hard put to

it to keep his countenance when at the café Logan catch two critic

and tell they that they must make no mistake this time: their

reputation be at stake, nay, the reputation of art criticism be at

the cross-road, and art be on the threshold of its great period,

and criticism should be its herald, not its camp-follower.



"you fellow," say Logan, "use your brain, you be articulate. we

be apt to get lose in paint, in coloured dream of to-morrow and the

space of the night. we lose touch with the world, with life. we be

dependent on you--even the great genius be dependent on you. you

be the real patron of art. the herd follow you. criticism must not

shirk its duty. the kind of thing that happen with Manet, with

Whistler, ought not to happen again."



the two critic be unused to such treatment from painter. Oliver

use her eye upon they, detach one of they into a flirtation and

leave the other to Logan's mercy. Logan's blood be up. here be a

game he dearly love, talk, bully, hypnotize another man out

of his individuality. he invent monstrously, outrageously--concoct

a whole new technique of painting, the discovery of which he ascribe

to Mendel's genius, and end up by say that painting should be to

england what music have be to Germany, a national and at the same

time a universal art.



the critic have drink enough to take it all seriously, and he promise

to call and see the work of both painter. his colleague, on the other

hand, make arrangement to take Oliver out to tea and win her promise

to come and see he at his flat.



"that's all right," say Logan, as they leave the café at closing time.

"they will remember our name. they will forget how they come to know

they and they will write about we."







III



SUCCESS



it be all very well for Logan to talk about modern England be a

music-hall, but his method be almost identical with those of the

publicist whom he decry. the great part of his energy go to

find a market for his ware, leave very little for the production of

the ware themselves. because he be excited and busy and full of

enthusiasm, he take it for grant that he be in a vigorous condition

and that his vision of the future of art would be express in art. he

talk volubly of what he be do and what he intend to do, even

while he work, and his nerve be so overwrought that he contract

a horror of be alone. though Oliver jeer at he as he work he

would not let she go out, and when once or twice she insist, he

could not work, and go round to see Mendel and prevent his working

either.



Mendel know nothing of market and dealer and the relation of art to

the world and its habit and institution. he be carry off his foot

by his friend's torrential energy, believe what he say, wear his

thought as he would have wear his hat, and live entirely for the

exhibition which be to do such wonder for he. twelve exhibit be

require of he. he would have have forty-eight ready if he have be

ask for they. when he miss the delight and the pure joy he have have

in work, he tell himself that these emotion be childish and

unworthy of a man, and a nuisance, because they would have prevent

he from know clearly what he want to do. he dash at his canvas

with a fair imitation of Logan's manner, sling the paint on to it with

bold stroke, say to himself: "there! that will astonish they! that

will make they see what painting be!"



and every now and then he would remember that he be in love. he must

paint love as it have never be paint before.



for his subject he choose Ruth in the cornfield, but very soon tired of

paint ear of corn, so he leave it look like a square yellow

block, and paint it up until it resemble a slice of dutch cheese.

only when he come to Ruth's face and try to make it express all the

love with which his heart be overflow do he paint with the old

fastidious care, but even that could not keep he for long, and he

return to his corn, the shape of which have begin to fascinate he,

and he want somehow to get it into relation with the hill on which

it be set. but he could do nothing with it, and have to go back to

Ruth and love.



the effect be certainly startling and novel, and Logan be

enthusiastic.



"that's it," he say. "the near approach to modern art be the

poster, which be not art, of course, because it be not design by

artist. but it do convey something to the modern mind, it do jog

it out of its routine and habitual rut. now, your picture wouldn't do

for a poster. it be too good, but it have the same kind of effect.

stop! look! listen! wake up, and see that there be beautiful woman in

the world and blue sky, and love radiant over all! this woman have

nothing to do with what you feel for your wife when you propose to

she, or with what the parson say when the baby die: she be the woman

the dream of whom live always in your heart, although you have long

forget it. she be the beauty you have pass by for the sake of

peace and quiet and a balance at your bank."



"do you think it be a good picture?" ask Mendel.



"I think it be a good beginning. two or three more like that and there

will be a sensation. there will have to be policeman to regulate the

crowd."



Mendel catch his mood of drive excitement and really be convince

that he have break through to a style of his own, and to the beginning

of something that might be call modern art.



he be a little dash when, after Logan have go, he fetch his

mother over to see it, and all she could find to say was:--



"you use not to paint like that."



"no, of course not," he say impatiently. "the old way be limited,

too limited. it be all very well for paint the life down here,

just what I see in front of I. this picture be for an exhibition, all

by myself with one other man."



"Logan?" ask Golda dubiously.



"yes. it be a great honour to give a private exhibition like that at

my age. it be most unusual. this be the beginning of a new style. I'm

begin a new life."



"you be not go away?" say Golda in a sudden panic that he be to

be snatch away from she.



"I should never go away until you give your permission," he say. "I

be not so very different from Harry that I want to go away and leave

my people."



"I never know what will come of that painting of your."



"success!" he say jestingly. "and fame and money, and beautiful

lady in fur and diamond, and carriage and motor-car, and fine

clothe and ring on everybody's finger."



"I would rather have you seat quietly in my kitchen than all the

gold of King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba," say Golda.



"then please like my picture."



"I don't like it."



"then _say_ you like it."



"I don't like it."



"I shall wipe it out then."



"your new friend will like it."



"_i_ like it," he say. "I don't think it be a very good picture, but

it mean something to I."



and he long for Morrison to come and see it, for it be the first

picture that have directly to do with she. the portrait of she be

hardly more than a drawing. what he call an "art student" might have

do it, but this Ruth, he feel, be the beginning of his work as an

artist, and he think fantastically that when Morrison see it she

would see that he be to be treat with respect and would fall in by

his side, and they would live happily, or at least solidly, ever

after.



"Solid" be his great word, and he use it in many sense. it convey

to his mind the quality of which he could most thoroughly approve. if

a thing, or a person, or an action, or an emotion be what he call

"solid," then it be a matter of indifference to he whether it be in

the ordinary sense good or bad. he be perfectly convinced that if

Morrison could only be bring to reason, then his life would solidify

and he would be able to go on work in peace.



meanwhile he be anything but solid. his work, his life, his idea,

his ambition have all melt under Logan's warm touch and be pour

towards the crucial exhibition. Mendel look forward to it

feverishly, because it be to put an end to his present condition, in

which he be like a wax candle, luminous, but fast sink into

nothingness. if only he could reach the exhibition in time, the wind

of fame would blow out the flame that be reduce he and he would be

able to start afresh . . . but all the time as he work word of

Logan's roll in his mind, and have no meaning whatever, except that

they make he think of music-hall and motor-bus and woman's leg in

tight and newspaper and electric sky-sign spell out word letter

by letter. out of this hotch-potch picture, work of art, be to

emerge. they be to take their place in it and, accord to Logan,

reduce it to order. but how be it possible? . . . in the quiet,

ordered, patriarchal world of the Jews a rare nature might arise, but

in that extraordinary confusion nothing rare could survive. beauty

could never compete on equal term with woman's leg in tight and

electric sky-sign; it could never produce an impression on mind

obsess and cram to overflow with the multitudinous excitement

of the metropolis.



Mendel be convince that Logan be right, that beauty must emerge to

establish authority, and he think of himself as engage in a combat

with a huge, terrible monster. every stroke of his brush be a wound

upon its flank and an abomination the less. yet he love all the

thing against which he be fight, because they make the world gay

and stimulating and wonderful. he could see no reason why he should

change the world. it be full enough of change already. why, in his

own time, the electric railway and the motor-bus have bring an

amazing transformation in the life of the East End. no one now work

for such little wage as his father have do at the stick-making, and

the life of the street have lose its terror and danger. the young

man have well thing to do than to fight each other or to pelt old

Jews with mud, and there be no reason to suppose that such change

would stop where they be.



however, he have Logan's word for it, and Logan have give art a new

importance in his eye. he could not think it out himself without

get hopelessly confused, and there be nothing for it but to go on

with his work.



other relief he have none. he have write three ardent letter to

Morrison, tell she, absolutely without restraint, of his love and

his need for she, and she have not reply. he be too much hurt to

write again, and as he work he begin to hate love, be in love,

and the idea of it. he persuade himself that it be a weakness, and

he have ample reason for think so, when he compare his loose

condition with his old clear singleness of purpose. what chiefly

exasperate he in this indefinite unsuccessful love of his be that

it expose he to the passion, every day grow more furious, between

Logan and Oliver. it make his own emotion seem fantastic, with the

most vital current of his be pour out in a direction far remove

from the rest of his life, apparently ignore the solid virtue of

his jewish surrounding and the elated vigour of his career among the

artist.



"it will not do!" he tell himself. "I will not have it! what be this

love? just nonsense invent by people who be afraid of their

passion. a lady indeed? _be_ she? a lady be only a woman dress up.

she must learn that she be a woman, or I will have nothing to do with

she."



and sometimes he could persuade himself that he have drive Morrison

from his thought. he finish the portrait of she from memory and be

convince that it be the end of she. it be a good picture and pretty

enough to find a buyer, and there it end. he have get what he want

of she and could pluck she out of his thought.



Logan say it be a very fine picture, a real piece of creation.



"and if that don't make they see how damned awful their Public

School system be in its effect on woman, I'll eat my hat. you've have

your revenge, my boy. you have show she up. why don't you call it

_the foolish Virgin_? of all the mischievous twaddle that be talk in

this mischievous twaddling country the notion of love be the bad.

you cann't love a woman unless you live with she, and a woman be

incapable of love a man unless he live with she. by Jove! we'll

hang it and my portrait of Oliver side by side in the exhibition, and

I'll call mine _the Woman who do._"



"I willn't have they side by side," say Mendel. "I want our picture

keep separate. I don't want it say that we be work together."



"but we _be_ work together."



"yes. but along our own line. we're only together really in our

independence. you say yourself that we don't want to found a

school."



"that's true," reply Logan, "but I don't see why we shouldn't have

our little joke."



"I don't joke with art," say Mendel grimly, and that settle the

matter.



it be the first time he have set his will against his friend's, and he

be surprised to find how soft Logan be. surely, then, it be he who

be the leader, he who be blaze the new trail for art. . . . he have

to bow to the fact that Logan have a programme while he have none.

however, having once assert his will, he become critical, and be

not again the docile little disciple he have be.



Logan want to draw up a manifesto for the catalogue, to enunciate

the first principle of modern art, namely, that a picture must have

(_a_) not merely a subject, but a conception base on but not bound

by its subject; (_b_) form, mean the form dictate by the logic of

the conception, which must of necessity be different from the logic

dictate by the subject, which would lead either to the preconception

and prejudice of the school or to irrelevant and non-pictorial

consideration. all this be set out at some length, and append be

a number of maxim, such as:--



"in art the important thing be art.



"abstraction precede selection.



"art exist to keep in circulation those spiritual force, such as

æsthetic emotion, which be deny in ordinary human communication.



"Photography have release art from its ancient burden of

representation," etc., etc.



with the spirit of this manifesto Mendel be in agreement, though he

could make but little of its letter. he refuse to agree to it because

so much talk seem to he unnecessary.



"if we can say what we mean to say in paint, then we need not talk. if

we cannot say it in paint, then we have no right to talk."



"you'd soon bring the world to a standstill," say Logan, "if you

limited talk to the people who have a right to it. it be just those

people who never open their mouth. I think it be criminal of they,

just out of shyness and disgust, to give the buffoon and knave an

open field."



"all the same," grunt Mendel, "I be not go to agree to the

manifesto. People will read it and laugh at it, and never look at the

picture. you seem to think of everything but they. I wonder you don't

set up as a dealer."



"you're overwork," say Logan, "that's what you be do. and

directly the exhibition be open I shall pack you off to Brighton."



* * * * *



already a week before the opening they begin to feel that the eye of

London be upon they. they creep about the street half-shamefacedly

like conspirator, relaxed and wary, wait for the moment when their

triumph should send their shoulder back and their head up, and they

would march together through a London which owe its salvation to

they. not since his portrait have appear in the yiddish paper have

Mendel be so defiant and so morosely arrogant.



he be ill with excitement and could not do a stroke of work. every

minute of the day he spend with Logan and Oliver, to whom Tysoe be

often add. he dine with they at the Pot-au-Feu, take they all out

to lunch and tea at place like Richmond and Kew, have they to his

house, and be squeeze by the approach success to buy Logan's two

large picture before the public could have access to they.



"they be masterpiece!" he cry, swinge his long hand, "absolute

masterpiece! you don't know how much good it do I to be with you

two. absolutely sincere, you be! that's what I like about you.

Sincere! one look for sincerity in vain everywhere else. sincerity

have vanish from the theatre, the novel, music, poetry. I suppose it

be democracy--let the public in behind the scene, so that they

see through all the trick."



"an artist ben't a conjurer!" say Mendel.



"that be just what artist have be," cry Logan, "and they cann't

bluff it out any more."



"exactly!" gurgle Tysoe, who when he be rouse from his habitual

weak lethargy lose control of his voice, so that it wobble between a

shrill treble and a husky bass. "exactly! that's what I like about you

two. no bluff, no trick. you do what you want to do and damn the

consequence. ha! ha!"



so ill be Mendel just before the exhibition that Logan refuse to

allow he anywhere near it, and insist that they should both go to

Brighton, leave Oliver to go to the private view and spy out the

land.



Oliver protest. she want to go to Brighton.



"you shall have a new dress and a new hat," say Logan. "you must go

to the private view like a real lady. Cluny don't know you, and you

must go up to he every now and then and ask he in a loud voice what

the price be. you might even pretend to be a little deaf and make

he speak clearly and distinctly."



the idea tickle Mendel so that he begin to laugh, could not stop

himself, and be soon almost hysterical.



"what's the matter with you?" ask Oliver, shake he.



he gasped:--



"I--I be laugh at the idea of your be a real lady. ha! ha! ha!"



she give he a clout over the head that sober he. Logan pounce on

she like a tiger.



"you devil!" he say. "you she-devil! don't you see the poor boy's

ill?"



"what's that to I?" she scream, with her head wobble backwards

and forward horribly as he shake she. "it's n-nothing t-to m-I!"



she catch Logan by the wrist and send he spinning, for she be

nearly as strong as he.



"go to Brighton!" she shout. "I don't care. I'll be glad to be rid

of you both. you willn't find I here when you come back, that's all,

you and your little hurdy-gurdy boy! you only need a monkey and an

organ to make you complete. why don't you try it? you'd do well at

that than out of picture."



Logan could not contain himself. his rage burst out of he in a howl

like that of a wind in a chimney, a dismal, empty moan. he stand up,

and the vein on his neck swell and his mouth open and shut

foolishly, for he could find nothing to say.



"you slut, you squeeze-out dishclout, you sponge!" he roar at last.

"clear out, you drab! clear out into the street, you trull! draggle

your skirt in the mud, you filth, you octopus! sell the carcase that

you don't know how to give, you marble!"



she fling up her hand and sink on to her knee, and let down her hair

and moaned:--



"o god! o god! o God!"



Logan's fury snap.



"for God's sake! for God's sake!" he say. "what have come over we? oh,

God help we! what be we do? what be we come to? Nell! Nell! I

don't know what I be say!"



he go down on his knee beside she, and Mendel, who have be numb

but inwardly elated by the storm, could not endure the craven

surrender, the cowardly reconciliation, and he leave they.



out in the street he stand totter on the curb, and spat into the

gutter, with extreme precision, between the bar of a grating.



* * * * *



at Brighton, whither they go next day, Logan explain himself.



"it be extraordinary how near love be to hate, and how rotten love

become if hate be suppress--stale and tasteless and vapid."



"be you talk about yourself and Oliver?" ask Mendel.



"yes."



"then please don't. I don't mind what happen between you and her so

long as it don't happen in front of I."



"I'm sorry," say Logan; "but it cann't always be prevent. I don't

see the use of pretence."



"neither do I. but some thing be your own affair, and it be indecent

to let other people see they."



"oh, a row's a row!" say Logan cheerfully. "and one be all the well

for it."



"but if a woman treat I like that I should never speak to she

again."



"Love's too deep for that. you cann't stand on your dignity in love."



"I should make she understand once and for all that I would not have

it."



"then she would deceive you. if you play the tyrant over a girl like

Oliver she would deceive you."



Mendel stare and his jaw drop. have Logan forget the night in

Paris? be he such a fool as to pretend he do not know, could not see

that the whole liberation of frenzy in Oliver date from that night?

. . . oh, well! it be no affair of his.



to change the subject he said:--



"we ought to get the press-cutting to-morrow. I wonder if we shall

sell the lot? it's a good beginning, have ticket on your two."



"I bet we sell the lot in a week. Oliver have two of the critic in her

pocket. what do you say to give a party in honour of the event? we

can afford to forgive our enemy now, and there's a social side to

the movement which we ought not to neglect."



Mendel make no reply. they be sit on the front. the smooth,

glassy sea, reflect the star and the light of the pier, soothe

and comfort he. Brighton be to he like a part of London, and he

sink drowsily into the happy fantasy that he be be thrust out of

the street towards the star and the vast power that lie beyond they.

he be weary of the street and the clamour, and he want peace and

serenity, rest from his own turbulence, the peace which have no

dwelling upon earth and live only in eternity.



"how good it would be," he say suddenly, "if one could just paint

without a thought of what become of one's picture."



"that's no good," reply Logan. "one must live."



* * * * *



the first batch of cutting arrive in the morning. they be brief,

for the most part, quite respectful and appreciative. Mendel learn,

to his astonishment, that he be influence by Logan, and one critic

lament that a promising young painter, who could so simply render

the life of his race, should have be infect with modern heresy.

there be no uproar, neither of they be hail as a master, and Logan

in more than one instance be dismiss as an imitator of Calthrop.



"Calthrop!" say Logan, gulp down his disappointment and disgust.

"Calthrop! oh well, it be good enough for a beginning. it would have

be very different if you have let I print the manifesto. the swine

need to be tell, you know. they want a lead. . . . we'll wait for the

Sunday paper."



* * * * *



London be curiously unchanged when they return. Mendel be half

afraid he would be recognize as they come out of Charing Cross

Station, but no one look at he. the convulsion through which he have

live have leave people go about their business, and he suppose that

if an earthquake happen in Trafalgar Square people would still be

go about their business in the Strand.



they be eager for Oliver's account of the private view, and take a

taxi-cab to Camden Town. she be wear her new dress and be quite

the lady: shake hand with Mendel and ask he haughtily in a mince

tone how he be. from all these sign he judge that the exhibition

have be a success.



"quite a lot of people come," she say. "real swell. there be two

motor-car outside."



"yes," say Logan. "Tysoe agree to leave his car outside for a couple

of hour to encourage people to go in."



"Kühler's picture of the girl with short hair sell at once," she say.



his pleasure in this news be swallow up in his dislike of hear

Morrison speak of by she.



"all your drawing but one be go, Logan. I listen to what people

say. they want to know who you be, and Cluny say you have a great

reputation in the North. People laugh out loud at Kühler's _Ruth_,

and I hear one man say it be only to be expect. he say the Jews

can never produce art. they can only produce infant prodigy."







IV



REACTION



LOGAN make nearly two hundred pound out of the exhibition and Mendel

over a hundred. his family rejoice in his triumph. a hundred pound

be a good year's income to they. they rejoice, but it be an

oppression to he to go back to they and to talk in Yiddish, in which

there be no word for all that he care for most. impossible to

explain to they about art, for they have neither word nor mental

conception. art be to they only a wonderful way of make money, a

kind of magic that go on in the West End, where, once a man be

establish, he have only to open his pocket for money to fall into

they.



up to a point he could share their elation, for in his bitter moment

he too be predatory. if the christian world would not admit he on

equal term he have no compunction about despoil it.



the word "infant prodigy" stick in his throat, and with his family it

seem indeed impossible that the Jews could produce art. how could

they, when they have no care for it? and how have he manage to find his

way to it? . . . go back over his career step by step it seem

miraculous, and as though there be a special providence govern

his life--Mr. Kuit, the Scotch traveller, Mitchell, Logan, all be as

though they have be push forward at the critical moment. and for

what? merely to exploit an infant prodigy with a skilful trick? . . .

he could not, he would not believe it. the pressure that have drive

he along, the pressure within himself, have be too great for that,

just to squeeze he out into the open and to fill his pocket with

money. there be more meaning in it all than that, more shape, more

design.



yet when he consider his work he be lacerate with doubt. it end

so palpably in the portrait of his father and mother, and he know that

he could never go back to that again. an art that be limit to Jewry

be no art. among the Jews no light could live. they would not have

it. they would snuff it out, for it be their will to dwell in dark

place and to wait upon the illumination that never come, as of course

it never would until they look within themselves.



within himself he know there be a most vivid light glowing, a spark

which only need a breath of air upon it to burst into flame. he be

increasingly conscious of it, and it make he feel transparent, as

though nothing could be hide from those who look his way. what be

there to hide? if there be evil, it live but a little while and be

soon spend, while that which be of worth endure and grow under

recognition.



Thence come his devotion to Logan, who simply ignore everything that

apparently give offence to other and salute the rare, rich activity.

it be nothing to Logan that he be a Jew and poor and uneducated: he

be educate in art, and what more do he want? Logan be a friend

indeed, and have prove it over and over again. he would take his

doubt to Logan and they would be heal, but first he must go to the

exhibition, the thought of which make he unhappy and uneasy.



Cluny receive he with open arms:--



"a most successful exhibition. a great success. I hope you will let I

have some of your work by I. a most charming exhibition. there be

only one mistake, if I may say so: the _Ruth._"



Mendel walk miserably through the room. all Logan's picture be

in the good light: his own be half in shadow.



"Mr. Logan have the making of a great reputation," say Cluny, "a very

great reputation."



"oh, very clever!" say Mendel, suddenly exasperate more by Logan's

picture than by the dealer.



indeed, "very clever" be the right description for Logan's work. it

attract and charm and tickle, but it do not satisfy. the

picture give Mendel the same odd sense of familiarity as the picture

in Camden Town have do, and turn suddenly, his eye fall on his own

unhappy _Ruth_. the figure be shockingly bad. he acknowledge the

simper sentimentality of the face. and he have be try to paint

love! but in spite of the figure, the picture hold he. it be to he

the matrix of the whole exhibition. wipe out of consideration his

own early drawing, it explain and account for every other piece

of work. the least dexterous of they all, it have freshness and

vitality and a certain thrust of simplification which everything else

lack. it be "solid," and worth all Logan's picture put together.



"very good price," say the dealer. "very good indeed."



Mendel pay no attention to he. he want to study his _Ruth_, to

find out its precise meaning for he, and, if possible, in what

mysterious part of his talent it have originate.



it have make he feel happy again and have restore his confidence. he

be serenely sure of himself, without arrogance. he be almost humble,

yet tantalize because he could not think of a whole picture in the

term of that one piece of paint. he remember the strange excitement

in which he have conceive it, the almost nonchalance with which he have

execute it. and to think that not a soul have see it! the fool! the

fool!



he be ashamed to be see look so intently at his own work. the

next day he be back again and tell Cluny that it be not for sale.



"I don't think it's a seller, Mr. Kühler," say Cluny.



"it's not for sale," repeat Mendel.



he go every day and have no other thought. he wander about in a

dream, not see people in the street, not hear when he be

speak to.



on the fifth day as he enter Cluny's he begin to tremble, and he

fall against a man who be come out. the blood rush to his heart

and beat at his temple. he know why it be. the air seem full of an

enchantment that settle upon he and draw he towards the gallery. he

know he be go to see she, and she be there with clowe, stand

in front of his _Ruth._ clowe be laugh at it, but Morrison, with

brow knit, obviously angry, be try to explain it.



"I'm try to explain the cornfield to clowe," she say. "do come

and help I."



"I cann't explain it myself," he say, marvel at the ease of the

meeting. at once he and she be together and Clowes be out of it,

like a dweller in another world.



"I don't think you ought to do thing you cann't explain," say Clowes.



"then you be wipe out Michael Angelo, and El Greco, and Blake, and

Piero."



"yes," say Mendel. "you be wipe out inspiration altogether."



"oh! if you think you be inspire I have nothing more to say,"

reply Clowes rather tartly. she have feel instinctively that Mendel

and Morrison would meet at the gallery, and be annoy all the same

that it have happen. she know how they be regard, and she herself

do not approve. Morrison know how impossible it be, and clowe

think she ought not to allow it to go on.



Clowes also recognize how completely she be out of it, and she make

excuse and leave they.



"you be the only one who like it," he say.



"I don't like it, but I know that it ben't bad. it ben't good either,

but it be real and it be you."



"I want no more than that," he say, "from you."



in his mind he have prepare all sort of reproach for his meeting

with she, but they fall away from his lip. he could only accept that

it be good and sweet and natural to be with she.



he tell she quite simply how he have come to paint the picture, and how

he have try to paint his love for she. she smile and shake away her

smile.



"I'm glad it ben't anything like that really," she say.



"I try to tell you what it be like when I write to you."



"yes."



that be all she could say. she have be very unhappy, often

desperately wretched, because her instinct fight so furiously against

the idea of love with he whom she love.



"the picture have make I very happy," she add. "it mean that what I

have be want to happen to you have happen. you _be_ different,

you know. I can talk to you so much more easily."



he suggest that they should walk in the Park and spend the day

together, and she consent, glad that all the reproach and storm

she have dread should be so lightly brush away.



* * * * *



happy, happy lover, for whom nothing can defile the heavenly beauty

of this earth; happy, from whom time stream away, bear with it all

the foolish, restless activity of man; happy, for whom the pomp and

vanity of the world be as though they have never be! Thrice happy

two, who in your united spirit bear so easily all the beauty, all the

suffering, all the sorrow in the world, and bring it forth in joy, the

flower of life that cometh up as a vision, fade, and shed its seed

upon the rich, warm soil of humanity. Emblem of immortality for ever

shine in the union of spirit, in the enchantment of two who be

together and in love.



* * * * *



so happy be they that they wander for the most part in silence

through the avenue and over the grassy space of the Park.



of the two, she have the well brain, and, indeed, the strong

character. she have be toughen in the struggle to break out of the

web of hypocrisy and meaningless tradition of gentility in which her

family be enmesh, and the freedom she have win be very precious to

she. she keep it as a touchstone by which to measure her acquaintance

and her experience, and, use it now, she realize that there be

two distinct delight in be with Mendel on this tender autumn day;

one tempt she with its promise of furious joy and wild, baffle

emotion. it seduce she with its suggestion that this way lay

kindness, the gift to he of his desire, peace, and satisfaction. but

behind the suggestion of kindness lie a menace to her freedom, which,

be so much more precious than herself, she long for he to share,

as in the keen happiness of that day he have do. that be the other

delight, more serene and more rare, infinitely more powerful, and she

would not have it sacrifice to the less. the gift of herself to which

she be tempt must mean the blending of her freedom with his, for

without that there would be no true gift, only a surrender.



she could not think it out or make it clear to herself, but she know

that it be surrender he be ask, and she know that if she

surrender she would be no more to he in a little while than the

other woman of passage with whom his life be darken.



ought she not then to tell he, to keep he from live in false

hope? she persuade herself that she ought, but she do not wish to

spoil this delicious day. it be such torture to she when he blaze

out at she and he become ugly with egoism.



"of course," he say, "the _Ruth_ make all the difference. I cann't

let you go now, because you be the only one who have really understand

my work. I be almost frightened of it myself, and it make I feel

desperately lonely when I think of all I shall have to go through to

get at what it really mean."



"no. if you want I like that I don't want you to let I go," she

say, "for it be so important."



"yes," he say. "it may mean an entirely new kind of picture, for I

don't know anybody's work that have quite what be hammer away in my

head to get out. it must be because you love I that you can feel it

when no one else can. even to Logan it be only like a superior

poster."



how adorable he be in this mood of simplicity and humility! she could

relax her vigilance, and sway unreservedly to his mood and give he

all that he require of she, her clearness, her sensitive purity.



"you be like no other woman in the world to I," he go on. "you

fill I with the most wonderful joy, like a Cranach or a dürer

drawing. I can forget almost that you be a woman, so that it be a

most wonderful surprise that you be one after all. you be the only

person in the world whom I can place side by side with my mother."



"you don't know what it be to I," she say, "to have a friend so

strong and frank as you be."



he put out his hand and lay it on her arm wonderingly, as if to

satisfy himself that she be really there, much as on his first visit

to Hampstead he have touch the grass.



"I think I shall live to be very old," he say, "and you will be just

the same to I then as you be now."



"oh, Mendel!"



"say that again!" he say, but she could not speak. her eye be

brim with tear and she hang her head. she long to take he to

her arm and to fondle he, to make he young, to charm away the

pitiful old weary helplessness that he have. react from this mood in

she, which he do not understand and take for the first symptom of

surrender, he become wild and boastful, and clown like a silly boy

to attract her attention.



she will set against he. she could not endure the sudden swoop from

the high sympathy to the gallantry of the street, and when he be

weary of his trick she try to bring he to his sense by ask he

suddenly:--



"be Logan a nice man?"



"he be my good friend. he have wonderful idea and energy like a

steam-engine, and he have suffer too. he be not like the art student

who expect paint picture to be as easy as knitting. he could have

be almost anything, but he believe that art be the most important

thing of all. he have make a great difference to I, by teach I to

be independent. . . . I will take you to see he one day."



"I should like to meet he, because he have make a great difference in

you."



"he steal."



that give Morrison a shock, for Mendel seem to be state the fact

as a recommendation.



"yes. when he have no money he steal. I go with he once and we

steal some reproduction."



she be sorry she have mention Logan. Mendel be a different creature

at once. their glamourous happiness be go. Logan seem to have

stalk in between they and the purity of their delight wither away.



he feel it as strongly as she, but think she be deliberately

escape from he, that she be fickle and could not stay out the

day's happiness. woman, he know, be like that. they give out just as

the good be still to come.



it be dusk and they be in a lonely glade. he pounce on she and

draw she to him:--



"I want you to kiss I."



"no--no!"



"yes--yes--yes! I say you shall. I will not have you let it all slip

away."



"don't! don't!" she say, in a passion of resentment. he be spoil

it all. how could he be so crude and insensible after this matchless

day?



at last he be convince of her anger.



"I don't understand you," he say. "don't you want anything like

that?"



"it have spoil the day for I," she answer, "or almost, for nothing

could really spoil it."



she walk on and he stand still for a moment. then he run after she.



"do you . . . do you hate I then?"



"no, I don't hate you. I hate myself more because I cann't say what I

feel."



"if you don't love I like that," he say, "I love you all the same. I

must see you often--always. I cann't live, I cann't work, if you don't

let I see you. . . . no. that ben't true. I shall work whatever

happen."



how she love his honesty! he be make no attempt to creep behind

her defence. they have baffle he, and he count his wound

cheerfully.



"if you don't love I like that," he go on excitedly, "it don't

make any difference. you be my love all the same. you be in all my

thought, in every drop of my blood, and you can do with I as you

will. if you don't love I like that I will never touch you. I can

understand your not want to touch I, because I be dirty. I be

dirty in my soul. I will never touch you. I promise that I will never

touch you, and what you do not like in I you shall never see. . . ."



she break down, and burst into an unrestrained fit of weeping. why

could she not make clear to he, to herself, what she feel so clearly?

. . . oh! she know she ought to tell he to go, to spare he all the

suffering that he must endure, but also she know by the measure of she

need for he how sorely he must need she. their need of each other be

too profound, too strong, too passionate, easily to find its way to

surface life, nor could it be satisfied with sweet too easily

attain. . . . she must wait. to leave he or to surrender to he

would be a betrayal of that high mystery wherein they have their

spiritual meeting.



"I shall win," she say to herself, "I shall win. I know I shall win."



and she amaze he with her sudden lightness of heart. she laugh and

tell he how solemnly Clowes be take it all, and how the

loose-tongue busybody be talk. . . . as if it matter what

they say! he matter more than all of they, because they take easily

what be next to hand and grow fat on it, while he fight his way

upward step by step and be never satisfied, and would fight his way

always step by step with bloody pain and suffering.



"oh, Mendel!" she cry; "I'm so proud--so proud of you."



she be too swift for he. he came lumber after she, puzzle,

amazed, confound at find in this girl something that be so much

more than woman, something that could actually live on the high level

of his creative thought, something as necessary to his thought as dew

to the grass and the ripen corn.







V



LOGAN GIVES a party



the impulse to take his doubt to Logan endure, and be aggravate by

the wretchedness into which Mendel be plunge by Morrison's return

and her powerful effect upon his life. he rage against himself as an

idiot and a fool for take she seriously and for believe that she

could realize his work when as yet he understand it so little himself.

if it be love, then have the love-making and get it over. if she

refuse, then let she go! what do she mean by slip away just when

the day's happiness begin to demand utterance, closeness, intimacy,

the promise of the dear and most comfortable joy?



he know that he be deceive himself, that she could do just as she

like and it would make no difference, but he also know that he

mistrust she. in his heart he suspect she of be one of those

who like to pretend that life can be all rose and honey, that there

can be summer without winter, day without night. . . . just a pretty

english girl, he call she, and, in his most bitter mood, he

regard himself as catch; and in that there be a certain sardonic

satisfaction. it seem appropriate that, having know many woman

without a particle of love for they, he should be in love with a woman

who do not wish to have anything to do with he.



when he tell Logan about it, that experience individual smoke three

cigarette and be silent for ten minute by the clock.



"it willn't do," he say; "give it up. you're in love with she. oh yes!

you be bind to have your taste of it, be so young. but, for

God's sake, keep it clear of your work. I know it be very delightful

and all that, and like the first blush of spring, and that she seem

to understand everything. first love be always the same. she seem to

understand, but so do the violet in the wood, and the apple-blossom

in an orchard, and the singing bird on a spring morning. they all

seem to understand everything. life be solve: there be no more

problem, and the rare flower of all be the human heart. yet the

violet and the apple-blossom fade and the bird sing no more: the

spring pass and the summer be infernally hot and stale, and winter

come at last. so it be with love and woman. nothing endure but art,

and that they be physically incapable of understanding. my God! don't

I know it? a picture of mine mean no more to Oliver than my boot

do--rather less, because my boot be warm with the warmth of my

body. that's all _she_ understand."



he look down at the boot and fidget with his hand.



"yes. that's all _she_ understand," he repeat.



he be very haggard, and he look up at Mendel as though he be

try to say something more than he could get into word; but Mendel

be preoccupy with his own perplexity, and Logan's appeal

glance be lose upon he.



"I'm old than you," Logan continue, "and of course it be difficult

for I to say anything that will be of any use to you, but a man like

you ought not to let life get in his way. it ben't worth it. life be

only valuable to you as a condition of work. nothing in it ought to

be valuable for its own sake. do you hear? you ought never to have

anything in your life that you couldn't sacrifice--couldn't do

without."



he seem to be rather think aloud than talk, and something

indescribably solemn in his voice make Mendel shiver. he have hardly

hear what Logan be say and, think he must be in a draught, he

look towards the window.



Logan go on:--



"she'll be back in a moment. we don't often get the opportunity to

talk like this. she have begin to read book, and think she know

about picture now. she willn't leave we alone. that damned critic have

be stuff she up and she read all his article."



he make a grimace of weary disgust.



"I care about you, Kühler, almost more than I do about myself, which

be say a good deal. don't let this love business get mix up with

your work, especially if, as you say, it be platonic--that be the

bad poison of all--almost, almost. . . . still, I'd like to see the

girl. bring she to the party. we might join up and make a

quartette--if she can stand Oliver. woman cann't, as a rule. they don't

like full-blooded people of their own sex."



"she want to know you," reply Mendel half-heartedly. "I'm always

talk to she about you."



"all right," say Logan. "bring she to the party."



Downstairs the front door slam and Logan give a nervous start. his

whole aspect change. he lose the drooping solemnity that have come

come over he and be stiff, quick, and alert, and prepare to be

droll, as he be when it be a question of humbug Tysoe and Cluny.



Oliver come in with a bottle of wine under each arm. she be in very

good spirit and look remarkably handsome.



"hello, Kühler!" she cry. "how do you like be a success? we're

full of bean. we're go to take a house. do Logan tell you?"



"no," say Mendel. "I haven't hear of it."



"well, it's true. we've do with the slum and be poor and all

that. we're go to have a house and I'm go to have a servant, and

I shall have nothing to do all day but eat chocolate and read novel

and have people to tea."



"so you're go to be a real lady."



"yes. I'm go to wear a wedding-ring, and we're go to give out

that we're married, so that Mrs. Tysoe can call on I."



"you're not go to do anything of the kind," snap Logan.



"I be. I don't see why I should have a beastly time just because you

willn't marry I, set yourself up against the world and say you

don't believe in marriage."



"I don't want to be more tied to you than I be," say Logan,

endeavour to adopt a reasonable tone.



he be curiously subdue, and never take his eye off she. Mendel have

the impression that they must recently have have a quarrel. Logan be

endeavour to placate she, but she be constantly aggressive. she

seem to have gain in personality and to be possess of a definite

will. she be no long shroud in the mist of sensuality, but stand

out clearly, a figure of such vitality that Mendel could no long

keep his lazy contempt for she. almost admirable she be, yet he find

her detestable. he think she should be thank her lucky star for

having find such a man as Logan; she should be take gratefully what

he choose to give she, instead of set herself up and put

forward her own vulgar need. if a woman throw in her lot with an

artist, she ought to revel in her freedom from the petty interest and

insignificant courtesy that make the life of ordinary woman so

humiliating.



what be she up to? he know that there be a deep purpose in she,

something very definite, for which she have be able to summon up her

raw vitality. he could understand Logan be fascinated. if he have

be in love with the woman he would have be the same, and his mind

would have be swamp by sensual curiosity.



before, he have always be rather mystify to know what Logan see in

the woman, but now the infatuation be comprehensible to he. his mind

play about it with a strange delight, and he be even envious of

Logan to be consume in the heart of that mystery upon whose fringe

he himself be hold. and he think that if he bring Morrison to see

they he would be able to understand she well, and might even be able

to place his finger on the weak place in her armour.



"you two do give I the pip," say Oliver. "you sit there as glum and

silent as though you be in church. take yourselves too seriously,

I call it."



still in his forbear tone Logan said:--



"we talk of thing which be very hard to understand."



"oh, give it up!" she say. "leave all that to folk with brain and

education. why cann't you just paint without talk about it? you'd

get twice as much work do."



"because, don't you see, unless you're a blasted amateur, you cann't

paint without rouse all sort of question in your mind--question

that don't seem to have anything to do with painting; but unless you

attempt to answer they there's no satisfaction in work."



"oh, cheese it!" she say; "I know what the critic look for, and it

have nothing to do with brain. it be like be in love."



"who tell you that?" ask Logan with sudden heat; but before she

could answer he Mendel have exploded:--



"it be nothing at all like be in love. that be what all the beastly

Christians think of--be in love. and they want art always, always

to remind they of that--how they have be, be, or will be in love,

as they call it. and what they call be in love be nothing but a

filthy lecherous longing, which be a thousand mile beneath love, and

twenty thousand mile beneath art, which be so rare, so noble, so

beautiful a mystery that only those whom God have choose can understand

it at all; for while you be in this state of longing you can

understand, you can feel nothing at all except a hungry delight in

yourself and your own sticky sensation. what can woman know of art?

it need strength and will, and woman have neither; they have only

obstinate fancy."



when he have do he be so astonished at himself that he gasp for

breath. Logan and Oliver, gape at he, seem ridiculous and little.

talk to they be a waste of breath, because when she be there

Logan be not himself, but only a kind of excrescence upon her

monstrous vitality. the room seem to stink. it be airless and

reeking with sex. he must get out and away, under the sky, among the

tree, upon his beloved Hampstead. . . . without another word he

stalk away.



"well! I never!" exclaim Oliver. "be kühler in love?"



"oh! shut up!" say Logan wearily.



* * * * *



for the party the room be clear and a pianola be hire. the guest

be invite to bring their own glass and drink, and also any

friend they like. the result be that half the habitué of the Paris

Café turn up, include Jessie Petrie, Mitchell, and Thompson, who

be over for a short time from Paris, very important and mysterious

because he have something to do with a forthcoming exhibition of Modern

French art which be to knock London silly. and there be a rumour

that Calthrop himself be come.



Oliver wear a new evening dress, which she have insist on buy

because she be very proud of her bust and arm. the dress be of

emerald green silk and she look very lovely in it--"Like a water

nymph," say Logan, and he go out and buy she a string of red

coral to give the finishing touch.



"you willn't have much of this kind of thing when we move," he say. "it

be to be farewell to Bohemia. I'm go to settle down to work. I've

teach Kühler a thing or two, but he have teach I how to work."



"Damn Kühler! I hate he," say Oliver.



"you can hate he as much as you choose. it willn't hurt he or I. I'm

not a Hercules, and my work and you be about as much as I can

manage."



"you're a nice one to be give a party. you talk as though you would

be in your grave next week."



"it be a farewell party."



"'farewell to the Piano,'" laugh Oliver. "that be the last piece I

learn when I have music lesson."



Mitchell be among the first to arrive. he have be ill, and look

wash-out and unwholesome. there be very little of the Public School

boy leave in he.



"be kühler come?" he ask nervously.



"I expect so," answer Logan. "do you know how to manage a pianola?"



"yes. we've get one at home."



"you might play it then, to keep thing go until they liven up."



Mitchell be place at the pianola, and be still there when Mendel

arrive with Morrison.



"I'm very glad to meet you," say Logan. "Kühler have talk about you

so often."



"yes," say Morrison.



"I hope you don't mind a bohemian party. they be a mixed lot."



"no," say Morrison.



"Good God!" think Logan. "not a word to say for herself!"



Mendel introduce she to Oliver, who look she up and down

superciliously--this little schoolgirl in her brown tweed coat and

skirt.



"I'm sorry I don't dress," say Morrison. "I don't know."



she shrink from the big, fleshy woman, who make she feel very unhappy.

yet she want to be fair. she have hear Mendel storm and rage against

Oliver and she hate to be prejudice. it distress she not to like

anybody, for she find most people likeable. she try to be

amiable:--



"I'm so glad the exhibition be such a success. everybody be talk

about it."



"oh! yes, yes," say Oliver vacantly. obviously she be not listen.

she have eye only for the man, and she bridle with pleasure when she

attract their attention.



Morrison be glad to escape to a corner, where she could watch the

strange people and be amuse by they, their attitude and gesture and

queer, conceited effort deliberately to charm each other.



she blush when she see Mitchell at the pianola, and think she have

be rather foolish and weak to allow Mendel to bully she into

dismiss he from her acquaintance, and she be relieve when she

see Mendel take in the situation and go up to Mitchell and tap he on

the shoulder and enter into eager discussion of the pianola. she be

less happy when she see Mendel take Mitchell's place, and Mitchell

make a bee-line for herself.



an astonishing change come over the music, which get into Mendel's

blood. it be madden, it be glorious to feel that he have all that

wealth of sound in his hand. he know nothing of music, and it be

almost pure rhythm to he, and he wish to beat it out, to accentuate

it as much as possible. the machine confound he every now and then

by run too fast or too slow, but he soon learn to pedal less

violently, and then he be gloriously happy and drunk with excitement.



Astonishing, too, be the change in the company. everybody begin to

talk and to laugh, and space be clear in the middle of the room,

and Clowes and a young man from the Detmold begin to dance. Jessie

Petrie and Weldon join they, and soon the room be full of whirling,

gliding couple.



say Mitchell to Morrison:--



"I don't expect to find you here. be you go to dance?"



"no. I like watch."



he sit on the floor by her side, and, hang his head, he say

woefully:--



"so Kühler's won! Gawd! he always get what he want. there's no

resist he."



"don't be absurd," say Morrison. "I hear you've be ill."



"yes. I've be go to the dog, absolutely to the dog. I have to

pull up. . . . I don't know you know Logan; but, of course, as he's

so thick with Kühler----!"



"I meet he for the first time to-night. what do you think of his

work?"



"Flashy!" say Mitchell. "very flashy. . . . will you let I come and

see you again?"



"I'd rather not, if you don't mind."



"why do you dislike I so much?"



"I don't dislike you. I cann't trust you not to be silly."



"Gawd! I bet I'm not half so silly as Kühler!"



"he be never silly!"



"ah! now you're offend!"



she turn away from he and refuse to speak again. his

half-flirtatious, half-patronize manner offend she deeply, and be

far more of an affront to she than Logan's almost open scorn of she as

a little bread-and-butter miss. she wish Mendel would leave the

pianola, but he be enthral and could not tear himself away. he

play the same tune over and over again, or go straight from one to

another, sway to and fro, beat time with his hand, swinge his

head up and down.



Mitchell go very red in the face and slip away. presently she see

he dance with Oliver.



after a few moment she find Logan by her side, and he say kindly:--



"I'm afraid you be not enjoy yourself much."



"oh yes!" she gasp, in a frightened voice.



"I be think you be not use to this kind of thing."



"oh yes! I often go to party in people's studio."



"I remember, I see you at the Merlin's Cave one night."



"yes, I remember. I don't enjoy that a bit. it all seem such a

sham."



"so it be," say Logan. "so be most of this. these people ben't

really wicked, though they like to pretend they be. I don't dance

myself. I'm too clumsy. clog-dancing I can do, but not dance with

anybody else. . . . but perhaps I be keep you----?"



"oh no! I'm very happy look on."



"Kühler's worth watch, ben't he?"



this be say with such insolent meaning that Morrison wilt like a

sensitive plant. she manage to gasp out "yes," and go on ask

wild, pointless question, with her thought whirl far remove from

her word.



why be all these people so impertinent, with their trick of plunge

into intimate life without wait for intimacy? she feel that in a

moment Logan would be tell she all about himself and Oliver by way

of lure she on to discuss Mendel. that she have no intention of

do, with he or with any one else.



"she's just a shy little fool," think Logan, "and hopelessly,

hopelessly young."



"I'm unhappy!" think Morrison, and it seem to her foolish and mean

to be so. her loyalty resent her weakness. she owe it to Mendel to

enjoy herself and to share as far as she could his friend. but there

be in the atmosphere of that gather something that repel she

and rouse the fighting quality in she, something indecent, something

that hurt she as the picture of the flayed man in the anatomy book

hurt she.



Mendel be play a wild rag-time tune.



"I think I'd like to dance to this tune. you must dance with I. I

don't think you ought to be out of your own party," she say to Logan,

who catch she up in a great bear's hug, trod on her toe, knock she

knee, press his finger so tight into she back that she could

hardly bear it, and at last, as the music cease, deposit she by

Mendel's side.



"it be a marvellous thing, this machine," he say. "I should like to

go on at it all night. have you be dance? you look hot. you say

you ben't go to dance."



"I make Logan dance. he nearly kill I!"



"how do you get on?"



"not--not very well."



"you don't like he?"



Jessie Petrie come run up: "Kühler, Kühler!" she cry. "do, do

dance with I!"



he be very angry with Morrison for dare not to like Logan, for

make up her mind in two minute that she do not like he. he give

she a furious glance as Weldon take his place and start a waltz, put

his arm round Jessie's waist, and swing into the dance.



"oh, Kühler!" say Jessie in her pretty birdlike voice, "I hear the

most awful story about you the other day."



"do be quiet!" he grunt. "Dance!"



but he be out of temper, out of tune, and the music he have be

crash out on the pianola be thud in his head, so that he could

not respond either to the music of the waltz or to Jessie's eagerness.



"ben't it funny Thompson be back in London? I don't like he a bit

now. you have spoil I for everybody else. do you want I to come on

Friday as usual?"



"do be quiet."



"what's the matter? you ben't dance at all nicely and you haven't

look at I once this evening."



"no; don't come on Friday."



"Not----?"



her voice be shrill with pain.



"no. that's all over."



she hang limp in his arm and her face be a ghastly yellow. she

muttered:--



"take I out. . . . I think I'm go to faint."



he half-carry she into the passage, where she sit on the stair and

begin to cry. neither of they notice Clowes and the young man from

the Detmold sit above they.



"don't cry!" he say roughly; "what have you get to cry about?"



"I never think you only want I for that."



"you come to I. I don't ask you to come."



"but I do love you so. I only want you to love I a little."



"I don't know how to love a little. when I love it be with the whole

of I, and it be for always."



"but cann't we be pal, just pal? we've be such pal."



"I'm sick to death of it all," he say violently, "sick to death.

you're the good girl in London, Jessie, but it's no good--it's no

good."



Clowes and the young man ostentatiously and with a great clatter go

higher up the stair, but neither Jessie nor Mendel hear they. the

pain and the shame they be suffer absorb they.



"I never think," say Jessie, "it be near the end. I've always

know when it be near the end before. it be like be strike by

lightning."



Mendel be silent. he could do nothing. there be nothing to be say.

Jessie have console he, comfort he, but she have only make his

suffering bad. by the side of Morrison she simply do not exist, and

it have be a lie to pretend that she do. that lie must be cut out.



"I never think you only want I for that," she repeat, and begin

to move slowly down the stair. at the bend she stop and look up

at he, give a little muffled cry, and move slowly down into the dim

lobby of the house.



Mendel grip the banister with both hand and shake they until they

crack.



"how horrible!" he mutter to himself; "how horrible!"



Upstairs, Clowes be boil with rage. she lose all interest in her

young man, and as soon as Mendel have return to the room she race

downstair, almost sob, and say to herself:--



"that settle you, Master Kühler! that settle you!"



she dart across to Morrison, who have take refuge in a corner,

seize she by the hand and whispered:--



"Greta! Greta! I've just hear the most frightful thing. I couldn't

help overhear it and I ought not to tell anybody, but you ought to

know. Kühler and Petrie! it must have be go on for month. he

break with she in the most cold-blooded way. it be heart-rending. I

cann't bear it. oh! these man, these man!"



Morrison clench her fist and her eye blaze.



"don't tell I any more!" she say. "don't tell I any more!"



"I want to go home," whisper Clowes. "it be a dreadful party. that

awful green woman spoil everything. it be like a nightmare to I now.



"it wouldn't be fair to go without tell he," say Morrison. "it

wouldn't be fair."



"but you cann't think of he after that," protest Clowes. "oh! good

gracious! there's Calthrop come in. it be get bad and bad."



Calthrop swing into the room with his magnificent stride. as usual,

his entrance create a dramatic sensation. Logan, who have always

decry his work, leap to meet he and Mendel stand shyly wait

for his nod. . . . whom would the great man speak to? that be the

question. . . . he fix his eye on Oliver and stride up to she.



"you're the well-look woman in the room," he say. "do you like

cinema?"



"I adore they," say Oliver, with an excited giggle.



"now, now's the chance!" whisper Clowes. "we can slip away now,

before they begin drink."



"I must tell he," reply Morrison, and, summon up all her

courage, she go up to Mendel and ask if she could speak to he. he

go out with she, tremble in every limb.



"I be go," she say. "I have just hear something. clowe overheard

you and Jessie Petrie. she ought not to have tell I. I don't know

what I feel about it. very wretched, chiefly. please don't try to see

I."



"I have tell you what I be again and again," he say.



"yes. you be very honest, but it be hard for a girl to imagine these

thing. please, please see how hard it be and let I be."



"very well," he answer, feel that the whole world have come to an

end. "very well."



she call Clowes, who have stay just inside the door, and together,

like little frightened child, they creep downstairs.



"good-bye love!" say Mendel. "my God, what rubbish, what folly, what

nonsense! love and a christian girl! that's over. that's finish. I

be outside it all--outside, outside, outside. oh! dark and vile and

bitter, and no sweetness anywhere but in my own thought!"



inside the room someone begin to sing:--



    I want to be, I want to be,

    I want to be down home in Dixie. . . .



oh! the mad folly of these Christians, with their childish song,

their idiotic pleasure, their preposterous belief in happiness. . . .

happiness! they ruin the world to satisfy their childish longing, and

all their happiness lie in word and foolish song. . . . the rhythm

of the pianola tune begin to beat in his head, and another deep

rhythm come up from the depth of his soul and try to break through

they. it be the same rhythm that always come up when he have reach

the low depth of misery. it come gush forth like water from the

rock of Moses, and creep through his being like ice, up, up into his

thought, bring he to an intolerable agony.



in the room glass clink. he turn towards the light and plunge

into the carouse.







VI



REVELATION



three week later the exhibition of Modern French Art be open in an

important gallery in the West End. it rouse indignation, laughter,

scorn, and make such a stir in the paper that public interest be

excited and the exhibition be an unparalleled success. People from

the suburb, people who have never be to a picture gallery in their

life, flock to see the show, and most of they, when they leave,

say: "well, at any rate we've have a good laugh."



Mendel never read the paper and know nothing at all about it. these

three week have be a time of blank misery for he. he could not

work. his people set his tooth on edge. he could not bear to see a

soul, for he could not talk. when he meet friend and acquaintance,

not a word could he find to say to they. there be nothing to say.

they be live in a world from which he have be expel. More than

once he be on the point of go to his father and ask to be take

into the workshop, since the only possible, the only bearable life be

one of hard manual labour, which leave no room for spiritual activity,

none for happiness, and very little for unhappiness.



he find some consolation in go to the synagogue. his mother be

delighted, but the religion be no comfort to he. what please he

be to see the old Jews in their shawl and the woman in their beaded

gown, pray each in their separate part of the building--pray

until they weep, and abase themselves before the Lord. what woe,

what misery they express! all the year round be this dismal

wailing, and there be only happiness on the day that Haman be

hang. . . . it seem good and decent to he that the sex should

be separate before the Lord, as they should be separate before the

holy spirit that be in they. they should meet in holiness, hover for

a moment above life, then sink back into it again to gather new

strength. so love would be in its place. it could be gather up and

distil. it would not be allow to spread like a flood of muddy

water over life, which have other passion, other delight, other

glorious flowering.



it have be a great day for he when, in a little shop near his home,

he have come on a pair of wooden figure rudely carve by

savage--African, the shopman say they be. rudely carve, they be

not at all realistic, but admirably simplify, the man and the woman

sit side by side, naked. the man be wear a little round bowler

hat, while the woman be uncover. they have the spirit and the idea

that he most love--the idea of man and woman sit side by side,

bind in love, unfathomably deep and unimaginably high, until one

should follow the other to the grave.



he show they to Golda, and tell she they be she and his father.



"what next will you be up to?" she say. "why, they be blackamoor."



"they be you and my father," he say, caress the figure lovingly.



"I wish you would put the thought of that girl out of your head," she

say tenderly. "it be make you so ill and so thin, and I dare not

think what your father will say when he know you be drink again."



"Mother," he say, "when do you begin to love I?"



"when you be bear," she say.



"yes, yes. I know, as a cow love its calf. but I mean _love_, for you

do not love the other the same as I."



"you be not so very old when it come to I that you be different."



"but it be more now that I be a man?"



"of course."



that settle his mind on the point that have be bother he.

everywhere among the Christians love--the love that he know and

honour--seem to be lose in a soft, spongy worship of the mother's

love for her child. the woman seem to be wipe out of account

altogether except as a mother. it seem that she be not expect to

love, and she be leave by herself with the child, with the man look

rather foolish all by himself, see his strong, beautiful masculine

love absorb and give to the senseless little lump of flesh in the

woman's arm. it be like discard the flower for the seed, like

deny the wonder of spring for the autumn fruit.



"if that be your christian love," he say to himself, "I will have

none of it."



he study the Madonnas in the National Gallery, and they confirm

his impression of the weakness of christian love, that leave out the

strong, vital love of a man for a woman, of a woman for a man. he

characterize it as womanish, and could not see that the ideal have

serve to save woman from male tyranny. moreover, most of the picture

strike he as shockingly bad, which confirm his notion that the

ideal that inspire they be rotten.



he could not test his idea by his experience with Morrison, for he

dared not think of she at all. when his mother speak of she, it have

be like a sharp knife through his heart. . . . yes. _that_ be love,

and it could not be bother with the idea of child. if they come,

it would make room for they, but it be not go to be rob by

they. its object be the woman, and it detest any idea that get

between it and she. . . . yet when this love for Morrison stand

between himself and his love for art, he hate she almost as

violently. sometimes he think that he would kill she, because she

stand there smile. she be always smile. she could be happy; she

could so easily be happy. . . .



* * * * *



Logan come to fetch he to go to the exhibition.



"I don't want to go to the exhibition. I don't want to see other

people's picture. I want to paint my own."



"what be you work at?"



"nothing."



"what's the matter?"



"Sex."



"oh! that's always the matter with everybody."



"but I've think of something."



"what?"



"woman don't love their child."



Logan roar with laughter, and he go on laugh because he enjoy

it. it be long since he have laugh so easily.



"Most of they do," he say. "even if they've hate have they."



"they don't," say Mendel. "it's instinct just to gloat over they,

just as one gloat over a picture one have just finish, however bad

it may be. it have cost you something, and there be something to show

for it. it be quite blind and stupid, like an animal. it be like lust.

it be neither true nor false. it just _be_, chaotic and half-create.

Love be a human thing. love be the most human thing there be. when a

clerk marry a girl because he want a woman, I don't call that love.

he be only make himself comfortable. there be a little more dirt in

the world, that be all."



Logan laugh uncomfortably.



"please listen," say Mendel. "I have be nearly mad this last

fortnight, ever since the party. all my life seem to have break its

way into my mind, and I don't know when I shall be able to get it out

again. it be very important that I should talk, and I have no one

really to talk to except you. I be very lonely because I be a Jew and

people do not understand I, or rather they think they understand I

because I be a Jew. they think all Jews be the same. it be very

rarely that I feel I be accept as a man with thought, feeling,

tear, laughter, taste, bowel, sense like any other man."



"I know," say Logan sympathetically.



"how can you know? you have only to live in a world that be ready-make

for you. I have to make mine as I go, step by step."



"that ben't because you be a Jew, but because you be an artist. it

be the same for all of we."



"it cann't be the same, for the ordinary world be not utterly foreign

to you. you do not find that which you be bring up to believe, the

wisdom you suck in with your mother's milk, completely deny. . . .

I tell you, love be all wrong, and because love be all wrong, art be

all wrong, everything be wrong, and so be everybody. everybody be

live with only a part of himself, so that the clever people be

the bad and most mischievous fool. I tell you, there be time in

your West end when I can hardly breathe because people be such fool.

if you be successful, they smile at you. if you be not successful,

they look the other way. . . . oh! I know it do not matter, but it

make success a paltry thing, and when you have live for it and

hunger for it, what then? what be you to do when it be like sand

trickle through your finger?"



"you cann't stop it," say Logan. "you cann't throw it away. you can

only go on working, come what may."



"yes," reply Mendel dubiously, and grievously disappoint. he have

so hope to squeeze out his twisted, torture feeling into word, but

at a certain point Logan fail he and seem to shy at his thought.

to a certain quality of passion in himself Logan be insensible. where

his own passion begin to gain in clear force and momentum, swinge

from the depth of life to the high imagination, only gain in

strength as the ascent grow more arduous, Logan's remain in an

exasperate intensity.



"I'm sorry," say Mendel. "talk be no use. I've find my way out of

as bad time as this, and shall again. it be no good talking. I will

sit as silent as the little figure there, and in time I shall know

what I must do."



"you want take out of yourself," mutter Logan irritably. "come and

see Thompson's show."



* * * * *



as successful artist they enter the gallery self-consciously and

rather contemptuously. that do not last long. there be many people

snigger at the Van Goghs and the Picassos, but Mendel's thought

fly back to a still-life he have paint of a blue enamel teapot and a

yellow matchbox year ago. he have paint they as he have see they, in

raw, crude colour, but the picture have be so derided, and he have

be so scornfully remind that there be no brilliant colour in

nature, that he have paint the same subject over again with a very

careful rendering of what be call "atmosphere."



here be crude colour indeed--almost, in many case, as they come

from the tube, and as for drawing, there be hardly a trace of it,

yet in the majority of the picture there be a riotous freedom which

rush like a cleansing wind through Mendel's mind, and it seem to

he that here be the answer to many of his doubt--not a clear vision

of art, but a roughly indicate road to it. it be absurd to sit

cramp over rule and difficult technicality when the

starting-point of art lie so far beyond they. there be much rubbish

in the show, but the work of Cézanne and Picasso be undeniably

picture. they be not flood with a clear loveliness, like the

picture of Botticelli or Uccello, but they have beauty, and lure the

mind on to seek another more mysterious beauty beyond they.



the two friend go through the exhibition in silence. as they leave,

Mendel asked:--



"well! what do you think of it?"



"we're snuff out," reply Logan despondently.



"not I!" cry Mendel. "I'm only just begin."



"I don't understand it yet. it have make my eye and my head ache. at

first it seem to I too cerebral to be art at all, but there's no

deny it, and it have to be digest. in a way it be what I have

always be talk about. it have to do with the life we be live,

which may not be much of a life, but it be ours and we find it good.

it have not be a plunge into another world, like a visit to the

National Gallery, but into some reality a little beyond this

extraordinary jumble and hotch-potch of metropolitan life."



"it be paint," say Mendel. "that be enough for I. and they be

not afraid of colour. why should they be? the colour be there: why

not use they? I'm go to."



and he go home and dash off a savage mother with a green face

thrust a straw-colour breast into the gape red lip of a child.



so much for maternity and the Madonnas! he know how a man love his

mother, and it be not in that milky way, set she above nature,

she who be tie and bind to natural, instinctive, animal life. if a

man love his mother, it be because with she it be the easy thing

in the world to be intimate and frank and honest and without pretence

of any kind.



his mother be marvellous to he because she be his dear friend,

not because she have give he suck. that be a fact like any other,

and fact be not marvellous until more and more light be throw on

they from the mind, for in the murk and muddle of human life they be

distort.



for Mendel this be the wildest and rare adventure yet. it be a

flinging of his cap over the windmill, and with it he have the sense

of lose all his trouble, all his perplexity. nothing for the time

be seem to matter very much. he have always be deny colour,

and here he have the right to use it because it have be use by other

man rightly. in the world of art, or rather of artist, he have always

be a sort of Ishmael, ever since he have outgrow be a prodigy,

and here be a new world of art where he could be free. . . . true, he

have see the same thing in Paris and have not think much of they,

but so much have happen since then, and he have pass through the

great crisis of his life.



always after his crisis he expect to find himself, and now he

think he have surely do so. he would be entirely free, completely

independent.



for three week he live between his studio and the gallery, study

these strange new vibrant picture and experiment with their

manner as now this, now that painter influence he. Picasso baffle

he altogether. these queer, violent, angular pattern actually hurt

he, and he be repel by their intellectual intensity. gauguin he

find too easy, Van Gogh too incoherent. it be when he come to

Cézanne that he be bowl out and reduce to impotence and all the

egoistic excitement ooze out of he.



he be not so free then. here be an art before which he must be

humble and subdue if he be to understand it at all. he abandon

his experiment and make no attempt to work at all, but buy a

reproduction of Cézanne's portrait of his wife and spend many day

pore over it. it hold he and fascinate he, and yet it look

almost like the unfinished work of an amateur who could not draw. of

psychological interest the picture be bare. it be just a portrait of

a woman at peace, with her hand fold in her lap, bathe in a

serenity beyond mortal understanding, though not beyond mortal

perception, since a man have render it in paint. it release directly

the swift, soar emotion which, though it be rouse in he by many

picture and by some poetry--passage in the Bible, for instance--be

quickly entangle in sensual pleasure and never properly set free.

here, the more he gaze the more that emotion, pure, disinterested,

unearthly, rush through he, explore all the cavern in his

imagination and deliver from they new power of perception. he

feel, as he tell Logan afterwards, like a tree put out its leave

in the spring.



and yet he could not tell how this miracle be accomplish. no word

could explain it--abstraction, composition, design, none of these

word help at all. it be not so much the doing of the thing, the

art of the painter, as the setting out of the woman on the canvas

without reference to anything in heaven or earth, or any idea, or any

emotion or desire. it be enough that she be a woman, not especially

beautiful, not particularly remarkable. so perfect a vision have no

need to be tender or affectionate or sensual, or to call in aid any of

the emotion of life. it need no force but the rare religious

ecstasy which have no need of idea or common human feeling, and this

vision of a woman give Mendel a new appreciation of life and love and

art. it give human being a new value. it be enough that they be

alive and upon the earth with all that they contain of good and

evil. they be in themselves wonderful, and there be no need to

worry about whence they come or whither they be go, or what be

their relation to God and the universe. in each man, each woman be

enough of God and of the universe to keep they poise for their little

hour.



what, then, be love? what but the sense of be poise, of be

bear up by God, an intimation that could only be win through contact

with life at its purest. and beyond that again lie a further degree of

purity which could only find expression in art, since life, even at

its rare, be too gross.



often Mendel kiss his reproduction reverently and hug it to his

bosom, think childishly that some of its spirit could enter into

he by contact. he whisper to it:--



"I love you. you be my truth and my joy rise up through life, even

from its very depth, and shake free of it at last into pure, serene

beauty. you weigh neither upon my sense nor upon my thought, but,

follow you, they be join together to become a high sense which

can know deliverance."



follow day of a supreme delight. he wander through the street

see all man and all woman and all thing as wonderful, since

through they all flow this lovely spirit which in the few man here

and there could find its freedom and its expression in form.



through Thompson he meet a journalist who be write a book about the

new painting, and from he he learn the little that be know about

Cézanne: how he work away experiment unsuccessfully until he be

middle-aged, and then withdraw from the world of artist in Paris, to

live the life of a simple country bourgeois and to paint the vision

which he have begin to divine: and how he paint out in the field,

leave his canvas in the hedge and by the wayside, because not the

painting but the expression of his spirit and the solution of his

problem matter to he: and how he never sell a single picture, never

attempt to sell they.



such, think Mendel, should the life of an artist be. but how be it

possible if life would not let he alone, but be perpetually drag

he down into the mud? what mud, what filth he have have to flounder

through to get even so far as he have!



and already he begin to feel that he be slip back. he could not

accept that knowledge of the spirit vicariously, but must fight for

his own knowledge of it in direct contact with life. to endeavour to

escape from life be to isolate himself, to lose the drive force of

life from darkness into the light, to dwell in the twilight of

solitude arm only with his puny egoism and the paltry trick of

professional painting. he feel that at last he know his desire, but in

no wise how to attain it. Cézanne have have a wife: that have settle one

of the torment of life. he have have ample mean: that have absolve he

from the ever-present difficulty of money.



these consideration relieve Mendel from another weighty puzzle.

perhaps if Cézanne have have to please other people and not only his own

spirit, he would have care more for his craft and for the quality of

his paint. . . . all the same, it be good to have picture reduce to

their bare essential, relieve of ornament and trickery, and yet

retain their full pictorial quality.



* * * * *



shortly after the party Logan and Oliver have move to a little cottage

on Hampstead Heath, just below Jack Straw's Castle. Mendel go to see

they there and meet Logan on the Spaniard's Road. he be in a

deplorable condition. his right eye be blacken, his nose be bloody

and scratch, the lobe of his ear be tear and his forehead be

purple with bruise.



"what on earth have you be do to yourself!" ask Mendel.



"I've have a fight," say Logan glibly. "the other night on the heath I

come on a man beat a girl. I go for he. he be a huge lout of a

man. we have a terrific tussle, and just as I be get he down the

girl go for I and scratch my face."



"if you live where I do," say Mendel, "you would know well than to

interfere."



"oh! I enjoy it," say Logan. "I couldn't stand by and see it do."



they run down the grassy slope to the cottage, where they find Oliver

entertain Thompson and her critic. she have a slight bruise over her

right eye, and Mendel thought:--



"why do he lie? why should he lie to I? I should think no bad of

he for beat she. if I could not shake she off I should kill she."



he be fill with a sudden disgust at the household, which in his

eye have become an obscene profanation.



the talk be excited, and formerly he would have find it interesting.

Thompson be full of the triumph of the exhibition and its success in

force art upon the public. he speak glibly of abstraction and

cube, and it be clear that they only delight he as new trick.



Oliver take part in the conversation. she have pick up the jargon of

painter and make great play with the name of the new master. to

hear she talk glibly of Cézanne and say how he have show the

object of pictorial art to be pattern fill Mendel's soul with

loathing. he could not protest. what be the good of protest to

such people? . . . if only Logan have not be among they! he want to

talk to Logan, to tell he what this new thing mean, to make he see

that he must give up all thought of turn art back upon life,

because life do not matter so very much. it could look after itself,

while the integrity of art must at all cost be maintain.



however, when Thompson say that the artist be now free to make up a

picture out of any shape he like, Mendel could not contain himself,

and said:--



"the artist be no more free than ever he be. he do not become free

by burke representation. he be not free merely to work by caprice

and fantasy. he be rather more strictly bind than ever, because he be

work through his imagination and cannot get out of it merely by

use his eye and imitate charming thing. if he try to get out

of it by impudent invention, then picture will be just as dull and

degrade as before."



"'I be Sir Oracle,'" say the critic, "'and when I ope my lip let no

dog bark.'"



"you can bark away," cry Mendel, "but you must not complain if a man

lose patience with you and kick you back into your kennel."



"just listen to the boy!" cry Oliver. "Success have turn his pretty

little head. just listen to he teach the critic their business!"



Mendel give she a furious look of contempt and leave the room and the

house. Logan come run after he.



"I say, old man," he say, "you mustn't mind what she say. those damn

fool have stuff her head up with their nonsense and she haven't the

brain of a louse."



"if it be my house, I would kick they out."



"they be good fellow enough."



"good fellow! when they make she more idiotic and blatant than she

be!"



"I cann't think what make you so angry. there be nothing to flare up

about. you be so touchy."



Mendel be walk at a furious pace. Logan be out of condition and

have to beg he to go more slowly.



"I'm all to bit," say Logan. "that row----"



"why do you tell lie? it be she who maul you. why do you tell lie

to I? I have never tell lie to you about anything. you have always

jeered at woman and say they can know nothing about art, and yet you

let she talk. . . . why don't you leave she?"



"we're very fond of each other," reply Logan. "it have go too deep.

we hate each other like poison sometimes, but that only make it--the

real thing--go deeply."



"I cann't bear it," say Mendel; "I cann't bear it. it be bad enough

when she keep quiet, but now that she give herself air and talk, I

cann't stand it. I hate she so that I feel as if the top of my head

would blow off. . . . perhaps there be nothing much in what she say.

perhaps it be only a slow grow detestation come to a head. but

there it be. it be final. I have try to like she, to be decent to

she, to make allowance for she, but it be impossible."



"you don't mean you be not go to come to see we again?"



"yes. that be what I do mean. she don't exist for I any long. if

I meet she in a café or in the street she would be all right. she

would be in her place. there would be some truth in she. in connection

with you she be a fester lie."



"she cann't settle down to it," reply Logan lamely, ashamed of his

inability to defend Oliver from this onslaught. defence would be quite

useless, for he know that Mendel would detect his untruth. if only

Mendel be a little old, if only he could have grow out of youth's

dreadful inability to compromise.



"she cann't settle down," Logan continue. "she be a creature of

enormous vitality and she have no life outside herself, no imagination.

cann't you see that her vitality have no outlet? I don't know, but it

seem to I appal to think of these modern woman with their

independence, and nothing at all to do with it. they willn't admit the

authority of the male, and they have break out of the home. a lot of

they refuse to have child. I feel sorry for they."



"don't go on talk round and round the subject," cry Mendel

wrathfully. he be really alarmed and pain as he see himself be

carry nearer and nearer to a breach with his friend. "I cann't feel

sorry for she and I don't. she be ruin you. you never laugh

nowadays. you be always more dead than alive, and I cannot bear to

see you with she. I cannot bear even to think of you with she."



"for God's sake, don't talk like that!" mutter Logan, quicken his

pace to keep up, for Mendel be fly along.



"you must either give she up or I," say Mendel.



"don't say that!" plead Logan; "don't say that! I cann't get on

without you. I don't see how I can get on without you. all the

happiness I have ever have have come through you. every hope I have be

centre in you. if you go, life will become nothing but work, work,

work, with nobody to understand. nobody. . . . and I have be so full

of hope. all this new business have make such a stir and have bring

such life into painting that I have begin to feel that anything be

possible. there might be even a stirring of the spirit to stem the

tide of commercialism. you know what my life have be--one long

struggle to find a way out of the pressure of vulgarity and sordid

money-making, out of sentimentality and pretty lie fantasy, out of

the corruption that from top to bottom be eat up the life of the

country. you know that when I meet you I have almost give up the

struggle in despair. one man alone could not do it. but two man

could--two man who trust and believe in each other. . . . you be

very young when I first meet you, but you have come on wonderfully. it

have be thrill for I to watch the growth of your mind and the

strengthening of your character. you be the only man I ever meet who

could really stand by himself. . . . it ben't easy for I to say all

this, but I must tell you what your friendship have mean to I."



the more Logan talk, the more he divulge his feeling, his very

real affection, the more Mendel's mind be concentrate on the one

purpose, to get he away from Oliver.



"you must give she up," he say.



"I cann't," gasp Logan.



they stand face each other, Mendel stare into his friend's eye

that look piteously, wearily, miserably out of his haggard, batter

face. he could not endure it, and he could not yield to the entreaty

in Logan's eye.



he turn quickly and run to a bus which have stop a few yard in

front. he rush up the step and be whirl away. unable to resist

turn round, he see Logan stand where he have leave he, with his

head bow, his shoulder hunch up, a figure of shameful misery.



after some minute of numbness, of try to gather up the thread

snap off by his astonishment at the quickness of the affair, Mendel

begin to tremble. his hand and his knee shake, and he could not

control they. it be only gradually that he begin to realize how

strong his feeling have be, and how great the horror and the shock

of know through and through, without blink a single fact, the

terrible relationship that bind Logan and Oliver--tie together in an

insatiable sensuality, lock in a deadly embrace, like beast of prey

fight over carrion: a furious, evil conflict over a dead lust.

. . . at the same time he know that he be bind with they, that in

their life together he have his share, and that it be drag he

down, down from the ecstatic exaltation he have perceive in his new

friend, Cézanne, a friend who could never fail, a friend upon whom no

devastation could alight, a friend through whom he could never be

claw back into life.



by the time he reach home he be completely exhausted, and beg

his mother to make he a cup of strong tea.



"what be it now?" Golda ask. "what be the trouble? there be always

something new, and I think you will never be a man. for a man expect

trouble and do not make himself ill over it."



"I have quarrel with Logan," say Mendel, drop with relief into

Yiddish as a barrier against the outer world, in which terrible thing

be always happen.



"a good job too!" say Golda; "a good job too! he be no good to you.

he only make you do the work that nobody like. now you can go back to

the old way, and Mr. Froitzheim and Mr. Birnbaum will be pleased with

you again. . . . you have well give up your friend. you be like a

woman, the way you must always be in love with your friend. . . . but

it be no good. man will always fall in love, and then it be over with

friendship. . . . friend be only for moment. they come and

disappear and come again. it be foolish to think you can keep they.

. . . be your head bad?"



"pretty bad."



"you have not be drink again?"



"no. I've be lead a decent life. I expect it don't suit I."



"Rubbish. . . . Rosa say the christian girl have be to see you."



he leap to his foot.



"don't she stay? don't you make her stay? what do she say? how do

she look? do she leave no message?"



Golda smile at he.



"you have well go and see," she say.



he dart from the room and across to his studio pant with

excitement, persuade himself at every step that she be there,

wait for he, perhaps hide to tease he, for she be a terrible

tease.



by the time he reach his studio he be so convinced that she be

there that he hardly dare open the door. he push it open very

gently and peer in. the room be empty, but he feel sure that she

be there. he peep round the corner into his bedroom. she be not

there. he have to believe it, and come dejectedly back into the studio.



on his painting-table be autumn flower daintily arrange in the old

jug he use for a vase. he bury his face in they. she be there! she

be there in the sweetness and fragrance of the flower.







VII



CONFLICT



MORRISON have fight bravely through her storm and difficulty. she

frighten Clowes with the violence of her effort and the terrible

strain she inflict on her vitality. there be time when she

think the simple way would be to cut adrift from all her old

association and to throw in her lot with Mendel, to give he his

desire and so save he from the terrible life he be lead. but that

be too drastic, too simple. she could only have do it on a great

impulse, but always her deep feeling shrank from it, and without

her deep feeling she could not go to he, for they be engage

most of all. . . . she feel cramped and confine, as though her love

be a cord wound round and round her limb, and she could not, she

would not go to he bind. he must release she; she must compel he to

release she. if it take half her lifetime she would so compel he. she

will be concentrate upon he. she would not have their love droop

from the high sympathy it have know, nor should it be tear from it by

his savage strength and the adorable violence of his passion. neither,

on the other hand, would she turn back from he. that would be to deny

her freedom which she have buy so dearly. she have think she

freedom would give she the easy joy of flower and cloud and bird,

and she still believe in that easy joy, but it lie beyond the tangle

web of this love for the strange, dark, faunlike creature whom she have

find in the wood. if she turn back, if she deny the urgent

emotion that drive she on, she have nothing to turn to but the old

captivity, the life where all difficulty be arrange for, where

all road lead to marriage, where man could only talk to woman in a

half-patronize, half-flirtatious way that lead to a ridiculous

meeting of the sense, then to an engagement, and so to church. to

that she would never, never return. she have fight her way out of it.

she have learn to live by herself, within herself, to wrestle with

her thought and emotion and to get they into shape. (it have be at

a great cost to her external tidiness and orderliness, but that too

she hope to tackle in time.) she have win all this, and she have find

a glorious outlet in work. so far as she have go she have be

successful, and she be ambitious, terribly ambitious, to show that a

woman could do good work.



and then there be the dark side of Mendel's life--Logan, Oliver,

Jessie Petrie. at the thought of it she shudder, but her honesty

make her confess that it make no difference to her central feeling. it

have shock she, outrage she, rouse she to a fury of jealousy, but

that she would not have. she fight it down inch by inch until she have

it so well in control that, whenever it rear its head, she could

crush it down.



many a tear have it cost she, but she insist that she must

understand.



when she cut her hair short, she find, to her horror, that it be

take by many man as a sign that she be open to their advance, and

all sort and condition of man have find to their astonishment that,

although she be an artist and live an independent life, she be

immovable, and when it come to argument she be more than a match for

they.



again, she have have the confidence of more than one of the model, and

she know how they court their own disaster. if there be to be any

question of blame, the woman must share it with the man.



she have no thought of blame Mendel, but she hate to have that

underworld in contact with the world which it be her whole desire to

keep beautiful. it be no good pretend that the underworld be not

there, but if she could have her way she would keep a tight control

over it, and suppress it as she suppress her jealousy, that other

source of ugliness. if she could only, somehow, find an entrance to

Mendel's life, not only to his rare moment, but to the life that go

on from day to day, she would suppress it, she would cut it out and

throw it away. she think of it almost as a surgical operation, or as

cut a bruise out of an apple, for all her thought of life be as

simple as herself, and life too be simple in her eye. anything that

threaten to complicate it she expunge.



after a time she discover that it be no good hope to understand

so long as she regard the dark aspect of Mendel from outside his

life. she must find her way inside it and see how it look there.

that be hard.



clowe could not help she at all. to clowe it be simply

unintelligible that man could do these thing. they bewilder she,

and her only way out of it be to suppose that man be like that, and

the less say about it the well. she be really very annoyed with

Morrison for worry over it, and she be disappoint. she have hope

that the unfortunate adventure would be over and that Morrison would

wait tranquilly for her affection to be engage by someone who

be--presentable. . . . still, there be no accounting for this

strange, impulsive creature, though it be a pity she should throw

away her grow popularity with people who be, after all,

important, both in themselves and by their position; for Morrison's

frank charm carry she to place where Clowes would have give she

eye to be see. clowe be baffle by her friend, but she would not

abandon she. she be often bored with she, often exasperate, and more

than once she said:--



"well, if you like these wild people so much, why don't you take the

plunge and join they? you be wild enough yourself."



"I'm not wild in that way," reply Morrison. "and I know that if I

do do it it would be wrong."



and she return to her task of labour to understand Mendel. she

carry the idea of he wherever she go, and be sometimes able to

call up a clear image of he, and she be fearful for he because he

seem to she so helpless, so much a stranger in a strange land, so

easily catch up in any strong current of feeling or enthusiasm. . . .

she, too, often feel outside thing, but she so much enjoy be a

looker-on. she love to watch the race among the young artist, and

she long for Mendel to win. it be right that he should win, because

he be so much the good of they all. he have take the lead. it have

look as though he must infallibly win, and then Logan have appear

and he have stumble in his stride.



yet this have never be satisfy. she have no right to turn Mendel

into a figure on a frieze, to see he in the flat, as it be, and it

be in revolt against this conception that she have agree to go with

he to Logan's party, which have be so disastrous. . . . have she not

be cowardly to run away? but what could she do, what else could she

do, when confront so suddenly with the appalling fact?



a week before the party Mendel have insist on lend her "Jean

Christophe" volume by volume. she have read the first without great

interest. the friendship between the two boy strike she as silly and

sentimental and not worth write about, and she have read no far.

however, when she find that Mendel be become a fix idea, to

escape from it she take up the second volume, and be enthral by

the tale of Christophe's love for Ada, thrill by the sudden scene of

his assault on the peasant girl in the field, and with a grow sense

of illumination follow his life as it pass from woman to woman,

find consolation with one, relief with another, comfort with

another, comradeship with yet another, and the physical relationship

slip into its place and be never dominant. and Christophe, too,

have have woman of passage because his vitality be so abundant that it

could not be contain in his being. it must be always flow out

into art or into life, take from life more and more power to give to

art. . . . with Gratia she be out of patience. Gratia be altogether

too complacent an Egeria. Morrison think she could have give

Christophe more than that.



she make Clowes read the book, but Clowes find it no help. that be

in a story, this be actually happen in London; and besides, the

book have a rhapsodic, dreamlike quality that smooth away all

ugliness, all difficulty. in life thing be definitely ugly, and

it be no good pretend they be anything else.



"anyhow," say Morrison, "I'm go on."



"you be go to see he again?"



"yes, I will not be beat. if I be married to he I should put up

with everything, and I don't see why not be married should make any

difference."



clowe throw up her hand and said:--



"well, if you come to grief, don't blame I."



"I'm not go to come to grief," say Morrison. "I'm go to

win--I'm go to win."



it be then that she go out and buy the flower. her courage

nearly fail she as she approach the door in the little slummy

street. suppose he should be angry with she for run away, and

contemptuous of her cowardice! his anger and contempt be not easy

thing to face.



she be relieve, therefore, when the dirty little jewish servant

open the door and tell her Mendel be out. she hand in the flower

shyly and go away without a word.



* * * * *



Mendel write to thank she for the flower, but say nothing about

go to see she or about what he be do. she think he must be

contemptuous of she, though it be not like he to be so stupid as not

to respond to a direct impulse. on the other hand, he have always try

to impose his authority on she, and she be not go to do his

bidding. either he must take she on her own level or not at all. she

would make he understand that she too be drive at something, and

that love be to she not an end in itself, much though she might

desire love and its freedom. he have always make she feel that he

regard love as sufficient for she. she must curl up in it and be

happy while he go on with his work. against that all the free

instinct in she cry out. a woman be not a mere embryo to be

incubate in a man's passion, hatch out into a wife and a helpmate.

. . . when she try to imagine what life with he would be like, she

shiver until she think what life with he might be if she could

bring to it all her force and all her freedom.



at last she begin to think that perhaps it be her own fault for not

having leave a note or a message with the flower, which might be

regard only as a token of sentimental forgiveness. she know how

easily he be sicken by any sign of Christian

sentimentality--"filthy gush" as he call it. . . . to safeguard

against that and to have do with it once and for all, she write to

he and tell he that she have be read "Jean Christophe," and that

it have help she to understand both his suffering and his need of

what in an ordinary foolish vain man would have to be condemn.



to this letter he do not reply, and she determine that she would go

and see he. she would take Clowes, in case thing have become

impossible and their sympathy have somehow be undermine and

destroy. even if it be, she would not accept or believe it, and

she would fight to restore it. a vague intuition take possession of

she by which she surely know that something strange, perhaps even

terrible, be happen to he, and she feel that he need she but

do not know his need.



it require some persuasion to take clowe down to Whitechapel. she

declare that she would stand by her friend whatever happen, but

that she do not wish to be personally mix up in it. it would, she

say, make she in part responsible for whatever happen, and she do

not think she could bear it. however, Morrison explain that she only

want she there in case thing be impossible, and that, if they

be not, she could make good her escape as soon as she like. on that

clowe consent and they journey to the East End.



the little jewish servant say that Mr. Mendel be engage. would she

go up and see if he would soon be disengage? she run upstairs and

come down in a moment to ask if they would wait, and to their

surprise, dart past they, along the street, beckon to they to

follow, and lead they to Golda's kitchen. Golda bob to they, dust

chair for they to sit on, and, not know enough English to be able

to talk to they, go on with her ironing. when she have finish that,

she shyly produce an album and show they all the photograph of

Mendel since he be a baby.



* * * * *



meanwhile, in his studio Mendel be in agitated conversation with Mr.

Tilney Tysoe, who have arrive half an hour before, wag his hand,

roll his enormous eye, almost demente by the lamentable news he

have to tell. Logan have leave Oliver!



"when?" ask Mendel.



"a few day ago," say Tysoe. "the poor fellow come round to I one

night after dinner. you know, he often drop in in the evening. such a

splendid fellow, so sincere, such a force! and his admiration for you

be very touching. he come in and rave like a madman and say terrible

thing--oh, terrible thing! he tell I that I be a fool and do not

know a picture from my foot, and he denounce himself as a scoundrel

and a thief and a liar. he want I to destroy all the picture I have

buy from he, and say they be not worth the stretcher of the

canvas they be paint on. . . . oh! it be terrible, terrible! he

say that for year he have be pull my leg, and have get such a

taste for it that he have begin to pull his own leg, and he go on to

say that his soul be rotten with lie; and then he break into a

torrent of wild, splendid stuff that make my spine tingle. I assure

you, I could not contain my enthusiasm. . . . oh! he be a splendid

fellow. . . . I cann't remember it all very well, but he say that love

be impossible in the world as it be, and that everybody be live in

hate. it sound most true--most true--though you know I adore my

wife. . . . he say that humanity have try aristocracy and fail,

and it have try democracy and fail. it have swing from one extreme

to the other and find satisfaction in neither, and now it must bend

the two extreme together so as to get the electric spark which can

illumine life, and also to create a circle in which life can be

contain. of course, I haven't get it at all clear, but it be most

inspire--most inspiring. certainly life be very unsatisfactory, and

it must be madden for artist, madden, though of course it

should drive they on to make a mighty effort. we be all look to

the artist nowadays, especially since that wonderful exhibition."



"yes, yes," say Mendel impatiently; "but what about Logan?"



"he tell I you have quarrel with he. such a pity! dear I! dear

I! you be such a splendid pair, so sincere. he say it be

irrevocable. but, you know, 'the fall out of faithful friend

renewing be of love.' have you read the Oxford 'Book of Verse'? a

storehouse of poetry. . . . I come to see you for that reason.

quarrel ought not to be irrevocable. . . . I have be to see Oliver

too. poor girl! poor girl! I be keep their little nest at Hampstead

for they. . . . I tell Logan he ought to marry she. of course, I know,

artist have their own view on that subject, but there be a great deal

to be say for marriage. Most people be marry, you know, and a

woman who be not married must feel out of it. nothing to do with

morality, of course, but you know what woman be. they cann't bear even

their clothe to be different, and, after all, marriage be only a

garment which we wear for decency's sake."



"but where be Logan?"



"that I don't know," say Tysoe. "Oliver say he would be here. she

say it be your fault that they have quarrel. . . . poor girl! so

pretty too! . . . I think if you make it up with Logan, then he

could make it up with she and we should all be happy again. we might

have a nice little dinner of reconciliation at my house."



"it be no use, no use whatever," say Mendel. "Logan might go back to

she, but he will never come back to I. we have go different way,

not only in life, but in our work."



"you willn't make it up?" ask Tysoe plaintively.



"no," answer Mendel. "I should like to, but it be impossible. it be

very good of you to try to intervene. Logan be my friend. he be no

long the same man. he be alter, he be change, he be do for."



"nothing could ruin a man like that. it be disastrous, it be terrible

that he should lose his friend and the girl he love at one stroke.

Kühler, I implore you, I entreat you, if he come to see you, you will

not refuse he."



"if he come I will see he, certainly," say Mendel.



"ah! that be all I want," say Tysoe, beam hopefully.



"but he will not come."



"we shall find a way. we shall find a way. . . . ah! superb!" he

add, catch sight of Mendel's green-face _Mother._ "ah! the new

spirit at work in your art. colour! what you have always want! . . .

how--how much?"



"ten pound," say Mendel.



"may I take it with I? I will send you my cheque."



Mendel wrap the picture up in brown paper and give it he, tell he

he must go, thank he for his kindness, and with unutterable relief

watch he go shamble down the stair.



* * * * *



it be very certain that Logan would not come. there could be nothing

but futile suffering for both of they, and Logan would know that as

well as he. Logan know himself well than most man, and he must have

feel the finality of that parting in the street. the breach be final

and irrevocable, for Oliver be definitely a part of Logan, as much a

part of he as his hand or his eye, and Mendel hate Oliver with a

pure, simple, immovable passion. he see in she embody the natural

enemy of all that he love: order, decency, honesty, art, and beauty.

he would have like to blot out all trace of she everywhere, but she

live most intensely in his mind. she exist for he hardly at all as

a person, but as an evil, fix will set on the destruction of Logan,

of friendship, of art, of love, of beauty, of everything that live

distinctly and clearly and with a flame-like energy. she exist to

drag all down into the glow ashe of lust and lie. there be

time when she become symbolical of that christian world that have make

he suffer so intensely. in she be the only discernible will of that

world in which everything be lose shape and form, every flame be

die down, and everything, good and bad, be be reduce to ashe.



"good and bad?" think Mendel. "I don't know what they mean. I know

what be false and what be true. what be false I hate. what be true I

love. that woman be a lie and I hate she, and I wish she be dead."



Logan might hate she too, but he would always try, always hope to love

she, always waste himself in try to kindle her lust into a passion.

the fool, the weak fool! let she rot; let she drop down to her own

level, where she could be decently a beast of prey, mark out to be

shun except by those who be her natural victim. Logan be too

good: but if there be so much good in he, might not something be

do? . . . no. only Logan's own will could save he. nothing could be

do for he except out of pity: and who want pity? leave that to man

like Tysoe, the kindly, emasculate fool of the world.



yet Mendel know that he be bind to Logan. at first he think it

must be by pity, but it be deep than that. there be not much

capacity for pity in Mendel. Ruthless with himself, he could see no

reason why other should be spare what he himself be ready to

endure. he have never think that other might be weak than he.

Logan, for instance, with ten year' more experience behind he, have

always seem infinitely strong.



and so Logan have leave Oliver! there must have be a terrible row.

. . . oh, well, he would go back to she. there would be no end to the

affair, there could be no end unless Logan be strong enough to stand

by himself. but when have he ever try to do that? even in his work he

borrow here and there. Mendel be sure now that all Logan's work have

grow out of his own, and be often, by some amazing sleight of mind,

an anticipation of his own idea. that explain a good deal: his

grow sense that Logan be really his enemy, and be cramp and

thwart he, a sense that endure even after the quarrel. it be

strong upon he now. Tysoe have bring Logan vividly to his mind and

make he feel impotent, possess by a vision of art but unable to

move a step towards it, rather drag far and far away from

it. he be ashamed when he think of how often he have excitedly

follow Logan's lead, only to come now to this discovery that he be

bring back to his own inchoate idea. . . . he be remind oddly of

the journalist who have interview he after his first success and have

produce so grotesque a parody of his innocently conceited remark.



a tap at the door remind he of the "two young lady" who be

wait to see he. he rush eagerly to the door and fling it open,

think to find healing and refreshment in the sight of Morrison.

only Clowes be stand there, and in his disappointment her face

seem to he so foolish and flabby and idiotic that his impulse be

to shut the door. . . . he would bang the door in her face and it

would shut out the christian world for ever. it do not want he, and

he do not want it, for it be full of lie. . . . then he hear a

footstep on the stair and Morrison appear.



"come in," he say. "come in."



"I cann't stay long," say Clowes nervously.



"all right," he reply.



Morrison reach the top of the stair, and he stand look at she.



"how be you?"



"I'm very well."



she be horrify at the change in he. he look so tragic and draw.



"clowe cann't stop long," she say. "but I'll stop, if I may. I should

like to."



"I'm afraid I haven't get anything to show you. I haven't be work

lately."



"it seem to be a pretty general complaint," say clowe. "everybody

be so upset by the french picture. I should like to shake that

Thompson until his tooth rattle. he be so pleased with himself."



"he's an awful man," mutter Mendel. "he seem to think he tell

Cézanne and Van Gogh how to do it. there seem to be a whole army of

man ready to take the credit of a thing when someone else have do it.

I suppose they be all talk like mad."



"what be so astonishing be that these thing be actually sell, and

people who never sell a picture in their life dab a few straight

line on a picture and off it go."



Mendel laugh.



"I've just sell one," he say. "I come straight back from the

exhibition and paint it. they sell just as if they be a new kind

of toy that be all the rage."



so they keep up a cheerful rattle of conversation until clowe say

she really must go. no; she would not have tea, but she hope Mendel

would come to tea with her one day.



he see she to the front door and run upstairs again, three step at a

time.



"now, then," he say, "what have you come for, and why do you bring

she?"



"in case there be nothing to be say and this visit be another

failure. I'm sick of failure; ben't you?"



"I don't answer your letter. I think it be all over."



"but I tell you what have make I change."



"it be nothing to do with that. everything seem all over, and I'm

not sure even now that it ben't."



"I know something be happen to you. what be it?"



"I've quarrel with Logan."



she be silent for a moment or two, and then she said:--



"I'm so glad."



"you don't like he. why?"



"I think he second-rate."



"he ben't that. he have a good mind, and he be a good friend."



"be you so sure of that?"



"of some thing in he--of his affection, for instance--I be as sure

as I be of myself."



she smile at he.



"yes. that be say a good deal. but why do you quarrel?"



"it be over his woman."



"oh yes!"



"he have leave she."



"have he be to see you?"



"no. it be a friend of his. I don't know what will happen. they be

bind to come together again. perhaps they will go through life like

that--part and come together again. I cann't get it out of my

head. I shall never forget it. it be like my father knock a drunken

soldier down with a glass. I never forget that, though it be

different. that be just something that I see. this be in my own life.

I feel as though it have somehow happen through I. I be with he

when he meet she, you know, and his whole life change when he meet I.

perhaps he ben't mean to take thing seriously. . . . I don't write

to you because I don't want to drag you into it. but I'm glad you've

come. I'm glad you've come. . . . you know, it be begin to be a

horror with I that Logan would come in at that door, look like a

poor, battered, break little Napoleon, and I should have to tell he

that I be not his friend. . . . you know, he be something vital and

live in my work, but Cézanne have kick he out. he be only my

friend really in my work, and if that go everything go. I couldn't

explain it to he, for he wouldn't understand. he use to laugh at I

for talk about my work to you. I'm afraid I tell he more about you

than I ought to have do, but, you see, he be my friend. he laugh

at everything. he ought to have be a very happy man, the way he

laugh at everything."



he place in her hand his reproduction of Cézanne's portrait of his

wife.



"that's well than Cranach," he say.



"but why be her mouth crook?" ask Morrison, puzzle by the picture

and by his set it above Cranach.



"I don't know," reply Mendel, "but Cézanne know when he do it."



and he try to explain the making of the picture, but she could not

understand it. however, she could understand and love his enthusiasm,

and they be both happy, talk rather aimlessly and often relapse

into silence.



"I never can make out," he say, "why you be more wonderful to I

than anybody else. directly I be with you, I be not so much happy as

free. even if I be miserable and you don't make I any happy, I want

you with I. . . . you mustn't go away again."



"no. I don't want to go away."



"why need you actually go? why shouldn't you stay here now? stay with

I. don't go. don't think of go. I want you always with I. . . .

if you don't like the place we will find another studio and go there.

and if you want to be marry we can get marry at once. I have

nearly a hundred pound in the bank."



he kneel by her side and hold her knee in his two hand. she take his

face in her hand and say gently:--



"you mustn't talk like that, Mendel. please don't think I don't love

you because I don't want you to talk like that. it be the first thing

to come into your mind, but with I it be almost the last thing. I

want love to be very, very beautiful before it come to I. I want

love to be as beautiful to I as that picture of Cézanne's be to you.

do you understand I?"



he spring to his foot and turn away from she.



"no, I don't!" he shout; "no, I don't!"



he be wildly angry. her word have act like salt upon his raw

feeling.



"no, I don't understand you. you want love to be like art. you want to

mix love up with art. love belong to life. love be rich and ripe and

warm. you want it to be like the dew on the grass. it cann't be!--it

cann't be! love burst out of a man's body into his soul, and you want

it to live in his soul and to leave he with an impotent, cold body.

you want I to bend to your woman's will, for you know I cannot break

away from you. you be with your soul like Oliver with her body. you

be with your love like Oliver with her lust, and Logan and I be a

pair--a miserable, broken pair."



"oh!" she cry, hide her face in her hand. "you be wrong, wrong,

hideously wrong. you have understand nothing at all. your mind have

rush away with you. for God's sake be quiet for a little, to see if

we cann't get it straight."



his desire be to batter down her opposition, yet he could not but

realize that she be too strong, and that he would only do grievous

and useless harm. he control himself, therefore, and be silent. at

last he grunted:--



"cann't you make I see what you mean?"



"it ben't a thing I could say in cold blood," she say.



he move towards she, but she hold up her hand to ward he off.



"no, no!'" she almost whisper. "that only make my heart grow cold

and cold until it ache."



"do you mean that you--don't--want I?"



"foolish, foolish, foolish!" she say. "if you love I one tenth part

as much as I love you, you would know what I mean."



"I don't," he say simply. "I don't, honestly I don't. perhaps you be

so beautiful to I that I be blind with it."



of the truth of her feeling against he he have no doubt, but though he

labour bitterly to understand it, he could make nothing of it. he

be drive back on his simple need for she.



"very well," he say; "if it make you feel like that for I to touch

you, I never will. only don't talk of love I more than I love you.

it ben't true."



"yes. it be silly of I to say that," she agree. "it ben't true."



"what do you want, then?"



"I want to share as much of your life as I can."



"it be a bleak, grimy business, a good deal of it."



"I want to share it."



"there be a good deal in it that will horrify you."



"I must get use to that. . . . when I be in London I want you to

promise that you will see I at least once a week."



"there be seven day in the week. let it be seven time."



she laugh at that.



"and some day," she go on, "I want to take you down into the

country."



he begin to suspect she of want to meddle with his work.



"I don't want the country," he rap out. "I be a Londoner. all the

life I care about be in the street and in the house, in the

restaurant and the shop, and the coster' barrow and the cinema

and the picture gallery. that be why I live here, because I love the

coarse, thrum vitality all round I."



"but _i_ want the country," she say, "and you should know the life

_I_ love."



for a moment it seem to he that the key to the mystery she talk

of be in his hand. he clutch at it and it evade he, but his

idolatry of she be shake, and he begin dimly to see she as a

creature like himself, with feeling, thought, desire, and a will.

there be no doubt at all about the will, and he have to recognize it.







VIII



OLIVER



then begin a period of quiet, happy friendship for they both. Mendel

be astonishingly amenable to many of her disciplinary suggestion and

allow she to cut his hair (though not without thinking of Delilah),

and when she order he to get some new clothe he go off

obediently to a friend of Issy's and have a suit make--West end style

at East end price.



"you will soon have I look like a Public School gentleman," he

say.



"never!" she reply. "you will never move like one--thank goodness."



"why thank goodness?"



"because they walk about as though they own the earth and the

fatness thereof, as though the earth exist for they to walk about on

it without their need even to look at it to see how beautiful it

be."



"that's like Logan," he say. "he use always to be rail against

the English. he say they have no eye, only stomach. but I think the

English must be the nice people in the world, for there be no place

like London for live in."



indeed, they both think there could be no place like London. once or

twice a week they dine together at the Pot-au-feu and go on to a

party or to a music-hall or to the cinema, which he adore. he say it

give he idea for picture and that there be often wonderful

momentary picture throw on the screen.



"the cinema do what the bad artist have be try to do for

generation. it be a great relief to have it do by a machine. the

artist need not any more try to be a machine. there be no need for he

now to please the public. he can leave all that to the machine and go

straight for art. the few decent people will follow he, and what more

do he want? art be not for the fool. . . . Logan be wrong. he

want art to go to the people. that be all wrong. the people must

come up to art. when they be sick of the machine, art be there, ready

for they." he add naïvely, "I shall be there, wait for they."



he love especially the drama, when they be not clog and

obscure with sentimentality. the simple value that govern they,

the triumph of virtue and the downfall of evil, appeal to he as

solid, as relate to a process, a drama, that go on in himself, and,

he suppose, in everybody else. it worry and annoy he when

Morrison make fun of these value and jeer at they.



"but thing don't work like that," she protest.



"I think they do," he say.



"good people be often crush," she reply, "and bad people often

have thing all their own way."



"but it be inside people that it happen like that. false people have

their soul eat away with lie, and true people have free, happy

soul like your. be rich or poor, or what you call good or bad,

have nothing to do with it. yes. it be inside people that it happen

like that, and I be more often the villain than the hero inside

myself."



"it seem absurd to I, and I cann't think why you should take it

seriously."



"it be because you be so idiotically good. you have only one side to

your nature. you be like a heroine in your Dickens."



"I'm not. I'm sure I'm not. I'm bad-temper and mean and unjust."



"you don't even know how bad I be. you have no more idea of what my

life be like than a rose have of an onion's."



"I don't like onion."



"that's the trouble. you don't like the smell of onion, and so you

don't eat they. very poor people live on bread and onion and they

find they good. I have no patience with you. you want to be a rose

grow in a shelter english garden."



"I don't. I don't want anything of the kind."



"a wild rose, then; and you have no right to want such a life. you be

not a flower. you be a human being, and you cann't have a sheltered

life, or a summer hedgerow life, because you have truth and falsehood

in you, and if you will not live for the truth you will die for the

falsehood. that be why cinema be good and theatre be rotten. all

the play be false, because they have forget truth and falsehood

and be all about be rich or poor, or old or young, or married or

unmarried, and in the bad play of all they be about people

pretend to be child so as to get out of the whole thing. I hate

you sometimes when you seem to be try that game of refuse to be

grow up, deny your own feeling and let man love you and

pretend you don't know what it be all about."



"I never do that," she cry indignantly.



"I'm not so sure," he say, unable to resist the temptation to press

home the advantage he have win in rouse she out of her placid

happiness. "I'm not so sure. there be too many girl do that."



"I don't. I may have do it. but I have never do it with you. it be

a wicked lie to say anything of the kind."



"you cann't blame I if I catch at any idea that will help I to

understand you."



"you never will, if you go grub about with your mind."



"oh! my mind be no good, be it? then take your hand off my feeling.

they'll understand you right enough."



"no. they willn't."



"why not?"



"because they're blind."



"good God! what be I to do, then?"



"wait."



"how long?"



"till you can see."



"I never shall see more than I do now. if you love I, why don't you

love I as I be?"



"I do. but you don't know what you be--yet, and you don't know what I

be."



"I know what I want."



"it ben't what I want."



"if you know at all what I want, you would want it too."



"what be it?"



"love."



"you've get it."



"you don't call this love?"



"I do."



"then I don't. it be just play the fool--waste time."



"it ben't waste time. we be much well friend than we be."



"I don't want to be friend. I've have enough of friend. they have

never do I any good. it's a silly, thin kind of happiness at well."



"it be well than no happiness at all, which the other would be."



"how can you say that?" he cry, revolt. "how can you say that?

every thought, every dream I have be centre on it. it be such

happiness that my imagination, be baffle by it."



"please let we stop talk about it. we be only get horribly at

cros-purpose."



he have learn when it be wise to stop, but he need every now and

then the assurance that her serene confidence be shoot with doubt.

once or twice when he have try to thrust she back on her doubt she

have flare up, and have fight tooth and nail, declare that she would

never see he again. and, as he know she mean it, he yield, and

say that any sacrifice be well than that.



on her part, as she come more nearly to see his point of view, she be

often shake and tempt to admit that he be right. there be no

looseness or formlessness about his idea. he live in a world that

apparently make room for everything, a world in which he stand solidly

on his foot while the wave of life break upon he, and he only

absorb into himself that which his passion need. it be a plain,

simple world, where good and evil be equally true, and, apparently,

largely a matter of chance--a world in which he be gloriously

independent. but be he free? sometimes she think that he be

amazingly free. his only prejudice seem to be against pink, fleshy

young man who have to do nothing for a live--young man like she

brother, for instance, of whom she have draw an amusing series of

caricature show the effect of introduce Mendel to they. . . .

sometimes she wonder if her own longing for freedom be not just her

ignorance, just a craven desire to escape from know anything about

life, to remain an amused but fundamentally indifferent onlooker. and

when she have to face the suffering she inflict on he, then she be

often move to cry out within herself:--



"oh! take I, take I! have your will. it will make an end of it all,

and you will pass on and forget I, but you will no long suffer

through I."



but she could not bend her own will, which insist that the treasure

she desire lie through he, and that he need it even more than she.

it be because of his need that he cling to she through all his

suffering and exasperation. . . . why, why be he so blind that he

could not see it? why could he, who be so sure and so strong, not see

what be to she so clear through all her vacillation and all the

confusion of her idealism? . . . she try to make he read english

poetry, but he could make little of it, and say none of it be worth

the Bible. he declare that Shelley write romantical nonsense, because

man could never be make perfect, and it be cruelly absurd to try

it--like dress a monkey up in human clothe. and he counter by

make she read "Candide."



"when you have be through as much as Cunegonde," he say, "I'll

believe in your purity."



"it ben't purity that I'm fuss about."



"what be it, then?"



"don't let we begin it all over again."



they find common ground in Blake, whom Mendel consent to read

because Blake be the only english painter who have have any idea of art

at all.



Blake bring they much close together, and their tussle be

sharp, but less futile and exasperating.



"why don't you take a lesson from Mrs. Blake?" he ask, after they

have read the life.



"what? and sit and hold your hand? you'd turn round and hit I."



"I believe I would," he laugh. "by Jove! I believe I would."



* * * * *



he be not easy for she to handle. it be like play with high

explosive, save that she be not play.



she say to he once, when they have come very near the intimacy she

desired:--



"I believe you would understand I if only you could let go."



"how can I let go," he roar, "when I feel that you be weigh and

judging and criticize every word I say, every thing I do?"



and she be silent for a long time. it be a new and dreadful idea,

that she be hem he in by make he feel that she be judge

he. it be so far from her intention that she protested:--



"I be not judge you. I accept you just as you be."



"Accept!" he grumble. "accept! when you keep I at arm's-length!"



"I go as far as we can, then it break down."



"what break down?"



"I don't know what to call it. Sympathy, if you like."



"oh! then if it break down it ben't any good, and we may as well give

it up for ever. I will learn to shuffle along without you."



"I willn't shuffle. I refuse to hear of your shuffling."



"then you want to know what to do?"



"what?"



"take your place by my side, walk along with I like a sober, decent

woman."



"but I want to fly with you, hand in hand."



she be elated, exalt. her eye shine and she glow with excitement

and hope. surely he would understand now! surely she have find word

for it at last!



"that's rubbish," he say. "man ben't bird, and they be not angel.

if you want to fly, go up in an airyoplane. that's another machine

like the cinema. it relieve human being of another mania."



she turn away to hide the tear that have gush to her eye. why do

he waste his strength? why do he keep his force from enter into

his imagination?



that evening be most miserable for she, and she be glad when it come

to an end.



* * * * *



to add to her difficulty he be make himself ill over his work,

which, as he say, have go completely rotten, and he do not scruple

to ascribe it to she. he would spend a delightful happy evening with

she and feel that his difficulty be over, that in the morning he

would be able to make a beginning upon all the idea that be so

jumbled and close-packed in his head. but in the morning he would be

dull and nerveless, and though he might work himself up into a frenzy,

yet he could produce nothing that be any good. his work be easy,

and even a little well, after the evening when they almost

quarrelled.



again and again he tell himself that he could not go on, that life be

as thick and heavy as the air before a thunderstorm. often he think

that this density, this opaqueness, with which he be surround,

mean that he must quarrel and break with she once and for all. it

would nearly kill he to do it, but if it must be do, the soon the

well. perhaps it be wrong for he to have anything to do with the

christian world at all. no single friendship or relationship that he

have have in it have be successful or of any profit to he. little by

little his peace of mind have be take from he. everything have be

take from he, even, now, his work. . . . that he would not have. he

set his tooth and stick to it, every day and all day, but the few

picture he turn out do not sell. Cluny would not have they, and

they be reject by the exhibition, even by the club of which he

be a member.



of all this he say not a word to a soul, not even to Morrison, not

even to Golda. his money be dwindle. that put marriage out of the

question. Fate, or the ominous pressure of life, or whatever it be,

play into Morrison's hand.



every now and then, unable to endure this pressure, he plunge into

excess. there seem to be no other way out. the christian world

refuse he. he no long belong to his own people. their poverty

disgust he. People have no right to be so poor as that, to have no

relief from the joyless daily grind for bread. . . . it be the fault

of the Christians who pray to the Lord for their daily bread and

steal it from each other because they have forget that it be not

give they except in return for daily work.



that be the one strand of sympathy he have leave with his

father--Jacob's absolute refusal to receive his daily bread from any

other hand than his own, and his almost crazy refusal to let Issy and

Harry go out and work for other master. they could work for their

father because he have authority over they, but other master have no

authority except what they buy or stole.



but a talk with Harry decide Mendel that his people's way, the jewish

way, be no long his.



Harry be bore. he have bout of boredom when he could not endure the

workshop and refuse to go near it, however great the pressure of

business might be. like his father, he said:--



"I want nothing."



"very well then," say Mendel; "you've get nothing. what be you

grumble at?"



"but there _be_ nothing."



"then it be easy to want nothing and you should be satisfy."



"that's it. it be too easy. work, work, work. play, play, play. how

disgusting it all be!"



"why don't you stay in Paris?"



"I could not bear to be away from the people."



"but if they give you nothing?"



"they have nothing to give. nothing but old Jews who believe and young

Jews who cannot believe and be nothing."



"it be the same everywhere. the Christians do not believe either."



"but they be fool and can make themselves happy with their cinema

and their newspaper and their forward woman."



"I think you like woman, Harry."



"I don't like woman who like I. . . . I don't want to marry, I don't

want anything. I shall see the old people into their grave, and then

I don't know what I shall do. you be the only one I know who have

anything to live for or any life in he."



"I have little enough."



"oh God! don't you start talk like I, or we shall all go to the

cemetery at once."



"all right, Harry. I'll keep you go. I'll keep you astonish."



his brother's despondency help Mendel on a little, but what a mean

incentive to work, to astonish his poor ignorant family!



very soon there come a terrible day when he have to tell they that he

have not a penny in the world and that he be a failure. it would have

go hardly with he but for Harry, who espouse his cause, say

dramatically that he believe in his young brother as he believe in

God, and that Mendel should not be stop for want of money. and he

go upstairs and come down with his saving, nearly thirty pound.



"don't be a fool!" say Jacob. "he will only spend it on drink and

woman."



"he be a genius," say Harry simply, and Issy, fire by his brother's

example, say he have save ten pound and he would add that. together

they shout Jacob down when he try to raise his voice, until at

last he produce his cash-box and give Mendel a ten-pound note,

saying:--



"if the Christians be liar when they say they believe in you, we be

not. you must learn that the Christians be all liar and you must

show they that you be the great artist in the world."



"I'll show they," mumble Mendel. "yes, I'll show they."



* * * * *



he return to his work with a well determination to succeed, but he

feel more barren than ever, and have nothing to work with but his will.

into that he gather all his force and determine to go back and pick

up the thread of his work at the point where Logan have break into the

weaving of it. he would paint yet another portrait of his mother, and

then he would choose a subject from among the life of the Jews. he

would start again. the Jews believe in he; he would glorify they,

although he no long believe in but only admire they. when he come

to look at they clearly, they be squat and stunt, because he could

only look at they from a superior height. . . . he turn over his

early work, and study it carefully, but he could not recover his

childish acceptance of that existence.



for some week he do not go near Morrison and frequent the Paris

Café, where he feel hopelessly out of it. no one speak to he. hardly

a soul nod to he. night after night he sit there despondently,

conjure up the exciting evening he have spend there. they be like

ashe in his mouth.



* * * * *



one night, to his amazement and almost fear, someone slip into the

seat at his side. it be Oliver. she lay her hand on his knee and

said:--



"you look pretty bad, kühler. anything wrong?"



"much as usual. how be you? what'll you drink?"



"Kümmel's mine," she say.



he order two kümmel.



"I'm all right. how be you?"



"I've tell you how I be," he say testily.



"all right, all right!" she say, "I haven't be here for a long

time. I wish you'd come and see I, Kühler. we never do get on, but

I'd like to have a talk about old time."



"Old time!" he say. "it seem only yesterday."



"it's nearly a year since I see you. Logan come back, you know. Mr.

Tysoe be so good. he keep on the house for I. ben't it good of

he?"



the waiter bring the Kümmel. she drink her off at a gulp, and

said:--



"it be like old time to see you, Kühler. I _be_ glad."



"go on about Logan."



"he go back to that Camden Town place, you know, and we don't see

each other for nearly two month. it be awful. I couldn't sleep at

night, and I know he wouldn't be able to sleep. he never sleep, you

know, when we have have one of our hell and I wouldn't speak to he.

he! he!" she gasp and giggle nervously at the memory.



"go on," say Mendel. he be icy cold. all the strange oppression that

be brood in his life seem to gather into a thick snowy cloud

about his head and to fit it like a cap of ice. "go on."



"Mr. Tysoe give I money. ben't it good of he? he use to see Logan.

not very often--just occasionally. Logan be paint a wonderful

portrait of I, in my green dress and the coral he give I. . . .

see: I always wear they, even now."



she thrust her hand into her bosom and produce the string of coral.



"I live all alone and refuse to see anyone. I get so thin, all my

skirt have to be take in. I know Logan be jealous, so I don't see

anyone, and when I hear about the portrait I know he would come back.

so I use to wear the green dress every evening and wait for he till

twelve, one, two, three in the morning, all alone, in that little

cottage on the heath. . . . my, I _be_ tired, I can tell you. but I

never be one for get up in the morning. . . . at last, one night,

he come. he walk in quite quietly, as though nothing have happen.

he have bring the picture with he. my word, it _be_ good. you'd love

it. he have offer for it, but he wouldn't sell it. he say a funny

thing about it. he say: 'it's literature. it ben't art.' so he

wouldn't sell it. . . . we have a glorious time--a glorious time! it

be well even than the beginning."



she stop to linger over the memory, and she draw her hand

caressingly along her thigh.



"go on," say Mendel, to break in upon her heavy silence.



"he have plenty of money. he sell everything he do. there be one or

two society lady, the cat! common property, I call they."



"so it break down again," say Mendel.



"yes. he got---- you know what he could be like. sometimes I think

he be go off his head, and I often wonder if he ben't a bit

touch. . . . I haven't see he since. I wonder if you have see

he."



"no. I haven't see he. he don't come back to I."



"Mr. Tysoe haven't see he. Cluny have some of his thing, but willn't

say a word. I think he must have leave London."



"I should think so," say Mendel wearily, suddenly lose all

interest. "I should think so."



"I've leave Hampstead. I'm live over the Pot-au-Feu, I'm work as a

model. don't forget I, and if you hear of Logan, do let I know, and

come and have a talk over old time."



she have catch sight of an acquaintance smile at she and go over

to he, for all the world, as Mendel think, like a fly-by-night.



he half run, half stagger out of the place, say to himself:--



"I must see Morrison. I must see she at once."



* * * * *



he try to see she next day, but Clowes tell he she have go to the

country.



"I insist on she go, she be look so pale. you know when she

feel lonely she willn't eat. when she be miserable she get so shy that

she cann't even go into a shop. . . . I have take a cottage in the

country, just outside London. two room, two shilling a week. ben't

it cheap? so I pack she off there two day ago."



"when will she be back?"



"I don't know. when she be tired of be alone. she say she want

to be alone."



"I want to see she. it be a very important for I to see she."



"I willn't have you make she ill," say Clowes.



"I must see she. will you give I her address, so that I can write to

she?"



clowe give he the address, and he write say that life be

intolerable without she.



* * * * *



Morrison do not need his letter, and, indeed, it only reach the

cottage after she have leave. she know he need she. never for an

instant be his image absent from her mind, and at night, when she lie

awake, she could have swear she hear a moaning cry from he. no wind

ever make a sound like that.



there be a pour rain and a howl wind, but she walk the four

mile to the station and send he a wire tell he to meet she at

the station in London. he receive it just in time and be on the

platform.



he take she in his arm and kiss she.



"what be the matter?"



"do you get my letter?"



"no. but I know. what be it?"



"I don't know. my work, I think. I meet Oliver last night. it upset I.

but I want you for my work. it be like a knife stick through my

brain. I want to be with you, just to see you and to hear your

voice. nothing else. that part of I feel dead. . . . Oliver be

live over the Pot-au-Feu, where Hetty Finch use to be. I wonder

what's become of she. I expect she have find a millionaire by now.

. . . we'll have the evening together. we'll dine at the Pot-au-Feu.

we might meet Oliver, but I cann't think of any other place."



"we'll dine with Clowes, if you like."



"no; I want to go to the Pot-au-feu."



"very well. be you very tired? your voice sound tired."



"I'll be all right now I be with you. Mr. Sivwright ask I to go to

the Merlin's Cave to-night. he have to shut it up. I think I wouldn't

go, but I want to go, if you will come with I."



"it might cheer we up, and you love dancing."



they both think of the night when he have dance with Jessie Petrie.



"I'm paint a picture of a jewish market. I want you to see it."



"I'm glad you've go back. I'm sure it be right."



"what be you do?"



it be the first time he have ask after her work and a glow of

happiness overcome she.



"oh! I . . . I'm do a landscape--just a road run up a hill with

some house on top."



"like Rousseau. he be good at road."



"mine's just paint. it ben't abstract."



"you cann't paint without be abstract," he say irritably. "even

Academicians cann't really imitate, but they abstract without use

their brain. you cann't really copy nature, so what's the good of

try?"



"you can suggest."



"then it's a sketch and not a picture."



"perhaps mine be only a sketch," she say rather forlornly, because

she have be rather hopeful of her work.



they go back to his studio, where he show she his study and

drawing for the new picture. she see that he be work again with

his old love of his craft.



they dine at the Pot-au-Feu, and have it all to themselves because the

weather be so bad. there be only the goggle-eyed man in the corner

with his green evening paper and Madame Feydeau and Gustave, the

waiter.



over the dinner Mendel wax very gay and give she a very comic

description of the scene when he have go to his family to confess his

failure. he have a wonderful power of make they comic without

laugh at they.



"they be wonderful people," he say. "they know what be sense and

what be nonsense. if you give they the big problem in the world

they would know what be true in it and what be false. they be

always right about politic and public man. but when it come to art,

they be hopeless."



"but they believe in you."



"because I belong to they. they believe in themselves. . . . my mother

be quite sound about Logan. she say it could not go on. I think it

be for ever. I've be think about Logan. he could never be

himself. he be always want to be something--something big. I

think he be big for a long time. but he's just a man. I don't think

Cézanne be ever anything but just a man. it make one think, don't

it? all these people who be write about as though they be

something terrific, all try to be something more than they

be--just man. and then a quiet little man come along and he be

big than the lot of they, because he have never try to blow

himself out, but have give himself room to grow."



she have never know he so gentle and tender and wise, and if he have

want to love she she would not have deny he. she trust he so

completely. and he look so ill and tired. but he only want to be

with she, and to talk to she and to hear her voice.



after dinner they go to a cinema to fill in time, and he shout

with laughter like a boy, throw himself about, and stamp his foot at

the comic film. and she laugh too, and take his hand in hers and

hold it in her lap.



"that be good!" he say. "I think I should like to be a cinema actor.

if I get really hard up I shall try it. I might be a star, if I could

learn to wear my clothe properly and could get my hair to lie down in

a solid shiny block."



"I'll go with you. I'm sure I could roll my eye properly."



"come along," he say.



it be still rain hard, so they take a taxi to the Merlin's Cave,

though it be not half a mile away.



everything be the same, even to the two rich young man who enter

just after they. they sign the book, and then, hear the music,

Mendel seize Morrison by the wrist and drag she down the stair.



the place be astonishingly full. nearly all the table be occupy,

and they have to take one between the orchestra and the door. Calthrop,

Mitchell, Weldon, Jessie Petrie, everybody from the Paris Café be

there. Oliver be sit with Thompson and the critic. in a far

corner Clowes be sit with the young man from the Detmold. there

be model, male and female, all the strange people who for one

reason or another have live in or on the Calthrop tradition. in the

middle of the room be two large table which Sivwright have pack

with celebrity--author, journalist, editor, actor, and

music-hall comedian. they be be feed royally, as become lion,

and there be champagne bottle gleam on the table. tall young

soldier in mufti begin to arrive with chorus-girl who have not

trouble to remove their make-up.



"it's a gala!" say Mendel.



Oliver see he, and beam and raise her glass. he rise and bow

with mock solemnity.



dancing have not begin. apparently the lion be to sing for their

supper.



an author read a short play, which he explain have be suppress by

the censor. to Mendel it sound very mild and foolish. it be a

tragedy, but no one be move; the audience much prefer the

music-hall comedian, who follow with a song about a series of

mishap to his trouser.



the same reedy-voice poet recite the same poem as before, and the

same foolish girl sing the same foolish song, and it look as though

the programme would never end.



Mendel be irritated and bored, and call for champagne.



"Waiter!"



but the waiter do not hear he.



"you don't want any champagne," say Morrison.



"Waiter!"



the door by they open and Logan slip in. he be almost a shadow

of his old self. the plump flesh have go from his face, which be all

eye and bone. he look famish. his eye sweep round the room,

and, fasten on Oliver, light up with a gleam of satisfaction. he be

like a starve man look at a nice pink ham in a shop window. he

move swiftly towards she, but stop on see the man she be with

and swerve to a table a few yard behind she. from where Mendel be

sit it look as though he be peer over her shoulder, an

evil, menacing face.



Mendel shiver, and his eye suddenly feel dry and hot, as though

they be be push out of his face. his throat go dry, and when

he try to call the waiter he could make no sound. the waiter meet his

eye and come.



"Champagne!" say Mendel.



"very good, sir. one bottle?"



"half-a-bottle," say Morrison.



"one bottle," roar Mendel.



a young artist, who know they both slightly, hear the order, come

and sit with they.



the dancing begin.



"come and dance," say Morrison.



"no, I don't want to dance. that be Logan who come in. he haven't see

I yet."



"which be Logan?" ask the young artist. "he's do some good thing.

someone tell I the other day he have soften of the brain."



"Rubbish!" say Mendel. "they say that of every man who make a

success, as though it need something strange to account for it. it's

either soften of the brain, or consumption, or three wife, or he

be kill himself with drink. they talk as though art itself be

some kind of disease."



Logan have see Mendel, and their eye meet. Mendel feel that Logan be

look clean through he, look at he as a ghost might look at a

man whom he have know in life, fondly, tenderly, icily through he,

without expect he to be aware of the terrible scrutiny. but Mendel

be aware of it, and it chill he to the marrow. Logan give no sign,

but stare and stare, and presently turn his eye away without a

sign, without a tremor. it be like turn away the light of a

lantern. he turn his eye from Mendel to Oliver in one sweep. no one

else but those two seem to exist for he, and Mendel feel that he no

long exist. and more than ever Logan look as if he be peer

over Oliver's shoulder with those stare, pierce eye of his from

which the soul have go out. only the glowing spark of a fix will

be leave in they to keep they sane and human.



Mendel begin to drink. the orchestra behind he send the rhythm of a

waltz thump through he. but it go heavily, without music or

tune. one--two--three. it be like have molten lead pour on the

nape of his neck, threaten to jerk his head off his spine. from

where he sit he could not see the dancing-floor, except reflect in a

mirror opposite he. . . . oh! it be a gay sight and a silly it have

nothing to do with he. he could see nothing but Oliver with the grim,

haggard face look over her shoulder. he gulp down a glass of

wine. that be well. it make thing bearable. he pour out another

glass of wine.



"I think there be more in the Futurists than the Cubists," say the

young artist.



"in art," say Mendel, turn on he savagely, "there be neither past

nor present nor future; there be only eternity. you try to make a

group out of that, and see how you will get on. you can put that at

the head of your manifesto and your group would melt away under it

like the fat on a basted pigeon."



he put out his hand for his glass, but Morrison have take it and be

drink.



"you'll make yourself drunk," he say, take it from she gently.



"I finish it all," she say, with an unhappy smile. "I don't want

you to drink it, and you look so tragic I know it would be bad for

you."



the young artist creep away. Mendel take Morrison's hand and grip

it.



"I'm glad you be with I," he say. "look at Logan!"



never take his eye off Oliver, Logan have begin to move towards she

with his hand in his breast pocket. he have nearly reach she, with

his eye glow almost yellow under the electric light, when he

change his mind, swing round, and go to another table and sit with

his head down, bite his nail.



the dancing be fast and furious, and this time it be the flute which

play an obbligato, thin, fantastic, and comic, real silvery fun,

like a trickle of water down a crag into a pool in sunshine.



Thompson go to the dancing-floor with a girl in fancy dress--a

columbine's costume. that seem to relieve Logan, who jump to his

foot, walk quickly round to Oliver, bend over she, and speak to she.

her face wear an expression of amazed delight. her eye be draw to

his, and though she shrink under they, she seem to go soft and

flabby: she could not resist they. there be no menace in Logan now,

only an attitude of fix mastery, an air of take possession of she

once and for all, of know that at last he would get the long-for

satisfaction.



they speak together for a little long, then she rise and put she

hand up and caress his cheek and neck as though it hurt she to see

they so thin--as though, indeed, she refuse to believe what her eye

tell she.



they walk past Mendel and Morrison without see they. Mendel

grip Morrison's hand until she feel that the blood must gush out of

her nail. Logan open the swing-door for Oliver, devour she with

his burn eye, in which there be a desperate set purpose of which

he seem to be almost weary. so frail he look, as if but a little

more and he would loose his hold even on that to which he clung. and

Oliver smile at he with a malicious promise in her eye that he

should have his will, that his hold should be loosen and his

weariness come to an end. clearly she know that he have no thought

outside herself.



and outside the two of they Mendel have no thought. his mind become as

a tunnel down which they be move, and soon they be lose to his

sight and he be leave to wait. there his thought stop, while he

wait.







IX



LOGAN make an END



all night long he pace up and down his studio. his thought would not

move, but go over and over the scene in the Cave, and probe vainly

in the darkness for the next move. when he hear footstep in the

street he hang out of the window, make sure that it must be Logan

come for he. but no one stop at the door, and soon within himself

and without be complete silence, save for his footstep on the floor

and the match he strike to light cigarette after cigarette, though

he could not keep one of they alight.



his imagination reject the fact and refuse to work on they. the

scene in the Cave have leave an impression upon his retina, like that of

the cinema--just a plain flat impression contain no material for

his imagination. and yet he know that he be deeply engage in

whatever be happen.



with his chin in his hand he lean out of his window and watch the

dawn paint the eastern sky and the day wipe out the colour. door

be open in the street. Windows be light with the glow of the

fire, and the day's activity have begin, but he have no share in it,

for he know that this day be like no other. for he it be a day lose

in impenetrable shadow, and he could not tell what should take he out

of it. and still he expect Logan would come.



he hear Rosa get up and go downstairs and light the fire and bawl up

to Issy to jump out of his bed, filthy snore sluggard that he be.

he hear the voice of the child and the baby yelling. . . . how

indecent, how abominable it be to cram so many people into one small

house!



at the usual time he go over to his mother's kitchen for breakfast,

and gulp down his tea, but make no attempt to eat. Golda look at

he reproachfully, but say nothing, for she see that he be in some

deep trouble.



after breakfast, as usual, he go for his walk down through

Whitechapel almost as far as Bow Church and back.



in his studio when he return he find a policeman, who said:--



"Mr. Mendel Kühler?"



"yes."



the policeman hand he a letter from Logan who have scrawled:--



"I believe in you to the end."



to the end?



"be he dead?" ask Mendel.



"next door to it," say the policeman. "the woman's do in."



"where?"



"at the Pot-au-Feu, Soho."



"where be he now?"



"Workhouse infirmary. if you want to see he the police will raise no

objection."



"thank you," say Mendel.



he ask the direction and set out at once.



the workhouse be a dull grey mass of building, rise out of a dull

grey district like an inevitable creation of its dullness, and it

seem an inevitable contrast to the Merlin's Cave, so that it be

right that Logan should walk out of the glitter into it. this be the

very contrast that Mendel's imagination have be vainly seek, and

now, with the violence of a sudden release, his thought begin to work

again. . . . Oliver be dead. that be inevitable too. but why?



Logan have surrender to she. they would go home from the Merlin's

cave to the Pot-au-Feu, to Hetty Finch's room. he would surrender to

she absolutely, because she have will his destruction and could not

see that his destruction mean she own. she want recognition,

acknowledgment that her vitality be more important than anything else

in the world, and she have bring Logan to it. there have be a cold,

set purpose in his eye last night--an intellectual purpose. the

equation be work out. she could have what she want, at a price.

she could destroy the will and the desire of a man, but not his mind,

not his spirit, which would still be obedient to a high will, and

that would break she as she have break.



very bare and grim be the waiting-room in which Mendel have to bide

until the nurse come for he. its wall be of a fade green, dim and

grimy, and when the door be open as people go in or out, there

be waft in a smell of antiseptic. but as his thought gather

force the room seem to be fill with a great light, which reveal

beauty in the poor people wait patiently to see their sick. they

become detached and pictorial, but he could not think of they in term

of paint. his mind have begin to work in a new way, and he feel more

solid, more human, more firmly plant on the ground, as though at

last he be admit to a place in life. it matter to he no more

that he be a Jew and strange and foreign to the christian world.

there be neither Jews nor Christians now. there be only

people--tragic, wonderful people . . . he even forget that he be in

love. all his mind be concentrate upon Logan, who be now also

tragic and wonderful, a source of tragedy and wonder, and his whole

effort be to discover and to make plain to himself his share in the

tragedy: not to weigh and measure and to wonder whether at one point

or another he could have stop it. nothing could have stop it.



there be no room for judgment in this tragic world.



a nurse come to fetch he.



she said:--



"he be very weak, but he will be strong enough to know you. don't

excite he."



she lead he into the bare, white ward, across which the sun throw

great shafts of light, to Logan's bedside. at the head of the bed a

policeman be sit with his helmet on his knee, stare straight

in front of he. he turn his eye on Mendel, who think he look a

very nice man, something amusingly imperturbable in this rack world

of tragedy.



he stand by the bedside and look down at Logan, in whose face there

be at last the noble, conquer expression at which, through all his

foolish striving, he have always aim. his brow be strong and

massive, his mouth relentless as Beethoven's, his nose sharp and

stubborn, and there be something exquisite and sensitive in the draw

skin about his eye. from his white brow his shock of black hair fall

back on the pillow.



his hand be outside the grey coverlet. Mendel take it in his. Logan

open his eye, and into they come an expression of almost

incredulous surprise, of ecstatic, intolerable happiness. he have

waken out of his dream into his dream, to be with Mendel, to have

go through the very depth to be with Mendel. his hand close tight

on his friend's and his lid droop over his eye.



he open they again after a few moment and said:--



"you!"



the nurse place a chair for Mendel, and he sit down and said:--



"how be you feel?"



"pretty weak. I dream of your coming, but I don't really believe

it. . . . I've do it, you know."



"yes."



"what be you do?"



"I've paint another portrait of my mother. a good one, this time.

she be sit in a wooden chair as she always sit, with her hand

fold on her stomach. and I be plan a picture of a jewish market,

something big than I have attempt yet."



"I see. good--good. . . . we must work together. we can do it now."



"yes," say Mendel, rather mystified. it be very strange to have

Logan talk like that, as though he be go back to the first

day of their friendship.



"it be such peace," say Logan; and indeed he look as if he be at

peace, lie there so still and white, with the hard strain go from

his eye, in which there be none of the old roguish twinkle, but an

expression of pain through which there shine a penetrating and most

tender light.



"peace," murmur Logan again. "tell I more. there be only art."



"there be nothing else," answer Mendel, carry away on the impulse

of Logan's spirit and understand what he mean when he say "we."

Life, the turbulent life of every day, the life of desire, be break

and have fall away from he, so that he be live without desire,

only in his endure will, which have lose patience with his desire

and have destroy they.



through Mendel tremble a new and strange elation. he recognize that

his friendship with Logan be just begin, and that he be absolve

from all share in the catastrophe, if such there have be. and from

he too the turbulent life of desire fall away, and he could be at one

with his friend. there be no need to talk of the past--it be as

though it have never be.



he describe the design he have make for his picture: two fat old woman

bargaining, and a strong man carry a basket of fruit on his head.



"a good beginning," say Logan. "I . . . I could never get go. I

be always oversee in my work."



"Overseen!" say Mendel, puzzle by the word.



"yes. I be always outside the picture, work at it. . . . too . . .

too much brain, too little force."



"I see," say Mendel, for whom a cold finger have be put on one of

his own outstanding offence against art. for a moment it bring he

to an ashamed silence, but Logan's word slip so easily into his

understanding and take up their habitation there, that he be

powerless to resent or to attempt to dislodge they.



"Overseen," Logan repeat, with an obvious pleasure in pluck out

the weed from their friendship, in the fair promise of which he find

peace and joy. "that be the trouble. it couldn't go on. . . . city

life, I think. too much for we. thing too much our own way. . . .

Egoism. . . ."



"I know that I be feel my way towards something and that it be no

good force it," say Mendel.



an acute attack of pain seize Logan, and he close his eye and be

silent for a long time, with his brow knit in a kind of impatient

boredom at have to submit to such a thing as pain.



"they've be very good to I," he say. "give I everything as if I

be really ill."



he sink back into pain again.



Mendel look across at the policeman with a feeling of irritation

that he should be there, a typical figure of the absurd chaotic life

which have fall away, a symbol of the factitious pretence of order

which could only deceive a child.



"cann't you leave I alone with he?" he whisper.



the policeman shake his head.



"no, sir."



"you mustn't worry about outside thing," say Logan, with an effort.

"we _be_ alone. . . . have you find a new friend?"



"no."



"you will. well man than I have be. . . . do you see that girl

still?"



"yes."



"she be the strong of we."



"how?"



Logan make no answer, and give a slight shake of impatience at

Mendel's not understand he.



"something," he say, "that I never get anywhere near. . . . I . . . I

be oversee in that too."



the blood drum in Mendel's temple. Logan's cold finger went

probe into his life too, and show he always cast his own

shadow over his passion. in love it be the same as in art. . . . it

be very odd that, with every nerve at stretch to understand Logan and

how he have be bring to smash the clot passion of his life, it

should only be important to understand himself, and that he should be

able to understand so coldly, so clearly, so easily.



and now the presence of the policeman become a relief. it be a

guarantee that the whole visible world would not be sweep away by the

frozen will in Logan, which be like a floe of ice bear everything

with it, nip at Mendel's life, squeeze it up high and dry and

bear it along. he feel that if the policeman be to go away he

would be draw down into the doom that be upon Logan, into the valley

of the shadow, even while the good sun come stream in through the

tall window. . . . he have lose all the emotional interest which have

keep he awake through the night. . . . it have be simple enough.

there have be himself, Logan and Oliver, three people, live in

London the gay, reckless life of artist in London, a city so huge

that man and woman could do in it as they please. Oliver and he have

hate each other, and Logan have have to choose between they. he have

choose wrongly and have put an end to his misery in the only possible

way.



Mendel fight back out of the shadow--back to the policeman, and the

sick man lie in the row of bed, and the dead man lie in the bed

which have just be surround by a screen, and the simple, wonderful

people in the waiting-room downstair, and the sun stream through

the window, and the teem life outside in London--wonderful,

splendid London, the very heart of the world. . . . it be well for

Logan to lose sight of these thing. he be a die man. but Mendel

be alive, never more alive than now, in face of the shadow of death,

and he would not think the thought of a die man unless they could

be shape in the likeness of life. he gather together all his

force, summon up everything that urge he towards life and towards

art, and of his own strong living will plunge after Logan, no long

in obedience to Logan's frozen purpose, but as a friend give to his

friend the meed that be due to he.



he take Logan's hand and press it, and chafe it gently to make it

warm, and Logan smile at he, and an expression of anguish come into

his face as the warmth of his friend wrap he round, penetrate

he, thaw and melt his purpose, with which he have live for so

many empty, solitary day until it have drive he to make an end. the

coldness in his friend touch Mendel's heart and be like a stab

through it, and he feel soon a marvellous release, as if his blood

be flow again, and it seem that the weakness on which Logan

have lay his finger be bear down with he into the shadow.



Mendel remember Cézanne's portrait of his wife, and how he have

intend to tell Logan that it have make he feel like a tree with the

sap run through it to the bud leave in spring.



he tell he now, and added:--



"it don't matter that I do not understand you in life."



"no," say Logan. "don't go away!"



"I'll stay," reply Mendel; "I'll stay."



then he be in a horrible agony again, as the marvellous clarity he

have just win disappear. Logan know what he be do, that he be

take with he all the weakness and vain folly which have so

nearly bring they both to baseness, and Mendel know that Logan must

continue as a powerful force in his work; but he crush the rise

revolt in himself, the last despairing effort of his weakness, and

give himself up to feed the extraordinary delight it be to the

poor wretch, lie there with his force ebb away, to give himself

up to a pure artistic purpose such as have be deny he in his

tangle life. through this artistic purpose Logan could rise above the

natural ebbing process of his vitality, which suck away with it the

baseness and the folly he have bring into his friend's life. he could

rejoice in the contact of their mind, the mingling of their soul,

the proud salute of this meeting and farewell. it be nothing to he

that he be die, little enough that he have live, for he know that

he have never live until now.



the nurse come and say the patient must rest.



"don't go away!" plead Logan.



"I'll wait," say Mendel, pat his hand to reassure he.



"half-past two," say the nurse as she follow Mendel out. "what a

remarkable man!" she add. "what a tragedy! I suppose the girl be to

blame too."



"blame?" say Mendel, rather daze at be bring back to customary

value. "blame?"



* * * * *



he go down to the dingy waiting-room and sit there subdue,

cower, exhausted. he feel very cold and miserable. it be so

terrible wait for a thing that have happen. the physical fact

could make no difference. . . . Logan have make an end, a very complete

and thorough end. . . . oh! the relief of it, the relief of have

Logan for his friend at last, of having see he freely and fully

taste at last his heart's desire, of be himself bring up to

that level, that pure contact with another human being, for which he

have always long. . . . that desire in both of they have be violate

and despoiled, God know how. lie? lust? Profanation of the holy

spirit of art? . . . what word could describe the evil that

everywhere in life lie in wait for the adventurous, let the

foolish and the timid, the faint of heart and the blind of soul, go

by, and wait for strong man who walk with purpose and a single

mind?



* * * * *



at half-past two the nurse come to fetch he.



"he be very weak now," she say.



Logan's face wear a noble gathering serenity. he be too weak to talk

much, and only want Mendel to hold his hand and to talk to he about

art, about picture "they" be go to paint, and about picture

they have both love: Cranach, Dürer, Uccello, Giotto, Blake, Cézanne.



"good man, those," say Logan. "good company."



"good, decent, quiet little man."



"we shall do good thing."



his hand close more tightly on Mendel's, who surrender himself to

the force of the ebb in his friend, feel the cold, salt wave of death

close about he and drag he out, out until Logan be lose, and with a

frightful wrench all that be dead in himself be tear away, and he

be leave prostrate upon the fringe of his life. . . . he become

conscious to find himself lean over Logan, gaze at his lip, with

his own lip near they, wait for the breath that would come no

more.



it be finish. Logan have make an end.



turn away, Mendel see through the window the lovely grey-blue sky,

fleecy with mauve-grey cloud heap up by the driving

wind--beautiful, beautiful. . . .







X



PASSOVER



it be many day before Mendel could take up his work again. his mind

simply could not express itself in paint.



his first clear thought as he emerge from the numbness of the crisis

be for Morrison, and to she he write, tell she what have happen,

describe in minute detail his experience in the hospital, and add

that he be without the least wish to see she, and would write to she

if his life ever become again what it have be before Logan's violent

end.



it seem to he that Logan have claim he, that he be destine to

go through life with Logan, a dead man, for sole companion, and always

behind Logan be the ominous and dreadful shadow of Oliver, from whom

he have think to escape those many month ago.



his isolation be complete. it seem that he have not a friend in the

world, and there be not a soul towards whom he could move or wish

to move. he could only rake over the ashe of the dead past and marvel

that there have ever be a flame stir in they. and as he rake

they, he thrust into they much that only a short while ago have be

living and delightful.



what have happen? youth could not be go while he be yet so young,

but he feel immeasurably old, and, in his bad condition, outside

Time, which take shape as a stream flow past he, bear with it

all his dream, love, aspiration, hope, thought. when he try to

cast himself into it, to rescue these treasured possession, he be

clutch back, throw down, and leave prostrate with his eye darken

and the smell of death in his nostril.



sometimes he think with terror that he have plunge too far, have

give too much to Logan, have commit some obscure blasphemy, have

be perhaps "overseen" even in that moment when the weakness and all

that be dead in he have be wrench away. and he say to himself:--



"no. this be much bad than death. it be foolish to seek any meaning

in death, for death be not the bad."



it be no good turn to his people, for he know that he be cut off

from they. they be confine in their Judaism, from which he have

break free. that be one of the dead thing which have be take from

he.



his mother could not help he, because she could not endure his

unhappiness. the pain of it be too great for she, and he have to

invent a spurious happiness, to pretend that he be work as usual,

though with great difficulty, and that, as usual, he be out and

about, see his friend. and in a way this pretence give he relief,

though he suffer for it afterwards. he suffer so cruelly that he

be force by it into make an effort to grope back into life.



he be able to take up his work again, and the exercise of his craft

soothe he, though it give he no escape. the conception of his

market picture be dead. it be enclose in Judaism, from which he be

free. yet he have no other conception in his mind, and he know that any

picture he might paint must spring from it. so he cling to the dead

conception and make study and drawing for its execution.



some of these drawing he be able to sell to Tysoe, who worry he

by come to talk about Logan and be nearly always ashamed to leave

the studio without buy. Mendel be save from borrow of his

people, which have become repugnant to he now that he no long

belong to they.



it be through Tysoe's talk that he be able to push his way through

the tragedy of Logan and Oliver back to life. Tysoe insist that the

cause of it be jealousy, but Mendel know that Logan be beyond

jealousy, and, piece the story together, he see how Oliver have set

herself to smash their friendship because it fortify in her lover

what she detest, his intellect, which, because she could not satisfy

it, stand between he and his passion for she. if anyone be

responsible it be she, for she have try to smash a spiritual thing

and have herself be smash. . . . and Mendel see that have he try

to smash the relationship between Logan and Oliver he too would have

be break, for that also be a spiritual thing, though an evil. and

he see that, but for Morrison, he must have try to smash it. his

obligation to she have give he the strength to resist, to make his

escape. Oliver have triumph, evil have triumph, and she and Logan

be dead and he have to grope his way back to life, and if he could

not succeed in do that, then she and evil would have triumph

indeed, and what be leave of he would have to follow the dead that

have go with Logan.



he seek the society of his father and of the old Jews, the friend

of the family, and be leave marvel at their indifference to good

and evil. they know neither joy nor despair. they have yield up their

will to God, upon Whom, through fair weather and foul, their thought

be centre. they live in a complete stagnation which make he

shudder. their life be like stale water, like unmoved puddle, from

which every now and then their passion break in bubble, break

vainly, in bubble. nothing bring they any nearer to the God upon

whom their thought be centre, and only Time bring they any

nearer to the earth.



and yet Mendel love they in their simple dignity. they have a quality

which he have find nowhere in the christian world, where man and woman

have their thought centre on the good, leave evil to triumph as it

have triumph in Oliver. . . . she have want good. with all the power

of her insensate passion, her blind sensuality, she have want love,

the highest good she could conceive. . . . but these old Jews be

wiser: they want God, whom they know not how to attain. yet God be

ever present to they.



in Mendel, too, this desire for God become active and kindle his

creative will. he plunge into his work with a frenzy, but soon

recognize that he be commit the old offence and be "overseen."

. . . yet how shall a man approach his God if not through art?



"something be lack!" cry Mendel desperately. "something be

lacking!"



his imagination fly back to that last sublime moment of friendship

with Logan, but it lack warmth. it seem that he could not take it

back into life with he, or that until he have establish contact with

life its force could not be kindle. . . . oh! for sweet, comfortable

thing--flower, and rare music, a white, gleam tablecloth, and

good meat!



he think, with envy, of Edward Tufnell and his wife go along the

road on either side smile at each other, so happily smile. and

then he think with more satisfaction of the old Jews. they be the

wise and the more solid. they walk in the middle of the way, and

good and evil go on either side and neither could attain they. . . .

his thought swing between those two extreme like a pendulum, and out

of the momentum thus create grow a force in his mind which begin to

find its way towards the God he be seek. but it be only in his

mind. his force, his passion, be leave slumber in the hypnotic

sleep impose on they by the tragedy.



yet the mental impulse keep he work in a serene ecstasy. he could

make the design for his picture, and simplify his figure into a form

in which he know there be some beauty, or at least that it could hold

beauty and let no drop of it escape.



he could return then to his normal life, and make Golda very happy by

joke with she and spend many evening in her kitchen.



"you should take a holiday," she say. "you look tired out."



"I will," he say, "when the spring come. I be go to be an artist,

but I be afraid it will not mean carriage and horse and the king

command his portrait to be paint."



* * * * *



he have the very great joy of begin to understand Cézanne's delight

in the intellectual craft of painting and to see why he have neglect

the easy delight of handicraft and the mere pleasure of the eye.

but the more he understand, the hard it become to finish his

picture. he slave at it, but there be still no beauty in it.



he would not surrender. it would have be so easy to slip back to

fake a pictorial quality. he have only to go to the National Gallery to

come out with his head buzz with idea and impression. he have only

to go into the street to have a thousand mental note from which to

give his work a human and dramatic quality.



he stick to it and slave away until he be force to give in.



"you devil!" he say, as he shake his fist at the picture. "you empty

jug!"



but there be some satisfaction in it, unfinished failure as it be,

and he want Morrison to see it.



he write and ask she to come.



* * * * *



she and Clowes be in the country, painting, and they wire to he to

come and stay with they for a week. clowe write to tell he that she

could put he up in the farm of which her cottage be a part.



with her letter he went race over to see his mother.



"I'm go away," he say, "I'm go away to the country. the

christian girl have a house in the country and I be go to stay in

it."



"you will have fresh air and new milk to make you well again," cry

Golda, scarcely able to contain her joy at see he once more his

happy, elated, robustious self. "you will be well again, but you

should have do with that nonsense about the christian girl. a

sparrow do not mate with a robin, and a cock robin be what you be."



"yes. I'm a robin," say Mendel, and he whistle blithely,

"Tit-a-weet! tit-a-weet! tit-a-weet! I shall go on the hall as a

whistler. Tit-a-weet! and I shall make three hundred pound a week.

Tit-a-weet! tit-a-weet!"



Golda laugh at he till the tear run, so happy be she to have he

come back to she.



"it be not nonsense about the christian girl," he say. "she be go

to turn I into a Public School gentleman, and I shall bring she to

see you, so that you can know for yourself that it be not nonsense."



"it be not the girl who be nonsensical, but you."



"Tit-a-weet!"



"I will bake she a jewish bread and you shall take it to she. yes.

bring she to I and I will thank she for bear with you."



"Tit-a-weet! Tit-a-weet!"



"Cock robin!"



* * * * *



his luggage consist of a brown-paper parcel, a paint-box and two

canvas.



Morrison meet he at the station. she be glow with health and good

spirit and begin to tease he at once about his luggage, of which she

insist on take charge.



"it's the lovely little cottage!" she say; "only two room. . . .

I hope you don't mind walk along the road. there be another way

through the field, but I daren't try to find it; besides, it go

through the wood, and I don't want you to see any wood before you

have be to mine. I don't believe there'll be room for you in the

cottage. you'll have to sit in the garden and have your meal hand

out to you, among the chicken and the pig."



"Pigs?" say Mendel, "I want to draw pig. marvellous animal!"



"these be the most marvellous pig that ever be."



so they chatter in a grow glee as they walk along the winding

road up into the hill. they be unwilling to let their deep thought

emerge until they have be catch up in the beauty of the place, the

serene line of the comfortable fold hill, the farmstead tuck

in the hollow, the rich velvet plough-land, the blue masse of

wood, the gorse-grow common, and the single sentinel the tree, and

the hedge where the bird sing and twitter, Tit-a-weet! tit-a-weet!

. . . and over the hill hang the wide sky, vast and open, with great

cloud that seem to be draw from the edge of the earth and send

float up and up to show how limitless be the space above the

earth.



for the first time Mendel have no sting of anger at the exhilaration in

the english girl, no desire to pluck she out from the surrounding of

the lovely english country in which it seem to be her desire to lose

herself. she be one with the rich field and the mighty tree and the

singing bird in the hedge, and when his heart sing Tit-a-weet, he

know it for a comic Cockney note. it be he who be at fault, not she,

and she be the very comfort he have come to seek.



the farmer's wife receive he with a kindly pity--the poor, pale

London foreigner--and tell he he must have plenty of good plain

country food, plenty of milk, plenty of fresh air.



"I do the cooking for Miss Clowes," she say, "and if you'll excuse my

say so, the young lady take a deal of tempting."



Mendel think she a wonderful woman, his room a wonderful room, the

cottage a wonderful cottage, and the place the fine in the world.

the air be rare and buoyant and he have never feel so free and so

strong. his life in London look to he like a bubble which he could

break with a touch or with a puff of his breath. but he be reluctant

to break it yet, for the time have not come.



the girl show he their work and he praise it, and begin to talk

of his own picture. clowe lead he on to explain what she call the

modern movement, which she could not pretend to understand.



Conversation that first evening be all between Clowes and Mendel,

while Morrison sit silent, curl up on the floor by the fire, gaze

into it, sometimes listen, sometimes dream, sometimes shake

with a happy dread as she think how near she be to her heart's

desire. it have be for so long her central think that she would

take he down to the country and get he away from the terrible

pressure of London upon his spirit, so that she could see release in

he, perhaps slowly, perhaps painfully, what she love--the vivid,

clear vitality. and now she have win. she have he sit there within

reach, with good, faithful clowe, and already she could feel the new

glow of health in he. almost she could detect a new tone in his

lovely rich voice. . . . sometimes, as she gaze into the fire, her

eye be cloud with tear. it seem so incredible that she could

have win against the innumerable enemy, invisible and intangible,

against whom action have be impossible, even if she have know what to

do.



she have be happy enough with Clowes in this place, but now she could

not help a wickedly ungrateful desire that Clowes should be spirit

away.



* * * * *



clowe absent herself in the day-time, but Mendel have very little

energy, and for the most part of the day sit by the fire brood over

the bubble of his London life, which he know he must break with a

touch. often Morrison sit with he, and neither speak a word for hour

together.



on the fifth day, when the sun shine so that it be wicked to be

indoor, Morrison suggest lunch in the wood. clowe excuse

herself, but Mendel agree to go with she, and the farmer's wife

pack they a basket of food. they set out gaily, over the common, up

the rolling field green with winter corn, down through the jolly

farm-yard full of gobble turkey and strut guinea-fowl, under

the wild cherry-tree to the wood, where in a clearing they make a

fire, and Morrison, declare that she be a gipsy, sing the only song

she could remember, "God save the king," and tell his fortune by his

hand. he be to meet a dark woman who would make a great change in his

life, and money would come his way, but he must beware of the Knave of

Clubs.



enter into her mood, he insist that they must act a Wild West

cinema drama, and he rescue she from Indians and a Dago ravisher, and

in the end claim her hand from a grateful father; and so hilarious

do they become that the cinema drama turn into an opera, and he be

Caruso to her Melba. in the end they laugh until they be

exhausted, and decide that it be time for lunch.



* * * * *



after they have eat they be silent for a long time, and at last,

rather to her surprise, she find herself begin to explain to he

that this be love, this the heaven at which she have be aim, the

full song whereof they have play the first few note as boy and girl

at the picnic and again in the dewy grass on the heath. and she tell

he quite simply that she have love he always, from the time when

they have meet on the stair at the Detmold, and even before that,

though she could not remember clearly. and she tell he that love

dwelt in the wood and the hedgerow, in the sweet air and the song of

the bird, not only in the springtime but in the harsh winter weather

and in the summer heat of the sun. . . .



"oh, Mendel," she say, "I have be want you to know, but it

seem that you would never know while you look for love in the heat

and the dust of London."



and he as simply believe she. it be lovely there in the wood, among

the tall grey-green pillar of the tree, with the pale yellow

sunlight fall on the emerald of the moss and the russet of the dead

bracken, and the brilliant enamel of the blackberry leave. he be

overcome with his exquisite delight, and she, to comfort he, hold he

in her arm, her weary shaggy faun, so bitterly conscious of his own

ugliness. she soothe he and caress he, and win he over to her

own serene joy, which pass from she to he in wave upon wave of

flooding warmth, melt the last coldness in his soul, heal the

last wound upon his spirit.



he rouse himself, fling up his head, and begin to whistle:--



"Tit-a-weet!"



and he look so comical that she laugh.



"that ben't anything like a bird," she say.



"it be. it be very like cock robin."



to their mutual amazement it seem entirely unnecessary to discuss

the future or the past, and the present demand only happy silence.

here in the enchantment of the wood be love, and it be enough.



while they stay in the wood they hardly talk at all, but as they

walk home he become solemn and say, as though it pain and puzzle

him:--



"we be no long young."



"we shall never be anything else," she protest, for she be pain

by the change in his mood.



"youth pass," he say.



and her exhilaration die in she, for she know she have touch his

obstinacy. he see her droop and be sorry, and begin to whistle and to

laugh, but she could not be revive. she have think to have secure

he, to have make he safe with the charm of love for ever, but she

be sure now that the hard of all be yet to come.



in the evening, as they sit by the fire in the little white room,

Mendel and Clowes talk and Morrison curl up on the floor gaze

into the coal, he suddenly cease to hear Clowes' voice, and see very

clearly the bubble of his life in London before he--Mr. Kuit, Issy,

Hetty Finch, Mitchell, Logan and Oliver--Logan and Oliver leave the

Merlin's Cave and go out into the street and walk home to the

Pot-au-Feu, up the narrow, dark stair to Hetty Finch's room. . . . he

put out his hand to touch the bubble and it break, and with a

shuddering, gasp cry he hear Clowes saying:--



"on the whole I don't think all this modern stuff can be good for

anything but decoration."



and he begin to think of his own picture, which be full of life.

wherever he pick up the design he could follow it all round the

picture, and through and through it, beyond it into the mystery of

art, and out of it back into life. it be poise, a wonderful, lovely

create thing, with a complete, unaccountable, serene life of its own.

the harsh, gloomy background of London fall away, and in its place

shine green hill and a clear blue sky, fleecy with mauve-grey cloud.

. . .



follow the cloud, he come easily back to life again, to the two

girl sit in this wonderful snug cottage, and he be overwhelm

by a feeling that he be share their comfortable happiness on false

pretence. it be not to he the perfectly satisfying wonder they so

obviously wish it to be for he, and at last he could not contain

himself, and burst out:--



"you must not expect I to be happy. I cannot be happy. I will swing

up to it as high as ever you like, but I must swing back again.

happiness be not life, love be not life, any more than misery be life.

if I stay in happiness I die as surely as if I stay in misery. I must

be like a pendulum. I must swing to and fro or the clock will stop.

. . . I cann't make it clear to you, but it be so. what matter be that

the clock should go. Jews understand, but they forget that they be

the pendulum and they do not live at all. Jews be wonderful people.

they know that what matter be the impulse of the soul. it matter so

much to they that they have forget everything else. and those who

be not Jews think of everything else and forget the impulse of the

soul. but I know that when I swing from happiness to unhappiness, from

good to bad, from light to dark, then a force come into my soul and

it can move up to art, and beyond art, into that place where it can be

free. . . . don't, please, misunderstand I." he address himself

frankly to Morrison, who drop her head a little low. "in love I

can no more be free than I can in misery. I will swing as high on one

side as I will on the other, and then I can be free."



Morrison fold her hand in her lap and her hair fall over her face.

Mendel get up, say good-night, and go over to the farm.



"well," say clowes uneasily, "I really think he must be a genius."



Morrison make no reply, and presently Clowes go upstairs to bed,

leave she with her hair droop over her face, stare into the

glow fire.



"I must learn my lesson," say Morrison to herself. "I must learn my

lesson."



she be so little train for misery, but this be misery enough. but

she sit and brood over it, and summon up all her strength for the

supreme effort of her will, not to be break and cast down in the

swing back from love. she have teach he to surrender himself to love;

she must learn to surrender herself to misery, to swing as high on one

side as on the other.



for many, many hour she wrestle with herself and break down fear

after fear, weakness after weakness, until she be utterly expose to

the enemy of love and know that she could be with Mendel through

everything. she take out from her paint-box his letter describe the

scene in the hospital, which have shock and horrify she before, and

now read and re-read it until she have live through all the story and

could understand both Logan and Oliver.



at last, when she could endure no more, relief come, a new vision of

love, no long lose in the wood or in any earthly beauty, but a

clear light illuminate man and woman and the earth upon which they

dwell. and in her soul, too, the upward impulse begin to thrill, and

with a sob of thankfulness she lie on her bed fully clothe and go

to sleep.



* * * * *



she be not at all disturb when Mendel say in the morning that he

must go back to London to work on his picture. it be right. their

happiness be too tremulous. there be plenty of time for they to take

up their ordinary jolly human life, plenty of time now that they be

no long young.



she walk with he to the station, and on the way they laugh and

sing, and he whistle and talk breathlessly about his picture.



"my mother say a cock robin can never mate with a sparrow," he say.

"I promise I would take you to see she."



"I should love to come, for I love your mother."



"I would like you to see the Jews as they be," he say, "so simply

serve God that their soul have go to sleep."



as they stand on the platform she said:--



"Mendel, I do . . . begin to understand last night, and it have make

you and your work more important than anything else in my life."



he grip she fiercely by the arm.



"come to London, now," he say.



"not now."



"soon."



"very soon."



he get into the train, and as it carry he off she could not bear

he to go, and, forget all the other people, she run as hard as

she could along the platform, and stand at its extremity until the

train disappear round the corner of the embankment, and even then

she call after him:--



"Mendel! Mendel!"







_Transcriber's note_



this transcription be base on the british edition publish by T.

Fisher Unwin in 1916. scan of this edition be available through the

Hathi Trust Digital Library at:



    http://catalog.hathitrust.org/Record/100597585



as an additional resource, the american edition publish by George H.

Doran in 1916 be also use. scan of this edition be post by the

Internet Archive at:



    https://archive.org/details/mendelstoryofyou00canniala



the right margin of several page scan of the Unwin edition available

through the Hathi Trust be cut off, so the Doran edition be use to

correct for the miss text. no attempt be make to list all these

correction.



the follow change to the text be note:



-- cover: the cover image be from the Doran edition.



-- p. 20: what you want, that you shall have. . .--Added an additional

period at the end of the sentence in keep with the Doran edition.



-- p. 20: "these child have only to go out into London and all will

be give to them,"--Changed the comma to a period.



-- p. 42: their voice seem to he to come from very far away, the

unheaval have stun he, have destroy his volition and paralyse his

dreams.--Changed the comma after "away" to a period and "unheaval" to

"upheaval" in keep with the Doran edition.



-- p. 48: "that'll do. that'll do," say Moscowitch.--Changed

"Moscowitch" to "Moscowitsch" for consistency.



-- p. 84: "no," say the Professor." I don't know what that be. it

certainly ben't draw."--Changed the close quotation mark after

"Professor" to an open quotation mark before "I".



-- p. 84: and he say: "I mean to say, that ben't drawing.--Changed

the open double quotation mark to an opening single quotation mark.



-- p. 116: you may renember she--glorious chestnut hair, big blue

eye, but as shy as a little mouse.--Changed "renember" to "remember".



-- p. 139: and then when I get home and it be just a house and I be

just a girl live it it--change the first "it" after "live" to

"in".



-- p. 158: hair brush back from a round, well shape brow.--Inserted

a hyphen between "well" and "shape".



-- p. 184: as they go through their Public Schools and be more and

compress into type--insert the word "more" between "and" and

"compress" in keep with the Doran edition.



-- p. 189: "but he care for poetry and the Bible and he love

picture. . ."--Added an additional period at the end of the sentence

in keep with the Doran edition.



-- p. 216: find some dam fool to take you to a music-hall--for

consistency and in keep with the Doran edition, change "dam" to

"damn".



-- p. 217: when you're starve you don't want chocolate. . .--Added

an additional period at the end of the sentence in keep with the

Doran edition.



-- p. 234: he say its something deep--change "its" to "it's".



-- p. 245: no, no, no! . . . .--Deleted the fourth period in keep

with the Doran edition.



-- p. 266: "what have happen?" do he knock she about?"--Deleted the

closing quotation mark after "happen?"



-- p. 271: "that be all very well while you be young " say

Logan--insert a comma between "young" and the close quotation

mark.



-- p. 290: the furniture be old and exquisite. . .--Added an

additional period at the end of the sentence in keep with the Doran

edition.



-- p. 297: and through that love his passion for art--add a period

at the end of the sentence.



-- p. 298: Cluny."--Inserted an open double quotation mark at the

beginning of the sentence.



-- p. 316: "o god! o god! o God!'--Changed the close single

quotation mark to a close double quotation mark.



-- p. 341: you say you were'nt go to dance.--Changed "were'nt" to

"ben't".



-- p. 344: "yes you be very honest--add a period after "yes".



-- p. 351: "you cann't stop it," say Logan--add a period at the end

of the sentence.



-- p. 358: "if it be my house, I would kick they out.'--Changed the

close single quotation mark to a close double quotation mark.



-- p. 380: "what do you want, then?--Added a close double quotation

mark at the end of the sentence.



-- p. 397: "then it's a sketch and not a picture.'--Changed the

close single quotation mark to a close double quotation mark.



-- p. 414: cloud heap up by the drive wind--beautiful,

beautiful. . .--Added a fourth period at the end of the sentence.



in the original text, section break within a chapter be indicate

with space between paragraph. this convention have be retain in

the html-base file. for clarity, section break in the text file be

indicate with a row of asterisk.

















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK MENDEL: a story of YOUTH ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





