The project Gutenberg eBook of Pearl-Fishing; Choice Stories from Dickens' Household word; First Series

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Pearl-Fishing; Choice Stories from Dickens' Household word; First Series



author: Charles Dickens



Release date: September 10, 2015 [eBook #49927]

                most recently update: October 24, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image available at the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK PEARL-fishing; CHOICE storie from DICKENS' HOUSEHOLD word; FIRST series ***



         [illustration: Charles Dickens portrait; handwritten:

                           faithfully yours]









                            PEARL-fishing.



                            choice story,



                                 from



                       Dickens’ Household Words.



                             FIRST SERIES.



                                AUBURN:

                        ALDEN, BEARDSLEY & CO.

                              ROCHESTER:

                        WANZER, BEARDSLEY & CO.

                                 1854.



      enter, accord to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by

                        ALDEN, BEARDSLEY & CO.,

      in the Clerk’s Office of the Northern District of New York.



                            stereotype by

                           THOMAS B. SMITH,

                         216 William St., N.Y.









                        the Publishers’ notice.





the following story be select from that admirable publication,

“DICKENS’ HOUSEHOLD WORDS.”



that work have have a small circulation in this country than its merit

entitle it to, in consequence of its be issue in such form as to

make it troublesome to preserve the number, and have they bind. many

of its paper, too, be of local and somewhat temporary interest, which

scarcely touch the popular mind of american reader. it be believe,

therefore, that judicious selection from its page, embrace some of

its good story, in which the hand of the master be readily discern,

will be welcome with delight in many a home in which the name of

DICKENS have become as “familiar as household word.”









I.



Loaded Dice.





several year ago, I make a tour through some of the Southern Counties

of England with a friend. we travel in an open carriage, stop for

a few hour a day, or a week, as it might be, wherever there be

anything to be see; and we generally get through one stage before

breakfast, because it give our horse rest, and ourselves the chance of

enjoy the brown bread, new milk, and fresh egg of those country

road-side inn, which be fast become subject for archæological

investigation.



one evening my friend say, “to-morrow we will breakfast at T----. I

want to inquire about a family name Lovell, who use to live there. I

meet the husband and wife, and two lovely child, one summer at

Exmouth. we become very intimate, and I think they particularly

interesting people, but I have never see they since.”



the next morning’s sun shine as brightly as heart could desire, and

after a delightful drive, we reach the outskirt of the town about

nine o’clock.



“oh, what a pretty inn!” say I, as we approach a small white house,

with a sign swinge in front of it, and a flower-garden on one side.



“Stop, John,” cry my friend, “we shall get a much clean breakfast

here than in the town, I dare say; and if there be anything to be see

there, we can walk to it;” so we alight, and be show into a neat

little parlor, with white curtain, where an unexceptionable rural

breakfast be soon place before we.



“pray do you happen to know anything of a family call Lovell?”

inquire my friend, whose name, by the way, be Markham. “Mr. Lovell be

a clergyman.”



“yes, Ma’am,” answer the girl who attend we, apparently the

landlord’s daughter, “Mr. Lovell be the vicar of our parish.”



“indeed! and do he live near here?”



“yes, Ma’am, he live at the vicarage. it’s just down that lane

opposite, about a quarter of a mile from here; or you can go across the

field, if you please, to where you see that tower; it’s close by

there.”



“and which be the pleasant road?” inquire Mrs. Markham.



“well, Ma’am, I think by the field be the pleasant, if you don’t

mind a stile or two; and, besides, you get the good view of the Abbey by

go that way.”



“be that tower we see part of the Abbey?”



“yes, Ma’am,” answer the girl, “and the vicarage be just the other

side of it.”



arm with these instruction, as soon as we have finish our breakfast

we start across the field, and after a pleasant walk of twenty

minute we find ourselves in an old churchyard, amongst a cluster of

the most picturesque ruin we have ever see. with the exception of the

gray tower, we have espy from the inn, and which have doubtless be the

belfry, the remain be not considerable. there be the outer wall of

the chancel, and the broken step that have lead to the high altar, and

there be section of aisle, and part of a cloister, all gracefully

festoon with moss and ivy; whilst mingle with the grass-grow

grave of the prosaic dead, there be the massive tomb of the Dame

Margerys and the Sir Hildebrands of more romantic period. all be ruin

and decay, but such poetic ruin! such picturesque decay! and just beyond

the tall gray tower, there be the lovely, smile, little garden,

and the prettiest cottage, that imagination could picture. the day be

so bright, the grass so green, the flower so gay, the air so balmy with

their sweet perfume, the bird sing so cheerily in the apple and cherry

tree, that all nature seem rejoice.



“well,” say my friend, as she seat herself on the fragment of a

pillar, and look around she, “now that I see this place, I understand

what sort of people the Lovells be.”



“what sort of people be they?” say I.



“why, as I say before, interesting people. in the first place, they

be both extremely handsome.”



“but the locality have nothing to do with their good look, I presume,”

say I.



“I be not sure of that,” she answer; “when there be the least

foundation of taste or intellect to set out with, the beauty of external

nature, and the picturesque accident that harmonize with it, do, I be

persuade, by their gentle and elevate influence on the mind, make the

handsome handsomer, and the ugly less ugly. but it be not alone the

good look of the Lovells that strike I, but their air of refinement

and high breeding, and I should say high birth--though I know nothing

about their extraction--combine with their undisguised poverty and as

evident contentment. now, I can understand such people find here an

appropriate home, and be satisfied with their small share of this

world’s good; because here the dream of romance writer about Love in

a cottage might be somewhat realize; poverty might be graceful and

poetical here; and then, you know, they have no rent to pay.”



“very true,” say I; “but suppose they have sixteen daughter, like a

half-pay officer I once meet on board a steam-packet?”



“that would spoil it certainly,” say Mrs. Markham; “but let we hope

they have not. when I know they they have only two child, a boy and a

girl call Charles and Emily; two of the prettiest creature I ever

beheld!”



as my friend think it yet rather early for a visit, we have remain

chatter in this way for more than an hour, sometimes seat on a

tomb-stone, or a fall column; sometimes peer amongst the carve

fragment that be scatter about the ground, and sometimes look

over the hedge into the little garden, the wicket of which be

immediately behind the tower. the weather be warm, most of the

window of the vicarage be open and the blind be all down; we have

not yet see a soul stir, and be wonder whether we might

venture to present ourselves at the door, when a strain of distant music

strike upon our ear. “Hark!” I say, “how exquisite! it be the only

thing want to complete the charm.”



“it’s a military band, I think,” say Mrs. Markham, “you know we pass

some barrack before we reach the Inn.”



Nearer and nearer draw the sound, solemn and slow; the band be

evidently approach by the green lane that skirt the field we have

come by. “Hush,” say I, lay my hand on my friend’s arm, with a

strange sinking of the heart; “they be play the Dead March in Saul!

don’t you hear the muffle drum? it’s a funeral, but where’s the

grave?”



“there,” say she, point to a spot close under the hedge where some

earth have be throw up; but the aperture be cover with a plank,

probably to prevent accident.



there be few ceremony in life at once so touching, so impressive, so

sad, and yet so beautiful, as a soldier’s funeral! ordinary funeral

with their unwieldy hearse and feather, and the absurd look mute,

and the “inky cloak” and weeper of hire mourner, always seem to I

like a mockery of the dead; the appointment border so closely on the

grotesque; they be so little in keep with the true, the only view of

death that can render life endurable! there be such a tone of

exaggerated, forced, heavy, over-act gravity about the whole thing,

that one have need to have a deep personal interest involve in the

scene, to be able to shut one’s eye to the burlesque side of it. but a

military funeral, how different! there you see death in life and life in

death! there be nothing over-strain, nothing overdone. at once simple

and silent, decent and decorous, console, yet sad. the chief mourner,

at well, be generally true mourner, for they have lose a brother with

whom “they sit but yesterday at meat;” and whilst they be compare

memory, recall how merry they have many a day be together, and

the solemn tone of that sublime music float upon the air, we can

imagine the freed and satisfied soul waft on those harmonious

breathing to its Heavenly home; and our heart be melt, our

imagination exalt, our faith invigorate, and we come away the well

for what we have see.



I believe some such reflection as these be pass through our mind,

for we both remain silent and listen, till the swinging-to of the

little wicket, which communicate with the garden, arouse we; but

nobody appear, and the tower be at the moment betwixt we and it, we

could not see who have enter. almost at the same moment, a man come

from a gate on the opposite side, and advance to where the earth be

throw up, lift the plank, and discover the newly-make grave. he be

soon follow by some boy, and several respectable-look person come

into the enclosure, whilst nearer and near draw the sound of the

muffle drum, and now we descry the firing party and their officer,

who lead the procession with their arm reverse, each man wear above

the elbow a piece of black crape and a small bow of white satin ribbon;

the band still play that solemn strain. then come the coffin, bear

by six soldier. six officer bear up the pall, all quite young man; and

on the coffin lie the shako, sword, side-belt, and white glove of the

deceased. a long train of mourner march two and two, in open file,

the private first, the officer last. sorrow be imprint on every

face; there be no unseemly chattering, no wander eye; if a word be

exchange, it be in a whisper, and the sad shake of the head show of

whom they be discourse. all this we observe as they march through

the lane that skirt one side of the churchyard. as they near the

gate the band cease to play.



“see there,” say Mrs. Markham, direct my attention to the cottage,

“there come Mr. Lovell. oh, how he be change!” and whilst she speak,

the clergyman enter by the wicket, advance to meet the procession at

the gate, where he commence read the funeral service as he move

backwards towards the grave, round which the fire party, lean on

their firelock, now form. then come those awful word, “ashe to

ashe, dust to dust,” the hollow sound of the earth upon the coffin, and

three volley fire over the grave, finish the solemn ceremony.



when the procession enter the churchyard, we have retire behind the

break wall of the chancel, whence, without be observe, we have

watch the whole scene with intense interest. just as the word, “ashe

to ashe! dust to dust!” be pronounce, I happen to raise my eye

towards the gray tower, and then, peer through one of the narrow

slit, I see the face of a man--such a face! never to my late day can

I forget the expression of those feature! if ever there be despair and

anguish write on a human countenance, it be there! and yet so young!

so beautiful! a cold chill run through my vein as I press Mrs.

Markham’s arm. “look up at the tower!” I whisper.



“my God! what can it be?” she answer, turn quite pale! “and Mr.

Lovell, do you observe how his voice shake? at first, I think it be

illness; but he seem bow down with grief. every face look

awe-strike! there must be some tragedy here--something more than the

death of an individual!” and fear, under this impression, that our

visit might prove untimely, we resolve to return to the inn, and

endeavor to discover if anything unusual have really occur. before we

move, I look up at the narrow slit--the face be no long there; but

as we pass round to the other side of the tower, we see a tall,

slender figure, attire in a loose coat, pass slowly through the wicket,

cross the garden, and enter the house. we only catch a glimpse of the

profile; the head hang down upon the breast; the eye be bent upon the

ground; but we know it be the same face we have see above.



we go back to the inn, where our inquiry elicit some information,

which make we wish to know more; but it be not till we go into the

town that we obtain the following detail of this mournful drama, of

which we have thus accidentally witness one impressive scene.



Mr. Lovell, as Mrs. Markham have conjecture, be a man of good family,

but no fortune; he might have have a large one, could he have make up his

mind to marry Lady Elizabeth Wentworth, the bride select for he by a

wealthy uncle who propose to make he his heir; but prefer poverty

with Emily Dering, he be disinherit. he never repent his choice,

although he remain vicar of a small parish, and a poor man all his

life. the two child whom Mrs. Markham have see, be the only one

they have, and through the excellent management of Mrs. Lovell, and the

moderation of her husband’s desire, they have enjoy an unusual degree

of happiness in this sort of graceful poverty, till the young Charles

and Emily be grow up, and it be time to think what be to be do

with they. the son have be prepare for Oxford by the father, and the

daughter, under the tuition of her mother, be remarkably well educate

and accomplish; but it become necessary to consider the future:

Charles must be send to college, since the only chance of find a

provision for he be in the Church, although the expense of maintain

he there could be ill afford; so, in order in some degree to balance

the outlay, it be, after much deliberation, agree that Emily should

accept a situation as governess in London. the proposal be make by

herself, and the rather consent to, that, in case of the death of her

parent, she would almost inevitably have have to seek some such mean of

subsistence. these parting be the first sorrow that have reach the

Lovells.



at first, all go well; Charles be not want in ability nor in a

moderate degree of application; and Emily write cheerfully of her new

life. she be kindly receive, well treat, and associate with the

family on the footing of a friend. neither do further experience seem

to diminish her satisfaction. she see a great many gay people--some of

whom she name; and, amongst the rest, there not unfrequently appear

the name of Herbert. Mr. Herbert be in the army, and be a distant

connexion of the family with whom she reside, be a frequent visitor at

their house. “she be sure papa and mamma would like he.” once the

mother smile, and say she hope Emily be not fall in love; but no

more be think of it. in the meantime Charles have find out that there

be time for many thing at Oxford, besides study. he be naturally fond

of society, and have a remarkable capacity for excelling in all kind of

game. he be agreeable, lively, exceedingly handsome, and sing

charmingly, having be train in part-singing by his mother. no young

man at Oxford be more _fêté_; but alas! he be very poor, and poverty

poison all his enjoyment. for some time he resist temptation; but

after a terrible struggle--for he adore his family--he give way, and

run in debt, and although the imprudence only augment his misery, he

have not resolution to retrace his step, but advanced far and

far on this broad road to ruin, so that he have come home for the

vacation shortly before our visit to T----, threaten with all manner

of annoyance if he do not carry back a sufficient sum to satisfy his

most clamorous creditor. he have assure they he would do so, but where

be he to get the money? certainly not from his parent; he well know

they have it not; nor have he a friend in the world from whom he could

hope assistance in such an emergency. in his despair he often think of

run away--go to Australia, America, New Zealand, anywhere; but he

have not even the mean to do this. he suffer indescribable torture,

and see no hope of relief.



it be just at this period that Herbert’s regiment happen to be

quarter at T----. Charles have occasionally see his name in his

sister’s letter, and hear that there be a Herbert now in the

barrack, but he be ignorant whether or not it be the same person; and

when he accidentally fall into the society of some of the junior

officer, and be invite by Herbert himself to dine at the mess, pride

prevent his ascertaining the fact. he do not wish to betray that his

sister be a governess. Herbert, however, know full well that their

visitor be the brother of Emily Lovell, but partly for reason of his

own, and partly because he penetrate the weakness of the other, he

abstain from mention her name.



now, this town of T---- be, and probably be, about the dull quarter

in all England! the officer hate it, there be no flirting, no

dancing, no hunting, no anything. not a man of they know what to do with

himself. the old one wander about and play at whist, the young one

take to hazard and three-card-loo, play at first for moderate stake,

but soon get on to high one. two or three civilian of the

neighborhood join the party, Charles Lovell among the rest. have they

begin with play high, he would have be exclude for want of fund;

but whilst they play low, he win, so that when they increase the

stake, trust to a continuance of his good fortune, he be eager to

go on with they. neither do his luck altogether desert he; on the

whole, he rather win than lose; but he foresee that one bad night would

break he, and he should be oblige to retire, forfeit his amusement

and mortify his pride. it be just at this crisis, that, one night,

an accident, which cause he to win a considerable sum, set he upon

the notion of turn chance into certainty. whilst shuffle the card,

he drop the ace of spade into his lap, catch it up, replace it in

the pack, and deal it to himself. no one else have see the card, no

observation be make, and a terrible thought come into his head!



whether loo or hazard be play, Charles Lovell have, night after night,

a most extraordinary run of luck. he win large sum, and see before he

the early prospect of pay his debt and clear all his

difficulty.



amongst the young man who play at the table, some have plenty of money

and care little for their loss; but other be not so well off, and

one of these be Edward Herbert. he, too, be the son of poor parent

who have straiten themselves to put he in the army, and it be with

infinite difficulty and privation that his widow mother have amass

the needful sum to purchase for he a company, which be now become

vacant. the retire officer’s paper be already send in, and

Herbert’s money be lodge at Cox and Greenwood’s; but before the answer

from the Horse-Guards arrive, he have lose every sixpence. nearly the

whole sum have become the property of Charles Lovell.



Herbert be a fine young man, honorable, generous, impetuous, and

endow with an acute sense of shame. he determine instantly to pay the

debt, but he know that his own prospect be ruin for life; he write

to the agent to send he the money and withdraw his name from the list

of purchaser. but how be he to support his mother’s grief? how meet

the eye of the girl he love? she, who he know adore he, and whose

hand it be agree between they he should ask of her parent as soon as

he be gazette a captain! the anguish of mind he suffer then throw

he into a fever, and he lie for several day betwixt life and death,

and happily unconscious of his misery.



meantime, another scene be be enact elsewhere. the officer, who

night after night find themselves loser, have not for some time

entertain the least idea of foul play, but at length, one of they

observe something suspicious, begin to watch, and satisfy himself,

by a peculiar method adopt by Lovell in “throw his main,” that he

be the culprit. his suspicion be whisper from one to another, till

they nearly all entertain they, with the exception of Herbert, who,

be look upon as Lovell’s most especial friend, be not tell. so

unwilling be these young man to blast, forever, the character of the

visitor whom they have so much like, and to strike a fatal blow at the

happiness and respectability of his family, that they be hesitate

how to proceed, whether to openly accuse he or privately reprove and

expel he, when Herbert’s heavy loss decide the question.



Herbert himself, overwhelm with despair, have quit the room, the

rest be still seat around the table, when having give each other a

signal, one of they, call Frank Houston, arise and say: “gentleman,

it give I great pain to have to call your attention to a very

strange--a very distressing circumstance. for some time past there have

be an extraordinary run of luck in one direction--we have all observe

it--all remark on it. Mr. Herbert have at this moment retire a heavy

loser. there be, indeed, as far as I know, but one winner amongst

we--but one, and he a winner to a very considerable amount; the rest all

loser. God forbid that I should rashly accuse any man! lightly blast

any man’s character! but I be bind to say, that I fear the money we

have lose have not be fairly win. there have be foul play! I forbear

to name the party--the fact sufficiently indicate he.”



who would not have pity Lovell, when, livid with horror and conscious

guilt, he vainly try to say something? “indeed--I assure you--I

never”--but word would not come; he falter and rush out of the room

in a transport of agony. they do pity he; and when he be go, agree

amongst themselves to hush up the affair; but unfortunately, the

civilian of the party, who have not be let into the secret, take up

his defence. they not only believe the accusation unfounded, but feel

it as an affront offer to their townsman; they bluster about it a

good deal, and there be nothing leave for it but to appoint a committee

of investigation. alas! the evidence be overwhelming! it turn out

that the dice and card have be supply by Lovell. the former, still

on the table, be find on examination to be load. in fact, he have

have a pair as a curiosity long in his possession, and have obtain

other from a disreputable character at Oxford. no doubt remain of his

guilt.



all this while Herbert have be too ill to be address on the subject;

but symptom of recovery be now begin to appear; and as nobody

be aware that he have any particular interest in the Lovell family, the

affair be communicate to he. at first he refuse to believe in his

friend’s guilt, and become violently irritated. his informant assure

he they would be too happy to find they be mistaken, but that since

the inquiry no hope of such an issue remain, and he sink into a gloomy

silence.



on the following morning, when his servant come to his room door, he

find it lock. when, at the desire of the surgeon, it be break open,

Herbert be find a corpse, and a discharge pistol lie beside he. an

inquest sit upon the body, and the verdict bring in be _Temporary

Insanity_. there never be one more just.



preparation be now make for the funeral--that funeral which we have

witness; but before the day appoint for it arrive, another chapter

of this sad story be unfold.



when Charles leave the barrack on that fatal night, instead of go

home, he pass the dark hour in wander wildly about the country;

but when morning dawn, fear the eye of man, he return to the

vicarage, and slunk unobserved to his chamber. when he do not appear at

breakfast, his mother seek he in his room, where she find he in

bed. he say he be very ill--and so indeed he be--and beg to be

leave alone; but as he be no well on the follow day, she insist

on send for medical advice. the doctor find he with all those

physical symptom that be apt to supervene from great anxiety of mind;

and say he could get no sleep, Charles request to have some

laudanum; but the physician be on his guard, for although the party

concern wish to keep the thing private, some rumor have get abroad

that awaken his caution.



the parent, meanwhile, have not the slight anticipation of the

thunderbolt that be about to fall upon they. they live a very retire

life, be acquaint with none of the officer--and they be even

ignorant of the amount of their son’s intimacy with the regiment. thus,

when news of Herbert’s lamentable death reach they, the mother say

to her son: “Charles, do you know a young man in the barrack call

Herbert; a lieutenant, I believe? by-the-bye, I hope it’s not Emily’s

Mr. Herbert.”



“do I know he,” say Charles, turn suddenly towards she, for, under

pretence that the light annoy he, he always lie with his face to the

wall. “why do you ask, mother?”



“because he’s dead! he have a fever, and--”



“Herbert dead!” cry Charles, suddenly sit up in the bed.



“yes, he have a fever, and it be suppose he be delirious, for he blow

out his brain; there be a report that he have be play high, and

lose a great deal of money. what’s the matter, dear? oh, Charles, I

shouldn’t have tell you! I be not aware that you know he!”



“fetch my father here, and, mother, you come back with he!” say

Charles, speak with a strange sternness of tone, and wildly motion

she out of the room.



when the parent come, he bid they sit down beside he; and then, with

a degree of remorse and anguish that no word could portray, he tell

they all; whilst they, with blanched cheek and faint heart,

listen to the dire confession.



“and here I be,” he exclaim, as he end, “a cowardly scoundrel that

have not dare to die! oh, Herbert! happy, happy, Herbert! would I be

with you!”



at that moment the door open, and a beautiful, bright, smile, joyous

face peep in. it be Emily Lovell, the beloved daughter, the adore

sister, arrive from London in compliance with a letter receive a few

day previously from Herbert, wherein he have tell she that by the time

she receive it, he would be a captain. she have come to introduce he to

her parent as her affiance husband. she fear no refusal; well she

know how rejoiced they would be to see she the wife of so kind and

honorable a man. but they be ignorant of all this, and in the fulness

of their agony, the cup of woe run over, and she drink of the draught!

they tell she all before she have be five minute in the room. how else

could they account for their tear, their confusion, their bewilderment,

their despair!



before Herbert’s funeral take place, Emily Lovell be lie betwixt life

and death in a brain fever. under the influence of a feeling easily to

be comprehend, thirst for a self-impose torture, that by its very

poignancy should relieve the dead weight of wretchedness that lie upon

his breast, Charles creep from his bed, and slip on a loose coat

that hang in his room, he steal across the garden to the tower, whence,

through the arrow-slit, he witness the burial of his sister’s lover,

whom he have hasten to the grave.



here terminate our sad story. we leave T---- on the follow morning,

and it be two or three year before any further intelligence of the

Lovell family reach we. all we then hear be, that Charles have go,

a self-condemn exile, to Australia; and that Emily have insist on

accompany he thither.









II.



the Serf of Pobereze.





the material for the follow tale be furnish to the writer while

travel last year near the spot on which the event it narrate take

place. it be intend to convey a notion of some of the phase of

Polish, or rather russian serfdom (for, as truly explain by one of the

character in a succeeding page, it be russian), and of the catastrophe

it have occasion, not only in Catherine’s time, but occasionally at the

present. the polish noble--themselves in slavery--earnestly desire the

emancipation of their serf, which russian domination forbid.



the small town of Pobereze stand at the foot of a stony mountain,

water by numerous spring in the district of Podolia, in Poland. it

consist of a mass of miserable cabin, with a catholic chapel and two

greek church in the midst, the latter distinguish by their gild

tower. on one side of the market-place stand the only inn, and on the

opposite side be several shop, from whose door and window look out

several dirtily-dress Jews. at a little distance, on a hill cover

with vine and fruit-tree, stand the Palace, which do not, perhaps,

exactly merit such an appellation, but who would dare to call otherwise

the dwelling of the lord of the domain?



on the morning when our tale open, there have issue from this palace

the common enough command to the superintendent of the estate, to

furnish the master with a couple of strong boy, for service in the

stable, and a young girl, to be employ in the wardrobe. accordingly,

a number of the well-look young peasant of Olgogrod assemble in the

broad avenue lead to the palace. some be accompany by their

sorrowful and weep parent, in all of whose heart, however, rise the

faint and whispered hope, “perhaps it will not be _my_ child they will

choose!”



be bring into the court-yard of the palace, the Count Roszynski,

with the several member of his family, have come out to pass in review

his grow subject. he be a small and insignificant-look man,

about fifty year of age, with deep-set eye and overhang brow. his

wife, who be nearly of the same age, be immensely stout, with a vulgar

face and a loud disagreeable voice. she make herself ridiculous in

endeavor to imitate the manner and bearing of the aristocracy, into

whose sphere she and her husband be determined to force themselves, in

spite of the humbleness of their origin. the father of the “right

honorable” Count Roszynski be a valet, who, having be a great

favorite with his master, amass sufficient money to enable his son,

who inherit it, to purchase the extensive estate of Olgogrod, and with

it the sole proprietorship of 1,600 human being. over they he have

complete control; and, when madden by oppression, if they dare

resent, woe unto they! they could be thrust into a noisome dungeon, and

chain by one hand from the light of day for year, until their very

existence be forget by all except the jailer who bring daily their

pitcher of water and morsel of dry bread.



some of the old peasant say that Sava, father of the young peasant

girl, who stand by the side of an old woman, at the head of her

companion in the court-yard, be immure in one of these subterranean

jail. Sava be always about the Count, who, it be say, have bring

he from some distant land, with his little motherless child. Sava

place she under the care of an old man and woman, who have the charge of

the bee in a forest near the palace, where he come occasionally to

visit she. but once, six long month pass, and he do not come! in

vain Anielka wept, in vain she cry, “where be my father?”--No father

appear. at last it be say that Sava have be send to a long distance

with a large sum of money, and have be kill by robber. in the ninth

year of one’s life the most poignant grief be quickly effaced, and after

six month Anielka cease to grieve. the old people be very kind to

she, and love she as if she be their own child. that Anielka might be

choose to serve in the palace never enter their head, for who would be

so barbarous as to take the child away from an old woman of seventy and

her aged husband?



to-day be the first time in her life that she have be so far from

home. she look curiously on all she saw,--particularly on a young lady

about her own age, beautifully dress, and a youth of eighteen, who have

apparently just return from a ride on horseback, as he hold a whip in

his hand, whilst walk up and down and examine the boy who be

place in a row before he. he choose two amongst they, and the boy be

lead away to the stable.



“and I choose this young girl,” say Constantia Roszynski, indicate

Anielka; “she be the prettiest of they all. I do not like ugly face

about I.”



when Constantia return to the drawing-room, she give order for

Anielka to be take to her apartment, and place under the tutelage of

Mademoiselle Dufour, a french maid, recently arrive from the first

milliner’s shop in Odessa. poor girl! when they separate she from she

adopt mother, and begin lead she towards the palace, she rush,

with a shriek of agony, from they, and grasp her old protectress

tightly in her arm! they be tear violently asunder, and the Count

Roszynski quietly ask, “be it her daughter, or her grand-daughter?”



“Neither, my lord,--only an adopt child.”



“but who will lead the old woman home, as she be blind?”



“I will, my lord,” reply one of his servant, bow to the ground; “I

will let she walk by the side of my horse, and when she be in her cabin

she will have her old husband,--they must take care of each other.”



so say, he move away with the rest of the peasant and domestic.

but the poor old woman have to be drag along by two man; for in the

midst of her shriek and tear she have fall to the ground, almost

without life.



and Anielka? they do not allow she to weep long. she have now to sit all

day in the corner of a room to sew. she be expect to do everything

well from the first; and if she do not, she be keep without food or

cruelly punish. morning and evening she have to help Mdlle. Dufour to

dress and undress her mistress. but Constantia, although she look with

hauteur on everybody beneath she, and expect to be slavishly obey,

be tolerably kind to her poor orphan. her true torment begin, when, on

leave her young lady’s room, she have to assist Mdlle. Dufour.

Notwithstanding that she try sincerely to do she good, she be never

able to satisfy she, or draw from her aught but harsh reproach.



thus two month pass.



one day Mdlle. Dufour go very early to confession, and Anielka be

seize with an eager longing to gaze once more in peace and freedom on

the beautiful blue sky and green tree, as she use to do when the first

ray of the rise sun stream in at the window of the little forest

cabin. she run into the garden. enchant by the sight of so many

beautiful flower, she go far and far along the smooth and

wind walk, till she enter the forest. she who have be so long

away from her beloved tree, roam where they be thick. here she

gaze boldly around. she see no one! she be alone! a little far on

she meet with a rivulet which flow through the forest. here she

remember that she have not yet pray. she kneel down, and with hand

clasped and eye upturned she begin to sing, in a sweet voice, the Hymn

to the Virgin.



as she go on, she sing louder and with increased fervor. her breast

heave with emotion, her eye shine with unusual brilliancy; but when

the hymn be finish she lower her head, tear begin to fall over her

cheek, until at last she sob aloud. she might have remain long in

this condition, have not some one come behind she, say, “do not cry,

my poor girl; it be well to sing than to weep.” the intruder raise

her head, wipe her eye with her handkerchief, and kiss she on the

forehead.



it be the Count’s son, Leon!



“you must not cry,” he continue; “be calm, and when the filipony

(pedlar) come, buy yourself a pretty handkerchief.” he then give she a

rouble and walk away. Anielka, after conceal the coin in her

corset, run quickly back to the palace.



fortunately, Mdlle. Dufour have not yet return, and Anielka seat

herself in her accustomed corner. she often take out the rouble to gaze

fondly upon it, and set to work to make a little purse, which, having

fasten to a ribbon, she hang round her neck. she do not dream of

spend it, for it would have deeply grieve she to part with the gift

of the only person in the whole house who have look kindly on she.



from that time Anielka remain always in her young mistress’s room;

she be well dress, and Mdlle. Dufour cease to persecute she. to

what do she owe this sudden change? perhaps to a remonstrance from

Leon. Constantine order Anielka to sit beside she while take she

lesson from her music-master, and on she go to the drawing-room,

she be leave in her apartment alone. be thus more kindly treat,

Anielka lose by degree her timidity; and when her young mistress,

whilst occupy over some embroidery, would tell she to sing, she do so

boldly and with a steady voice. a great favor await she. Constantia,

when unoccupied, begin teach Anielka to read in Polish; and Mdlle.

Dufour think it politic to follow the example of her mistress, and

begin to teach she French.



meanwhile, a new kind of torment commence. having easily learn the two

language, Anielka acquire an irresistible passion for reading. book

have for she the charm of the forbidden fruit, for she could only read by

stealth at night, or when her mistress go visit in the

neighborhood. the kindness hitherto show she, for a time, begin to

relax. Leon have set off on a tour, accompany by his old tutor, and a

bosom friend as young, as gay, and as thoughtless as himself.



so pass the two year of Leon’s absence. when he return, Anielka be

seventeen, and have become tall and handsome. no one who have not see she

during the time, would have recognize she. of this number be Leon. in

the midst of perpetual gaiety and change it be not possible he could

have remember a poor peasant girl; but in Anielka’s memory he have

remain as a superior being, as her benefactor, as the only one who have

speak kindly to she, when poor, neglect, forlorn! when in some french

romance she meet with a young man of twenty, of a noble character and

handsome appearance, she bestow on he the name of Leon. the

recollection of the kiss he have give she, ever bring a burn blush

to her cheek, and make her sigh deeply.



one day Leon come to his sister’s room. Anielka be there, seat in a

corner at work. Leon himself have considerably change; from a boy he

have grow into a man. “I suppose Constantia,” he say, “you have be

tell what a good boy I be, and with what docility I shall submit myself

to the matrimonial yoke, which the Count and Countess have provide for

I?” and he begin whistle, and dance some step of the Mazurka.



“perhaps you will be refuse,” say Constantia, coldly.



“refuse! oh, no. the old Prince have already give his consent, and as

for his daughter she be desperately in love with I. look at these

moustachio, could anything be more irresistible?” and he glance in the

glass and twirl they round his finger; then continue in a graver

tone, he say, “to tell the sober truth, I cannot say that I

reciprocate. my intended be not at all to my taste. she be nearly

thirty, and so thin that whenever I look at she, I be remind of my old

tutor’s anatomical sketch. but thank to her parisian dress-maker, she

make up a tolerably good figure, and look well in a Cachemere. of all

thing, you know, I wish for a wife of an impose appearance, and I

don’t care about love. I find it’s not fashionable, and only exist in

the exalted imagination of poet.”



“surely people be in love with one another sometimes,” say the sister.



“sometimes,” repeat Anielka, inaudibly. the dialogue have painfully

affect she, and she know not why. her heart beat quickly, and her face

be flushed, and make she look more lovely than ever.



“perhaps. of course we profess to adore every pretty woman,” Leon add

abruptly. “but, my dear sister, what a charming lady’ maid you have!”

he approach the corner where Anielka sit, and bent on she a coarse

familiar smile. Anielka, although a serf, be displeased, and return

it with a glance full of dignity. but when her eye rest on the

youth’s handsome face, a feeling, which have be gradually and silently

grow in her young and inexperienced heart, predominate over her

pride and displeasure. she wish ardently to recall herself to Leon’s

memory, and half unconsciously raise her hand to the little purse which

always hang round her neck. she take from it the rouble he have give

she.



“see!” shout Leon, “what a droll girl; how proud she be of her rich!

why, girl, you be a woman of fortune, mistress of a whole rouble!”



“I hope she come by it honestly,” say the old Countess, who at this

moment enter.



at this insinuation, shame and indignation keep Anielka, for a time,

silent. she replace the money quickly in its purse, with the bitter

think that the few happy moment which have be so indelibly stamp

upon her memory, have be utterly forget by Leon. to clear herself,

she at last stammer out, see they all look at she inquiringly,

“do you not remember, M. Leon, that you give I this coin two year ago

in the garden?”



“how odd?” exclaim Leon, laughing, “do you expect I to remember all

the pretty girl to whom I have give money? but I suppose you be

right, or you would not have treasure up this unfortunate rouble as if

it be a holy relic. you should not be a miser, child; money be make to

be spend.”



“pray, put an end to these joke,” say Constantia impatiently; “I like

this girl, and I will not have she tease. she understand my way

well than any one, and often put I in good humor with her beautiful

voice.”



“sing something for I, pretty damsel,” say Leon, “and I will give you

another rouble, a new and shine one.”



“sing instantly,” say Constantia imperiously.



at this command Anielka could no long stifle her grief; she cover

her face with her hand, and weep violently.



“why do you cry?” ask her mistress impatiently; “I cannot bear it; I

desire you to do as you be bid.”



it might have be from the constant habit of slavish obedience, or a

strong feeling of pride, but Anielka instantly cease weeping. there be

a moment’s pause, during which the old Countess go grumble out of

the room. Anielka choose the Hymn to the Virgin she have warble in the

garden, and as she sing, she pray fervently;--she pray for peace,

for deliverance from the acute emotion which have be arouse within

she. her earnestness give an intensity of expression to the melody,

which affect her listener. they be silent for some moment after

its conclusion. Leon walk up and down with his arm fold on his

breast. be it agitated with pity for the accomplished young slave? or

by any other tender emotion? what follow will show.



“my dear Constantia,” he say, suddenly stop before his sister and

kiss her hand, “will you do I a favor?”



Constantia look inquiringly in her brother’s face without speak.



“give I this girl.”



“impossible!”



“I be quite in earnest,” continue Leon, “I wish to offer she to my

future wife. in the Prince her father’s private chapel they be much in

want of a solo soprano.”



“I shall not give she to you,” say Constantia.



“not as a free gift, but in exchange. I will give you instead a charming

young negro--so black. the woman in St. Petersburg and in Paris rave

about he: but I be inexorable; I half-refuse he to my princess.”



“no, no,” reply Constantia; “I shall be lonely without this girl, I be

so used to she.”



“Nonsense! you can get peasant girl by the dozen; but a black page,

with tooth whiter than ivory, and purer than pearl; a perfect original

in his way; you surely cannot withstand. you will kill half the province

with envy. a negro servant be the most fashionable thing go, and

yours will be the first import into the province.”



this argument be irresistible. “well,” reply Constantia, “when do you

think of take she?”



“immediately; to-day at five o’clock,” say Leon; and he go merrily

out of the room. this then be the result of his cogitation--of

Anielka’s Hymn to the Virgin. Constantia order Anielka to prepare

herself for the journey, with as little emotion as if she have exchange

away a lap-dog, or part with a parrot.



she obey in silence. her heart be full. she go into the garden that

she might relieve herself by weep unseen. with one hand support

her burn head, and the other press tightly against her heart, to

stifle her sob, she wander on mechanically till she find herself by

the side of the river. she feel quickly for her purse, intend to

throw the rouble into the water, but as quickly thrust it back again,

for she could not bear to part with the treasure. she feel as if without

it she would be still more an orphan. weep bitterly, she lean

against the tree which have once before witness her tear.



by degree the stormy passion within she give place to calm reflection.

this day she be to go away; she be to dwell beneath another roof, to

serve another mistress. humiliation! always humiliation! but at least it

would be some change in her life. as she think of this, she return

hastily to the palace that she might not, on the last day of she

servitude, incur the anger of her young mistress.



Scarcely be Anielka attire in her prettiest dress, when Constantia

come to she with a little box, from which she take several gay-color

ribbon, and deck she in they herself, that the serf might do she

credit in the new family. and when Anielka, bend down to her foot

thank she, Constantia, with marvellous condescension, kiss she on

her forehead. even Leon cast an admiring glance upon she. his servant

soon after come to conduct she to the carriage, and show she where to

seat herself, they roll off quickly towards Radapol.



for the first time in her life Anielka ride in a carriage. her head

turn quite giddy, she could not look at the tree and field as they

fly past she; but by degree she become more accustomed to it, and the

fresh air enliven her spirit, she perform the rest of the journey

in a tolerably happy state of mind. at last they arrive in the spacious

court-yard before the Palace of Radapol, the dwelling of a once rich and

powerful polish family, now partly in ruin. it be evident, even to

Anielka, that the marriage be one for money on the one side, and for

rank on the other.



among other renovation at the castle, occasion by the approach

marriage, the owner of it, Prince Pelazia, have obtain singer for the

chapel, and have engage Signor Justiniani, an italian, as chapel-master.

immediately on Leon’s arrival, Anielka be present to he. he make she

sing a scale, and pronounce her voice to be excellent.



Anielka find that, in Radapol, she be treat with a little more

consideration than at Olgogrod, although she have often to submit to the

caprice of her new mistress, and she find less time to read. but to

console herself, she give all her attention to singing, which she

practice several hour a day. her naturally great capacity, under the

guidance of the Italian, begin to develop itself steadily. besides

sacred, he teach her operatic music. on one occasion Anielka sing an

aria in so impassioned and masterly a style, that the enrapture

Justiniani clap his hand for joy, skip about the room, and not

find word enough to praise she, exclaim several time, “Prima

Donna! Prima Donna!”



but the lesson be interrupt. the Princess’s wedding-day be fix

upon, after which event she and Leon be to go to Florence, and Anielka

be to accompany they. alas! feeling which give her poignant misery

still clung to she. she despise herself for her weakness; but she love

Leon. the sentiment be too deeply implant in her bosom to be

eradicate; too strong to be resist. it be the first love of a young

and guileless heart, and have grow in silence and despair.



Anielka be most anxious to know something of her adopt parent.

once, after the old prince have hear her singing, he ask she with

great kindness about her home. she reply, that she be an orphan, and

have be take by force from those who have so kindly supply the place

of parent. her apparent attachment to the old bee-keeper and his wife

so please the prince, that he say, “you be a good child, Anielka, and

to-morrow I will send you to visit they. you shall take they some

present.”



Anielka, overpower with gratitude, throw herself at the foot of the

prince. she dream all night of the happiness that be in store for

she, and the joy of the poor, forsaken, old people; and when the next

morning she set off, she could scarcely restrain her impatience. at last

they approach the cabin; she see the forest, with its tall tree, and

the meadow cover with flower. she leap from the carriage, that she

might be near these tree and flower, every one of which she seem

to recognize. the weather be beautiful. she breathe with avidity the

pure air which, in imagination, bring to she the kiss and caress

of her poor father! her foster-father be, doubtless, occupy with his

bee; but his wife?



Anielka open the door of the cabin; all be silent and desert. the

arm-chair on which the poor old woman use to sit, be overturn in a

corner. Anielka be chill by a fearful presentiment. she go with a

slow step towards the bee-hive; there she see a little boy tend the

bee, whilst the old man be stretch on the ground beside he. the

ray of the sun, fall on his pale and sickly face, show that he be

very ill. Anielka stoop down over he, and say, “it be I, it be

Anielka, your own Anielka, who always love you.”



the old man raise his head, gaze upon she with a ghastly smile, and

take off his cap.



“and my good old mother, where be she?” Anielka ask.



“she be dead!” answer the old man, and fall back he begin laugh

idiotically. Anielka weep. she gaze earnestly on the worn frame, the

pale and wrinkle cheek, in which scarcely a sign of life could be

perceive; it seem to she that he have suddenly fall asleep, and not

wish to disturb he, she go to the carriage for the present. when

she return, she take his hand. it be cold. the poor old bee-keeper

have breathe his last!



Anielka be carry almost senseless back to the carriage, which quickly

return with she to the castle. there she revive a little; but the

recollection that she be now quite alone in the world, almost drive she

to despair.



her master’s wedding and the journey to Florence be a dream to she.

though the strange sight of a strange city slowly restore she

perception, they do not her cheerfulness. she feel as if she could no

long endure the misery of her life; she pray to die.



“why be you so unhappy?” say the Count Leon kindly to she, one day.



to have explain the cause of her wretchedness would have be death

indeed.



“I be go to give you a treat,” continue Leon. “a celebrated singer

be to appear to-night in the theatre. I will send you to hear she, and

afterwards you shall sing to I what you remember of her performance.”



Anielka go. it be a new era in her existence. herself, by this time,

an artist, she could forget she grief, and enter with her whole soul

into the beauty of the art she now hear practise in perfection for

the first time. to music a chord respond in her breast which vibrate

powerfully. during the performance she be at one moment pale and

trembling, tear rush into her eye, at another, she be ready to

throw herself at the foot of the cantatrice, in an ecstasy of

admiration. “Prima donna,”--by that name the public call on she to

receive their applause, and it be the same, think Anielka, that

Justiniani have bestow upon she. could _she_ also be a prima donna?

what a glorious destiny! to be able to communicate one’s own emotion to

masse of entrance listener; to awaken in they, by the power of the

voice, grief, love, terror.



strange thought continue to haunt she on her return home. she be

unable to sleep. she form desperate plan. at last she resolve to

throw off the yoke of servitude, and the still more painful slavery of

feeling which her pride disdain. having learn the address of the

prima donna, she go early one morning to her house.



on enter she say, in French, almost incoherently, so great be her

agitation--“Madam, I be a poor serf belong to a polish family who

have lately arrive in Florence. I have escape from they; protect,

shelter I. they say I can sing.”



the Signora Teresina, a warm-hearted, passionate Italian, be interested

by her artless earnestness. she say, “poor child! you must have

suffer much,”--she take Anielka’s hand in her. “you say you can sing;

let I hear you.” Anielka seat herself on an ottoman. she clasp she

hand over knee, and tear fall into her lap. with plaintive pathos,

and perfect truth of intonation, she pray in song. the Hymn to the

Virgin seem to Teresina to be offer up by inspiration.



the Signora be astonish. “where,” she ask, in wonder, “be you

teach?”



Anielka narrate her history, and when she have finish, the prima donna

speak so kindly to she that she feel as if she have know she for year.

Anielka be Teresina’s guest that day and the next. after the opera, on

the third day, the prima donna make she sit beside she, and said:--



“I think you be a very good girl, and you shall stay with I always.”



the girl be almost beside herself with joy.



“we will never part. do you consent, Anielka?”



“do not call I Anielka. give I instead some italian name.”



“well, then, be Giovanna. the dear friend I ever have--but whom I have

lose--be name Giovanna,” say the prima donna.



“then, I will be another Giovanna to you.”



Teresina then say, “I hesitate to receive you at first, for your sake

as well as mine; but you be safe now. I learn that your master and

mistress, after search vainly for you, have return to Poland.”



from this time Anielka commence an entirely new life. she take lesson

in singing every day from the Signora, and get an engagement to appear

in inferior character at the theatre. she have now her own income, and

her own servant--she, who have till then be oblige to serve herself.

she acquire the italian language rapidly, and soon pass for a native

of the country.



so pass three year. new and varied impression fail, however, to

blot out the old one. Anielka arrive at great perfection in her

singing, and even begin to surpass the prima donna, who be lose her

voice from weakness of the chest. this sad discovery change the

cheerful temper of Teresina. she cease to sing in public; for she

could not endure to excite pity where she have formerly command

admiration.



she determine to retire. “you,” she say to Anielka, “shall now assert

your claim to the first rank in the vocal art. you will maintain it. you

surpass I. often, on hear you sing, I have scarcely be able to

stifle a feeling of jealousy.”



Anielka place her hand on Teresina’s shoulder, and kiss she.



“yes,” continue Teresina, regardless of everything but the bright

future she be shape for her friend. “we will go to Vienna--there you

will be understand and appreciate. you shall sing at the Italian Opera,

and I will be by your side--unknown, no long seek, worship--but

will glory in your triumph. they will be a repetition of my own; for

have I not teach you? will they not be the result of my work?”



Though Anielka’s ambition be fire, her heart be soften, and she

weep violently.



five month have scarcely elapse when a _furore_ be create in Vienna

by the first appearance, at the Italian Opera, of the Signora Giovanna.

her enormous salary at once afford she the mean of even extravagant

expenditure. her haughty treatment of male admirer only attract new

one; but in the midst of her triumph, she think often of the time

when the poor orphan of Pobereze be care for by nobody. this

remembrance make she receive the flattery of the crowd with an

ironical smile; their fine speech fall coldly on her ear, their

eloquent look make no impression on her heart: _that_, no change could

alter, no temptation win.



in the flood of unexpected success a new misfortune overwhelm she.

since their arrival at Vienna, Teresina’s health rapidly decline, and

in the sixth month of Anielka’s operatic reign she expire, leave all

her wealth, which be considerable, to her friend.



once more Anielka be alone in the world. despite all the honor and

blandishment of her position, the old feeling of desolateness come

upon she. the new shock destroy her health. she be unable to appear

on the stage. to sing be a painful effort; she grow indifferent to what

pass around she. her great consolation be in succor the poor

and friendless, and her generosity be most conspicuous to all young

orphan girl without fortune. she have never cease to love her native

land, and seldom appear in society, unless it be to meet her

countryman. if ever she sing, it be in Polish.



a year have elapse since the death of the Signora Teresina when the

Count Selka, a rich noble of Volkynia, at that time in Vienna, solicit

her presence at a party. it be impossible to refuse the Count and his

lady, from whom she have receive great kindness. she go. when in their

saloon, fill with all the fashion and aristocracy in Vienna, the name

of Giovanna be announce, a general murmur be hear. she enter, pale

and languid, and proceed between the two row make for she by the

admire assembly, to the seat of honor, beside the mistress of the

house.



shortly after, the Count Selka lead she to the piano. she sit down before

it, and think what she should sing, glance round upon the assembly.

she could not help feel that the admiration which beam from the

face around she be the work of her own merit, for have she neglect

the great gift of nature, her voice, she could not have excite it. with

a blushing cheek, and eye sparkle with honest pride, she strike the

piano with a firm hand, and from she seemingly weak and delicate chest

pour forth a touching polish melody, with a voice pure, sonorous, and

plaintive. tear be in many eye, and the beating of every heart be

quicken.



the song be finish, but the wonder silence be unbroken. Giovanna

lean exhausted on the arm of the chair, and cast down her eye. on

again raise they, she perceive a gentleman who gaze fixedly at she,

as if he still listen to echo which have not yet die within he. the

master of the house, to dissipate his thoughtlessness, lead he towards

Giovanna. “let I present to you, Signora,” he say, “a countryman, the

Count Leon Roszynski.”



the lady tremble; she silently bow, fix her eye on the ground, and

dared not raise they. plead indisposition, which be fully justify

by her pallid feature, she soon after withdrew.



when, on the follow day, Giovanna’s servant announce the count

Selka and Roszynski, a peculiar smile play on her lip; and when they

enter, she receive the latter with the cold and formal politeness of

a stranger. control the feeling of her heart, she school she

feature to an expression of indifference. it be manifest from Leon’s

manner, that without the remotest recognition, an indefinable

presentiment regard she possess he. the Counts have call to know

if Giovanna have recover from her indisposition. Leon beg to be

permit to call again.



where be his wife? why do he never mention she? Giovanna continually

ask herself these question when they have depart.



a few night after, the Count Leon arrive, sad and thoughtful. he

prevail on Giovanna to sing one of her polish melody, which she tell

he she have be teach, when a child, by her nurse. Roszynski, unable

to restrain the expression of an intense admiration he have long feel,

frantically seize her hand, and exclaim, “I love you!”



she withdraw it from his grasp, remain silent for a few minute, and

then say slowly, distinctly, and ironically, “but I do not love _you_,

Count Roszynski.”



Leon rise from his seat. he press his hand to his brow, and be

silent. Giovanna remain calm and tranquil. “it be a penalty from

Heaven,” continue Leon, as if speak to himself, “for not having

fulfil my duty as a husband towards one whom I choose voluntarily, but

without reflection. I wrong she, and be punish.”



Giovanna turn her eye upon he. Leon continue, “Young, and with a

heart untouched, I marry a princess about ten year old than

myself, of eccentric habit and bad temper. she treat I as an

inferior. she dissipate the fortune hoard up with so much care by my

parent, and yet be ashamed, on account of my origin, to be call by

my name. happily for I, she be fond of visit and amusement.

otherwise, to escape from she, I might have become a gambler, or bad;

but to avoid meet she, I remain at home--for there she seldom be.

at first from ennui, but afterwards from real delight in the occupation,

I give myself up to study. reading form my mind and heart. I become a

change being. some month ago my father die, my sister go to

Lithuania, whilst my mother, in her old age, and with her idea, be

quite incapable of understand my sorrow. so when my wife go to the

bath for the benefit of her ruin health, I come here in the hope of

meeting with some of my former friend--I see you--”



Giovanna blush like one detect; but speedily recover herself,

ask, with calm pleasantry, “surely you do not number _I_ among your

former friend?”



“I know not. I have be bewilder. it be strange; but from the moment

I see you at Count Selka’s, a powerful instinct of love overcome I; not

a new feeling; but as if some latent, long-hid, undeveloped sentiment

have suddenly burst forth into an uncontrollable passion. I love, I adore

you. I----”



the Prima Donna interrupt he--not with speech, but with a look which

awe, which chill he. Pride, scorn, irony sit in her smile. Satire

dart from her eye. after a pause she repeat slowly and pointedly,

“love _I_, Count Roszynski?”



“such be my destiny,” he reply. “nor, despite your scorn, will I

struggle against it. I feel it be my fate ever to love you; I fear it be

my fate never to be love by you. it be dreadful.”



Giovanna witness the Count’s emotion with sadness. “to have,” she say

mournfully, “one’s first, pure, ardent, passionate affection

unrequited, scorn, make a jest of, be indeed a bitterness, almost

equal to that of death.”



she make a strong effort to conceal her emotion. indeed she control

it so well as to speak the rest with a sort of gaiety.



“you have at least be candid, Count Roszynski; I will imitate you by

tell a little history that occur in your country. there be a poor

girl bear and breed a serf to her wealthy lord and master. when scarcely

fifteen year old, she be tear from a state of happy rustic

freedom--the freedom of humility and content--to be one of the courtly

slave of the Palace. those who do not laugh at she, scold she. one

kind word be vouchsafe to she, and that come from the lord’s son. she

nurse it and treasure it; till, from long conceal and restrain

her feeling, she at last find that gratitude have change into a

sincere affection. but what do a man of the world care for the love of

a serf? it do not even flatter his vanity. the young nobleman do not

understand the source of her tear and her grief, and he make a present

of she, as he would have do of some animal, to his betrothed.”



Leon, agitated and somewhat enlighten, would have interrupt she; but

Giovanna say, “allow I to finish my tale. Providence do not abandon

this poor orphan, but permit she to rise to distinction by the talent

with which she be endow by nature. the wretched serf of Pobereze

become a celebrated italian cantatrice. _then_ her former lord meeting

she in society, and see she admire and court by all the world,

without know who she really be, be afflict, as if by the dictate

of Heaven, with a love for this same girl,--with a guilty love”--



and Giovanna rise, as she say this, to remove herself far from her

admirer.



“no, no!” he reply earnestly; “with a pure and holy passion.”



“impossible!” return Giovanna. “be you not marry?”



Roszynski vehemently tear a letter from his vest, and hand it to

Giovanna. it be seal with black, for it announce the death of his

wife at the bath. it have only arrive that morning.



“you have lose no time,” say the cantatrice, endeavor to conceal her

feeling under an iron mask of reproach.



there be a pause. each dared not speak. the Count know--but without

actually and practically believe what seem incredible--that Anielka

and Giovanna be the same person--_his slave_. that terrible

relationship check he. Anielka, too, have play her part to the end

of endurance. the long-cherish tenderness--the faithful love of her

life, could not long be wholly master. Hitherto they have speak in

italian. she now say in Polish,



“you have a right, my Lord Roszynski, to that poor Anielka who escape

from the service of your wife in Florence; you can force she back to

your palace, to its mean work, but”--



“have mercy on I!” cry Leon.



“but,” continue the serf of Pobereze, firmly, “you cannot force I to

love you.”



“do not mock--do not torture I more; you be sufficiently revenge. I

will not offend you by importunity. you must indeed hate I! but

remember that we Poles wish to give freedom to our serf; and for that

very reason our country be invade and dismember by despotic power.

we must therefore continue to suffer slavery as it exist in Russia;

but, soul and body, we be averse to it; and when our country once more

become free, be assure no shadow of slavery will remain in the land.

curse then our enemy, and pity we that we stand in such a desperate

position between russian bayonet and Siberia, and the hatred of our

serf.”



so say, and without wait for a reply, Leon rush from the room.

the door be close. Giovanna listen to the sound of his rapid

footstep till they die in the street. she would have follow, but

dare not. she run to the window. Roszynski’s carriage be roll

rapidly away, and she exclaim vainly, “I love you, Leon; I love you

always!”



her torture be unendurable. to relieve they she hasten to her desk,

and write these words:--



“Dearest Leon, forgive I; let the past be forever forget. return to

your Anielka. she always have be, ever will be your.”



she despatch the missive. be it too late? or would it bring he back?

in the latter hope she retire to her chamber, to execute a little

project.



Leon be in despair. he see he have be premature in so soon declare

his passion after the news of his wife’s death, and vow he would not

see Anielka again for several month. to calm his agitation, he have

ride some mile into the country. when he return to his hotel after

some hour, he find her note. with the wild delight it have dart into

his soul, he fly back to she.



on regain she saloon a new and terrible vicissitude seem to sport

with his passion:--she be nowhere to be see. have the italian

cantatrice flee? again he be in despair; stupefy with

disappointment. as he stand uncertain how to act in the midst of the

floor, he hear, as from a distance, an Ave Maria pour forth in tone

he half-recognize. the sound bring back to he a host of

recollection; a weep serf, the garden of his own palace. in a state

of new rapture he follow the voice. he trace it to an inner chamber,

and he there behold the lovely singer kneeling in the costume of a

polish serf. she rise, greet Leon with a touching smile, and step

forward with serious bashfulness. Leon extend his arm; she sink into

they; and in that fond embrace all past wrong and sorrow be

forget! Anielka draw from her bosom a little purse, and take from it

a piece of silver. it be the rouble. _now_, Leon do not smile at it.

he comprehend the sacredness of this little gift; and some tear of

repentance fall upon Anielka’s hand.



a few month after, Leon write to the steward of Olgogrod to prepare

everything splendidly for the reception of his second wife. he

conclude his letter with these words:--“I understand that in the

dungeon beneath my palace there be some unfortunate man, who be

imprison during my father’s lifetime. let they be instantly liberate.

this be my first act of gratitude to God, who have so infinitely bless

I!”



Anielka long ardently to behold her native land. they leave Vienna

immediately after the wedding, although it be in the middle of January.



it be already quite dark when the carriage, with its four horse,

stop in front of the portico of the palace of Olgogrod. whilst the

footman be open the door on one side, a beggar soliciting alm

appear at the other, where Anielka be seat. happy to perform a good

action, as she cross the threshold of her new home, she give he some

money; but the man, instead of thank she, return her bounty with a

savage laugh, at the same time scowl at she in the fierce manner

from beneath his thick and shaggy brow. the strangeness of this

circumstance sensibly affect Anielka, and cloud her happiness. Leon

soothe and re-assured she. in the arm of her beloved husband, she

forget all but the happiness of be the idol of his affection.



Fatigue and excitement make the night most welcome. all be dark and

silent around the palace, and some hour of the night have pass, when

suddenly flame burst forth from several part of the building at once.

the palace be envelop in fire; it rage furiously. the flame mount

high and higher; the window crack with a fearful sound, and the

smoke penetrate into the most remote apartment.



a single figure of a man be see steal over the snow, which lie like

a winding-sheet on the solitary waste; his cautious step be hear on

the frozen snow as it crisp beneath his tread. it be the beggar who

have accost Anielka. on a rise ground, he turn to gaze on the

terrible scene. “no more unfortunate wretch will now be doom to pass

their life in your dungeon,” he exclaim. “what be _my_ crime?

remind my master of the lowness of his birth. for this they tear I

from my only child--my darling little Anielka; they have no pity even for

her orphan state; let they perish all!”



suddenly a young and beautiful creature rush wildly to one of the

principal window: she make a violent effort to escape. for a moment

her lovely form, clothe in white, shine in terrible relief against the

background of blaze curtain and wall of fire, and as instantly sink

back into the blaze element. behind she be another figure, vainly

endeavor to aid her,--he perishe also; neither be ever see again!



this appalling tragedy horrify even the perpetrator of the crime. he

rush from the place; and as he hear the crash of the fall wall,

he close his ear with his hand, and dart on fast and fast.



the next day some peasant discover the body of a man freeze to death,

lie on a heap of snow,--it be that of the wretched incendiary.

Providence, mindful of his long, of his cruel imprisonment and

suffering, spare he the anguish of know that the mistress of the

palace he have destroy, and who perish in the flame, be his own

beloved daughter--the Serf of Pobereze!









III.



my wonderful Adventures in Skitzland.





I be fond of gardening. I like to dig. if among the operation of the

garden any need for such a work can be at any time discover or

invent, I like to dig a hole.



on the 3d of March, 1849, I begin a hole behind the kitchen wall,

whereinto it be originally intend to transplant a plum tree. the

exercise be so much to my taste, that a strange humor impel I to

dig on. a fascination hold I to the task. I neglect my business. I

disappear from the earth’s surface. a boy who work a basket by mean

of a rope and pulley, aid I; so aid, I confine my whole attention

to spade labor. the centripetal force seem to have make I its

especial victim. I dig on until Autumn. in the beginning of November I

observe that, upon percussion, the sound give by the floor of my pit

be resonant. I do not intermit my labor, urge as I be by a

mysterious instinct downward. on apply my ear, I occasionally hear

a subdued sort of rattle, which cause I to form a theory that the

centre of the earth might be compose of mucus. in November, the ground

break beneath I into a hollow, and I fall a considerable distance. I

alight on the box-seat of a four-horse coach, which happen to be

run at that time immediately underneath. the coachman take no notice

whatever of my sudden arrival by his side. he be so completely muffle

up, that I could observe only the skilful way in which he manipulate

rein and whip. the horse be yellow. I have see no more than this,

when the guard’s horn blew, and presently we pull up at an inn. a

waiter come out, and appear to collect four bag from the passenger

inside the coach. he then come round to I.



“Dine here, Sir?”



“yes, certainly,” say I. I like to dine--not the sole point of

resemblance between myself and the great Johnson.



“trouble you for your stomach, Sir.”



while the waiter be look up with a polite stare into my puzzle

face, my neighbor, the coachman, put one hand within his outer coat, as

if to feel for money in his waistcoat pocket. directly afterwards his

finger come again to light, and pull forth an enormous sack.

Notwithstanding that it be abnormally enlarge, I know by observation

of its form and texture that this be a stomach, with the œsophagus

attach. this, then, the waiter catch as it be throw down to he,

and hang it carelessly over his arm, together with the four small bag

(which I now know to be also stomach) collect from the passenger

within the coach. I start up, and as I happen to look round,

observe a skeleton face upon the shoulder of a gentleman who sit

immediately behind my back. my own feature be notice at the same

time by the guard, who now come forward touch his hat.



“beg your pardon, Sir, but you’ve be and do it.”



“done what?”



“why, Sir, you should have book your place, and not come up in this

clandestine way. however, you’ve be and do it!”



“my good man, what have I do?”



“why, Sir, the Baron Terroro’s eye have the box seat, and I strongly

suspect you’ve be and sit upon they.”



I look involuntarily to see whether I have be sit upon anything

except the simple cushion. truly enough, there be an eye, which I have

crush and flatten.



“only one,” I say.



“bad for you, and well for he. the other eye have time to escape,

and it will know you again, that’s certain. well, it’s no business of

mine. of course you’ve no appetite now for dinner? well pay your fare,

Sir. to the Green Hippopotamus and Spectacles, where we put up, it’s

ten-and-six.”



“be there room inside?” I inquire. it be advisable to shrink from

observation.



“yes, Sir. the inside passenger be mostly skeleton. there’s room for

three, Sir. inside, one-pound-one.”



I pay the money, and become an inside passenger.



       *       *       *       *       *



Professor Essig’s Lectures on Anatomy have so fortify I, that I do

not shrink from enter the Skitzton coach. it contain living limb,

loose or attach to skeleton in other respect bare, except that they

be clothe with broadcloth garment, cut after the english fashion.

one passenger only have a complete face of flesh, he have also one live

hand; the other hand I guess be bony, because it be conceal in a

glove obviously pad. by observe the fit of his clothe, I come to a

conclusion that this gentleman be stuff throughout; that all his

limb, except the head and hand, be artificial. two pair of Legs, in

woollen stocking, and a pair of ear, be in a corner of the coach,

and in another corner there be nineteen or twenty Scalps.



I think it well to look astonish at nothing, and, having point in

a careless manner to the scalps, ask what might be their destination?

the person with the Face and Hand reply to I; and although evidently

himself a gentleman, he address I with a tone of unconcealed respect.



“they be go to Skitzton, Sir, to the hairdresser’s.”



“yes, to be sure,” I say. “they be to make natural skin wig. I might

have know.”



“I beg your pardon, Sir. there be a ball to-morrow night at Culmsey. but

the gentry do not like to employ village barber, and therefore many of

the well class of people send their hair to Skitzton, and receive it

back by the return coach properly cut and curl.”



“oh,” say I. “ah! oh, indeed!”



“dinner, gentleman!” say a voice at the window, and the waiter hand

in four stomach, now tolerably well fill. each passenger receive

his property, and pull open his chest with as much composure as if he

be unbutton his waistcoat, restore his stomach, with a dinner in

it, to the right position. then the reckoning be pay, and the coach

start.



I think of my garden, and much wish that somebody could throw

Professor Essig down the hole that I have dig. a few thing be to be

meet with in Skitzland which would rather puzzle he. they puzzle I;

but I take refuge in silence, and so fortified, protect my ignorance

from an exposure.



“you be go to court, Sir, I presume?” say my Face and Hand friend,

after a short pause. his be the only mouth in the coach, except

mine, so that he be the only passenger able to enter into conversation.



“my dear Sir,” I reply, “let I be frank with you. I have arrive here

unexpectedly out of another world. of the manner and custom, nay, of

the very nature of the people who inhabit this country, I know nothing.

for any information you can give I, I shall be very grateful.”



my friend smile incredulity, and say,



“whatever you be pleased to profess, I will believe. what you be

pleased to feign a wish for, I be proud to furnish. in Skitzland, the

inhabitant, until they come of age, retain that illustrious appearance

which you have be so fortunate as never to have lose. during the night

of his twenty-first birthday, each Skitzlander lose the limb which up

to that period have receive from he no care, no education. of those

neglect part the skeleton alone remain, but all those organ which

he have employ sufficiently continue unimpaire. I, for example,

devoted to the study of the law, forget all occupation but to think, to

use my sense, and to write. I rarely use my leg, and therefore nature

have deprive I of they.”



“but,” I observe, “it seem that in Skitzland you be able to take

yourself to piece.”



“no one have that power more largely than yourself. what organ we have

we can detach on any service. when disperse, a simple force of Nature

direct all correspond member whither to fly that they may

re-assemble.”



“if they can fly,” I ask, “why be they send in coach? there be a

pair of eye on the box-seat.”



“simply for safety against accident. eye fly alone be likely to be

seize by bird, and incur many danger. they be send, therefore,

usually under protection, like any other valuable parcel.”



“do many accident occur?”



“very few. for mutual protection, and also because a single member be

often all that have be leave exist of a fellow Skitzlander, our law,

as you, Sir, know much well than myself, estimate the destruction of

any part absent on duty from its skeleton as a crime equivalent to

murder----”



after this I hold my tongue. presently my friend again inquire whether

I be go up to Court?



“why should I go to Court?”



“oh, Sir, it please you to be facetious. you must be aware that any

Skitzlander who have be leave by nature in possession of every limb,

sit in the Assembly of the Perfect, or the Upper House, and receive

many state emolument and dignity.”



“be there many member of that Upper Assembly?”



“Sir, there be forty-two. but if you be now travel to claim your

seat, the number will be raise to forty-three.”



“the Baron Terroro--” I hint.



“my brother, Sir. his eye be on the box-seat under my care.

undoubtedly he be a Member of the Upper House.”



I be now anxious to get out of the coach as soon as possible. my wish

be fulfil after the next pause. one Eye, follow by six Pairs of

arm, with strong hard hand belong to they, fly in at the window. I

be collar; the door be open, and all hand be at work to drag

I out and away. the twelve Hands whisk I through the air, while the

one Eye sail before we, like an old bird, leader of the flight.



       *       *       *       *       *



what sort of sky have they in Skitzland? our earth overarch they, and,

as the sun-light filter through, it cause a subdue illumination with

very pure ray. Skitzland be situate nearly in the centre of our globe,

it hang there like a shrunken kernel in the middle of a nutshell. the

height from Skitzland to the over-arching canopy be great; so great,

that if I have not fall personally from above the firmament, I should

have consider it to be a blue sky similar to ours. at night it be

quite dark; but during the day there be an appearance in the Heaven of

white spot; their glistening remind I of star. I notice they as I

be be convey to prison by the strong arm of justice, for it be

by a detachment of member from the Skitzton Police that I be now

hurry along. the air be very warm, and corroborate the common

observation of an increase of heat as you get into the pith of our

planet. the theory of Central Fire, however, be, you perceive, quite

overturn by my experience.



we alight near the outskirt of a large and busy town. through its

street I be drag publicly, much stare at, and much stare. the

street life be one busy nightmare of disjoint limb. Professor Essig,

could he have be drag through Skitzton, would have deliver his

farewell lecture upon his return. “gentleman, Fuit Ilium--Fuit

Ischium--Fuit sacrum--Anatomy have lose her seat among the science. my

occupation’s go.” Professor Owen’s Book “on the Nature of Limbs,” must

contain, in the next edition, an Appendix “upon Limbs in Skitzland.” I

be drag through the street, and all that I see there, in the

present age of little faith, I dare not tell you. I be drag through

the street to prison and there duly chain, after having be

subject to the scrutiny of about fifty couple of eye draw up in a

line within the prison door. I be chain in a dark cell, a cell so

dark that I could very faintly perceive the figure of some being who be

my companion. whether this individual have ear wherewith to hear, and

mouth wherewith to answer I, I could not see, but at a venture I

address he. my thirst for information be unconquerable; I begin,

therefore, immediately with a question:



“Friend, what be those star which we see shine in the sky at

mid-day?”



an awful groan be an unsatisfactory reply, I ask again.



“Man, do not mock at misery. you will yourself be one of they.”



‘the Teachers shall shine like Stars in the Firmament.’ I have a

propensity for teaching, but be puzzle to discover how I could give so

practical an illustration of the text of Fichte.



“believe I,” I say, “I be strangely ignorant. explain yourself.”



he answer with a hollow voice:



“murderer be shoot up out of mortar into the sky, and stick there.

those white, glisten speck, they be their skeleton.”



Justice be prompt in Skitzland. I be try incredibly fast by a jury of

twelve man who have absolutely head. the judge have nothing but brain,

mouth, and ear. three powerful tongue defend I, but as they be not

suffer to talk nonsense, they have little to say. the whole case be

too clear to be talk into cloudiness. Baron Terroro, in person,

depose, that he have send his eye to see a friend in Culmsey, and that

they be return on the Skitzton coach, when I, illegally, come with

my whole bulk upon the box-seat, which he occupy. that one of his eye

be, in that manner, totally destroy, but that the other eye, having

escape, identify I, and bring to his brain intelligence of the

calamity which have befall. he depose far, that having receive

this information, he despatch his uncrushed eye with arm from the

police-office, and accompany with several member of the detective

force, to capture the offender, and to procure the full proof of my

crime. a sub-inspector of Skitzton Police then depose that he send

three of his faculty, with his mouth, eye, and ear, to meet the coach.

that the driver, consist only of a stomach and hand, have be unable

to observe what pass. that the guard, on the contrary, have tax I

with my deed, that he have see I rise from my seat upon the murder

eye, and that he have hear I make confession of my guilt. the guard be

bring next into court, and tell his tale. then I be call upon for

my defence. if a man wear a cloth coat and trouser, and talk

excellent English, be to plead at the Old Bailey that he have break

into some citizen’s premise accidentally by fall from the moon, his

tale would be receive in London as mine be in Skitzton. I be severely

reprimand for my levity, and order to be silent. the Judge sum up

and the Jury find I guilty. the Judge who have put on the black cap

before the verdict be pronounce, hold out no hope of mercy, and

straightway sentence I to death, accord to the law and usage of

the Realm.



       *       *       *       *       *



the period which intervene between the sentence and execution of a

criminal in Skitzland, be not long than three hour. in order to

increase the terror of death by contrast, the condemn man be suffer

to taste at the table of life from which he be banish, the most

luscious viand. all the attainable enjoyment that his wit can ask for,

he be allow to have, during the three hour before he be shoot, like

rubbish, off the field of Skitzland.



under guard, of course, I be now to be lead whithersoever I desire.



several church be open. they never be all shut in Skitzton. I be

take into one. a man with heart and life be preach. People with

heart be in some pew; people with brain, in other; people with

ear only, in some. in a neighboring church there be a popular

preacher, a skeleton with life. his congregation be a crowd of ear,

and nothing more.



there be a day-performance at the Opera. I go to that. fine lung and

mouth possess the stage, and afterwards there be a great

bewilderment with leg. I be surprised to notice that many of the most

beautiful lady be carry in and out, and lift about like doll.

my guide sneer at my pretence of ignorance, when I ask why this

be. but they be bind to please I in all practicable way, so they

inform I, although somewhat pettishly. it seem that in Skitzland,

lady who possess and have cultivate only their good look, lose at

the age of twenty-one, all other endowment. so they become literally

doll, but doll of a superior kind; for they can not only open and shut

their eye, but also sigh; wag slowly with their head, and sometimes

take a pocket-handkerchief out of a bag, and drop it. but as their limb

be powerless, they have to be lift and drag about after the

fashion that excite my astonishment.



I say then, “let I see the Poor.” they take I to a Workhouse. the

man, there, be all yellow; and they wear a dress which look as

though it be compose of asphalte; it have also a smell like that of

pitch. I ask for explanation of these thing.



a Superintendent of Police remark that I be lose opportunity of

real enjoyment for the idle purpose of persist in my fable of having

drop down from the sky. however, I compel he to explain to I

what be the reason of these thing. the information I obtain be

chiefly this:--that nature, in Skitzland, never remove the stomach.

every man have to feed himself; and the necessity for find food,

join to the necessity for buy clothe, be a mainspring whereby the

whole clockwork of civilized life be keep in motion. now, if a man

positively cannot feed and clothe himself, he become a pauper. he then

go to the Workhouse, where he have his stomach fill with a cement.

that stop last a life-time, and he thereafter need no food. his

body, however, become yellow by the superfluity of bile. the

yellow-boy, which be the Skitzland epithet for pauper, be at the same

time provide with a suit of clothe. the clothe be of a material so

tough that they can be wear unimpaired for more than eighty year. the

pauper be now free from care, but be he in this state cast loose upon

society, since he have not that stimulus to labor which excite industry

in other man, he would become an element of danger in the state. nature

no long compel he to work, the law compel he. the remainder of

his life be forfeit to the use of his country. he labor at the

workhouse, cost nothing more than the expense of lodge, after the

first inconsiderable outlay for cement wherewith to plug his stomach,

and for the one suit of apparel.



when we come out of the workhouse, all the bell in the town be

tolling. the Superintendent tell I that I have sadly fritter away

time, for I have now no more than half an hour to live. upon that I

lean my back against a post, and ask he to prepare I for my part

in the impending ceremony by give I a little information on the

subject of execution.



I find that it be usual for a man to be execute with great ceremony

upon the spot whereon his crime have be commit. that in case of

rebellion or tumult in the province, when large number be not

unfrequently condemn to death, the sentence of the law be carry out

in the chief town of the disturbed district. that large number of

people be thus sometimes discharge from a single market-place, and

that the repeat stroke appear to shake, or crack, or pierce in some

degree that portion of the sky towards which the artillery have be

direct. I here at once see that I have discover the true cause of

earthquake and volcano; and this show how great light may be throw

upon theory concern the hidden constitution of this earth, by go

more deeply into the matter of it than have be do by any one before I

dig my hole. our volcano, it be now prove, be situate over the

market-place of various provincial town in Skitzland. when a

revolution happen, the rebel be shoot up,--discharged from mortar by

mean of an explosive material evidently far more powerful than our

gunpowder, or gun-cotton; and they be pulverize by the friction in

grind their way through the earth. how simple and easy truth appear,

when we have once arrive at it.



the sound of muffle drum approach we, and a long procession turn

the corner of a street. I be place in the middle of it,--Baron Terroro

by my side. all then begin to float so rapidly away, that I be nearly

leave alone, when forty arm come back and collar I. it be consider

to be a proof of my refractory disposition, that I would make no use of

my innate power of flight. I be therefore drag in this procession

swiftly through the air, drum play, fife lament.



we alight on the spot where I have fall, and the hole through which I

have come I see above I. it be very small, but the light from above

shine more vividly through it make it look, with its rough edge, like

a crumpled moon. a quantity of some explosive liquid be pour into a

large mortar, which have be erect (under the eye of Baron Terroro)

exactly where my misfortune happen. I be then thrust in, the Baron

ram I down, and pound with a long stock or pestle upon my head

in a noticeably vicious manner. the Baron then cry “Fire!” and as I

shoot out, in the midst of a blaze, I see he look upward.



       *       *       *       *       *



by great good fortune, they have plant their artillery so well, that I

be fire up through my hole again, and alight in my own garden, just

a little singe. my first thought be to run to an adjoining bed of

vegetable marrow. thirty vegetable marrow and two pumpkin I rain

down to astonish the Skitzlanders, and I fervently hope that one of they

may have knock out the remain eye of my vindictive enemy, the

Baron. I then go into the pantry, and obtain a basket full of egg,

and having rain these down upon the Skitzlanders, I leave they.



it be after breakfast when I go down to Skitzland, and I come back

while the dinner bell be ring.









IV.



Lizzie Leigh.





when death be present in a household on a Christmas Day, the very

contrast between the time as it now be, and the day as it have often

be, give a poignancy to sorrow,--a more utter blankness to the

desolation. James Leigh die just as the far-away bell of Rochdale

Church be ring for morning service on Christmas Day, 1836. a few

minute before his death he open his already glaze eye, and make a

faint motion of his lip, that he have yet something to say. she stoop

close down, and catch the break whisper, “I forgive she, Anne! may God

forgive I.”



“oh my love, my dear! only get well, and I will never cease show my

thank for those word. may God in heaven bless thee for say they.

Thou’rt not so restless, my lad! may be--oh God!”



for even while she speak, he die.



they have be two-and-twenty year man and wife; for nineteen of those

year their life have be as calm and happy, as the most perfect

uprightness on the one side, and the most complete confidence and love

submission on the other, could make it. Milton’s famous line might have

be frame and hang up as the rule of their married life, for he be

truly the interpreter, who stand between God and she; she would have

consider herself wicked if she have ever dare even to think he

austere, though as certainly as he be an upright man, so surely be he

hard, stern, and inflexible. but for three year the moan and the murmur

have never be out of her heart; she have rebel against her husband as

against a tyrant, with a hide sullen rebellion, which tear up the old

land-mark of wifely duty and affection, and poison the fountain

whence gentle love and reverence have be forever spring.



but those last bless word replace he on his throne in her heart,

and call out penitent anguish for all the bitter estrangement of later

year. it be this which make she refuse all the entreaty of her son,

that she would see the kind-hearted neighbor, who call on their way

from church, to sympathize and condole. no! she would stay with the dead

husband that have speak tenderly at last, if for three year he have keep

silence; who know but what, if she have only be more gentle and less

angrily reserve he might have relent early--and in time.



she sit rock herself to and fro by the side of the bed, while the

footstep below go in and out; she have be in sorrow too long to have

any violent burst of deep grief now; the furrow be well wear in her

cheek, and the tear flow quietly, if incessantly, all the day long.

but when the winter’s night draw on, and the neighbor have go away to

their home, she steal to the window, and gaze out, long and wistfully,

over the dark gray moor. she do not hear her son’s voice, as he speak

to she from the door, nor his footstep as he draw nearer. she start

when he touch she.



“Mother! come down to we. there’s no one but Will and I. dearest

mother, we do so want you.” the poor lad’s voice tremble, and he begin

to cry. it appear to require an effort on Mrs. Leigh’s part to tear

herself away from the window, but with a sigh she comply with his

request.



the two boy (for though Will be nearly twenty-one, she still think

of he as a lad) have do everything in their power to make the

house-place comfortable for she. she herself, in the old day before her

sorrow, have never make a bright fire or a clean hearth, ready for

her husband’s return home, than now await she. the tea-thing be all

put out, and the kettle be boil; and the boy have calm their grief

down into a kind of sober cheerfulness. they pay she every attention

they could think of, but receive little notice on her part; she do not

resist--she rather submit to all their arrangement; but they do

not seem to touch her heart.



when the tea be ended,--it be merely the form of tea that have be

go through,--Will move the thing away to the dresser. his mother

leant back languidly in her chair.



“Mother, shall Tom read you a chapter? he’s a well scholar than I.”



“aye, lad!” say she, almost eagerly. “that’s it. read I the Prodigal

Son. aye, aye, lad. thank thee.”



Tom find the chapter, and read it in the high-pitch voice which be

customary in village-school. his mother bend forward, her lip part,

her eye dilate; her whole body instinct with eager attention. will sat

with his head depressed, and hang down. he know why that chapter have

be choose; and to he it recall the family’s disgrace. when the

reading be end, he still hang down his head in gloomy silence. but

her face be bright than it have be before for the day. her eye

look dreamy, as if she see a vision; and by-and-bye she pull the

Bible towards she, and put her finger underneath each word, begin to

read they aloud in a low voice to herself; she read again the word of

bitter sorrow and deep humiliation; but most of all she pause and

brighten over the father’s tender reception of the repentant prodigal.



so pass the Christmas evening in the Upclose Farm.



the snow have fall heavily over the dark wave moorland, before the

day of the funeral. the black, storm-laden dome of heaven lie very still

and close upon the white earth, as they carry the body forth out of

the house which have know his presence so long as its rule power. two

and two the mourner follow, make a black procession, in their

wind march over the unbeaten snow, to Milne-row Church--now lose in

some hollow of the bleak moor, now slowly climb the heavy ascent.

there be no long tarrying after the funeral, for many of the neighbor

who accompany the body to the grave have far to go, and the great

white flake which come slowly down, be the bode fore-runner of a

heavy storm. one old friend alone accompany the widow and her son to

their home.



the Upclose Farm have belong for generation to the Leighs; and yet its

possession hardly raise they above the rank of laborer. there be the

house and outbuilding, all of an old-fashioned kind, and about seven

acre of barren, unproductive land, which they have never possess

capital enough to improve; indeed they could hardly rely upon it for

subsistence; and it have be customary to bring up the son to some

trade--such as a wheelwright’s, or blacksmith’s.



James Leigh have leave a will, in the possession of the old man who

accompany they home. he read it aloud. James have bequeath the farm

to his faithful wife, Anne Leigh, for her life-time, and afterwards to

his son William. the hundred and odd-pound in the saving-bank be to

accumulate for Thomas.



after the reading be end, Anne Leigh sit silent for a time; and then

she ask to speak to Samuel Orme alone. the son go into the

back-kitchen, and thence stroll out into the field regardless of the

drive snow. the brother be dearly fond of each other, although they

be very different in character. will, the elder, be like his father,

stern, reserved, scrupulously upright. Tom (who be ten year young)

be gentle and delicate as a girl, both in appearance and character. he

have always clung to his mother, and dread his father. they do not

speak as they walk, for they be only in the habit of talk about

fact, and hardly know the more sophisticated language apply to the

description of feeling.



meanwhile their mother have take hold of Samuel Orme’s arm with she

tremble hand.



“Samuel, I must let the farm--I must.”



“let the farm! what’s come o’er the woman?”



“oh, Samuel!” say she, her eye swim in tear, “I’m just fain to go

and live in Manchester. I mun let the farm.”



Samuel look, and ponder, but do not speak for some time. at last he

said--



“if thou hast make up thy mind, there’s no speaking again it; and thou

must e’en go. Thou’lt be sadly potter wi’ Manchester way, but that’s

not my look out. why, thou’lt have to buy potato, a thing thou hast

never do afore in all thy bear life. well! it’s not my look out. it’s

rather for I than again I. our Jenny be go to be married to Tom

Higginbotham, and he be speak of want a bit of land to begin

upon. his father will be die sometime, I reckon, and then he’ll step

into the Croft Farm. but meanwhile”--



“then, thou’lt let the farm,” say she, still as eagerly as ever.



“aye, aye, he’ll take it fast enough, I’ve a notion. but I’ll not drive

a bargain with thee just now; it would not be right; we’ll wait a bit.”



“no; I cannot wait, settle it out at once.”



“well, well; I’ll speak to Will about it. I see he out yonder. I’ll

step to he, and talk it over.”



accordingly he go and join the two lad, and without more ado, begin

the subject to they.



“Will, thy mother be fain to go live in Manchester, and covet to let

the farm. now, I’m willing to take it for Tom Higginbotham; but I like

to drive a keen bargain, and there would be no fun chaffer with thy

mother just now. let thee and I buckle to, my lad! and try and cheat

each other; it will warm we this cold day.”



“let the farm!” say both the lad at once, with infinite surprise. “go

live in Manchester!”



when Samuel Orme find that the plan have never before be name to

either Will or Tom, he would have nothing to do with it, he say, until

they have speak to their mother; likely she be “daze” by her husband’s

death; he would wait a day or two, and not name it to any one; not to

Tom Higginbotham himself, or may be he would set his heart upon it. the

lad have well go in and talk it over with their mother. he bid they

good day, and leave they.



will look very gloomy, but he do not speak till they get near the

house. then he said,--



“Tom, go to th’ shippon, and supper the cow. I want to speak to mother

alone.”



when he enter the house-place, she be sit before the fire,

look into its ember. she do not hear he come in; for some time she

have lose her quick perception of outward thing.



“Mother! what’s this about go to Manchester?” ask he.



“oh, lad!” say she, turn round and speak in a beseech tone, “I

must go and seek our Lizzie. I cannot rest here for think on she.

many’s the time I’ve leave thy father sleep in bed, and steal to th’

window, and look and look my heart out towards Manchester, till I

think I must just set out and tramp over moor and moss straight away

till I get there, and then lift up every downcast face till I come to

our Lizzie. and often, when the south wind be blow soft among the

hollow, I’ve fancy (it could but be fancy, thou know) I hear she

cry upon I; and I’ve think the voice come close and close, till

at last it be sob out ‘mother’ close to the door; and I’ve steal

down, and undone the latch before now, and look out into the still

black night, think to see her,--and turn sick and sorrowful when I

hear no live sound but the sough of the wind die away. oh! speak

not to I of stop here, when she may be perish for hunger, like

the poor lad in the parable.” and now she lift up her voice and weep

aloud.



will be deeply grieve. he have be old enough to be tell the family

shame when, more than two year before, his father have have his letter to

his daughter return by her mistress in Manchester, tell he that

Lizzie have leave her service some time--and why. he have sympathize with

his father’s stern anger; though he have think he something hard, it

be true, when he have forbid his weeping, heart-break wife to go and

try to find her poor sinning child, and declare that henceforth they

would have no daughter that she should be as one dead, and her name

never more be name at market or at meal time, in blessing or in prayer.

he have hold his peace, with compress lip and contract brow, when

the neighbor have notice to he how poor Lizzie’s death have age both

his father and his mother; and how they think the bereaved couple

would never hold up their head again. he himself have feel as if that

one event have make he old before his time; and have envy Tom the tear

he have shed over poor, pretty, innocent, dead lizzie. he think about

she sometimes, till he grind his tooth, and could have strike she down

in her shame. his mother have never name she to he until now.



“Mother!” say he at last. “she may be dead. most likely she be.”



“no, Will; she be not dead,” say Mrs. Leigh. “God will not let she die

till I’ve see she once again. Thou dost not know how I’ve pray and

pray just once again to see her sweet face, and tell she I’ve forgive

she, though she’s break my heart--she have, Will.” she could not go on

for a minute or two for the choke sob. “Thou dost not know that, or

thou wouldst not say she could be dead,--for God be very merciful, will;

he is,--He be much more pitiful than man,--I could never ha’ speak to

thy father as I do to Him,--and yet thy father forgive she at last. the

last word he say be that he forgive she. Thou’lt not be hard than

thy father, will? do not try and hinder I go to seek she, for it’s

no use.”



will sit very still for a long time before he speak. at last he say,

“I’ll not hinder you. I think she’s dead, but that’s no matter.”



“she be not dead,” say her mother, with low earnestness. will take no

notice of the interruption.



“we will all go to Manchester for a twelve-month, and let the farm to

Tom Higginbotham. I’ll get blacksmith’s work; and Tom can have good

schooling for awhile, which he’s always crave for. at the end of the

year you’ll come back, mother, and give over fret for Lizzie, and

think with I that she be dead,--and, to my mind, that would be more

comfort than to think of her living;” he drop his voice as he speak

these last word. she shake her head, but make no answer. he ask

again,--



“will you, mother, agree to this?”



“I’ll agree to it a-this-ns,” say she. “if I hear and see nought of she

for a twelve-month, I be in Manchester look out, I’ll just ha’

break my heart fairly before the year’s end, and then I shall know

neither love nor sorrow for she any more, when I’m at rest in the

grave--I’ll agree to that, Will.”



“well, I suppose it must be so. I shall not tell Tom, mother, why we’re

flit to Manchester. well spare he.”



“as thou wilt,” say she, sadly, “so that we go, that’s all.”



before the wild daffodil be in flower in the shelter copse round

Upclose Farm, the Leighs be settle in their Manchester home; if they

could ever grow to consider that place as a home where there be no

garden, or outbuilde, no fresh breezy outlet, no far-stretch view,

over moor and hollow,--no dumb animal to be tend, and, what more than

all they miss, no old haunt memory, even though those

remembrance tell of sorrow, and the dead and go.



Mrs. Leigh heed the loss of all these thing less than her son. she

have more spirit in her countenance than she have have for month, because

now she have hope; of a sad enough kind, to be sure, but still it be

hope. she perform all her household duty, strange and complicated as

they be, and bewilder as she be with all the town-necessity of

her new manner of life; but when her house be “sided,” and the boy

come home from their work, in the evening, she would put on her thing

and steal out, unnoticed, as she think, but not without many a heavy

sigh from Will, after she have close the house-door and depart. it be

often past midnight before she come back, pale and weary, with almost a

guilty look upon her face; but that face so full of disappointment and

hope defer, that will have never the heart to say what he think of

the folly and hopelessness of the search. night after night it be

renew, till day grow to week and week to month. all this time will

do his duty towards she as well as he could, without have sympathy

with she. he staid at home in the evening for Tom’s sake, and often

wish he have Tom’s pleasure in reading, for the time hang heavy on his

hand, as he sit up for his mother.



I need not tell you how the mother spend the weary hour. and yet I will

tell you something. she use to wander out, at first as if without a

purpose, till she rally her thought, and bring all her energy to

bear on the one point; then she go with earnest patience along the

least know way to some new part of the town, look wistfully with

dumb entreaty into people’s face; sometimes catch a glimpse of a

figure which have a kind of momentary likeness to her child’s, and

follow that figure with never-weary perseverance, till some light

from shop or lamp show the cold strange face which be not her

daughter’s. once or twice a kind-hearte passer-by, strike by her look

of yearn woe, turn back and offer help, or ask she what she

want. when so speak to, she answer only, “you don’t know a poor

girl they call Lizzie Leigh, do you?” and when they deny all

knowledge, she shake her head, and go on again. I think they believe

she to be crazy. but she never speak first to any one. she sometimes

take a few minute’ rest on the door-step, and sometimes (very seldom)

cover her face and cry; but she could not afford to lose time and

chance in this way; while her eye be blind with tear, the lose

one might pass by unseen.



one evening, in the rich time of shorten autumn-day, will see an old

man, who, without be absolutely drunk, could not guide himself

rightly along the foot-path, and be mock for his unsteadiness of gait

by the idle boy of the neighborhood. for his father’s sake will

regard old age with tenderness, even when most degraded and remove

from the stern virtue which dignify that father; so he take the old

man home, and seem to believe his often-repeat assertion that he

drink nothing but water. the stranger try to stiffen himself up into

steadiness as he draw nearer home, as if there be some one there, for

whose respect he care even in his half-intoxicate state, or whose

feeling he fear to grieve. his home be exquisitely clean and neat

even in outside appearance; threshold, window, and windowsill, be

outward sign of some spirit of purity within. will be regard for his

attention by a bright glance of thank, succeed by a blush of shame,

from a young woman of twenty or thereabout. she do not speak, or

second her father’s hospitable invitation to he to be seat. she

seem unwilling that a stranger should witness her father’s attempt at

stately sobriety, and will could not bear to stay and see her distress.

but when the old man, with many a flabby shake of the hand, keep ask

he to come again some other evening and see they, will seek she

down-cast eye, and, though he could not read their veiled meaning, he

answer timidly, “if it’s agreeable to everybody, I’ll come--and thank

ye.” but there be no answer from the girl, to whom this speech be in

reality address; and will leave the house like she all the well for

never speak.



he think about she a great deal for the next day or two; he scold

himself for be so foolish as to think of she, and then fall to with

fresh vigor, and think of she more than ever. he try to depreciate

she; and tell himself she be not pretty, and then make indignant answer

that he like she look much well than any beauty of they all. he

wish he be not so country look, so red-faced, so broad-shoulder;

while she be like a lady, with her smooth colorless complexion, her

bright dark hair and her spotless dress. pretty, or not pretty, she draw

his footstep towards she; he could not resist the impulse that make

he wish to see she once more, and find out some fault which should

unloose his heart from her unconscious keeping. but there she be, pure

and maidenly as before. he sit and look, answer her father at

cros-purpose, while she draw more and more into the shadow of the

chimney-corner out of sight. then the spirit that possess he (it be

not he himself, sure, that do so impudent a thing!) make he get up and

carry the candle to a different place, under the pretence of give she

more light at her sewing, but, in reality, to be able to see she well;

she could not stand this much long, but jump up, and say she must

put she little niece to bed; and surely, there never be, before or

since, so troublesome a child of two year old; for, though will staid

an hour and a half long, she never come down again. he win the

father’s heart, though, by his capacity as a listener, for some people

be not at all particular, and, so that they may talk on undisturbed,

be not so unreasonable as to expect attention to what they say.



will do gather this much, however, from the old man’s talk. he have once

be quite in a genteel line of business, but have fail for more money

than any greengrocer he have hear of; at least, any who do not mix up

fish and game with greengrocery proper. this grand failure seem to

have be the event of his life, and one on which he dwelt with a

strange kind of pride. it appear as if at present he rest from his

past exertion (in the bankrupt line), and depend on his daughter, who

keep a small school for very young child. but all these particular

will only remember and understand, when he have leave the house; at the

time he hear they, he be think of Susan. after he have make good his

footing at Mr. Palmer’s, he be not long, you may be sure, without

find some reason for return again and again. he listen to her

father, he talk to the little niece, but he look at Susan, both

while he listen and while he talk. her father keep on insist upon

his former gentility, the detail of which would have appear very

questionable to Will’s mind, if the sweet, delicate, modest Susan have

not throw an inexplicable air of refinement over all she come near. she

never speak much; she be generally diligently at work; but when she

move it be so noiselessly, and when she do speak, it be in so low

and soft a voice, that silence, speech, motion and stillness, alike

seem to remove she high above will’s reach into some saintly and

inaccessible air of glory--high above his reach; even as she know he!

and, if she be make acquainted with the dark secret behind, of his

sister’s shame, which be keep ever present to his mind by his mother’s

nightly search among the outcast and forsake, would not Susan shrink

away from he with loathing as if he be taint by the involuntary

relationship? this be his dread; and thereupon follow a resolution

that he would withdraw from her sweet company before it be too late. so

he resist internal temptation, and staid at home, and suffer and

sigh. he become angry with his mother for her untiring patience in

seek for one who, he could not help hope, be dead rather than

alive. he speak sharply to she, and receive only such sad deprecatory

answer as make he reproach himself, and still more lose sight of peace

of mind. this struggle could not last long without affect his health;

and Tom, his sole companion through the long evening, notice his

increase languor, his restless irritability, with perplexed anxiety,

and at last resolve to call his mother’s attention to his brother’s

haggard, care-wear look. she listen with a startled recollection of

will’s claim upon her love. she notice his decrease appetite, and

half-check sigh.



“Will, lad! what’s come o’er thee?” say she to he, as he sat

listlessly gaze into the fire.



“there’s nought the matter with I,” say he, as if annoy at her

remark.



“nay, lad, but there be.” he do not speak again to contradict she;

indeed she do not know if he have hear she, so unmoved do he look.



“Would’st like to go back to Upclose Farm?” ask she, sorrowfully.



“it’s just blackberry time,” say Tom.



will shook his head. she look at he awhile, as if try to read that

expression of despondency and trace it back to its source.



“Will and Tom could go,” say she; “I must stay here till I’ve find

she, thou know’st,” continue she, drop her voice.



he turn quickly round, and with the authority he have at all time

exercise over Tom, bid he begone to bed.



when Tom have leave the room he prepare to speak.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Mother,” then say Will, “why will you keep on think she’s alive? if

she be but dead, we need never name her name again. we’ve never hear

nought on she since father write she that letter; we never know whether

she get it or not. she’d leave her place before then. many a one die

is----”



“oh my lad! dunnot speak so to I, or my heart will break outright,”

say his mother, with a sort of cry. then she calm herself, for she

yearn to persuade he to her own belief. “Thou never ask, and

thou’rt too like thy father for I to tell without ask--but it be

all to be near Lizzie’s old place that I settle down on this side o’

Manchester; and the very day after we come, I go to her old miss,

and ask to speak a word wi’ she. I have a strong mind to cast it up to

she, that she should ha’ send my poor lass away without tell on it to

we first; but she be in black, and look so sad I could na’ find in

my heart to threep it up. but I do ask she a bit about our Lizzie. the

master would have turn she away at a day’s warning, (he’s go to

t’other place; I hope he’ll meet wi’ more mercy there than he show our

Lizzie,--I do,--) and when the missus ask she should she write to we,

she say Lizzie shake her head; and when she speere at she again, the

poor lass go down on her knee, and beg she not, for she say it

would break my heart, (as it have do, will--God know it have),” say

the poor mother, choke with her struggle to keep down her hard

overmaster grief, “and her father would curse she--oh God, teach I

to be patient.” she could not speak for a few minutes,--“and the lass

threaten, and say she’d go drown herself in the canal, if the missus

write home,--and so--



“well! I’d get a trace of my child,--the missus think she’d go to

th’ workhouse to be nurse; and there I went,--and there, sure enough,

she have been,--and they’d turn she out as soon as she be strong, and

tell she she be young enough to work,--but whatten kind o’ work would

be open to she, lad, and her baby to keep?”



will listen to his mother’s tale with deep sympathy, not unmixe with

the old bitter shame. but the opening of her heart have unlock his, and

after awhile he speak.



“Mother! I think I’d e’en well go home. Tom can stay wi’ thee. I know

I should stay too, but I cannot stay in peace so near--she--without

craving to see she--Susan Palmer I mean.”



“have the old Mr. Palmer thou tell I on a daughter?” ask Mrs. Leigh.



“Aye, he have. and I love she above a bit. and it’s because I love she I

want to leave Manchester. that’s all.”



Mrs. Leigh try to understand this speech for some time, but find it

difficult of interpretation.



“why should’st thou not tell she thou lov’st she? Thou’rt a likely lad,

and sure o’ work. Thou’lt have Upclose at my death; and as for that I

could let thee have it now, and keep mysel’ by do a bit of char.

it seem to I a very backwards sort o’ way of win she to think of

leave Manchester.”



“oh mother, she’s so gentle and so good,--she’s downright holy. she’s

never know a touch of sin; and can I ask she to marry I know what

we do about Lizzie, and fear bad! I doubt if one like she could

ever care for I; but if she know about my sister, it would put a gulf

between we, and she’d shudder at the thought of cross it. you don’t

know how good she be, mother!”



“will, Will! if she’s as good as thou say’st, she’ll have pity on such

as my Lizzie. if she have no pity for such, she’s a cruel Pharisee, and

thou’rt well without she.”



but he only shake his head, and sigh; and for the time the

conversation drop.



but a new idea spring up in Mrs. Leigh’s head. she think that she

would go and see Susan Palmer, and speak up for Will, and tell she the

truth about Lizzie; and accord to her pity for the poor sinner, would

she be worthy or unworthy of he. she resolve to go the very next

afternoon, but without tell any one of her plan. accordingly she

look out the Sunday clothe she have never before have the heart to

unpack since she come to Manchester, but which she now desire to appear

in, in order to do credit to will. she put on her old-fashioned black

mode bonnet, trim with real lace; her scarlet cloth cloak, which she

have have ever since she be marry, and always spotlessly clean, she set

forth on her unauthorized embassy. she know the Palmers live in Crown

Street, though where she have hear it she could not tell; and modestly

ask her way, she arrive in the street about a quarter to four

o’clock. she stop to inquire the exact number, and the woman whom she

address tell she that Susan Palmer’s school would not be loose till

four, and ask she to step in and wait until then at her house.



“for,” say she, smile, “they that want Susan Palmer want a kind

friend of our; so we, in a manner, call cousin. sit down, missus, sit

down. I’ll wipe the chair, so that it shanna dirty your cloak. my mother

use to wear they bright cloak, and they’re right gradely thing agin a

green field.”



“Han ye know Susan Palmer long?” ask Mrs. Leigh, please with the

admiration of her cloak.



“ever since they come to live in our street. our Sally go to her

school.”



“Whatten sort of a lass be she, for I ha’ never see she?”



“Well,--as for look, I cannot say. it’s so long since I first know

she, that I’ve clean forget what I think of she then. my master

say he never see such a smile for gladden the heart. but maybe it’s

not look you’re ask about. the good thing I can say of her look be,

that she’s just one a stranger would stop in the street to ask help from

if you need it. all the little childer creep as close as they can to

she; she’ll have as many as three or four hang to her apron all at

once.”



“be she cocket at all?”



“Cocket, bless you! you never see a creature less set up in all your

life. her father’s cocket enough. no! she ’s not cocket any way. you’ve

not hear much of Susan Palmer, I reckon, if you think she’s cocket.

she’s just one to come quietly in, and do the very thing most want;

little thing, maybe, that any one could do, but that few would think

on, for another. she’ll bring her thimble wi’ she, and mend up after

the childer o’ nights,--and she write all Betty Barker’s letter to she

grandchild out at service,--and she’s in nobody’s way, and that’s a

great matter, I take it. here’s the childer run past! school be

loosed. you’ll find she now, missus, ready to hear and to help. but we

none on we frab she by go near she in school-time.”



Poor Mrs. Leigh’s heart begin to beat, and she could almost have turn

round and go home again. her country breeding have make she shy of

stranger, and this Susan Palmer appear to she like a real bear lady

by all account. so she knock with a timid feeling at the indicate

door, and when it be open, drop a simple curtsey without speak.

Susan have her little niece in her arm, curl up with fond endearment

against her breast, but she put she gently down to the ground, and

instantly place a chair in the good corner of the room for Mrs. Leigh,

when she tell she who she be. “it’s not will as have ask I to come,”

say the mother, apologetically, “I’d a wish just to speak to you

myself!”



Susan color up to her temple, and stoop to pick up the little

toddle girl. in a minute or two Mrs. Leigh begin again.



“will think you would na respect we if you know all; but I think you

could na help feel for we in the sorrow God have put upon we; so I

just put on my bonnet, and come off unknownst to the lad. every one

say you’re very good, and that the Lord have keep you from fall

from his way; but maybe you’ve never yet be try and tempt as some

be. I’m perhaps speak too plain, but my heart’s welly broken, and I

cann’t be choice in my word as they who be happy can. well now! I’ll

tell you the truth. will dread you to hear it, but I’ll just tell it

you. you mun know,”--but here the poor woman’s word fail she, and she

could do nothing but sit rock herself backwards and forwards, with

sad eye, straight-gaze into Susan’s face, as if they try to tell

the tale of agony which the quivering lip refuse to utter. those

wretche stony eye force the tear down Susan’s cheek, and, as if

this sympathy give the mother strength, she go on in a low voice, “I

have a daughter once, my heart’s darling. her father think I make too

much on she, and that she’d grow marred staying at home; so he say she

mun go among stranger, and learn to rough it. she be young, and like

the thought of see a bit of the world; and her father hear on a

place in Manchester. well! I’ll not weary you. that poor girl be lead

astray; and first thing we hear on it, be when a letter of her

father’s be send back by her missus, say she’d leave her place, or,

to speak right, the master have turn she into the street soon as he have

hear of her condition--and she not seventeen!”



she now cry aloud; and Susan weep too. the little child look up into

their face, and, catch their sorrow, begin to whimper and wail.

Susan take it softly up, and hide her face in its little neck, try

to restrain her tear, and think of comfort for the mother. at last she

say:



“where be she now?”



“Lass! I dunnot know,” say Mrs. Leigh, check her sob to communicate

this addition to her distress. “Mrs. Lomax tell I she went”--



“Mrs. Lomax--what Mrs. Lomax?”



“she as life in Brabazon-street. she tell I my poor wench go to

the workhouse fra there. I’ll not speak again the dead; but if her

father would but ha’ letten me,--but he be one who have no notion--no,

I’ll not say that; good say nought. he forgive she on his death-bed. I

dare say I do na go th’ right way to work.”



“will you hold the child for I one instant?” say Susan.



“ay, if it will come to I. Childer use to be fond on I till I get the

sad look on my face that scare they, I think.”



but the little girl clung to Susan; so she carry it upstairs with she.

Mrs. Leigh sit by herself--how long she do not know.



Susan come down with a bundle of far-wear baby-clothe.



“you must listen to I a bit, and not think too much about what I’m

go to tell you. nanny be not my niece, nor any kin to I that I know

of. I use to go out work by the day. one night, as I come home, I

think some woman be follow I; I turn to look. the woman, before

I could see her face (for she turn it to one side), offer I

something. I hold out my arm by instinct: she drop a bundle into

they with a burst sob that go straight to my heart. it be a baby.

I look round again; but the woman be go. she have run away as quick

as lightning. there be a little packet of clothe--very few--and as if

they be make out of its mother’s gown, for they be large pattern

to buy for a baby. I be always fond of baby; and I have not my wit

about I, father say; for it be very cold, and when I’d see as well

as I could (for it be past ten) that there be no one in the street, I

bring it in and warm it. Father be very angry when he come, and

say he’d take it to the workhouse the next morning, and flyte I

sadly about it. but when morning come I could not bear to part with it;

it have sleep in my arm all night; and I’ve hear what workhouse

bring up be. so I tell father I’d give up go out work, and stay

at home and keep school, if I might only keep the baby; and after

awhile, he say if I earn enough for he to have his comfort, he’d

let I; but he’s never take to she. now, don’t tremble so,--I’ve but a

little more to tell,--and maybe I’m wrong in tell it; but I use to

work next door to Mrs. Lomax’s, in Brabazon-street, and the servant

be all thick together; and I hear about Bessy (they call she) be

send away. I don’t know that ever I see she; but the time would be about

fitting to this child’s age, and I’ve sometimes fancy it be she’s.

and now, will you look at the little clothe that come with she--bless

she!”



but Mrs. Leigh have faint. the strange joy and shame, and gush love

for the little child have overpower she; it be some time before Susan

could bring she round. there she be all tremble, sick impatience to

look at the little frock. among they be a slip of paper which Susan

have forget to name, that have be pin to the bundle. on it be

scrawl in a round stiff hand.



“call she Anne. she do not cry much, and take a deal of notice. God

bless you and forgive I.”



the writing be no clue at all; the name “Anne,” common though it be,

seem something to build upon. but Mrs. Leigh recognize one of the

frock instantly, as be make out of part of a gown that she and her

daughter have buy together in Rochdale.



she stand up, and stretch out her hand in the attitude of blessing

over Susan’s bent head.



“God bless you, and show you his mercy in your need, as you have show

it to this little child.”



she take the little creature in her arm, and smooth away her sad

look to a smile, and kiss it fondly, say over and over again,

“Nanny, Nanny, my little nanny.” at last the child be soothe, and

look in her face and smile back again.



“it have her eye,” say she to Susan.



“I never see she to the good of my knowledge. I think it must be she’s

by the frock. but where can she be?”



“God know,” say Mrs. Leigh; “I dare not think she’s dead. I’m sure she

ben’t.”



“no! she’s not dead. every now and then a little packet be thrust under

our door, with maybe two half-crown in it; once it be a

half-sovereign. altogether I’ve get seven-and-thirty shilling wrap

up for Nanny. I never touch it, but I’ve often think the poor mother

feel near to God when she bring this money. Father want to set the

policeman to watch, but I say no, for I be afraid if she be watch

she might not come, and it seem such a holy thing to be check she

in, I could not find in my heart to do it.”



“oh, if we could but find she! I’d take she in my arm, and we’d just

lie down and die together.”



“Nay, don’t speak so!” say Susan gently, “for all that’s come and go,

she may turn right at last. Mary Magdalen do, you know.”



“eh! but I be near right about thee than Will. he think you would

never look on he again if you know about Lizzie. but thou’rt not a

Pharisee.”



“I’m sorry he think I could be so hard,” say Susan in a low voice,

and color up. then Mrs. Leigh be alarmed, and in her motherly

anxiety, she begin to fear lest she have injure Will in Susan’s

estimation.



“you see will think so much of you--gold would not be good enough for

you to walk on, in his eye. he say you’d never look at he as he be,

let alone his be brother to my poor wench. he love you so, it make

he think meanly on everything belong to himself, as not fit to come

near ye,--but he’s a good lad, and a good son--thou’lt be a happy woman

if thou’lt have he--so don’t let my word go against he; don’t!”



but Susan hang her head and make no answer. she have not know until now,

that will think so earnestly and seriously about she; and even now she

feel afraid that Mrs. Leigh’s word promise she too much happiness, and

that they could not be true. at any rate the instinct of modesty make

her shrink from say anything which might seem like a confession of

her own feeling to a third person. accordingly she turn the

conversation on the child.



“I’m sure he could not help love nanny,” say she. “there never be

such a good little darling; don’t you think she’d win his heart if he

know she be his niece, and perhaps bring he to think kindly on his

sister?”



“I dunnot know,” say Mrs. Leigh, shake her head. “he have a turn in

his eye like his father, that make me----. he’s right down good though.

but you see I’ve never be a good one at manage folk; one severe look

turn I sick, and then I say just the wrong thing, I’m so fluttered.

now I should like nothing well than to take Nancy home with I, but

Tom know nothing but that his sister be dead, and I’ve not the knack of

speak rightly to Will. I dare not do it, and that’s the truth. but

you mun not think badly of will. he’s so good hissel’, that he cann’t

understand how any one can do wrong; and, above all, I’m sure he love

you dearly.”



“I don’t think I could part with Nancy,” say Susan, anxious to stop

this revelation of Will’s attachment to herself. “he’ll come round to

she soon; he cann’t fail; and I’ll keep a sharp lookout after the poor

mother, and try and catch she the next time she come with her little

parcel of money.”



“aye, lass! we mun get hold of she; my Lizzie. I love thee dearly for

thy kindness to her child; but, if thou can’st catch she for I, I’ll

pray for thee when I’m too near my death to speak word; and while I

live, I’ll serve thee next to her,--she mun come first, thou know’st.

God bless thee, lass. my heart be light by a deal than it be when I

come in. they lad will be look for I home, and I mun go, and leave

this little sweet one,” kiss it. “if I can take courage, I’ll tell

will all that have come and go between we two. he may come and see

thee, mayn’t he?”



“Father will be very glad to see he, I’m sure,” reply Susan. the way

in which this be speak satisfied Mrs. Leigh’s anxious heart that she

have do will no harm by what she have say; and with many a kiss to the

little one, and one more fervent tearful blessing on Susan, she go

homeward.



       *       *       *       *       *



that night Mrs. Leigh stop at home; that only night for many month.

even Tom, the scholar, look up from his book in amazement; but then

he remember that will have not be well, and that his mother’s

attention having be call to the circumstance, it be only natural

she should stay to watch he. and no watching could be more tender, or

more complete. her love eye seemed never avert from his face; his

grave, sad, care-wear face. when Tom go to bed the mother leave she

seat, and go up to Will where he sit look at the fire, but not

see it, she kiss his forehead, and say,



“Will! lad, I’ve be to see Susan Palmer!”



she feel the start under the hand which be place on his shoulder, but

he be silent for a minute or two. then he say,



“what take you there, mother?”



“why, my lad, it be likely I should wish to see one you care for; I

do not put myself forward. I put on my Sunday clothe, and try to

behave as yo’d ha like I. at least I remember try at first; but

after, I forget all.”



she rather wish that he would question she as to what make her forget

all. but he only say,



“how be she look, mother?”



“will, thou seest I never set eye on she before; but she’s a good

gentle look creature; and I love she dearly, as I’ve reason to.”



will look up with momentary surprise; for his mother be too shy to be

usually take with stranger. but after all it be natural in this case,

for who could look at Susan without love she? so still he do not ask

any question, and his poor mother have to take courage, and try again to

introduce the subject near to her heart. but how?



“Will!” say she (jerk it out, in sudden despair of her own power to

lead to what she want to say), “I tell she all.”



“Mother! you’ve ruin I,” say he, stand up, and stand opposite

to she with a stern white look of affright on his face.



“no! my own dear lad; dunnot look so scared, I have not ruin you!” she

exclaim, place she two hand on his shoulder, and look fondly

into his face. “she’s not one to harden her heart against a mother’s

sorrow. my own lad she’s too good for that. she’s not one to judge and

scorn the sinner. she’s too deep read in her New Testament for that.

take courage, will; and thou may’st, for I watch she well, though it

be not for one woman to let out another’s secret. sit thee down, lad,

for thou look’st very white.”



he sit down. his mother draw a stool towards he, and sit at his foot.



“do you tell she about Lizzie, then?” ask he, hoarse and low.



“I do, I tell she all; and she fall a crying over my deep sorrow, and

the poor wench’s sin. and then a light come into her face, tremble

and quiver with some new glad thought; and what dost thou think it

be, Will, lad? Nay, I’ll not misdoubt but that thy heart will give

thank as mine do, afore God and his angel, for her great goodness.

that little nanny be not her niece, she’s our Lizzie’s own child, my

little grandchild.” she could no long restrain her tear, and they

fall hot and fast, but still she look into his face.



“do she know it be Lizzie’s child? I do not comprehend,” say he,

flush red.



“she know now: she do not at first, but take the little helpless

creature in, out of her own pitiful love heart, guess only that it

be the child of shame, and she’s work for it, and keep it, and tend

it ever sin’ it be a mere baby, and love it fondly. will! willn’t you

love it?” ask she, beseechingly.



he be silent for an instant; then he say, “Mother, I’ll try. give I

time, for all these thing startle I. to think of Susan have to do

with such a child!”



“Aye, Will! and to think (as may be yet) of Susan have to do with the

child’s mother! for she be tender and pitiful, and speak hopefully of

my lose one, and will try and find she for I, when she come, as she

do sometimes, to thrust money under the door, for her baby. think of

that, Will. here’s Susan, good and pure as the angel in heaven, yet,

like they, full of hope and mercy, and one who, like they, will rejoice

over she as repent. will, my lad, I’m not afeared of you now, and I

must speak, and you must listen. I be your mother, and I dare to command

you, because I know I be in the right and that God be on my side. if he

should lead the poor wandering lassie to Susan’s door, and she come

back cry and sorrowful, lead by that good angel to we once more, thou

shalt never say a casting-up word to she about her sin, but be tender

and helpful towards one “who be lose and be find,” so may God’s

blessing rest on thee, and so mayst thou lead Susan home as thy wife.”



she stand, no long as the meek, imploring, gentle mother, but firm and

dignified, as if the interpreter of God’s will. her manner be so

unusual and solemn, that it overcome all will’s pride and stubbornness.

he rise softly while she be speak, and bent his head as if in

reverence at her word, and the solemn injunction which they convey.

when she have speak, he say in so subdue a voice that she be almost

surprised at the sound, “Mother, I will.”



“I may be dead and gone,--but all the same,--thou wilt take home the

wandering sinner, and heal up her sorrow, and lead she to her Father’s

house. my lad! I can speak no more; I’m turn very faint.”



he place she in a chair; he run for water. she open her eye and

smile.



“God bless you, Will. oh, I be so happy. it seem as if she be find;

my heart be so fill with gladness.”



that night Mr. Palmer stay out late and long. Susan be afraid that he

be at his old haunt and habits,--getting tipsy at some public-house;

and this thought oppress she, even though she have so much to make she

happy, in the consciousness that will love she. she sit up long, and

then she go to bed, leave all arrange as well as she could for her

father’s return. she look at the little rosy sleep girl who be her

bed-fellow, with redoubled tenderness, and with many a prayerful

thought. the little arm entwine her neck as she lie down, for Nanny

be a light sleeper, and be conscious that she, who be love with all

the power of that sweet childish heart, be near she, and by she,

although she be too sleepy to utter any of her half-form word.



and by-and-bye she hear her father come home, stumble uncertain,

try first the window, and next the door-fastening, with many a loud

incoherent murmur. the little Innocent twine around she seem all the

sweet and more lovely, when she think sadly of her err father.

and presently he call aloud for a light; she have leave match and all

arrange as usual on the dresser, but fearful of some accident from

fire, in his unusually intoxicated state, she now get up softly, and

put on a cloak, go down to his assistance.



alas! the little arm that be unclose from her soft neck belong to

a light, easily-awaken sleeper. Nanny miss her darling Susy, and

terrify at be leave alone in the vast mysterious darkness, which have

no bound, and seem infinite, she slip out of bed, and totter in

her little night-gown towards the door. there be a light below and

there be Susy and safety! so she go onwards two step towards the

steep abrupt stair; and then dazzle with sleepiness, she stand, she

waver, she fall! down on her head on the stone floor she fall! Susan

fly to she, and speak all soft, entreating, love word; but her white

lid cover up the blue violet of eye, and there be no murmur come

out of the pale lip. the warm tear that rain down do not awaken

she; she lie stiff, and weary with her short life, on Susan’s knee.

Susan go sick with terror. she carry she upstairs, and lay she

tenderly in bed; she dress herself most hastily, with her trembling

finger. her father be asleep on the settle down stair; and useless,

and bad than useless if awake. but Susan fly out of the door, and

down the quiet resounding street, towards the near doctor’s house.

quickly she go; but as quickly a shadow follow, as if impel by

some sudden terror. Susan ring wildly at the night-bell,--the shadow

crouch near. the doctor look out from an upstairs window.



“a little child have fall down stair at No. 9 Crown-street, and be

very ill,--dying, I’m afraid. please, for God’s sake, sir, come

directly. no. 9 Crown-street.”



“I’ll be there directly,” say he, and shut the window.



“for that God you have just speak about,--for his sake,--tell I be

you Susan Palmer? be it my child that lie a-die?” say the shadow,

spring forwards, and clutch poor Susan’s arm.



“it be a little child of two year old,--I do not know whose it be; I

love it as my own. come with I, whoever you be; come with I.”



the two speed along the silent streets,--as silent as the night be

they. they enter the house; Susan snatch up the light, and carry

it upstairs. the other follow.



she stand with wild glare eye by the bedside, never look at Susan,

but hungrily gaze at the little white still child. she stoop down,

and put her hand tight on her own heart, as if to still its beating, and

bent her ear to the pale lip. whatever the result be, she do not

speak; but throw off the bed-clothe wherewith Susan have tenderly

cover the little creature, and feel its left side.



then she throw up her arm with a cry of wild despair.



“she be dead! she be dead!”



she look so fierce, so mad, so haggard, that for an instant Susan be

terrified--the next, the holy God have put courage into her heart, and

her pure arm be round that guilty wretched creature, and her tear

be fall fast and warm upon her breast. but she be throw off with

violence.



“you kill she--you slight she--you let she fall down those stair!

you kill she!”



Susan clear off the thick mist before she, and gaze at the mother

with her clear, sweet, angel-eye, say mournfully--



“I would have lay down my own life for she.”



“oh, the murder be on my soul!” exclaim the wild bereaved mother, with

the fierce impetuosity of one who have none to love she and to be

beloved, regard to whom might teach self-restraint.



“hush!” say Susan, her finger on her lip. “here be the doctor. God may

suffer she to live.”



the poor mother turn sharp round. the doctor mount the stair. ah!

that mother be right; the little child be really dead and go.



and when he confirm her judgment, the mother fall down in a fit.

Susan, with her deep grief, have to forget herself, and forget she

darling (her charge for year), and question the doctor what she must do

with the poor wretch, who lie on the floor in such extreme of misery.



“she be the mother!” say she.



“why do not she take well care of her child?” ask he, almost

angrily.



but Susan only say, “the little child sleep with I; and it be I that

leave she.”



“I will go back and make up a composing draught; and while I be away you

must get she to bed.”



Susan take out some of her own clothe, and softly undress the stiff,

powerless, form. there be no other bed in the house but the one in

which her father sleep. so she tenderly lift the body of her darling;

and be go to take it down stair, but the mother open her eye,

and see what she be about, she say,



“I be not worthy to touch she, I be so wicked; I have speak to you as I

never should have speak; but I think you be very good; may I have my

own child to lie in my arm for a little while?”



her voice be so strange a contrast to what it have be before she have

go into the fit that Susan hardly recognize it; it be now so

unspeakably soft, so irresistibly plead, the feature too have lose

their fierce expression, and be almost as placid as death. Susan could

not speak, but she carry the little child, and lay it in its mother’s

arm; then as she look at they, something overpower she, and she

kneel down, cry aloud,



“oh, my God, my God, have mercy on she, and forgive, and comfort she.”



but the mother keep smile, and stroke the little face, murmur

soft tender word, as if it be alive; she be go mad, Susan

think; but she pray on, and on, and ever still she pray with

stream eye.



the doctor come with the draught. the mother take it, with docile

unconsciousness of its nature as medicine. the doctor sit by she; and

soon she fall asleep. then he rise softly, and beckon Susan to the

door, he speak to she there.



“you must take the corpse out of her arm. she will not awake. the

draught will make her sleep for many hour. I will call before noon

again. it be now daylight. good-bye.”



Susan shut he out; and then gently extricate the dead child from its

mother’s arm, she could not resist make her own quiet moan over her

darling. she try to learn off its little placid face, dumb and pale

before she.



    “not all the scald tear of care,

      shall wash away that vision fair;

    not all the thousand thought that rise,

      not all the sight that dim her eye,

        shall e’er usurp the place

      of that little angel face.”



and then she remember what remain to be do. she see that all be

right in the house; her father be still dead asleep on the settle, in

spite of all the noise of the night. she go out through the quiet

street, desert still although it be broad daylight, and to where the

Leighs live. Mrs. Leigh, who keep her country hour, be open her

window shutter. Susan take she by the arm, and without speak go

into the house-place. there she kneel down before the astonish Mrs.

Leigh, and cry as she have never do before; but the miserable night

have overpower she, and she who have go through so much calmly, now

that the pressure seem removed could not find the power to speak.



“my poor dear! what have make thy heart so sore as to come and cry

a-this-ons. speak and tell I. Nay, cry on, poor wench, if thou canst

not speak yet. it will ease the heart, and then thou canst tell I.”



“nanny be dead!” say Susan. “I leave she to go to father, and she fall

down stair, and never breathe again. oh, that’s my sorrow! but I’ve

more to tell. her mother be come--be in our house! come and see if it’s

your Lizzie.” Mrs. Leigh could not speak, but, trembling, put on her

thing, and go with Susan in dizzy haste back to Crown-street.



       *       *       *       *       *



as they enter the house in Crown-street, they perceive that the door

would not open freely on its hinge, and Susan instinctively look

behind to see the cause of the obstruction. she immediately recognize

the appearance of a little parcel, wrap in a scrap of newspaper, and

evidently contain money. she stoop and pick it up. “look!” say

she, sorrowfully, “the mother be bring this for her child last

night.”



but Mrs. Leigh do not answer. so near to the ascertaining if it be

her lose child or no, she could not be arrest, but press onwards

with tremble step and a beat, flutter heart. she enter the

bed-room, dark and still. she take no heed of the little corpse, over

which Susan pause, but she go straight to the bed, and withdraw

the curtain, see Lizzie,--but not the former Lizzie, bright, gay,

buoyant, and undimmed. this Lizzie be old before her time; her beauty

be go; deep line of care, and alas! of want (or thus the mother

imagine) be print on the cheek, so round, and fair, and smooth,

when last she gladden her mother’s eye. even in her sleep she bear

the look of woe and despair which be the prevalent expression of she

face by day; even in her sleep she have forget how to smile. but all

these mark of the sin and sorrow she have pass through only make she

mother love she the more. she stand look at she with greedy eye,

which seem as though no gazing could satisfy their longing; and at

last she stoop down and kiss the pale, wear hand that lie outside

the bed-clothe. no touch disturb the sleeper; the mother need not

have lay the hand so gently down upon the counterpane. there be no

sign of life, save only now and then a deep sob-like sigh. Mrs. Leigh

sit down beside the bed, and, still hold back the curtain, look on

and on, as if she could never be satisfied.



Susan would fain have stay by her darling one; but she have many call

upon her time and thought, and she will have now, as ever, to be give

up to that of other. all seem to devolve the burden of their care on

she. her father, ill-humor from his last night’s intemperance, do not

scruple to reproach she with be the cause of little nanny’s death;

and when, after bear his upbraid meekly for some time, she could

no long restrain herself, but begin to cry, he wound she even more

by his injudicious attempt at comfort: for he say it be as well the

child be dead; it be none of theirs, and why should they be trouble

with it? Susan wring her hand at this, and come and stand before her

father, and implore he to forbear. then she have to take all requisite

step for the coroner’s inquest; she have to arrange for the dismissal of

her school; she have to summon a little neighbor, and send his willing

foot on a message to William Leigh, who, she feel, ought to be inform

of his mother’s whereabouts, and of the whole state of affair. she

ask her messenger to tell he to come and speak to her,--that his

mother be at her house. she be thankful that her father saunter out

to have a gossip at the near coach-stand, and to relate as many of

the night’s adventure as he know; for as yet he be in ignorance of the

watcher and the watch, who silently pass away the hour up stair.



at dinner-time will come. he look real glad, impatient, excited. Susan

stand calm and white before he, her soft, love eye gaze straight

into his.



“will,” say she, in a low, quiet voice, “your sister be up stair.”



“my sister!” say he, as if affright at the idea, and lose his glad

look in one of gloom. Susan see it, and her heart sink a little, but she

go on, as calm to all appearance as ever.



“she be little Nanny’s mother, as perhaps you know. poor little nanny

be kill last night by a fall down stair.” all the calmness be go;

all the suppress feeling be display in spite of every effort. she

sit down and hide her face from he, and cry bitterly. he forget

everything but the wish, the longing to comfort she. he put his arm

round her waist, and bend over she. but all he could say, be, “oh,

Susan, how can I comfort you! don’t take on so,--pray don’t!” he never

change the word, but the tone vary every time he speak. at last she

seem to regain her power over herself; and she wipe her eye, and

once more look upon he with her own quiet, earnest, unfeare gaze.



“your sister be near the house. she come in on hear my word to the

doctor. she be asleep now, and your mother be watch she. I want to

tell you all myself. would you like to see your mother?”



“no!” say he. “I would rather see none but thee. Mother tell I thou

know all.” his eye be downcast in their shame.



but the holy and pure do not low or vail her eye.



she say, “yes, I know all--all but her suffering. think what they must

have be!”



he make answer low and stern, “she deserve they all; every jot.”



“in the eye of God perhaps she do. he be the judge: we be not.”



“oh!” she say with a sudden burst, “will Leigh! I have think so well

of you; don’t go and make I think you cruel and hard. goodness be not

goodness unless there be mercy and tenderness with it. there be your

mother who have be nearly heart-break, now full of rejoice over her

child--think of your mother.”



“I do think of she,” say he. “I remember the promise I give she last

night. Thou shouldst give I time. I would do right in time. I never

think it o’er in quiet. but I will do what be right and fitting, never

fear. Thou hast speak out very plain to I; and misdoubte I, Susan; I

love thee so, that thy word cut I. if I do hang back a bit from

make sudden promise, it be because not even for love of thee, would

I say what I be not feel; and at first I could not feel all at once

as thou wouldst have I. but I’m not cruel and hard; for if I have be,

I should na’ have grieve as I have do.”



he make as if he be go away; and indeed he do feel he would rather

think it over in quiet. but Susan, grieve at her incautious word,

which have all the appearance of harshness, go a step or two

nearer--paused--and then, all over blush, say in a low soft whisper--



“oh Will! I beg your pardon. I be very sorry--won’t you forgive I?”



she who have always draw back, and be so reserved, say this in the

very soft manner; with eye now uplifted beseechingly, now drop

to the ground. her sweet confusion tell more than word could do; and

will turn back, all joyous in his certainty of be belove, and take

she in his arm and kiss she.



“my own Susan!” he say.



meanwhile the mother watch her child in the room above.



it be late in the afternoon before she awake; for the sleeping draught

have be very powerful. the instant she awake, her eye be fix on

her mother’s face with a gaze as unflinche as if she be fascinated.

Mrs. Leigh do not turn away, nor move. for it seem as if motion would

unlock the stony command over herself which, while so perfectly still,

she be enable to preserve. but by-and-bye Lizzie cry out in a

pierce voice of agony--



“Mother, don’t look at I! I have be so wicked?” and instantly she hide

her face, and grovel among the bedclothe, and lie like one dead--so

motionless be she.



Mrs. Leigh kneel down by the bed, and speak in the most soothing tone.



“Lizzie, dear, don’t speak so. I’m thy mother, darling; don’t be afeard

of I. I never leave off love thee, Lizzie. I be always a-thinking of

thee. Thy father forgave thee afore he die.” (there be a little start

here, but no sound be hear). “Lizzie, lass, I’ll do aught for thee;

I’ll live for thee; only don’t be afeard of I. Whate’er thou art or

hast be, we’ll ne’er speak on’t. we’ll leave th’ oud time behind we,

and go back to the Upclose Farm. I but leave it to find thee, my lass;

and God have lead I to thee. blessed be his name. and God be good too,

Lizzie. thou hast not forget thy Bible, I’ll be bind, for thou wert

always a scholar. I’m no reader, but I learn off they text to comfort

I a bit, and I’ve say they many a time a day to myself. Lizzie, lass,

don’t hide thy head so, it’s thy mother as be speak to thee. thy

little child clung to I only yesterday; and if it’s go to be an

angel, it will speak to God for thee. Nay, don’t sob a that ’as; thou

shalt have it again in Heaven; I know thou’lt strive to get there for

thy little Nancy’s sake--and listen! I’ll tell thee God’s promise to

they that be penitent--only don’t be afeard.”



Mrs. Leigh fold her hand, and strove to speak very clearly, while she

repeat every tender and merciful text she could remember. she could

tell from the breathing that her daughter be listen; but she be so

dizzy and sick herself when she have end, that she could not go on

speak. it be all she could do to keep from cry aloud.



at last she hear her daughter’s voice.



“where have they take she to?” she ask.



“she be down stair. so quiet, and peaceful, and happy she look.”



“could she speak? oh, if God--if I might but have hear her little

voice! mother, I use to dream of it. may I see she once again--oh

mother, if I strive very hard, and God be very merciful, and I go to

heaven, I shall not know my own again--she will shun I as a stranger

and cle to Susan Palmer and to you. oh woe! oh woe!” she shake with

exceed sorrow.



in her earnestness of speech she have uncover her face, and try to

read Mrs. Leigh’s thought through her look. and when she see those

aged eye brim full of tear, and mark the quivering lip, she

throw her arm round the faithful mother’s neck, and weep there as she

have do in many a childish sorrow; but with a deep, a more wretched

grief.



her mother hush she on her breast; and lull she as if she be a

baby; and she grow still and quiet.



they sit thus for a long, long time. at last Susan Palmer come up with

some tea and bread and butter for Mrs. Leigh. she watch the mother

feed her sick, unwilling child, with every fond inducement to eat which

she could devise; they neither of they take notice of Susan’s presence.

that night they lie in each other’s arm; but Susan sleep on the ground

beside they.



they take the little corpse (the little unconscious sacrifice, whose

early call-home have reclaim her poor wandering mother,) to the

hill, which in her life-time she have never see. they dared not lie she

by the stern grand-father in Milne-row churchyard, but they bear she to

a lone moorland graveyard, where long ago the quaker use to bury their

dead. they lay she there on the sunny slope, where the early

spring-flower blow.



will and Susan live at the Upclose Farm. Mrs. Leigh and Lizzie dwell in

a cottage so seclude that, until you drop into the very hollow where it

be place, you do not see it. Tom be a school-master in Rochdale, and he

and will help to support their mother. I only know that, if the cottage

be hide in a green hollow of the hill, every sound of sorrow in the

whole upland be hear there--every call of suffering or of sickness for

help be listen to, by a sad, gentle-look woman, who rarely smile

(and when she do, her smile be more sad than other people’s tear),

but who come out of her seclusion whenever there’s a shadow in any

household. many heart bless Lizzie Leigh, but she--she pray always and

ever for forgiveness--such forgiveness as may enable she to see she

child once more. Mrs. Leigh be quiet and happy. Lizzie be to her eye

something precious,--as the lost piece of silver--find once more. Susan

be the bright one who bring sunshine to all. child grow around she

and call she blessed. one be call Nanny. she, Lizzy often take to the

sunny graveyard in the upland, while the little creature gather the

daisy, and make chain, Lizzie sit by a little grave, and weep

bitterly.









V.



The Old Churchyard Tree.



a PROSE POEM.





there be an old yew tree which stand by the wall in a dark quiet corner

of the church-yard.



and a child be at play beneath its wide-spread branch, one fine

day in the early spring. he have his lap full of flower, which the

field and lane have supply he with, and he be hum a tune to

himself as he weave they into garland.



and a little girl at play among the tombstone creep near to listen; but

the boy be so intent upon his garland, that he do not hear the gentle

footstep, as they trod softly over the fresh green grass. when his work

be finish, and all the flower that be in his lap be weave

together in one long wreath, he start up to measure its length upon

the ground, and then he see the little girl, as she stand with her eye

fix upon he. he do not move or speak, but think to himself that

she look very beautiful as she stand there with her flaxen ringlet,

hang down upon her neck. the little girl be so startled by his

sudden movement, that she let fall all the flower she have collect in

her apron, and run away as fast as she could. but the boy be old and

tall than she, and soon catch she, and coax she to come back and

play with he, and help he to make more garland; and from that time

they see each other nearly every day, and become great friend.



twenty year pass away. again he be seat beneath the old yew tree

in the church-yard.



it be summer now; bright, beautiful summer, with the bird singe, and

the flower cover the ground, and scent the air with their

perfume.



but he be not alone now, nor do the little girl steal near on tiptoe,

fearful of be hear. she be seat by his side, and his arm be

round she, and she look up into his face, and smile as she whisper:

“the first evening of our life we be ever together be pass here:

we will spend the first evening of our wed life in the same quiet,

happy place.” and he draw she close to he as she speak.



the summer be go; and the autumn; and twenty more summer and autumn

have pass away since that evening, in the old church-yard.



a young man, on a bright moonlight night, come reel through the

little white gate, and stumble over the grave. he shout and he

sing, and be presently follow by other like unto himself or bad.

so, they all laugh at the dark solemn head of the yew tree, and throw

stone up at the place where the moon have silver the bough.



those same bough be again silver by the moon, and they droop over

his mother’s grave. there be a little stone which bear this

inscription:--



    “her heart BRAKE in SILENCE.”



but the silence of the churchyard be now break by a voice--not of the

youth--nor a voice of laughter and ribaldry.



“my son!--dost thou see this grave? and dost thou read the record in

anguish, whereof may come repentance?”



“of what should I repent?” answer the son; “and why should my young

ambition for fame relax in its strength because my mother be old and

weak?”



“be this indeed our son?” say the father, bend in agony over the

grave of his beloved.



“I can well believe I be not;” exclaimeth the youth. “it be well that

you have bring I here to say so. our nature be unlike; our course

must be opposite. your way lieth here--mine yonder!”



so the son leave the father kneeling by the grave.



again a few year be pass. it be winter, with a roar wind and a

thick gray fog. the grave in the Church-yard be cover with snow, and

there be great icicle in the Church-porch. the wind now carry a

swathe of snow along the top of the grave, as though the “sheet

dead” be at some melancholy play; and hark! the icicle fall with a

crash and jingle, like a solemn mockery of the echo of the unseemly

mirth of one who be now come to his final rest.



there be two grave near the old yew tree; and the grass have overgrow

they. a third be close by; and the dark earth at each side have just be

throw up. the bearer come; with a heavy pace they move along; the

coffin heaveth up and down, as they step over the intervene grave.



Grief and old age have seize upon the father, and wear out his life; and

premature decay soon seize upon the son, and gnaw away his vain

ambition, and his useless strength, till he pray to be bear, not the

way yonder that be most opposite to his father and his mother, but even

the same way they have go--the way which lead to the Old Churchyard

Tree.









VI.



the modern “Officer’s” progress.





I.--JOINING the REGIMENT.



“I have get some very sad news to tell you,” write Lady Pelican to her

friend, Mrs. Vermeil, a fade lady of fashion, who discontentedly

occupy a suite of apartment at Hampton Court; “our irish estate be

in such a miserable condition--absolutely make we out to be in debt to

_they_, instead of add to _our_ income, that poor George--you will be

shock to hear it--be actually oblige to go into the Infantry!”



the communication of this distressing fact may stand instead of the

regular Gazette, announce the appointment of the Hon. George Spoonbill

to an Ensigncy, by purchase, in the 100th regiment of foot. his military

aspiration have be “Cavalry,” and he have endeavor to qualify

himself for that branch of the service by get up an invisible

moustache, when the irish agent write to say that no money be to be have

in that quarter, and all thought of the Household Brigade be, of

necessity, abandon. but, though the more expensive career be shut

out, Lord Pelican’s interest at the Horse Guards remain as influential

as before, and for the consideration of four hundred and fifty pound

which--embarrassed as he be--he contrive to muster, he have no

difficulty in procure a commission for his son George, in the

distinguished regiment already name. there be, it be true, a few

hundred prior claimant on the Duke’s list; “but,” as Lord Pelican

justly observe, “if the spoonbill family be not fit for the army, he

should like to know who be!” an argument perfectly irresistible.

gazette, therefore, the young gentleman be, as soon as the Queen’s

sign-manual could be obtain, and the usual interval for preparation

over, the Hon. George Spoonbill set out to join. but before he do so,

we must say a word of what that “preparation” consist in.



some person may imagine that he forthwith address himself to the

study of Polybius, dabble a little in Cormontaigne, get up Napier’s

history of the Peninsular War, or read the Duke’s Despatches; other,

that he go down to Birdcage-Walk, and place himself under the tuition

of Color-Sergeant Pike, of the Grenadier Guards, a warrior celebrate

for his skill in train military aspirant, or that he endeavor by

some other mean to acquire a practical knowledge, however slight, of

the profession for which he have always be intend. the Hon. George

Spoonbill know well. the preparation _he_ make, be a visit, at least

three time a day, to Messrs. Gorget and Plume, the military tailor in

Jermyn Street, whose soul he sorely vex by the persistance with which

he adhere to the most accurate fit of his shell-jacket and coatee, the

set of his epaulette, the cut of his trowser, and the shape of his

chako. he pass his day in “try on his thing,” and his

evening--when not engage in the Casino, the Cider Cellar, or the

Adelphi--in dining with his military friend at St. James’s Palace, or

at Knightsbridge Barracks. in their society he greatly improve himself,

acquire an accurate knowledge of lansquenet and ecarté, cultivate

his taste for tobacco, and familiarize his mind with that reverence

for authority which be engender by the anecdote of great military

commander that freely circulate at the mess-table. his education and

his uniform be finish at about the same time, George Spoonbill take

a not uncheerful farewell of the agonized Lady Pelican, whose maternal

bosom stream with the sacrifice she make in thus consign she

offspring to the vulgar hardship of a march regiment.



an express train convey the honorable Ensign in safety to the country

town where the “Hundredth” be then quarter, and in conformity with

the instruction which he receive from the Assistant Military Secretary

at the Horse Guards--the only instruction, by-the-bye, which be

give he by that functionary--he “report” himself at the Orderly-room

on his arrival, be present by the Adjutant to the senior Major,

by the senior Major to the Lieutenant-Colonel, and by the

Lieutenant-Colonel to the officer generally when they assemble for

mess.



the “Hundredth,” be “Light Infantry,” call itself “a crack

regiment:” the military adjective signifying, in this instance, not so

much a high reputation for discipline and warlike achievement, as an

indefinite sort of superiority arise from the fact that no man be

allow to enter the _corps_ who depend on his pay only for the figure

he cut in it. Lieutenant-Colonel Tulip, who command, be very strict

in this particular, and, have the good of the service greatly at

heart, set his face entirely against the admission of any young man who

do not enjoy a handsome paternal allowance, or be not the possessor of

a good income. he be himself the son of a celebrate army clothier, and

in the course of ten year, have purchase the rank he now hold, so that

he have a right, as he think, to see that his regiment be not

contaminate by contact with poor man. his military creed be, that no

man have any business in the army who could not afford to keep his horse

or tilbury, and drink wine every day; _that_ he call respectable,

anything short of it the reverse. if he ever relax from the severity

of this rule, it be only in favor of those who have high connection; “a

handle to a name” be as reverently worship by he as money itself;

indeed, in secret, he prefer a lord’s son, though poor, to a

commoner, however rich; the poverty of a sprig of nobility not be

take exactly in a literal sense. Colonel Tulip have another theory also:

during the aforesaid ten year, he have acquire some knowledge of drill,

and possess an hereditary taste for dress, consider himself, thus

endow, a first-rate officer, though what he would have do with his

regiment in the field be quite another matter. in the meantime he be

gratify by think that he do his good to make it a crack corps,

accord to his notion of the thing, and such minor point as the

moral training of the officer, and their proficiency in something more

than the form of the parade ground, be not allow to enter into his

consideration. the “Hundredth” be acknowledge to be “a devilish

well-dress, gentlemanly set of fellow,” and be look after with

great interest at country-ball, race, and regatta; and if this be

not what a regiment ought to be, Colonel Tulip be, he flatter

himself, very much out in his calculation.



the advent of the Hon. George Spoonbill be a very welcome one, as the

vacancy to which he succeed have be cause by the promotion of a

young baronet into “Dragoons,” and the new comer be the second son of

Lord Pelican, with a possibility of be grace one day by wear that

glitter title himself, the hiatus cause by Sir Henry Muff’s removal

be happily fill up without any derogation to the corps. having also

ascertain, in the course of five minute’ conversation, that Mr.

Spoonbill’s “man” and two horse be to follow in a few day with the

remainder of his baggage; and the young gentleman having talk rather

largely of what the Governor allow he (two hundred a-year be no great

sum, but he keep the actual amount in the back ground, speak

“promiscuously” of “a few hundred”), and of his intimacy with “the

fellow in the Life Guards;” Colonel Tulip at once set he down as a

decide acquisition to the “Hundredth,” and intimate that he be to be

make much of accordingly.



when we describe the regiment as be compose of wealthy man, the

statement must be receive with a certain reservation. it be Colonel

Tulip’s hope and intention to make it so in time, when he have

sufficiently “weed” it, but _en attendant_ there be three or four

officer who do not quite belong to his favorite category. there be

the senior Major, and an old captain, both of whom have see a good deal

of service, the Surgeon, who be a necessary evil, and the

Quarter-master, who be never allow to show with the rest of the

officer except at “inspection,” or some other unusual demonstration.

but the rank and “allowance” of the first, and something in the

character of the second, which cause he to be look upon as a

military oracle, make Colonel Tulip tolerate their presence in the

corps, if he do not enjoy it. neither have the Adjutant quite as much

money as the command officer could have desire, but as his position

keep he close to his duty, do that for which Colonel Tulip take

credit, he also be suffer to pass muster; he be a brisk, precise,

middle-aged personage, who hope in the course of time to get his

company, and whose military qualification consist chiefly in know

“Torrens,” the “Articles of War,” the “Military Regulations,” and the

“Army List,” by heart. the last-name work be, indeed, very generally

study in the regiment, and may be say to have exhaust almost all

the literary resource of its reader, exception be make in favor of

the weekly military newspaper, the monthly military magazine, and an

occasional novel from the circulate library. the rest of the officer

must speak for themselves, as they incidentally make their appearance.

of their character, generally, this may be say; none be wholly bad,

but all of they might easily have be a great deal well.



brief ceremony attend a young officer’s introduction to his regiment,

and the honorable prefix to Ensign Spoonbill’s name be anything but a

bar to his speedy initiation. Lieutenant-Colonel Tulip take wine with

he the first thing, and his example be so quickly follow by all

present, that by the time the cloth be off the table, Lord Pelican’s

second son have swallow quite as much of Duff Gordon’s sherry as be

good for he. though drinking be no long a prevalent military vice,

there be occasion when the wine circulate rather more freely than be

altogether safe for young head, and this be one of they. Claret be

not the habitual “tipple,” even of the crack “Hundredth;” but as Colonel

Tulip have no objection to make a little display now and then, he have

order a dozen in honor of the new arrival, and all feel disposed to

do justice to it. the young Ensign have flatter himself that, amongst

other accomplishment, he possess “a hard head;” but, hard as it be,

the free circulation of the bottle be not without its effect, and he

soon begin to speak rather thick, carefully avoid such word as begin

with a difficult letter, which make his discourse somewhat periphrastic,

or roundabout. but though his observation reach his hearer

circuitously, their purpose be direct enough, and convey the

assurance that he be one of those admirable crichton who be “wide

awake” in every particular, and available for anything that may chance

to turn up.



the conversation which reach his ear from the jovial companion who

surround he, be of a similarly instructive and exhilarating kind,

and tend greatly to his improvement. Captain Hackett, who come from

“Dragoon Guards,” and have see a great deal of hard service in Ireland,

elaborately set forth every particular of “I’ll give you my honor, the

most remarkable steeple-chase that ever take place in the three

kingdom,” of which he be, of course, the hero. Lieutenant Wadding, who

pride himself on his small waist, broad shoulder, and bushy whisker,

and be esteem “a lady-killer,” talk of every woman he know, and

damage every reputation he talk about. Lieutenant Bray, who be

addict to sporting and play on the french horn, come out strong on

the subject of hackle, May-fly, gray palmer, badger, terrier,

dew-claw, snap-shot and Eley’s cartridge. Captain Cushion, a great

billiard-player, and famous--in every sense--for “the one-pocket game,”

be eloquent on the superiority of his own cue, which be tip with

gutta percha instead of leather, and offer, as a treat, to indulge

“any man in garrison with the good of twenty, one ‘up,’ for a hundred

a-side.” Captain Huff, who have a crimson face, a stiff arm, and the

voice of a Stentor, and whose soul, like his visage, be steep in port

and brandy, boast of achievement in the drinking line, which,

fortunately, be now only traditional, though he do his good to make

they positive. from the upper end of the table, where sit the two

veteran and the doctor, come, mellow by distance, grim recollection

of the Peninsula, with story of Picton and Crawford, “the fighting

brigade” and “the light division,” intersperse with endless indian

narrative, equally grim, of “how our fellow be carry off by the

cholera at Cawnpore,” and how many tiger be shoot, “when we lay in

cantonment at Dum-dum;” the run accompaniment to the whole be a

constant reference to so-and-so “of _ours_” without allusion to which

possessive pronoun, few military man be able to make much progress in

conversation.



nor be Colonel Tulip silent, but his conversation be of a very lofty

and, as it be, ethereal order,--quite transparent, in fact, if any one

have be there to analyze it. it relate chiefly to the magnate at the

Horse Guards,--to what “the Duke” say to he on certain occasion

specified,--to Prince Albert’s appearance at the last levee,--to a

favorite bay charger of his own, to the probability that Lord Dawdle

would get into the corps on the first exchange,--and to a partly-form

intention of apply to the Commander-in-chief to change the regimental

facing from buff to green.



the mess-table, after four hour’ enjoyment of it in this intellectual

manner, be finally abandon for Captain Cushion’s “quarter,” that

gallant officer having take “quite a fancy to the youngster,” not so

much, perhaps, on account of the youngster be a Lord’s youngster, as

because, in all probability, there be something squeezeable in he,

which be slightly indicate in his countenance. but whatever of the

kind there might indeed have be, do not come out that evening, the

amiable Captain prefer rather to initiate by example and the show of

good fellowship, than by directly urge the neophyte to play. the

rubber, therefore, be make up without he, and the new Ensign, with two

or three more of his rank, confine themselves to cigar and brandy and

water, a liberal indulgence in which complete what the wine have begin,

and before midnight chime the Hon. George Spoonbill be--to use the

mild expression,--as unequivocally tipsy as the fond parent or

guardian could possibly have desire a young gentleman to be on the

first night of his enter “the Service.”



not yet establish in barrack, Mr. Spoonbill sleep at an hotel, and

thither he be assist by two of his boon companion, whom he insist

on regale on devil biscuit and more brandy and water, out of sheer

gratitude for their kindness. nor be this reward throw away, for it

raise the spirit of these youth to so genial a pitch that, on their

way back--with a view, no doubt, to give encouragement to trade--they

twist off, as they phrase it, “no end to knocker and bell-handle,”

break half a dozen lamp, and narrowly escape the police (with whom,

however, they would gloriously have fight rather than have surrender)

succeed at length in reach their quarters,--a little excited it be

true, but by no mean under the impression that they have do

anything--as the article of war say--“unbecoming the character of an

officer and a gentleman.”



in the meantime, the jade waiter at the hotel have convey their

fellow-ensign to bed, to dream--if he be capable of dream--of the

brilliant future which his first day’s experience of actual military

life hold out.





II.--A SUBALTERN’S DAY.



however interesting it might prove to the noble relative of ensign

spoonbill to learn his progress, step by step, we must--for reason of

our own--pass over the first few week of his new career, with only a

brief mention of the lead fact.



his brother-officer have instruct he in the art of tie on his sash,

wear his forage cap on one side, the secret of distinguish his

right hand from his left, and the mystery of marching and

counter-marching. the art of hold up his head and throw out his

chest, have be carefully impart by the drill-serjeant of his company,

and he have, accordingly, be pronounce “fit for duty.”



what this be may well be show, by give an outline of “a subaltern’s

day,” as he and the majority of his military friend be in the habit

of pass it. it may serve to explain how it happen that british

officer be so far in advance of their continental brother in arm in

the science of their profession, and by what process they have arrive

at that intellectual superiority, which render it a matter of regret

that more serious interest than the mere discipline and well-being of

only a hundred and twenty thousand man have not be confide to their

charge.



the scene open in a square room of tolerable size which, if simply

adorn with “barrack furniture,” (to wit, a deal table, two

windsor-chair, a coal scuttle, and a set of fire-iron,) would give an

idea of a british subaltern’s “interior,” of rather more Spartan-like

simplicity than be altogether true. but to these be add certain

elegant “extras,” obtain not out of the surplus of five and

three-pence a day--after mess and band subscription, cost of uniform,

servant’s wage, &c., have be deduct--but on credit, which it be

easy to get than to avoid incur expense. a noble youth, like

Ensign Spoonbill, have only to give the word of command to be obey by

Messrs. Rosewood and Mildew, with the alacrity show by the slave of

the lamp, and in an incredibly short space of time, the bare wall and

floor of his apartment be cover with the gay article their

establishment afford. they include those indispensable adjunct to a

young officer’s toilette, a full length cheval, and a particularly lofty

pier-glass. a green-baize screen convert the apartment into as many

separate room as its occupant desire, cut it up, perhaps, a little

here and there, but add, on the whole, a great deal to its comfort

and privacy. what be out of the line of Messrs. Rosewood and

Mildew--and that, as Othello say, be “not much”--the taste of Ensign

Spoonbill himself supply. to his high artistic taste be due the

presence of a couple of dozen gilt-frame and highly-color print,

represent the reign favorite of the ballet, the winner of the

Derby and Leger, and the costume of the “dressy,” and consequently

the most distinguished corps in the service; the nice arrangement of

cherry-stick tube, amber mouth-piece, meerschaum bowl, and

embroider bag of Latakia tobacco; pleasing device of the

well-cross foil, ride whip, and single stick evenly balance by

fencing mask and boxing glove; and, on the chimney-piece, the

brilliant array of nick-nack, from the glitter shop of Messrs.

Moses, Lazarus and Son, who call themselves “jeweller and dealer in

curiosity,” and who deal in a few trifle which be not allude to

above their door-post.



the maxim of “early to bed” be not know in the Hundredth; but the

exigency of the service require that Ensign Spoonbill should rise

with the _reveillée_. he complain of it in more forcible language

than Dr. Watts’ celebrated sluggard; but discipline be inexorable, and

he be not permit to “slumber again.” this early rise be a real

military hardship. we once hear a lady of fashion counsel her

friend never to marry a Guardsman. “you have no idea, love, what you’ll

have to go through; every morning of his life--in the season--he have to

be out with the horrid regiment at half-past six o’clock!”



the Hon. ensign Spoonbill then rise with the lark, though much against

his will, his connection with that fowl have by preference a midnight

tendency. erect at last, but with a strong taste of cigar in his mouth,

and a slight touch of whiskey-headache, the Ensign array himself in

his blue frock coat and Oxford gray trowser; wound himself into his

sash; adjust his sword and cap; and, with falter step, make the

good of his way into the barrack-square, where the squad be form,

which, with his eye only half-open, he be call upon to inspect,

prior to their be re-inspect by both lieutenant and captain. he

then draw his sword, and “fall in” in the rear of his company,

occupy that disposition till the regiment be form and set in

motion.



his duty on the parade-ground be--as a supernumerary--of a very

arduous nature, and consist chiefly in get in the way of his

captain as he continually “change his flank,” in make the man “lock

up,” and in avoid the personal observation of the adjutant as much as

possible; store his mind, all the time, with a few of the epithet,

more vigorous than courtly, which the command officer habitually make

use of to quicken the movement of the battalion. he enjoy this

recreation for about a couple of hour, sometimes utterly bewilder by

a “change of front,” which develop he in the most inopportune manner;

sometimes inextricably entangle in the formation of “a hollow square,”

when he became lose altogether; sometimes confound himself with “the

point,” and be confound by the senior-major for his awkwardness;

and sometimes follow a “charge” at such a pace as to take away his

voice for every purpose of utility, suppose he have desire to exercise

it in the way of admonitory adjuration to the rear-rank. in this manner

he learn the noble science of strategy, and by this mean acquire so

much proficiency that, have he be suddenly call upon to manœuvre

the battalion, it be possible he might have go on for five minute

without “club” it.



the regiment be then march home; and Ensign spoonbill re-enter the

garrison with all the honor of war, impress with the conviction that

he have already see an immense deal of service; enough, certainly, to

justify the ample breakfast which two or three other famished sub--his

particular friend--assist he in discuss, the more substantial

part of which, involve a private account with the messman, who have a

good many more of the young officer of the regiment on his book. at

these morning feast--with the exception, perhaps, of a few remark on

drill as “a cussed bore”--no allusion be make to the military exercise

of the morning, or to the prospective duty of the day. the

conversation turn, on the contrary, on light and more agreeable

topics;--the relative merit of bull and Scotch terrier; who make the

good boot; whether “that gaerl at the pastrycook’s” be “as fine a

woman” as “the barmaid of the Rose and Crown;” if Hudson’s cigar don’t

beat Pontet’s all to nothing; who marry the sixth daughter of Jones of

the Highlanders; intersperse with a few bet, a few oath, and a few

statement not strikingly remarkable for their veracity, the last have

reference, principally, to the exploit for which Captain Smith make

himself famous, to the detriment of Miss Bailey.



breakfast over, and cigar light, Ensign Spoonbill and his friend,

attire in shoot jacket of every pattern, and wear feel hat of

every color and form, make their appearance in front of the officer’

wing of the barrack; some semi-recumbent on the door-step, other

lounge with their hand in their coat pocket, other gracefully

balance themselves on the iron railings,--all smoking and talk on

subject of the most edify kind. these pleasant occupation be,

however, interrupt by the approach of an “orderly,” who, from a

certain clasped book which he carry, read out the unwelcome

intelligence that, at twelve o’clock that day, a regimental

court-martial, under the presidency of Captain Huff, would assemble in

the officer’ mess-room “for the trial of all such prisoner as might be

bring before it,” and that two lieutenant and two ensign--of whom

the honorable Mr. Spoonbill be one--be to constitute the member.

this be a most distressing and unexpected blow, for it have previously

be arrange that a badger should be draw by Lieutenant Wadding’s bull

bitch Juno, at which interesting ceremony all the junior member of the

court be to have “assist.” it be the more provoking, because the

proprietor of the animal to be baited,--a gentleman in a fustian suit,

brown legging, high-low, a white hat with a black crape round it, and

a very red nose, indicative of a most decide love for “cordial and

compounds”--had just “step up” to say that “the badger _must_ be

dror’d that mornin’,” as he be under a particular engagement to repeat

the amusement in the evening for some gent at a distant town, and

“couldn’t no how, not for no money, forfeit his sacred word.” the

majority of the young gentleman present understand perfectly what this

corollary meant, but, with Ensign Spoonbill amongst they, be by no

mean in a hurry to “fork out” for so immoral a purpose as that of

induce a fellow-man to break a solemn pledge. that gallant officer,

however, labor under so acute a feeling of disappointment, that

regardless of the insult offer to the worthy man’s conscience, he at

once volunteer to give he “a couple of sovs” if he would just “throw

those snob over,” and defer his departure till the follow day; and

it be settle that the badger should be “draw” as soon as the patron

of Joe Baggs could get away from the court-martial,--for which in no

very equable frame of mind they now get ready,--retiring to their

several barrack-room, divest themselves of their sporting costume

and once more assume military attire.



at the appoint hour, the court assemble. Captain Huff prepare for

his judicial labor by call for a glass of his favorite “swizzle,”

which he dispatch at one draught, and then, having swear in the

member, and be swear himself, the business begin by the appointment

of Lieutenant Hackett as secretary. there be two prisoner to be

try: one have “sell his necessary” in order to get drunk; the second

have make use of “mutinous language” when drunk; both of they high

military crime, to be severely visit by those who have no temptation

to dispose of their wardrobe, and could not understand why a soldier’s

beer money be not sufficient for his daily potation; but who omit

the consideration that they themselves, when in want of cash,

occasionally send a pair of epaulette to “my uncle,” and have a

champagne supper out of the proceed, at which neither sobriety nor

decorous language be rigidly observe.



the case against he who have sell his necessaries,--to wit, “a new pair

of boot, a shirt, and a pair of stocking,” for which a Jew in the town

have give he two shilling--be sufficiently clear. the captain and the

pay-serjeant of the man’s company swear to the article, and the Jew who

buy they (an acquaintance of Lieutenant Hackett, to whom he nod

with pleasing familiarity), stimulate by the fear of a civil

prosecution, give they up, and appear as evidence against the

prisoner. he be find “guilty,” and sentence to three month’ solitary

confinement, and “to be put under stoppage,” accord to the

prescribe formulæ.



but the trial of the man accuse of drunkenness and mutinous language

be not so readily dispose of; though the delay occasion by his

call witness to character serve only to add to the irritation of

his virtuous and impartial judge. he be a fine-look fellow, six

foot high, and have as soldier-like a bearing as any man in the Grenadier

company to which he belong. the specific act which constitute his

crime consist in having refuse to leave the canteen when somewhat

vexatiously order to do so by the orderly serjeant, who forthwith send

for a file of the guard to compel he; thus urge he, when in an

excited state, to an act of insubordination, the gist of which be a

threat to knock the serjeant down, a show of resistance, and certain

malediction on the head of that functionary. in this, as in the former

instance, there could be no doubt that the breach of discipline

complain of have be commit, though several circumstance be

plead in extenuation of the offence. the man’s previous character,

too, be very good; he be ordinarily a steady, well-conduct soldier,

never shirk his hour of duty, be not give to drink, and, therefore,

as the principal witness in his favor say, “the more aisily overcome

when he tuck a dhrop, but as harrumless as a lamb, unless put upon.”



these thing aver and show, the Court be clear, and the member

proceed to deliberate. it be a question only of the nature and extent

of the punishment to be award. the general instruction, no less than

the favorable condition of the case, suggest leniency. but Captain

Huff be a severe disciplinarian of the old school, an advocate for

red-handed practice--the drum head and the halberd--and his opinion, if

it might be call one, have only too much weight with the other member

of the Court, all of whom be prejudice against the prisoner, whom

they internally--if not openly--condemn for interfere with their

day’s amusement. “corporal punishment, of course,” say Captain Huff,

angrily; and his word be echo by the Court, though the majority of

they little know the fearful import of the sentence, or they might have

pause before they deliver over a fine resolute young man, whose chief

crime be an ebullition of temper, to the castigation of the lash, which

destroy the soldier’s self-respect; degrade he in the eye of his

fellow; mutilate his body, and leave an indelible scar upon his mind.

but the fiat go forth, and be record in “hundred” against the

unfortunate fellow; and Captain Huff having manage to sign the

proceeding, carry they off to the command officer’s quarter, to

be “approve and confirm;” a ratification which the Colonel be not

slow to give; for he be one of that class who be in the habit of

reconcile themselves to an act of cruelty, by always assert in

their defence that “an example be necessary.” he forget in do so,

that this be not the way to preserve for the “Hundredth” the name of a

crack corps, and that the good example for those in authority be Mercy.



with mind buoyant and refresh by the discharge of the judicial

function, for which they be in every respect so admirably qualified,

Ensign Spoonbill and his companion, give themselves leave of absence

from the afternoon parade, and having resume their favorite “mufty,”

repair to an obscure den in a stable-yard at the back of the Blue

Boar--a low public house in the filthy quarter of the town--which Mr.

Joseph Baggs make his head-quarter, and there, for a couple of hour,

solace themselves with the agreeable exhibition of the contest between

the badger and the dog Juno, which terminate by the latter be bite

through both her fore-paw, and nearly lose one of her eye; though,

as Lieutenant Wadding exultingly observe, “she be a deuced deal too

game to give over for such trifle as those.” the unhappy badger, that

only fight in self-defence, be accordingly “dror’d,” as Mr. Baggs

reluctantly admit, add, however, that she be “nuffin much the

wuss,” which be more than could be say of the officer of the

“Hundredth” who have enjoy the spectacle.



this amusement end, which have so far a military character that it

familiarize the spectator with violence and bloodshed, though in an

unworthy and contemptible degree, badger and dog, not man, be their

subject, the young gentleman adjourn to the High Street, to loiter

away half an hour at the shop of Messrs. Moses, Lazarus and Son, whose

religious observance and daily occupation be make their jest, while

they run in debt to the people from whom they afterwards expect

consideration and forbearance. but not wholly do they kill their time

there. the pretty pastry-cook, an innocent, retire girl, but compel

to serve in the shop, come in for her share of their half-admiring and

all insolent persecution, and when their slang and sentiment be alike

exhausted, they dawdle back again to the barrack, to dress for the

fifth time for mess.



the event of the day, that is, the event on which their thought have

be center, again furnish the theme of the general conversation.

enough wine be drunk, as Captain Huff say, with the wit peculiar to

he, “to restore the equilibrium;” the most abstinent person be

Captain Cushion, who that evening give convince proof of the

advantage of abstinence, by engage Ensign Spoonbill in a match at

billiard, the result of which be, that Lord Pelican’s son find

himself, at midnight, minus a full half of the allowance for which his

noble father have give he liberty to draw. but that he have fairly lose

the money there could be no doubt, for the officer on the main-guard,

who have prefer watch the game to go his round, declare to the

party, when they afterwards adjourn to take a glass of grog with he

before he turn in, that, “except Jonathan, he have never see any man

make so good a bridge as his friend Spoonbill,” and this fact Captain

Cushion himself confirm, add, that he think, perhaps, he could

afford next time to give point. with the reputation of make a good

bridge--a _Pons asinorum_ over which his money have travel--ensign

Spoonbill be fain to be content, and in this satisfactory manner he

close one Subaltern’s day, there be many like it in reserve.





III.--THE CATASTROPHE.



what the Psalmist say in sorrow, those who witness the career of the

Honorable Ensign Spoonbill and his companion might have say, not in

sorrow only but in anger: “one day tell another, and one night certify

another.”



when duty be to be performed--(for even under the command of such an

officer as Colonel Tulip the routine of duty existed)--it be slur

over as hastily as possible, or get through as it well might be. when,

on the other hand, pleasure be the order of the day,--and this be

seek hourly,--no resource be leave untried, no expedient unattempte;

and strange thing, in the shape of pleasure, be often the result.



the nominal duty be multifarious, and, have they be properly

observe, would have leave but a comparatively narrow margin for

recreation,--for there be much in the old form which take up time,

without convey any great amount of military instruction.



the orderly officer for the day--we speak of the subaltern--be suppose

to go through a great deal. his duty it be to assist at inspection,

superintend drill, examine the soldier’ provision, see their

breakfast and dinner serve, and attend to any complaint, visit the

regimental guard by day and night, be present at all parade and

muster, and, finally, deliver in a write report of the proceeding of

the four-and-twenty hour.



to go through this routine, require--as it receive in some

regiment--a few day’ training; but in the Hundredth there be none at

all. every officer in that distinguished corp be suppose to be “a

Heaven-bear genius,” and acquire his military education as pigeon pick

up pea. the Hon. ensign Spoonbill look at his man after a fashion;

could swear at they if they be excessively dirty, and perhaps awe they

into silence by a portentous scowl, or an exaggerated loudness of voice;

but with regard to the real purpose of inspection, he know as little,

and care as much, as the valet who air his noble father’s morning

newspaper. his eye wander over the man’s kit as they be expose to

his view; but to his mind they only convey the idea of a kaleidoscopic

rag-fair, not that of an assortment of necessary for the comfort and

well-being of the soldier. he see large masse of beef, exhibit in a

raw state by the quartermaster, as the daily allowance for the man; but

if any one have ask he if the meat be good, and of proper weight, how

could he have answer, whose head be turn away in disgust, with his

face bury in a scented cambric handkerchief, and his delicate nature

loathe the whole scene? in the same spirit he see the man’s breakfast

and dinner serve; fortify his opinion, at the first, that coffee

could only be make in France, and wonder, at the second, what sort of

_potage_ it could be that contrive to smell so disagreeably. these

thing might be special affectation in the Hon. ensign, and depend,

probably, on his own peculiar organization; but if the rest of the

officer of the Hundredth do not manifest as intense a dislike to this

part of their duty, they be member of much too “crack” a regiment

to give themselves any trouble about the matter. the drum beat, the

mess be serve, there be a hasty gallop through the barrack-room,

scarcely look right or left, and the orderly officer be only too

happy to make his escape without be stop by any impertinent

complaint.



the “turn out” of the barrack guard be a thing to make an impression

on a bystander. a loud shout, a sharp clatter of arm, a scurry of

figure, a hasty formation, a brief inquiry if all be right, and a

terse rejoinder that all _be_ remarkably so, constitute the detail of

a visit to the body of man on whom devolve the task of extreme

watchfulness, and the preservation of order. if the serjeant have reply

“all wrong,” it would have equally enlighten Ensign Spoonbill, who

go towards the guardhouse because his instruction tell he to do so;

but why he go there, and for what purpose he turn out the guard,

never enter into his comprehension. not even do a sense of

responsibility awaken in he when, with much difficulty, he pen the

report which give, in a narrative form, the summary of the duty he have

perform in so exemplary a manner. perform, do we say? yes, once or

twice wholly, but for the most part with many gap in the schedule.

sometimes the dinner be forget, now and then the tattoo, generally

the afternoon parade, and not unfrequently the whole affair. for the

latter omission, there be occasionally a nominal “wigging”

administer, not by the command officer himself, but through the

adjutant; and as that functionary be only look upon by the youngster

in the light of a bore, without the slight reverence for his office,

his word--like those of Cassius--pass like the idle wind which none

regard. when Ensign Spoonbill “mount guard” himself, his vigilance

on his new post equal the assiduity we have see he exhibit in

barrack. after the formality of troop, march down, and relieve,

be over, the Honorable Ensign generally amuse himself by a lounge in

the vicinity of the guardhouse, until the field-officer’s “round” have

be make; and that visitation at an end for the day, a neighboring

billiard-room, with Captain Cushion for his antagonist or “a jolly pool”

occupy he until dinner-time. it be the custom in the garrison where

the Hundredth be quarter, as it be, indeed, in many other, for the

officer on guard to dine with their mess, a couple of hour or so be

grant for this indulgence. this relaxation be make up for, by their

keep close for the rest of the evening; but as there be generally

two or three off duty sufficiently at leisure to find cigar and

brandy-and-water attractive, even when consume in a guard-room, the

hardship of Ensign Spoonbill’s official imprisonment be not very great.

with these friend, and these creature-comfort to solace, the time wear

easily away till night fall, when the field-officer, if he be “a

good-fellow,” come early, and Ensign Spoonbill, having give his friend

their _congé_, be at liberty to “turn in” for the night, the onerous

duty of visit sentry and inspect the relief every two hour,

devolving upon the serjeant.



it may be infer from these two example of Ensign Spoonbill’s idea

of discipline and the service, what be the course he generally adopt

_on_ duty, without our be under the necessity of go into further

detail. what he do when _off_ duty help he on still more

effectually.



Lord Pelican’s outfit having “mount” the young gentleman, and the

credit he obtain on the strength of be Lord Pelican’s son, keep

his stud in order, he be enable to vie with the crackest of the crack

Hundredth; subject, however, to all the accident which horseflesh be

heir to--especially when ally to a judgment of which green be the

prevailing color. a “swap” to a disadvantage; an indiscreet purchase; a

mistake as to the soundness of an animal; and such other error of

opinion, entail certain loss, which might, after all, have be

bear, without render the application for money at home more

frequent than agreeable; but when under the influence of a natural

obstinacy, or the advice of some very “know one,” Ensign Spoonbill

proceed to back his opinion in private match, handicap, and

steeple-chase, the privy purse of Lady Pelican collapse in a most

unmistakable manner. nor be this description of amusement the only

rock-a-head in the course of the Honorable Ensign. the art or science of

bet embrace the wide field, and the odd, give or take, be

equally fatal, whether the subject that elicit they be a match at

billiard or a horse-race. nor be the stake at blind-hookey or

unlimited loo less harmless, when you hav’n’t get luck and _have_ such

opponent as Captain Cushion.



in spite of the belief in his own power, which ensign Spoonbill

encourage, he could not shut his eye to the fact that he be every day

a loser; but wise gambler than he--if any there be--place reliance on

a “turn of luck,” and all he want to enable he to take advantage of

it, be a command of cash; for even one’s good friend prefer the coin

of the realm to the most unimpeachable I. O. U.



the want of money be a common dilemma,--not the less disagreeable,

however, because it _be_ common--but in certain situation this want be

more apparent than real. the Hon. ensign Spoonbill be in the

predicament of impecuniosity; but there be--as a celebrated statesman

be in the habit of say--three course open to he. he might leave off

play, and do without the money; he might “throw himself” on Lord

Pelican’s paternal feeling; or he might _somehow_ contrive to raise a

supply on his own account. to leave off just at the moment when he be

sure to win back all he have lose, would have be ridiculous; besides,

every man of spirit in the regiment would have cut he. to throw himself

upon the generosity of his sire be a good poetical idea; but,

practically, it would have be of no value: for, in the first place,

Lord Pelican have no money to give--in the next, there be an elder

brother, whose want be more imperative than his own; and lastly, he

have already try the experiment, and fail in the most signal manner.

there remain, therefore, only the last expedient; and be advise,

moreover, to have recourse to it, he go into the project _tête

baissée_. the “advice” be tender in this form.



“well, Spooney, my boy, how be you, this morning?” kindly inquire

Captain Cushion, one day on his return from parade, from which the

Honorable Ensign have be absent on the plea of indisposition.



“deuced queer,” be the reply; “that roman punch always give I the

splitting headache!”



“ah! you’re not use to it. I’m as fresh as a four-year-old. well, what

do you do last night, Spooney?”



“do! why, I lose, of course; _you_ ought to know that.”



“I--my dear fellow! give you my honor I get up a loser!”



“not to I, though,” grumble the ensign.



“cann’t say as to that,” reply the Captain; “all I know be, that I’m

devilishly minus.”



“who win, then?” inquire Spoonbill.



“oh!” return the Captain, after a slight pause, “I

suspect--Chowser--he have somebody’s luck and his own too!”



“I think he must have mine,” say the Ensign, with a faint smile, as the

alternation of the last night’s Blind Hookey come more vividly to his

remembrance. “what do I lose to you, Cushion?” he continue, in the

hope that his memory have deceive he.



the Captain’s pocket-book be out in an instant.



“Sixty-five, my dear fellow; that be all. by-the-bye, Spooney, I’m

regularly hard up; can you let I have the tin? I wouldn’t trouble you,

upon my soul, if I could possibly do without it, but I’ve get a heavy

bill come due to-morrow, and I cann’t renew.”



the Honorable Ensign sink back on his pillow, and groan impotently.

Rallying, however, from this momentary weakness, he raise his head,

and, after apostrophise the spirit of darkness as his good friend,

exclaim, “I’ll tell you what it be, Cushion, I’m thoroughly clean

out. I haven’t get a dump!”



“then you must fly a kite,” observe the Captain, coolly. “no difficulty

about that.”



this be merely the repetition of counsel of the same friendly nature

previously urge. the shock be not great, therefore, than the young

man’s nerve could bear.



“how be it to be do?” ask the neophyte.



“oh, I think I can manage that for you. yes,” pursue the Captain,

musing, “Lazarus would let you have as much as you want, I dare say. his

term be rather high, to be sure; but then the cash be the thing. he’ll

take your acceptance at once. who will you get to draw the bill?”



“Draw!” say the Ensign, in a state of some bewilderment. “I don’t

understand these thing--couldn’t you do it?”



“why,” reply the Captain, with an air of intense sincerity, “I’d do it

for you with pleasure--nothing would delight I more; but I promise my

grandmother when first I enter the service, that I never _would_ draw

a bill as long as I live; and as a man of honor, you know, and a

soldier, I cann’t break my word.”



“but I think you say you have a bill of your own come due

to-morrow,” observe the astute Spoonbill.



“so I do,” say the Captain, take rather aback in the midst of his

protestation, “but then it isn’t--exactly--a thing of _this_ sort; it’s

a kind of a bond--as it be--old family matter--the estate down in

Lincolnshire--that I’m clear off. besides,” he add hurriedly,

“there be plenty of fellow who’ll do it for you. there’s young

Brittles--the Manchester man, who join just after you. I never see

anybody screw into baulk well than he do, except yourself--he’s the

one. Lazarus, I know, always prefer a young customer to an old one;

know chap, these Jews, arn’t they?”



Captain Cushion’s last remark be, no doubt, a just one--but he might

have apply the term to himself with little dread of disparagement; and

the end of the conversation be, that it be agree a bill should be

draw as propose, “say for three hundred pound,” the Captain

undertaking to get the affair arrange, and relieve spoonbill of all

trouble, save that of “merely” write his name across a bit of stamped

paper. these point be settle, the Captain leave he, and the

unprotected subaltern call for brandy and soda-water, by the aid of

which stimulus he be enable to rise and perform his toilette.



Messrs. Lazarus and Sons be merchant who perfectly understand their

business, and, though they start difficulty, be only too happy to

get fresh bird into their net. they know to a certainty that the sum

they be ask to advance would not be repay at the end of the

prescribe three month: it would scarcely have be worth their while

to enter into the matter if it have; the profit on the hundred pound’

worth of jewelry, which Ensign Spoonbill be require to take as part of

the amount, would not have remunerate they sufficiently. guess

pretty accurately which way the money would go, they foresaw renew

application, and a long perspective of accumulate acceptance. Lord

Pelican might be a needy nobleman; but he _be_ Lord Pelican, and the

honorable George Spoonbill be his son; and if the latter do not

succeed to the title and family estate, which be by no mean

improbable, there be Lady Pelican’s settlement for division amongst the

young child. so they advance the money; that be to say, they

produce a hundred and eighty pound in cash, twenty they take for the

accommodation (half of which find its way into the pocket of--never

mind, we willn’t say anything about Captain Cushion’s private affair),

and the value of the remain hundred be make up with a series of pin

and ring of the most stunning magnificence.



this be the Honorable Ensign Spoonbill’s first bill-transaction, but,

the ice once break, the second and third soon follow. he find it the

pleasantest way in the world of raise money, and in a short time his

affair take a turn so decidedly commercial, that he apply the system

to all his mercantile transaction. he pay his tailor after this

fashion, satisfied Messrs. Mildew and his upholsterer with negotiable

paper, and do “bit of stiff” with Galloper, the horse-dealer, to a

very considerable figure. he even become facetious, not to say inspire,

by this great discovery; for, amongst his paper, when they be

afterwards overhaul by the official assignee--or some such fiscal

dignitary,--a bacchanalian song in manuscript be find, suppose to

have be write about this period, the _refrain_ of which run as

follows:--



    “when creditor clamor, and cash fail the till,

     there be nothing so easy as give a bill.”



it need no ghost to rise from the grave to prophesy the sequel to this

mode of “raise the wind.” it be record twenty time a month in the

daily paper--now in the Bankruptcy Court, now in that for the Relief of

Insolvent Debtors. Ensign Spoonbill’s career last about eighteen

month, at the end of which period--not having prosper by the mean

of gaming to the extent he anticipate--he find himself under the

necessity of sell out and retire to a continental residence,

leave behind he debt, which be eventually pay, to the tune of

seven thousand, two hundred and fourteen pound, seventeen shilling,

and tenpence three farthing, the vulgar fraction have their origin

in the hair-splitting occasion by reduplication of interest. he choose

for his abode the pleasant town of Boulogne-sur-Mer, where he cultivate

his moustache, acquire a smattering of French, and an insight into the

mystery of pigeon-shooting. for one or other of these qualification--we

cannot exactly say which--he be subsequently appoint _attaché_ to a

foreign embassy, and at the present moment, we believe, be consider

one of those promise young man whose diplomatic skill will probably

declare itself one of these day, by some stroke of finesse, which shall

set all Europe by the ear.



with respect to Colonel Tulip’s “crack” regiment, it go, as the saying

be, “to the Devil.” the exposure cause by the affair of ensign

Spoonbill--the smash of Ensign Brittles, which shortly follow--the

duel between Lieutenant Wadding and Captain Cushion, the result of which

be a ball (neither “spot” nor “plain,” but a bullet) through the head

of the last-name gentleman, and a few other trifle of a similar

description, at length attract the “serious notice” of his Grace the

Commander-in-chief. it be significantly hint to Colonel Tulip that it

would be for the benefit of the service in general, and that of the

Hundredth in particular, if he exchange to half-pay, as the regiment

require re-modelling. a smart Lieutenant-Colonel who have learn

something, not only of drill, but of discipline, under the hero of

“Young Egypt,” in which country he have share that general’s laurel,

be send down from the Horse Guards. “weed” to a considerable extent

take place; the Majors and the Adjutant be replace by more efficient

man, and, to sum up all, the Duke’s “Circular” come out, lay down a

principle of _practical military education, while on service_, which,

if act up to,--and there seem every reason to hope it will now

be,--bids fair to make good officer of those who heretofore be merely

idler. it will also diminish the opportunity for gambling, drinking,

and bill discount, and substitute, for the write word on the

Queen’s Commission, the real character of a soldier and a gentleman.









VII.



Father and Son.





one evening in the month of March, 1798,--that dark time in Ireland’s

annal whose memory (overlook all minor subsequent _emeute_) be

still preserve among we, as “the year of the rebellion”--a lady and

gentleman be seat near a blaze fire in the old-fashion

dining-room of a large lonely mansion. they have just dine; wine and

fruit be on the table, both untouched, while Mr. Hewson and his wife

sit silently gaze at the fire, watch its flickering light become

gradually more vivid as the short Spring twilight fade into darkness.



at length the husband pour out a glass of wine, drink it off, and then

break silence, by saying--



“well, well, Charlotte, these be awful time; there be ten man take

up to-day for burn Cotter’s house at Knockane; and Tom Dycer say

that every magistrate in the country be a marked man.”



Mrs. Hewson cast a frightened glance towards the window, which open

nearly to the ground, and give a view of the wide tree-besprinkle lawn,

through whose centre a long straight avenue lead to the high-road. there

be also a footpath at either side of the house, branch off through

close thicket of tree, and reach the road by a circuitous route.



“listen, James!” she say, after a pause; “what noise be that?”



“nothing but the sighing of the wind among the tree. come, wife, you

must not give way to imaginary fear.”



“but really I hear something like footstep on the gravel, round the

gable-end--I wish”--



a knock at the parlor door interrupt she.



“come in.”



the door open, and Tim Gahan, Mr. Hewson’s confidential steward and

right-hand man, enter, follow by a fair-haired delicate-look boy

of six year’ old, dress in deep mourning.



“well, Gahan, what do you want?”



“I ask your Honor’s pardon for disturb you and the mistress; but I

think it right to come tell you the bad news I hear.”



“something about the rebel, I suppose?”



“yes, Sir; I get a whisper just now that there’s go to be a great

rise intirely, to-morrow; thousand be to gather before daybreak at

Kilcrean bog, where I’m tell they have a power of pike hiding; and then

they’re to march on and sack every house in the country. I’ll engage,

when I hear it, I don’t let the grass grow under my foot, but come off

straight to your Honor, think maybe you’d like to walk over this fine

evening to Mr. Warren’s, and settle with he what’s good to be do.”



“oh, James! I beseech you, don’t think of go.”



“make your mind easy, Charlotte; I don’t intend it: not that I suppose

there would be much risk; but, all thing consider, I think I’m just

as comfortable at home.”



the steward’s brow darken, as he glance nervously towards the end

window, which, jut out in the gable, form a deep angle in the

outer wall.



“of course ’tis just as your honor plase, but I’ll warrant you there

would be no harm in go. Come, Billy,” he add, address the child,

who by this time be stand close to Mrs. Hewson, “make your bow, and

bid good night to master and mistress.”



the boy do not stir, and Mrs. Hewson, take his little hand in her,

said--



“you need not go home for half-an-hour, Gahan; stay and have a chat with

the servant in the kitchen, and leave little Billy with I--and with

the apple and nuts”--she add, smile as she fill the child’s hand

with fruit.



“thank you, Ma’am,” say the steward hastily. “I cann’t stop--I’m in a

hurry home, where I want to leave this brat to-night; but he _would_

follow I. Come, Billy; come this minute, you young rogue.”



still the child look reluctant, and Mr. Hewson say peremptorily.



“don’t go yet, Gahan; I want to speak to you by-and-bye; and you know

the mistress always like to pet little Billy.”



without reply, the steward leave the room; and the next moment his

hasty footstep resound through the long flagged passage that lead to

the office.



“there’s something strange about Gahan, since his wife die,” remark

Mrs. Hewson. “I suppose ’tis grief for she that make he look so

darkly, and seem almost jealous when any one speak to his child. poor

little Billy! your mother be a sore loss to you.”



the child’s blue eye fill with tear, and press close to the

lady’s side, he said:--



“Old Peggy don’t wash and dress I as nicely as mammy use.”



“but your father be good to you?”



“oh, yes, Ma’am, but he’s out all day busy, and I’ve no one to talk to

I as mammy use; for Peggy be quite deaf, and besides she’s always busy

with the pig and chicken.”



“I wish I have you, Billy, to take care of, and to teach, for your poor

mother’s sake.”



“and so you may, Charlotte,” say her husband. “I’m sure Gahan, with all

his odd way, be too sensible a fellow not to know how much it would be

for his child’s benefit to be bring up and educate by we, and the boy

would be an amusement to we in this lonely house. I’ll speak to he

about it before he go home. Billy, my fine fellow, come here,” he

continue, “jump up on my knee, and tell I if you’d like to live here

always, and learn to read and write.”



“I would, Sir, if I could be with father too.”



“so you shall;--and what about old Peggy?”



the child paused--



“I’d like to give she a pen’north of snuff and a piece of tobacco every

week, for she say the other day that _that_ would make she quite

happy.”



Mr. Hewson laugh, and Billy prattle on, still seat on his knee;

when a noise of footstep on the ground, mingle with low suppress

talking, be hear outside.



“James, listen! there’s the noise again.”



it be now nearly dark, but Mr. Hewson, still hold the boy in his

arm, walk towards the window and look out.



“I can see nothing,” he said--“stay--there be figure move off among

the tree, and a man run round to the back of the house--very like

Gahan he be too!”



seize the bell-rope he ring it loudly, and say to the servant who

answer his summons:--



“fasten the shutter and put up the bar, Connell; and then tell Gahan I

want to see he.”



the man obey; candle be bring, and Gahan enter the room.



Mr. Hewson remark that, though his cheek be flushed, his lip be

very white, and his bold dark eye be cast on the ground.



“what take you round the house just now, Tim?” ask his master, in a

careless manner.



“what take I round the house be it? why, then, nothing in life, Sir,

but that just as I go outside the kitchen door to take a smoke, I see

the pig that Shaneen forget to put up in their stye, make right for

the mistress’ flower-garden; so I just put my _dudheen_, light as it

be, into my pocket, and run after they. I catch they on the grand walk

under the end window, and indeed, Ma’am, I have my own share of work

turn they back to their proper spear.”



Gahan speak with unusual volubility, but without raise his eye from

the ground.



“who be the people,” ask his master, “whom I see move through the

western grove?”



“People! your Honor--not a sign of any people move there, I’ll be

bind, bar the pig.”



“then,” say Mr. Hewson, smile, to his wife, “the miracle of Circe

must have be reverse and swine turn into man; for, undoubtedly, the

dark figure I see be human being.”



“Come, Billy,” say Gahan, anxious to turn the conversation, “will you

come home with I now? I be sure ’twa very good of the mistress to give

you all they fine apple.”



Mrs. Hewson be go to propose Billy’s remain, but her husband

whispered:--“Wait till to-morrow.” so Gahan and his child be allow

to depart.



next morning the magistrate of the district be on the alert, and

several suspicious-look man find lurk about, be take up. a hat

which fit one of they be pick up in Mr. Hewson’s grove; the gravel

under the end window bear many sign of trample foot; and there be

mark on the wall as if gun have rest against it. Gahan’s information

touch the intend meeting at Kilcrean bog prove to be totally

without foundation; and after a careful search not a single pike or

weapon of any description could be find there. all these circumstance

combine certainly look suspicious; but, after a long investigation,

as no guilt could be actually bring home to Gahan, he be dismiss.

one of his examiner, however, say privately, “I advise you take care

of that fellow, Hewson. if I be in your place, I’d just trust he as

far as I could throw he, and not an inch beyond.”



an indolent hospitable irish country gentleman, such as Mr. Hewson, be

never without an always shrewd and often roguish prime minister, who

save his master the trouble of look after his own affair, and

manage everything that be to be do in both the home and foreign

departments,--from put a new door to the pig-stye, to let a farm

of an hundred acre on lease. now in this, or rather these capacity,

Gahan have long serve Mr. Hewson; and some seven year previous to the

evening on which our story commence, he have strengthen the tie and

increase his influence considerably by marry Mrs. Hewson’s favorite

and faithful maid. one child be the result of this union; and Mrs.

Hewson, who have no family of her own, take much interest in little

Billy,--more especially after the death of his mother, who, poor thing!

the neighbor say, be not very happy, and would gladly, if she dare,

have exchange her lonely cottage for the easy service of her former

mistress.



thus, though for a time Mr. and Mrs. Hewson regard Gahan with some

doubt, the feeling gradually wear away, and the steward regain his

former influence.



after the lapse of a few stormy month the rebellion be quell: all

the prisoner take up be severally dispose of by hang,

transportation or acquittal, accord to the nature and amount of the

evidence bring against they; and the country become as peaceful as it

be in the volcanic nature of our irish soil ever to be.



the Hewsons’ kindness towards Gahan’s child be steady and unchanged.

they take he into their house, and give he a plain but solid

education; so that William, while yet a boy, be enable to be of some

use to his patron, and daily enjoy more and more of his confidence.



       *       *       *       *       *



another evening, the twentieth anniversary of that with which this

narrative commence, come round. Mr. and Mrs. Hewson be still hale and

active, dwell in their hospitable home. about eight o’clock at night,

Tim Gahan, now a stooping, gray-haired man, enter Mr. Hewson’s

kitchen, and take his seat on the corner of the settle, near the fire.



the cook direct a silent significant glance of compassion towards her

fellow-servant, say:



“would you like a drink of cider, Tim, or will you wait and take a cup

of tay with myself and Kitty?”



the old man’s eye be fix on the fire, and a wrinkle hand be

plant firmly on each knee, as if to check their involuntary trembling.

“I’ll not drink anything this night, thank you kindly, nelly,” he say,

in a slow musing manner, dwell long on each word.



“where’s Billy?” he ask, after a pause, in a quick hurried tone,

look up suddenly at the cook, with an expression in his eye, which,

as she afterwards say, “take away her breath.”



“oh, never hee Billy! I suppose he’s busy with the master.”



“where’s the use, nelly,” say the coachman, “in hide it from he?

sure, soon or later he must know it. Tim,” he continue, “God know

’tis sorrow to my heart this blessed night to make yours sore,--but the

truth be, that William have do what he oughtn’t to do to the man that

be all one as a father to he.”



“what have he do? what will you _dar_ say again my boy?”



“take money, then,” reply the coachman, “that the master have mark

and put by in his desk; for he suspect this some time past that gold

be miss. this morning ’twas go; a search be make, and the marked

guineas be find with your son William.”



the old man cover his face with his hand, and rock himself to and

fro.



“where be he now?” at length he ask, in a hoarse voice.



“lock up safe in the inner store-room; the master intend send he

to gaol early to-morrow morning.”



“he will not,” say Gahan slowly, “kill the boy that save his

life!--no, no.”



“poor fellow! the grief be set his mind astray--and sure no wonder!”

say the cook, compassionately.



“I’m not astray!” cry the old man, fiercely.



“where’s the master?--take I to he.”



“come with I,” say the butler, “and I’ll ask he will he see you?”



with falter step the father comply; and when they reach the

parlor, he tremble exceedingly, and leant against the wall for support,

while the butler open the door, and say:



“Gahan be here, Sir, and want to know will you let he speak to you for

a minute?”



“tell he to come in,” say Mr. Hewson, in a solemn tone of sorrow, very

different from his ordinary cheerful voice.



“Sir,” say the steward, advance, “they tell I you be go to send

my boy to prison,--is it true?”



“too true, indeed, Gahan. the lad who be rear in my house, whom my

wife watch over in health, and nurse in sickness--whom we love

almost as if he be our own, have _rob_ we, and that not once or

twice, but many time. he be silent, and sullen, too, and refuse to

tell why he steal the money, which be never withhold from he when he

want it. I can make nothing of he, and must only give he up to

justice in the morning.”



“no, Sir, no. the boy save your life; you cann’t take his.”



“you’re rave, Gahan.”



“listen to I, Sir, and you willn’t say so. you remember this night

twenty year? I come here with my motherless child, and yourself and the

mistress pity we, and speak love word to he. well for we all you

do so! that night--little you think it!--I be band with they that

be swear to take your life. they be watch you outside the window,

and I be send to inveigle you out, that they might shoot you. a faint

heart I have for the bloody business, for you be ever and always a good

master to I; but I be under an oath to they that I darn’t break,

suppose they order I to shoot my own mother. well! the hand of God

be over you, and you wouldn’t come with I. I run out to they, and I

said--“Boys, if you want to shoot he, you must do it through the

window,” think they’d be afeard of that; but they weren’t--they be

dare fellow, and one of they, shelter by the angle of the window,

take deadly aim at you. that very moment you take Billy on your knee,

and I see his fair head on a line with the musket. I don’t know exactly

then what I say or do, but I remember I catch the man’s hand, throw

it up, and point to the child. know I be a determined man, I

believe they don’t wish to provoke I; so they watch you for awhile,

and when you don’t put he down they get daunt, hear the sound of

soldier ride by the road, and they steal away through the grove. Most

of that gang swing on the gallow, but the last of they die this

morning quietly in his bed. up to yesterday he use to make I give he

money,--sums of money to buy his silence--and it be for that I make my

boy a thief. it be wear out his very life. often he go down on his

knee to I, and say: ‘Father, I’d die myself soon than rob my

master, but I cann’t see _you_ disgrace. oh, let we fly the country!’

now, Sir, I have tell you all--do what you like with I--send I to

gaol, I deserve it--but spare my poor, deluded, innocent boy!”



it would be difficult to describe Mr. Hewson’s feeling, but his wife’s

first impulse be to hasten to liberate the prisoner. with a few

incoherent word of explanation she lead he into the presence of his

master, who, look at he sorrowfully but kindly, say:



“William, you have err deeply, but not so deeply as I suppose. your

father have tell I everything. I forgive he freely and you also.”



the young man cover his face with his hand, and weep tear more

bitter and abundant than he have ever shed since the day when he follow

his mother to the grave. he could say but little, but he kneel on the

ground, and clasp the kind hand of she who have supply to he that

mother’s place, he murmur:



“will _you_ tell he I would rather die than sin again.”



Old Gahan die two year afterwards, truly penitent, invoke blessing

on his son and on his benefactor; and the young man’s conduct, now no

long under evil influence, be so steady and so upright, that his

adopt parent feel that their pious work be reward, and that, in

William Gahan, they have indeed a son.









VIII.



the Miner’s Daughter.--A Tale of the Peak.





I.--THE CHILD’S TRAGEDY.



there be no really beautiful part of this kingdom so little know as the

Peak of Derbyshire. Matlock, with its tea-garden trumpery, and

mock-heroic wonder; Buxton, with its bleak hill and fashionable

bather; the truly noble Chatsworth and the venerable Haddon, engross

almost all that the public generally have see of the Peak. it be talk

of as a land of mountain, which in reality be only hill; but its true

beauty lie in valley that have be create by the rending of the

earth in some primeval convulsion, and which present a thousand charm

to the eye of the lover of nature. how deliciously do the crystal

water of the Wye and the Dove rush along such valley, or dale, as

they be call. with what a wild variety do the gray rock soar up

amid their wood and copse. how airily stand in the clear heaven the

lofty limestone precipice, and the gray edge of rock gleam out from

the bare green down--there _never_ call down. what a genuine Saxon

air be there cast over the population, what a Saxon bluntness salute

you in their speech!



it be into the heart of this region that we propose now to carry the

reader. let he suppose himself with we now on the road from

Ashford-in-the-water to Tideswell. we be at the Bulls-Head, a little

inn on that road. there be nothing to create wonder, or a suspicion of a

hide Arcadia in anything you see, but another step forward,

and--there! there sink a world of valley at your foot. to your left

lie the delicious Monsol Dale. Old Finn Hill lift his gray head

grandly over it. Hobthrush’s Castle stand bravely forth in the hollow

of his side--gray, and desolate, and mysterious. the sweet Wye goes

wind and sound at his foot, amid its narrow green meadow, green

as the emerald, and its dark glossy alder. before we stretch on,

equally beautiful, Cressbrook Dale; Little Edale show its cottage from

amidst its tree; and as we advance, the Mousselin-de-laine Mills

stretch across the mouth of Miller’s Dale, and startle with the aspect

of so much life amid so much solitude.



but our way be still onward. we resist the attraction of Cressbrook

village on its lofty eminence, and plunge to the right, into Wardlow

Dale. here we be bury deep in wood, and yet behold still deep the

valley descend below we. there be an Alpine feel upon we. we be

carry once more, as in a dream, into the Saxon Switzerland. above we

stretch the bold range of lofty precipice, and deep amid the wood

be hear the voice of child. these come from a few workman’s house

couch at the foot of a cliff that rise high and bright amid the sun.

that be Wardlow Cop; and there we mean to halt for a moment. forward

lie a wild region of hill, and valley, and lead mine, but forward

go no road, except such as you can make yourself through the tangle

wood.



at the foot of Wardlow Cop, before this little hamlet of Bellamy Wick

be build, or the glen be dignified with the name of Raven Dale, there

live a miner who have no term for his place of abode. he live, he say,

under Wardlow Cop, and that content he.



his house be one of those little, solid, gray limestone cottage, with

gray flagstone roof which abound in the Peak. it have stand under that

lofty precipice when the wood which now so densely fill the valley be

but newly plant. there have be a mine near it, which have no doubt

be the occasion of its erection in so solitary a place; but that mine

be now work out, and David Dunster, the miner, now work at a mine

right over the hill in Miller’s Dale. he be seldom at home, except at

night, and on Sundays. his wife, besides keep her little house, and

dig and weed in the strip of garden that lie on the steep slope

above the house, hem in with a stone wall, also seam stocking for

a framework-knitter in Ashford, whither she go once or twice in the

week.



they have three child, a boy and two girl. the boy be about eight

year of age; the girl be about five and six. these child be

teach their lesson of spelling and reading by the mother, amongst her

other multifarious task; for she be one of those who be call

regular plodder. she be quiet, patient, and always do, though never

in a bustle. she be not one of those who acquire a character for vast

industry by do everything in a mighty flurry, though they contrive to

find time for a tolerable deal of gossip under the plea of rest a

bit, and “which rest a bit” they always terminate by an exclamation

that “they must be off, though, for they have a world of work to do.”

Betty Dunster, on the contrary, be look on as rather “a slow coach.”

if you remark that she be a hard-work woman, the reply be, “well,

she’s always do--Betty’s work’s never do; but then she do na

hurry hersen.” the fact be, Betty be a thin, spare woman, of no very

strong constitution, but of an untiring spirit. her pleasure and rest

be, when David come home at night, to have his supper ready, and to

sit down opposite to he at the little round table, and help he, give

a bit now and then to the child, that come and stand round, though

they have have their supper, and be ready for bed as soon as they have

see something of their “dad.”



David Dunster be one of those remarkably tall fellow that you see

about these hill, who seem of all thing the very bad make man to

creep into the little mole hole on the hill side that they call

lead-mine. but David do manage to burrow under and through the hard

limestone rock as well as any of they. he be a hard-work man,

though he like a sup of beer, as most derbyshire man do, and sometimes

come home none of the sober. he be naturally of a very hasty temper,

and would fly into great rage; and if he be put out by anything in

the working of the mine, or the conduct of his fellow-workman, he

would stay away from home for day, drink at Tideswell, or the Bull’s

Head at the top of Monsal Dale, or down at the Miners’ arm at

Ashford-in-the-water.



Betty Dunster bear all this patiently. she look on these thing

somewhat as matter of course. at that time, and even now, how few

miner do not drink and “roll a bit,” as they call it. she be,

therefore, tolerant, and let the storm blow over, ready always to

persuade her husband to go home and sleep off his drink and anger, but

if he be too violent, leave he till another attempt might succeed

well. she be very fond of her child, and not only teach they on

week day their lesson, and to help she to seam, but also take they to

the Methodist Chapel in “Tidser,” as they call Tideswell, whither,

whenever she could, she entice David. David, too, in his way, be fond

of the child, especially of the boy, who be call David after he.

he be quite wrap up in the lad, to use the phrase of the people in

that part; in fact, he be foolishly and mischievously fond of he. he

would give he beer to drink, “to make a true Briton on he,” as he

say, spite of Betty’s earnest endeavor to prevent it,--telling he that

he be lay the foundation in the lad of the same fault that he have

himself. but David Dunster do not look on drinking as a fault at all.

it be what he have be use to all his life. it be what all the miner

have be use to for generation. a man be look on as a milk-sop and

a Molly Coddle, that would not take his mug of ale, and be merry with

his comrade. it require the light of education, and the effort that

have be make by the Temperance Societies, to break in on this ancient

custom of drinking, which, no doubt, have flourish in these hill since

the Danes and other Scandinavians, bored and perforate they of old for

the ore of lead and copper. to Betty Dunster’s remonstrance, and

commendation of tea, David would reply,--“Botheration Betty, wench!

Dunna tell I about thy tea and such-like pig’s-wesh. it’s all very

well for woman; but a man, Betty, a man mun ha’ a sup of real stingo,

lass. he mun ha’ summut to prop his rib out, lass, as he delve through

th’ chert and tood-stone. when tha weyld th’ maundrel (the pick), and I

wesh th’ dish, tha shall ha’ th’ drink, my wench, and I’ll ha’ th’

tea. till then, prithee let I aloon, and dunna bother I, for it’s no

use. it only kick my monkey up.”



and Betty find that it be of no use; that it do only kick his monkey

up, and so she let he alone, except when she could drop in a persuasive

word or two. the mill-owner at Cressbrook and Miller’s Dale have

forbid any public-house nearer than Edale, and they have more than

once call the people together to point out to they the mischief of

drinking, and the advantage to be derive from the very saving of

temperance. but all these measure, though they have some effect on the

mill people, have very little on the miner. they either send to

Tideswell or Edale for keg of beer to peddle at the mine, or they

go thither themselves on receive their wage.



and let no one suppose that David Dunster be bad than his fellow; or

that Betty Dunster think her case a particularly hard one. David “be

pretty much of a muchness,” accord to the country phrase, with the

rest of his hard-work tribe, which be, and always have be, a

hard-drink tribe; and Betty, though she wish it different, do not

complain, just because it be of no use, and because she be no bad

off than her neighbor.



often when she go to “carry in her hose” to Ashford, she leave the

child at home by themselves. she have no alternative. they be there

in that solitary valley for many hour play alone. and to they it be

not solitary. it be all that they know of life, and that all be very

pleasant to they. in spring, they hunt for bird’s-nest in the copse,

and amongst the rock and gray stone that have fall from they. in the

copse build the blackbird and thrush: in the rock the firetail;

and the gray wagtail in the stone, which be so exactly of their own

color, as to make it difficult to see they. in summer, they gather

flower and berry, and in the winter they play at horse, king, and

shop, and sundry other thing in the house.



on one of these occasion, a bright afternoon in autumn, the three

child have ramble down the glen, and find a world of amusement in

be team of horse, in make a little mine at the foot of a tall

cliff, and in marching for soldier, for they have one day--the only time

in their life--see some soldier go through the village of Ashford,

when they have go there with their mother, for she now and then take

they with she when she have something from the shop to carry besides her

bundle of hose. at length they come to the foot of an open hill which

swell to a considerable height, with a round and climbable side, on

which grow a wilderness of bush, amid which lie scatter masse of

gray crag. a small wind path go up this, and they follow it. it

be not long, however, before they see something which excite their

eager attention. Little David, who be the guide, and assume to himself

much importance as the protector of his sister, exclaim, “see here!”

and spring forward, pluck a fine crimson cluster of the mountain

bramble. his sister, on see this, rush on with like eagerness.

they soon forsook the little winding and craggy footpath, and hurry

through sink masse of moss and dry grass, from bush to bush and

place to place. they be soon far up above the valley, and almost every

step reveal to they some delightful prize. the cluster of the

mountain-bramble, resemble mulberry, and know only to the

inhabitant of the hill, be abundant, and be rapidly devour. the

dewberry be as eagerly gathered,--its large, purple fruit pass with

they for blackberry. in their hand be soon see posy of the

lovely grass of Parnassus, the mountain cistus, and the bright blue

geranium.



high and high the little group ascend in this quest, till the

sight of the wide, naked hill, and the hawk circle round the lofty,

tower-like crag over their head, make they feel serious and somewhat

afraid.



“where be we?” ask Jane, the eld sister. “Arn’t we a long way from

hom?”



“let we go hom,” say little Nancy. “I’m afree here;” clutch hold of

Jane’s frock.



“Pho, nonsense!” say David, “what be you afree on? I’ll tak care on

you, niver fear.”



and with this he assume a bold and defy aspect, and say, “come

along; there be nest in th’ hazzel up yonder.”



he begin to mount again, but the two girl hang back and say, “Nay,

David, dunna go higher; we be both afree;” and Jane add, “it’s a

long wee from hom, I’m sure.”



“and those bird screechin’ so up there; I darna go up,” add little

Nancy. they be the hawk that she mean, which hover, whimpering and

scream, about the high cliff. David call they little coward,

but begin to descend; and, presently, seek for berry and flower

as they descend, they regain the little winding, craggy road, and,

while they be call to each other, discover a remarkable echo on

the opposite hill side. on this they shout to it, and laugh, and

be half-frightened when it laugh and shout again. little Nancy

say it must be an old man in the inside of the mountain; at which they

be all really afraid, though David put on a big look, and say,

“Nonsense! it be nothing at all.” but Jane ask how nothing at all

could shout and laugh as it do? and on this little Nancy pluck she

again by the frock, and say in turn, “oh, dear, let’s go hom!”



but at this David give a wild whoop to frighten they, and when the hill

whoop again, and the sister begin to run, he burst into laughter, and

the strange spectral Ha! ha! ha! that run along the inside of the hill

as it be, complete their fear, and they stop their ear with their

hand, and scuttle away down the hill. but now David seize they, and

pull their hand down from their head, he say, “see here! what a

nice place, with the stone stick out like seat. why it’s like a

little house; let we stay and play a bit here.” it be a little hollow

in the hill side surround by project stone like an amphitheatre.

the sister be still afraid, but the sight of this little hollow with

its seat of crag have such a charm for they that they promise David

they would stop awhile, if he would promise not to shout and awake the

echo. David readily promise this, and so they sit down; David propose

to keep a school, and cut a hazel wand from a bush and begin to lord it

over his two scholar in a very pompous manner. the two sister

pretend to be much afraid, and to read very diligently on piece of

flat stone which they have pick up. and then David become a serjeant

and be drill they for soldier, and stick piece of fern into their

hair for cockade. and then, soon after, they be sheep, and he be the

shepherd; and he be catch his flock and go to shear they, and

make so much noise that Jane cry, “hold! there’s the echo mock

we.”



at this they all be still. but David say, “Pho! never mind the echo;

I must shear my sheep;” but just as he be seize little Nancy to

pretend to shear she with a piece of stick, Jane cry out, “look! look!

how black it’s come down the valley there! there’s go to be a

dreadful starm; let we hurry hom!”



David and Nancy both look up, and agree to run as fast down the hill

as they could. but the next moment the drive storm sweep over the

hill, and the whole valley be hide in it. the three child still

hurry on, but it become quite dark, and they soon lose the track, and

be toss about by the wind, so that they have difficulty to keep on

their leg. little Nancy begin to cry, and the three take hold of each

other endeavor in silence to make their way homeward. but presently

they all stumble over a large stone, and fall some distance down the

hill. they be not hurt, but much frighten, for they now remember

the precipice, and be afraid every minute of go over they. they

now strove to find the track by go up again, but they could not find

it anywhere. sometimes they go upwards till they think they be

quite too far, and then they go downwards till they be completely

bewilder; and then, like the Babes in the Wood, “they sate they down

and cry.”



but ere they have sate long, they hear footstep, and listen. they

certainly hear they and shout, but there be no answer. David

shout, “Help! fayther! mother! help!” but there be no answer. the

wind sweep fiercely by; the hawk whimper from the high crag, lose in

the darkness of the storm; and the rain fall, drive along icy cold.

presently, there be a gleam of light through the cloud; the hill-side

become visible, and through the haze they see a tall figure as of an old

man ascend the hill. he appear to carry two load sling from his

shoulder by a strap; a box hang before, and a bag hang at his

back. he wind up the hill slowly and wearily, and presently he stop,

and relieve himself of his load, seat himself on a piece of crag to

rest. again David shout, but there still be no answer. the old man

sate as if no shout have be hear--immovable.



“it _be_ a man,” say David, “and I _will_ mak he hear;” and with that

he shout once more with all his might. but the old man make no sign of

recognition. he do not even turn his head, but he take off his hat and

begin to wipe his brow as if warm with the ascent.



“what can it be?” say David in astonishment. “it _be_ a man, that’s

sartain. I’ll run and see.”



“Nay, nay!” shriek the sister. “don’t, David! don’t! it’s perhaps the

old man out of the mountain that’s be mock we. perhaps,” add

Jane, “he only come out in starm and darkness.”



“Stuff!” say David, “an echo ben’t a man; it’s only our own voice.

I’ll see who it be;” and away he dart, spite of the poor girl’ cry

in terror, “don’t; don’t, David! oh, don’t.”



but David be go. he be not long in reach the old man, who sate on

his stone breathe hard, as if out of breath with his ascent, but not

appear to perceive David’s approach. the rain and the wind drive

fiercely upon he, but he do not seem to mind it. David be half afraid

to approach close to he, but he call out, “help; help, mester!” the

old man remain as unconscious of his presence. “Hillo!” cry David

again. “can you tell we the way down, mester?” there be no answer, and

David be begin to feel a shudder of terror run through every limb,

when the cloud clear considerably, and he suddenly exclaim, “why

it’s old Tobias Turton of top of Edale, and he’s as deaf as a

door-nail!”



in an instant, David be at his side; seize his coat to make he aware

of his presence, and, on the old man perceive he, shout in his ear,

“which be the way down here, Mester Turton? where’s the track?”



“down? Weighs o’ the back?” say the old man; “ay, my lad, I be fain

to sit down; it do weigh o’ th’ back, sure enough.”



“where’s the foot-track?” shout David again.



“Th’ foot-track? why, what art ta do here, my lad, in such a starm?

Is’nt it David Dunster’s lad?”



David nod. “why, the track’s here! see;” and the old man stamp his

foot. “get down hom, my lad, as fast as thou can. what dun they do

let thee be upon th’ hill in such a dee as this?”



David nod his thank, and turn to descend the track, while the old

man adjust his burden again, silently and wearily recommence his way

upwards.



David shout to his sister as he descend, and they quickly reply.

he call to they to come towards he, as he be on the track, and be

afraid to quit it again. they endeavor to do this; but the darkness

be now redouble, and the wind and rain become more furious than ever.

the two sister be soon bewilder amongst the bush, and David, who

keep call to they at interval to direct their course towards he,

soon hear they cry bitterly. at this, he forget the necessity of

keep the track, and dart towards they, soon find they by

continue to call to they, and take their hand to lead they to the

track. but they be now drench through with the rain, and shiver

with cold and fear. David with a stout heart endeavor to cheer they.

he tell they the track be close by, and that they would soon be at

home. but though the track be not ten yard off, somehow they do not

find it. bush and project rock turn they out of their course;

and owe to the confusion cause by the wind, the darkness, and their

terror, they search in vain for the track. sometimes they think they

have find it, and go on a few pace, only to stumble over loose

stone, or get entangle in the bush.



it be now absolutely become night. their terror increase greatly.

they shout and cry aloud, in the hope of make their parent hear

they. they feel sure that both father and mother must be come home; and

as sure that they would be hunt for they. but they do not reflect

that their parent could not tell in what direction they have go. both

father and mother be come home, and the mother have instantly rush

out to try to find they, on perceive that they be not in the house.

she have hurry to and fro, and call--not at first suppose they

would be far. but when she hear nothing of they, she run in, and beg

of her husband to join in the search. but at first David Dunster would

do nothing. he be angry at they for go away from the house, and say

he be too tired to go on a wild-goose chase through the plantation

after they. “they be I’ th’ plantation,” say he; “they be shelter

there somewhere. let they alone, and they’ll come home, with a good long

tail behind they.”



with this piece of a child’s song of sheep, David sit down to his

supper, and Betty Dunster hurry up the valley, shouting--“Children,

where be you? David! Jane! Nancy! where be you?”



when she hear nothing of they, she hurry still more wildly up the

hill towards the village. when she arrive there--the distance of a

mile--she inquire from house to house, but no one have see anything of

they. it be clear they have not be in that direction. an alarm be

thus create in the village; and several young man set out to join Mrs.

Dunster in the quest. they again descend the valley towards Dunster’s

house, shout every now and then, and listen. the night be pitch

dark, and the rain fall heavily; but the wind have considerably abate,

and once they think they hear a faint cry in answer to their call,

far down the valley. they be right; the child have hear the

shouting, and have reply to it. but they be far off. the young man

shout again, but there be no answer; and after shout once more

without success, they hasten on. when they reach David Dunster’s

house, they find the door open, and no one within. they know that David

have set off in quest of the child himself, and they determine to

descend the valley. the distracted mother go with they, cry

silently to herself, and pray inwardly, and every now and then try

to shout. but the young man raise their strong voice above her, and

make the cliff echo with their appeal.



Anon a voice answer they down the valley. they run on as well as the

darkness would let they, and soon find that it be David Dunster, who

have be in the plantation on the other side of the valley; but hear

nothing of the lose child, now join they. he say he have hear the

cry from the hill-side far down, that answer to their shout, and

he be sure that it be his boy David’s voice. but he have shout again,

and there have be no answer but a wild scream as of terror, that make

his blood run cold.



“o God!” exclaim the distracted mother, “what can it be? David! David!

Jane! Nancy!”



there be no answer. the young man bid Betty Dunster to contain

herself, and they would find the child before they go home again.

all hold on down the valley, and in the direction whence the voice come.

many time do the young man and the now strongly agitated father shout

and listen. at length they seem to hear voice of weeping and moaning.

they listen--they be sure they hear a lamenting--it could only be

the child. but why then do they not answer? on struggle the man,

and Mrs. Dunster follow wildly after. now, again, they stand and

shout, and a kind of terrified scream follow the shout.



“God in heaven!” exclaim the mother; “what be it? there be something

dreadful. my child! my child! where be you?”



“be silent, pray do, Mrs. Dunster,” say one of the young man, “or we

cannot catch the sound so as to follow they.” they again listen, and

the wailing of the child be plainly hear. the whole party push

forward over stock and stone up the hill. they call again, and there

be a cry of “here! here! fayther! mother! where be you?”



in a few moment more the whole party have reach the child, who

stand drench with rain, and tremble violently, under a cliff that

give no shelter, but be expose especially to the wind and rain.



“o Christ! my child!” cry the mother, wildly, struggle forwards

and clasp one in her arm. “Nancy! jane! but where be David? David!

David! oh, where be David? where be your brother?”



the whole party be startle at not see the boy, and join in a

simultaneous “where be he? where be your brother?”



the two child only weep and tremble more violently, and burst into

loud crying.



“Silence!” shout the father. “where be David, I tell ye? be he lose?

David, lad, where ar ta?”



all listen, but there be no answer but the renew crying of the two

girl.



“where be the lad, then?” thunder forth the father with a terrible

oath.



the two terrified child cry, “oh, down there! down there!”



“down where? oh, God!” exclaim one of the young man; “why it’s a

precipice! down there?”



at this dreadful intelligence the mother give a wild shriek, and fall

senseless on the ground. the young man catch she, and drag she back

from the edge of the precipice. the father in the same moment, furious

at what he hear, seize the young child that happen to be near he,

and shake it violently, swear he would fling it down after the lad.



he be angry with the poor child, as if they have cause the

destruction of his boy. the young man seize he, and bid he think

what he be about; but the man believe his boy have fall down the

precipice, be like a madman. he kick at his wife as she lie on the

ground, as if she be guilty of this calamity by leave the child

at home. he be furious against the poor girl, as if they have lead

their brother into danger. in his violent rage he be a perfect maniac,

and the young man, push he away, cry shame on he. in a while, the

desperate man, tear by a hurricane of passion, sate himself down on a

crag, and burst into a tempest of tear, and strike his head violently

with his clenched fist, and curse himself and everybody. it be a

dreadful scene.



meantime, some of the young man have go down below the precipice on

which the child have stand, and, feel amongst the loose stone, have

find the body of poor little David. he be truly dead!



when he have hear the shout of his father, or of the young man, he have

give one loud shout in answer, and say “come on! never fear now!”

spring forward, and be over the precipice in the dark, and fly down

and be dash to piece. his sister hear a rush, a faint shriek, and

suddenly stop, escape the destruction that poor David have find.





II.--MILL life.



we must pass over the painful and dreadful particular of that night,

and of a long time to come; the maniacal rage of the father, the

shattered heart and feeling of the mother, the dreadful state of the

two remain child, to whom their brother be one of the most

precious object in a world which, like theirs, contain so few. one

moment to have see he full of life, and fun, and bravado, and almost

the next a lifeless and battered corpse, be something too strange and

terrible to be soon surmount. but this be wofully aggravate by the

cruel anger of their father, who continue to regard they as guilty of

the death of his favorite boy. he seem to take no pleasure in they. he

never speak to they but to scold they. he drink more deeply than ever,

and come home later; and when there be sullen and morose. when their

mother, who suffer severely, but still plod on with all her duty,

say, “David, they be thy child too;” he would reply savagely, “hod

thy tongue! what’s a pack o’ wench to my lad?”



what tend to render the miner more hard towards the two girl be a

circumstance which would have awaken a well feeling in a soft

father’s heart. Nancy, the young girl, since the dreadful catastrophe,

have seem to grow gradually dull and defective in her intellect, she

have a slow and somewhat idiotic air and manner. her mother perceive it,

and be strike with consternation by it. she try to rouse she, but in

vain. she could not perform her ordinary reading and spelling lesson.

she seem to have forget what be already learn. she appear to

have a difficulty in move her leg, and carry her hand as if she

have suffer a partial paralysis. Jane, her sister, be dreadfully

distressed at it, and she and her mother weep many bitter tear over

she. one day, in the follow spring, they take she with they to

Ashford, and consult the doctor there. on examine she, and hearing

fully what have take place at the time of the brother’s death--the fact

of which he well know, for it, of course, be know to the whole country

round--he shake his head, and say he be afraid they must make up their

mind to a sad case; that the terror of that night have affect she

brain, and that, through it, the whole nervous system have suffer, and

be continue to suffer the most melancholy effect. the only thing, he

think, in her favor, be her youth; and add, that it might have a

good effect if they could leave the place where she have undergo such a

terrible shock. but whether they do or not, kindness and soothe

attention to she would do more than anything else.



Mrs. Dunster and little Jane return home with heavy heart. the

doctor’s opinion have only confirm their fear; for Jane, though but a

child, have quickness and affection for her sister enough to make she

comprehend the awful nature of poor Nancy’s condition. Mrs. Dunster have

tell her husband the doctor’s word, for she think they would awaken

some tenderness in he towards the unfortunate child. but he say,

“that’s just what I expect. Hou’ll grow soft, and then who’s to

maintain she? hou mun goo to th’ workhouse.”



with that he take his maundrel and go off to his work. instead of

soften his nature, this intelligence seem only to harden and

brutalize it. he drink now more and more. but all that summer the mother

and Jane do all they could think of to restore the health and mind of

poor Nancy. every morning, when the father be go to work, Jane go

to a spring up in the opposite wood, fame for the coolness and

sweetness of its water. on this account the proprietor of the mill at

Cressbrook have put down a large trough there under the spread tree,

and the people fetch the water even from the village. hence Jane

bring, at many journey, this cold, delicious water to bathe her

sister in; they then rub she warm with cloth, and give her new milk

for her breakfast. her lesson be not leave off, lest the mind should

sink into fatuity, but be make as easy as possible. Jane continue to

talk to she, and laugh with she, as if nothing be amiss, though she do

it with a heavy heart, and she engage she to weed and hoe with she in

their little garden. she do not dare to lead she far out into the

valley, lest it might excite her memory of the past fearful time, but

she gather her flower, and continue to play with she at all their

accustomed sport, of build house with piece of pot and stone,

and imagine garden and park. the anxious mother, when some week

be go by, fancy that there be really some improvement. the

cold-bathing seem to have strengthen the system: the poor child

walk, and bear herself with more freedom and firmness. she become

ardently fond of be with her sister, and attentive to her direction.

but there be a dull cloud over her intellect, and a vacancy in her eye

and feature. she be quiet, easily please, but seem to have little

volition of her own. Mrs. Dunster think if they could but get she away

from that spot, it might rouse her mind from its sleep. but perhaps the

sleep be well than the awakening might be; however, the removal

come, though in a more awful way than be look for. the miner, who have

continue to drink more and more, and seem to have almost estrange

himself from his home, stay away in his drinking bout for a week or

more together, be one day blast a rock in the mine, and be

half-stupefied with beer, do not take care to get out of the way of the

explosion, be strike with a piece of the fly stone, and kill on

the spot.



the poor widow and her child be now oblige to remove from under

Wardlow-Cop. the place have be a sad one to she; the death of her

husband, though he have be latterly far from a good one, and have leave

she with the child in deep poverty, be a fresh source of severe

grief to she. her religious mind be strike down with a weight of

melancholy by the reflection of the life he have lead, and the sudden way

in which he have be summon into eternity. when she look forward,

what a prospect be there for her child! it be impossible for she to

maintain they from her small earning, and as to Nancy, would she ever

be able to earn her own bread, and protect herself in the world?



it be amid such reflection that Mrs. Dunster quit this deep,

solitary, and, to she, fatal valley, and take up her abode in the

village of Cressbrook. here she have one small room, and by her own

labor, and some aid from the parish, she manage to support herself and

the child. for seven year she continue her laborious life, assist

by the labor of the two daughter, who also seam stocking, and in the

evening be instruct by she. her girl be now thirteen and fifteen

year of age; Jane be a tall and very pretty girl of her year; she be

active, industrious, and sweet-temper: her constant affection for poor

Nancy be something as admirable as it be singular. Nancy have now

confirm good health, but it have affect her mother to perceive that,

since the catastrophe of her brother’s death, and the cruel treatment of

her father at that time, she have never grow in any degree as she

ought; she be short, stout, and of a pale and very plain countenance.

it could not be now say that she be deficient in mind, but she be

slow in its operation. she display, indeed, a more than ordinary

depth of reflection, and a shrewdness of observation, but the evidence

of this come forth in a very quiet way, and be observable only to her

mother and sister. to all besides she be extremely reserve: she be

timid to excess, and shrink from public notice into the society of her

mother and sister. there be a feeling abroad in the neighborhood that

she be “not quite right,” but the few who be more discerning, shake

their head, and observe, “right she be not, poor thing, but it be

not want of sense; she have more of that than most.”



and such be the opinion of her mother and sister. they perceive that

Nancy have receive a shock of which she must bear the effect through

life. circumstance might bring she feeble but sensitive nerve much

misery. she require to be guard and shelter from the rudeness of

the world, and the mother tremble to think how much she might be

expose to they. but in everything that relate to sound judgment, they

know that she surpass not only they, but any of their acquaintance. if

any difficulty have to be decide, it be Nancy who ponder on it, and

perhaps at some moment when least expect, pronounce an opinion that

might be take as confidently as an oracle.



the affection of the two sister be something beyond the tie of this

world. Jane have watch and attend to she from the time of her

constitutional injury with a love that never seem to know a moment’s

weariness or change; and the affection which Nancy evince for she be

equally intense and affect. she seem to hang on her society for her

very life. Jane feel this, and vow that they would never quit one

another. the mother sigh. how many thing, she think, might tear

asunder that beautiful resolve.



but now they be of an age to obtain work in the mill. indeed, Jane

could have have employment there long before, but she would not quit she

sister till she could go with her,--and now there they go. the

proprietor, who know the case familiarly, so order it that the two

sister should work near each other; and that poor Nancy should be as

little expose to the rudeness of the work-people as possible. but at

first so slow and awkward be Nancy’s endeavor, and such an effect have

it on her frame, that it be fear she must give it up. this would have

be a terrible calamity; and the tear of the two sister, and the

benevolence of the employer, enable Nancy to pass through this severe

ordeal. in a while she acquire sufficient dexterity, and thenceforward

go through her work with great accuracy and perseverance. as far as

any intercourse with the work-people be concern, she might be say to

be dumb. Scarcely ever do she exchange a word with any one, but she

return kind nod and smile; and every morning and evening, and at

dinner-time, the two sister might be see go to and fro, side by

side,--Jane often talk with some of they; the little, odd-look

sister walk silent and listen.



five more year and Jane be a young woman. amid her companion, who

be few of they above the middle size, she have a tall and striking

appearance. her father have be a remarkably tall and strong man, and

she possess something of his stature, though none of his irritable

disposition. she be extremely pretty, of a bloom fresh complexion,

and graceful form. she be remarkable for the sweetness of her

expression, which be the index of her disposition. by her side still

go that odd, broad-build, but still pale and little sister. Jane be

extremely admire by the young man of the neighborhood, and have already

many offer, but she listen to none. “where I go must Nancy go,” she

say to herself, “and of whom can I be sure?”



of Nancy no one take notice. her pale, somewhat large feature, her

thoughtful silent look, and her short, stout figure, give you an idea of

a dwarf, though she could not strictly be call one. no one would

think of Nancy as a wife,--where Jane go she must go; the two clung

together with one heart and soul. the blow which deprive they of their

brother seem to bind they inseparably together.



Mrs. Dunster, besides her seaming, at which, in truth, she earn a

miserable sum, have now for some year be the post-woman from the

village to the Bull’s Head, where the mail, go on to Tideswell, leave

the letter-bag. Thither and back, wet or dry, summer or winter, she go

every day, the year round. with her earning and those of the girl’,

she keep a neat, small cottage; and the world go as well with they as

the world go on the average with the poor. cramp and rheumatism she

begin to feel sensibly from so much exposure to rain and cold; but the

never-vary and firm affection of her two child be a balm in her

cup, which make she content with everything else.



when Jane be about two-and-twenty, poor Mrs. Dunster, seize with

rheumatic fever, die. on her death-bed she say to Jane, “thou wilt

never desert poor Nancy; and that’s my comfort. God have be good to I.

after all my trouble, he have give I this faith, that come weal come

woe, so long as thou have a home, Nancy will never want one. God bless

thee for it! God bless you both; and he will bless you!” so say,

Betty Dunster breathe she last.



the event immediately follow her death do not seem to bear out her

die faith; for the two poor girl be oblige to give up their

cottage. there be a want of cottage. not half of the work people

could be entertain in this village; they go to and fro for many

mile. Jane and Nancy be now oblige to do the same. their cottage be

want for an overlooker,--and they remove to Tideswell, three mile

off. they have thus six mile a day to walk, besides stand at their

work; but they be young, and have companion. in Tideswell they be

more cheerful. they have a snug little cottage; be near a meeting; and

find friend. they do not complain. here, again, Jane Dunster

attract great attention, and a young, thriving grocer pay his

address to she. it be an offer that make Jane take time to reflect.

every one say it be an opportunity not to be neglect; but Jane

weigh in her mind, “will he keep faith in my compact with Nancy?”

though her admirer make every vow on the subject, Jane pause and

determined to take the opinion of Nancy. Nancy think for a day, and

then say, “dearest sister, I don’t feel easy; I fear that from some

cause it would not do in the end.”



Jane from that moment give up the idea of the connection. there might be

those who would suspect Nancy of a selfish bias in the advice she give;

but Jane know that no such feeling influence her pure soul. for one

long year the two sister traverse the hill between Cressbrook and

Tideswell. but they have companion, and it be pleasant in the summer

month. but winter come, and then it be a severe trial. to rise in the

dark, and traverse those wild and bleak hill; to go through snow and

drizzle, and face the sharp wind in winter, be no trifling matter.

before winter be over, the two young woman begin seriously to revolve

the chance of a nearer residence, or a change of employ. there be no

few who blame Jane excessively for the folly of refuse the last good

offer. there be even more than one who, in the hearing of Nancy,

blame she. Nancy be thoughtful, agitated, and weep. “if I can, dear

sister,” she say, “have advise you to your injury, how shall I forgive

myself? what _shall_ become of I?”



but Jane clasp her sister to her heart, and say, “no! no! dear

sister, you be not to blame. I feel you be right; let we wait, and we

shall see!”





III.--THE COURTSHIP and another ship.



one evening, as the two sister be hasten along the road through

the wood on their way homeward, a young farmer drive up in his

spring-cart, cast a look at they, stop, and say: “young woman, if

you be go my way, I shall be glad of your company. you be quite

welcome to ride.”



the sister look at each other. “Dunna be afree,” say the young

farmer; “my name’s James Cheshire. I’m well know in these part; you

may trust yersen wi’ I, if it’s agreeable.”



to James’ surprise, Nancy say, “no, sir, we be not afraid; we be much

oblige to you.”



the young farmer help they up into the cart, and away they drive.



“I’m afraid we shall crowd you,” say Jane.



“not a bit of it,” reply the young farmer. “there’s room for three

big nor we in this seat, and I’m no way tedious.”



the sister see nothing odd in his use of the word “tedious,” as

stranger would have do; they know it merely mean “not at all

particular.” they be soon in active talk. as he have tell they who he

be, he ask they in their turn if they work at the mill there.

they reply in the affirmative, and the young man said:--



“I think so. I’ve see you sometimes go along together. I notice

you because you seem so sisterly like, and you be sister, I reckon.”



they say “yes.”



“I’ve a good spanking horse, you see,” say James Cheshire. “I shall get

over th’ ground rayther fast than you do a-foot, eh? my word,

though, it must be nation cold on these bleak hill I’ winter.”



the sister assent, and thank the young farmer for take they up.



“we be rather late,” say they, “for we look in on a friend, and the

rest of the mill-hand be go on.”



“well,” say the young farmer, “never mind that. I fancy Bess, my mare

here, can go a little fast nor they can. we shall very likely be at

Tidser as soon as they be.”



“but you be not go to Tidser,” say Jane, “your farm be just before

we there.”



“Yay, I’m go to Tidser though. I’ve a bit of business to do there

before I go hom.”



on drive the farmer at what he call a spanking rate; presently they

see the young mill-people on the road before they.



“there be your companion,” say James Cheshire, “we shall cut past

they like a flash of lightning.



“oh,” exclaim Jane Dunster, “what will they say at see we ride

here?” and she blush brightly.



“say!” say the young farmer, smile, “never mind what they’ll say;

depend upon it, they’d like to be here theirsen.”



James Cheshire crack his whip. the horse fly along. the party of the

young mill-hand turn round, and on see Jane and Nancy in the cart,

utter exclamation of surprise.



“my word, though!” say Mary Smedley, a fresh buxom lass, somewhat

inclined to stoutness.



“well, if ever!” cry smart little Hannah Bowyer.



“Nay, then, what next!” say Tetty Wilson, a tall, thin girl, of very

good look.



the two sister nod and smile to their companion; Jane still

blush rosily, but Nancy sit as pale and as gravely as if they

be go on some solemn business.



the only notice the farmer take be to turn with a broad smile face,

and shout to they, “wouldn’t you like to be here too?”



“ay, take we up,” shout a number of voice together; but the farmer

crack his whip, and give they a nod and a dozen smile in one, say,

“I cann’t stay. ask the next farmer that come up.”



with this they drive on; the young farmer very merry and full of talk.

they be soon by the side of his farm. “there’s a flock of sheep on the

turnip there,” he say, proudly; “they’re not to be beat on this side

Ashbourne. and there be some black oxen go for the night to the

straw-yard. Jolly fellow, those--eh? but I reckon you don’t understand

much of farming stock?”



“no,” say Jane, and be again surprised at Nancy add, “I wish we

do. I think a farmer’s life must be the very happy of any.”



“you think so?” say the farmer, turn and look at she earnestly,

and evidently with some wonder. “you be right,” say he. “you little

one be know one. you be right; it’s the life for a king.”



they be at the village. “pray stop,” say Jane, “and let we go down. I

would not for the world go up the village thus. it would make such a

talk!”



“Talk, who care for talk?” say the farmer; “willn’t the youngster we

leave on the road talk?”



“quite enough,” say Jane.



“and be _you_ afraid of talk?” say the farmer to Nancy.



“I’m not afraid of it when I don’t provoke it wilfully,” say Nancy;

“but we be poor girl, and cann’t afford to lose even the good word of

our acquaintance. you’ve be very kind in take we up on the road, but

to drive we to our door would cause such wonder as would perhaps make

we wish we have not be oblige to you.”



“blame I, if you arn’t right again!” say the young farmer,

thoughtfully. “these be scandal-love time, and th’ neebor might

plague you. that’s a deep head of yourn, though,--Nancy, I think your

sister caw’d you. well, here I stop then.”



he jump down and help they out.



“if you will drive on first,” say Jane, “we will walk on after, and

we’re greatly oblige to you.”



“Nay,” say the young man, “I shall turn again here.”



“but you’ve business.”



“oh! my business be to drive you here--that’s all.”



James Cheshere be mount his cart, when Nancy step up, and say:

“excuse I, Sir, but you’ll meet the mill-people on your return, and it

will make they talk all the more as you have drive we past your farm.

have you no business that you can do in Tidser, Sir?”



“Gad! but thou’rt right again! ay, I’ll go on!” and with a crack of his

whip, and a “good night!” he whirl into the village before they.



no soon be he go than Nancy, press her sister’s arm to her side,

say: “there’s the right man at last, dear Jane.”



“what!” say Jane, yet blush deeply at the same time, and her heart

beat quick against her side. “whatever be you talk of, Nancy?

that young farmer fall in love with a mill-girl?”



“he’s do it,” say Nancy; “I see it in he. I feel it in he. and I

feel, too, that he be true and staunch as steel.”



Jane be silent. they walk on in silence. Jane’s own heart respond

to what Nancy have say; she think again and again on what he say. “I

have see you sometimes;” “I notice you because you seem so

sisterly.” “he must have a good heart,” think Jane; “but then he can

never think of a poor mill-girl like I.”



the next morning they have to undergo plenty of raillery from their

companion. we will pass that over. for several day, as they pass to

and fro, they see nothing of the young farmer. but one evening, as they

be again alone, having staid at the same acquaintance’s as before, the

young farmer pop his head over a stone wall, and say, “good evening

to you, young woman,” he be soon over the wall, and walk on with they

to the end of the town. on the Sunday at the chapel Jane see Nancy’s

grave face fix on some object steadily, and, look in the same

direction, be startled to see James Cheshire. again her heart beat

pit-a-pat, and she think “can he really be think of I?”



the moment chapel be over, James Cheshire be go, stop to speak

to no one. Nancy again press the arm of Jane to her side as they

walk home, and said--“I be not wrong.” Jane only reply by return

her affectionate pressure.



some day after, as Nancy Dunster be come out of a shop in the

evening after their return home from the mill, James Cheshire suddenly

put his hand on her shoulder, and, on her turning, shake her hand

cordially, and say, “come along with I a bit. I must have a little

talk with you.”



Nancy consent without remark or hesitation. James Cheshire walk on

quickly till they come near the fine old church which strike traveller

as so superior to the place in which it be locate; when he slacken

his pace, and take Nancy’s hand, begin in a most friendly manner to

tell she how much he like she and her sister. that, to make a short

matter of it, as be his way, he have make up his mind that the woman of

all other in the world that would suit he for a wife be her sister.

“but, before I say so to she, I think I would say so to you, Nancy,

for you be so sensible, I’m sure you will say what be good for we all.”



Nancy manifest no surprise, but say, calmly: “you be a well-to-do

farmer, Mr. Cheshire. you have friend of property; my sister, and--”



“ay, and a mill-girl; I know all that. I’ve think it all over, and so

far you be right again, my little one. but just hear what I’ve get to

say. I’m no fool, though I say it. I’ve an eye in my head and a head on

my shoulder, eh?”



Nancy smile.



“well now, it’s not _any_ mill-girl; mind you, it’s not _any_ mill-girl;

no, nor perhaps another in the kingdom, that would do for I. I don’t

think mill-girl be in the main cut out for farmer’ wife, any more

than farmer’ wife be fit for mill-girl; but you see, I’ve get a

notion that your sister be not only a very farrantly lass, but that

she’s one that have particular good sense, though not so deep as you,

Nancy, neither. well, I’ve a notion she can turn her hand to anything,

and that she’s a heart to do it, when it’s a duty. ben’t that so, eh?

and if it be so, then Jane Dunster’s the lass for I; that be, if it’s

quite agreeable.”



Nancy press James Cheshire’s hand, and say, “you be very kind.”



“not a bit of it,” say James.



“well,” continue Nancy; “but I would have you to consider what your

friend will say; and whether you will not be make unhappy by they.”



“why, as to that,” say James Cheshire, interrupt she, “mark I, Miss

Dunster. I don’t ask my friend for anything. I can farm my own farm;

buy my own cattle; drive my spring-cart, without any advice or

assistance of theirs; and therefore I don’t think I shall ask their

advice in the matter of a wife, eh? no, no, on that score I’m make up.

my name’s Independent, and, at a word, the only live thing I mean to

ask advice of be yourself. if you, Miss Dunster, approve of the match,

it’s settle, as far I’m concern.”



“then so far,” say Nancy, “as you and my sister be concern, without

reference to worldly circumstance--I approve it with all my heart. I

believe you to be as good and honest as I know my sister to be. oh! Mr.

Cheshire! she be one of ten thousand.”



“well, I be sure of it;” say the young farmer; “and so now you must

tell your sister all about it; and if all’s right, chalk I a white

chalk inside of my gate as you go past I’ th’ morning, and to-morrow

evening I’ll come up and see you.”



here the two part with a cordial shake of the hand. the novel signal

of an accept love be duly discover by James Cheshire on his

gate-post, when he issue forth at daybreak, and that evening he be

sit at tea with Jane and Nancy in the little cottage, having bring

in his cart a basket of egg, apple, fresh butter, and a pile of the

rich pikelet (crumpet), country pikelet, very different to

town-make one, for tea.



we need not follow out the courtship of James Cheshire and Jane Dunster.

it be cordial and happy. James insist that both the sister should

give immediate notice to quit the mill-work, to spare themselves the

cold and severe walk which the winter now occasion they. the sister

have improve their education in their evening. they be far well

read and inform than most farmer’ daughter. they have be, since

they come to Tideswell, teacher in the Sunday-school. there be

comparatively little to be learn in a farm-house for the wife in

winter, and James Cheshire therefore propose to the sister to go for

three month to Manchester into a wholesale house, to learn as much as

they could of the plain sewing and cut out of household linen. the

person in question make up all sort of household linen, sheet,

pillow-case, shirt, and other thing; in fact, a great variety of

article. through an old acquaintance he get they introduce there,

avowedly to prepare they for house-keeping. it be a sensible step, and

answer well. at spring, to cut short opposition from his own

relative, which begin to show itself, for these thing do not fail to

be talk of, James Cheshire get a license, and proceed to

Manchester, be then and there marry, and come home with his wife and

sister.



the talk and gossip which this wedding make all round the country, be

no little; but the party themselves be well satisfied with their

mutual choice, and be happy. as the spring advance, the duty of the

household grow upon Mrs. Cheshire. she have to learn the art of

cheese-making, butter-making, of all that relate to poultry, calf,

and household management. but in these matter she have the aid of an old

servant who have do all this for Mr. Cheshire, since he begin farm.

she take a great liking to her mistress, and show she with hearty

good-will how everything be do; and as Jane take a deep interest in

it, she rapidly make herself mistress of the management of the house, as

well as of the house itself. she do not disdain, herself, to take a

hand at the churn, that she might be familiar with the whole process of

butter-making, and all the sign by which the process be conduct to a

successful issue. it be soon see that no farmer’s wife could produce a

firm, fresher, sweet pound of butter. it be neither _swelte_ by

too hasty churning, nor spoil, as be too often the case, by the

buttermilk or by water be leave in it, for want of well kneading and

press. it be deliciously sweet, because the cream be carefully put

up in the clean vessel and well attend to. Mrs. Cheshire, too,

might daily be see kneeling by the side of the cheese-pan, separate

the curd, take off the whey, fill the cheese-vat with the curd, and

put the cheese herself into press. her cheese-chamber display as

fine a set of well-salt, well-color, well-turn and regular cheese

as ever issue from that or any other farm-house.



James Cheshire be proud of his wife; and Jane herself find a most

excellent helper in Nancy. Nancy take particularly to housekeeping; see

that all the room be exquisitely clean; that everything be in nice

repair; that not only the master and mistress, but the servant have

their food prepare in a wholesome and attractive manner. the egg she

store up; and as fruit come into season, have it collect for market,

and for a judicious household use. she make the tea and coffee morning

and evening, and do everything but preside at the table. there be not

a farm-house for twenty mile round, that wear an air of so much

brightness and evident good management as that of James Cheshire. for

Nancy, from the first moment of their acquaintance, he have conceive a

most profound respect. in all case that require counsel, though he

consult freely with his wife, he would never decide till they have have

Nancy’s opinion and sanction.



and James Cheshire prosper. but, spite of this, he do not escape the

persecution from his relation that Nancy have foresee. on all hand he

find coldness. none of they call on he. they felt scandalize at his

_evening_ himself, as they call it, to a mill-girl. he be taunt

when they meet at market, with having be catch with a pretty face; and

tell that they think he have have more sense than to marry a dress

doll with a witch by her side.



at first James Cheshire reply with a careless waggery, “the pretty

face make capital butter, though, eh? the dress doll turn out a

tolerable dairy, eh? well,” add James, “than a good many can, that I

know, who have neither pretty face, nor have much taste in dress to

crack of.”



the allusion to Nancy’s dwarfish plainness be what peculiarly provoke

James Cheshire. he might have laugh at the criticism on his wife,

though the envious neighbor’ wife do say that it be the old servant

and not Mrs. Cheshire who produce such fine butter and cheese; for

where-ever she appear, spite of envy and detraction, her lovely person

and quiet good sense, and the grow rumor of her good management, do

not fail to produce a due impression. and James have prepare to laugh it

off; but it would not do. he find himself get every now and then

angry and unsettle by it. a coarse jest on Nancy at any time throw he

into a desperate fit of indignation. the more the superior merit of his

wife be know, the more seem to increase the envy and venom of some

of his relative. he see, too, that it have an effect on his wife. she

be often sad, and sometimes in tear.



one day when this occur, James Cheshire say, as they sit at tea,

“I’ve make up my mind. peace in this life be a jewel. well be a dinner

of herb with peace, than a stall ox with strife. well, now, I’m

determined to have peace. peace and luv,” say he, look

affectionately at his wife and Nancy, “peace and luv, by God’s blessing,

have settle down on this house; but there be sting here and sting

there, when we go out of door. we must not only have peace and luv in

the house, but peace all round it. so I’ve make up my mind. I’m for

America!”



“for America!” exclaim Jane. “surely you cannot be in earnest.”



“I never be more in earnest in my life,” say James Cheshire. “it be

true I do very well on this farm here, though it’s a cowdish situation;

but from all I can learn, I can do much well in America. I can there

farm a much well farm of my own. we can have a much fine climate than

this Peak country, and our countryman still about we. now, I want to

know what make a man’s native land pleasant to him?--the kindness of

his relation and friend. but then, if a man’s relation be not

kind?--if they get a conceit into they, that because they be relation

they be to choose a man’s wife for he, and ste he and snort at he

because he have a will of his own?--why, then I say, God send a good big

herring-pool between I and such relation! my relation, by way of

show their natural affection, spit spite and bitterness. you, dear

wife and sister, have none of yourn to spite you. in the house we have

peace and luv. let we take the peace and luv, and leave the bitterness

behind.”



there be a deep silence.



“it be a serious proposal,” at length say Jane, with tear in her eye.



“what say Nancy?” ask James.



“it be a serious proposal,” say Nancy, “but it be good. I feel it so.”



there be another deep silence; and James Cheshire say, “then it be

decide.”



“think of it,” say Jane earnestly,--“think well of it.”



“I have think of it long and well, my dear. there be some of these

chap that call I relation that I shall not keep my hand off, if I

stay amongst them,--and I fain would. but for the present I will say no

more; but,” add he, rise and bring a book from his desk, “here be

a book by one Morris Birkbeck,--read it, both of you, and then let I

know your mind.”



the sister read. on the following Lady-day, James Cheshire have turn

over his farm advantageously to another, and he, his wife, Nancy, and

the old servant, Mary Spendlove, all embark at Liverpool, and

transfer themselves to the United States, and then to the State of

Illinois. five-and-twenty year have roll over since that day. we

could tell a long and curious story of the fortune of James Cheshire

and his family: from the day when, half-repenting of his emigration and

his purchase, he find himself in a rough country, amid rough and

spiteful squatter, and lie for month with a brace of pistol under his

pillow, and a great sword by his bedside for fear of robbery and murder.

but enough, that at this moment, James Cheshire, in a fine cultivate

country, see his ample estate cultivate by his son, while as Colonel

and magistrate he dispense the law and receive the respectful homage

of the neighborhood. Nancy Dunster, now style Mrs. Dunster, the mother

in Israel--the promoter of school and the councillor of old and

young--still live. year have improve rather than deteriorate she

short and stout exterior. the long exercise of wise thought and the

play of benevolent feeling, have give even a sacred beauty to she

homely feature. the dwarf have disappear, and there remain instead, a

grave but venerable matron,--honored like a queen.









IX.



the Ghost of the late Mr. James Barber.



a YARN ASHORE.





“‘luck!’ nonsense. there be no such thing. life be not a game of chance

any more than chess be. if you lose, you have no one but yourself to

blame.”



this be say by a young lieutenant in the Royal Navy, to a middle-aged

midshipman, his eld brother.



“do you mean to say that luck have nothing to do with Fine Gentleman

Bobbin pass for lieutenant, and my being turn back?” be the

rejoinder.



“Bobbin, though a dandy, be a good seaman, and--and----.” the speaker

look another way, and hesitate.



“I be _not_, you would add--if you have courage. but I say I be, and a

well seaman than Bobbin.”



“practically, perhaps, for you be ten year old in the service. but

it be in the theoretical part of seamanship--which be equally

important--that you break down before the examiner,” continue the

young officer, in tone of earnest but sorrowful reproach, “you never

_would_ study.”



“I’ll tell you what it be, master Ferdinand,” say the eld middy, not

without a show of displeasure. “I don’t think this be the correct sort

of conversation to be go on between two brother after a five year’

separation.”



the young lieutenant lay his hand soothingly on his brother’s arm, and

entreat he to take what he say in good part.



“well, well!” rejoin the middy, with a laugh half-forced. “take care

what you be about, or, by Jove, I’ll inform against you.”



“what for?”



“why, for preach without a license. besides, you be once as bad as

you pretend I be.”



“I own it with sorrow; but I be warn in time by the wretched end of

poor James Barber----”



“of whom?” ask the eld brother, start back as he push his glass

along the table. “you don’t mean Jovial Jemmy, as we use to call he;

once my messmate in the brig ‘Rollock.’”



“yes, I do.”



“what! dead?”



“yes.”



“why, it be one of our great delight, when in harbor and on shore, to

‘go the rounds’--as he call it--with Jovial Jemmy. he understand life

from stem to stern--from truck to keel. he know everybody, from the

First Lord downwards. I have see he recognize by _the_ Duke one

minute, and the next pick up with a stroll player, and familiarly

treat he at a tavern. he once take I to a quadrille party at the

Duchess of Durrington’s, where he seem to know and be know to

everybody present, and then adjourn to the Cider Cellars, where he be

equally intimate with all sort of queer character. though a favorite

among the aristocracy, he be equally welcome in less exclusive

society. he be ‘brother,’ ‘Past Master,’ ‘Warden,’ ‘Noble Grand,’ or

‘President’ of all sort of Lodges and Fraternities. uncommonly know

be Jemmy in all sort of club and fashionable gossip. he know who give

the good dinner, and be always invite to the good ball. he be a

capital judge of champagne, and when he bet upon a horse-race

everybody back he. he could hum all the fashionable song, and be

the fourth man who could dance the polka when it be first import.

then he be as profound in bottled stout, Welsh rabbit, Burton ale,

devil kidney, and bowl of Bishop, as he be in roman punch, french

cookery, and italian singer. afloat, he be the soul of fun:--he get up

all our private theatrical, tell all the good story, and sing comic

song that make even the Purser laugh.”



“an extent and variety of knowledge and accomplishment,” say

Lieutenant Fid, “which have the precise effect of blast his prospect

in life. he be, as you remember, at last dismiss the service for

intemperance and incompetence.”



“when do you see he last?”



“what, _alive_?” inquire Ferdinand Fid, change countenance.



“of course! surely you do not mean to insinuate that you have see his

ghost!”



the lieutenant be silent; and the midshipman take a deep draught of his

favorite mixture--equal portion of rum and water--and hint to his

young brother, the lieutenant, the expediency of immediately confide

the story to the Marines; for he decline to credit it. he then venture

another recommendation, which be that Ferdinand should throw the

impotent temperance tipple he be then imbibe “over the side of the

Ship”--which mean the tavern of that name in Greenwich, at the open

bow-window of which they be then sit--and clear his intellect by

something strong.



“I can afford to be laugh at,” say the young Fid, “because I have

gain immeasurably by the delusion, if it be one; but if ever there be

a ghost, I have see the ghost of James Barber. I, like yourself and he,

be nearly ruin by love of amusement and intemperance, when he--or

whatever else it might have be--come to my aid.”



“let we hear. I see I be ‘in’ for a ghost story.”



“well; it be eighteen forty-one when I come home in the ‘Arrow’ with

despatch from the coast of Africa: you be lie in the Tagus in the

‘Bobstay.’ Ours, you know, be rather a thirsty station; a man incline

for it come home from the Slaving Coasts with a determination to make

up his lee way. I do mine with a vengeance. as usual, I look up

‘Jovial Jemmy.’”



“’twas easy to find he if you know where to go.”



“I _do_ know, and go. he have by that time get tired of his more

aristocratic friend. respectability be too ‘slow’ for he, so I find

he preside over the ‘Philanthropic Raspers,’ at the ‘Union Jack.’ he

receive I with open arm, and take I, as you say, the ‘round.’ I

cann’t recall that week’s dissipation without a shudder. we rush about

from ball to tavern, from theatre to supper-room, from club to

gin-palace, as if our life depend on lose not a moment. we have not

time to walk, so we gallop about in cab. on the fourth night, when I

be begin to feel knock up, and tired of the same song, the same

quadrille, the bad whiskey, the suffocate tobacco smoke, and the

morning’s certain and desperate penalty, I remark to Jemmy that it

be a miracle how he have manage to weather it for so many year. ‘what

a hardship you would deem it,’ I add, ‘if you be _oblige_ to go the

same weary round from one year’s end to another.’”



“what do he say to that?” ask Philip.



“why, I never see he so take aback. he look quite fiercely at I,

and reply, ‘I _be_ oblige!’”



“how do he make that out?”



“why, he have tipple and dissipate his constitution into such a state

that use have become second nature. Excitement be his natural condition,

and he dared not become quite sober for fear of a total collapse--or

drop down like a shot in the water.”



the midshipman have his glass in his hand, but forebore to taste

it.--“Well, what then?”



“the ‘round’ last two night long. I be fairly beat. cast-iron

could not have stand it. I be prostrate in bed with fever--and bad.”

Ferdinand be agitated, and take a large draught of his lemonade.



“well, well, you need not enlarge upon that,” reply Phil Phid, raise

his glass towards his lip, but again think well of it; “I hear

how bad you be from Seton, who shave your head.”



“I have scarcely recover when the ‘Arrow’ be order back, and I make

a vow.”



“took the pledge, perhaps!” interject the mid, with a slight curl of

his lip.



“no! I determine to work more and play less. we have a capital naval

instructor aboard, and our commander be as good an officer as ever

trod the deck. I study--a little too hard perhaps, for I be lay up

again. the ‘Arrow’ be, as usual, as good as her name, and we shoot

across to Jamaica in five week. one evening as we be lie in

Kingston harbor, Seton, who have come over to join the Commodore as full

surgeon, tell I what he have never venture to divulge before.”



“what be that?”



“why, that, on the very day I leave London, James Barber die of a

frightful attack of _delirium tremen_!”



“poor Jemmy!” say the eld Fid, sorrowfully, take a long pull of

consolation from his rummer. “little do I think, while singe some of

your good song off Belem Castle, that I have see you for the last

time!”



“_i_ haven’t see he for the last time,” return the lieutenant, with

awful significance.



Philip assume a careless air, and say, “go on.”



“we be order home in eighteen forty-five, and pay off in January. I

go to Portsmouth; be examine, and pass as lieutenant.”



this allusion to his brother’s well condition make poor Philip look

rather blank.



“on be confirm at the Admiralty,” continue Ferdinand, “I have to

give a dinner to the ‘arrow;’ which I do at the Salopian, Charing

Cross. in the excess of my joy at promotion, my determination of

temperance and avoidance of what be call ‘society’ be swamp. I keep

it up once more; I go the ‘round,’ and accept all the dinner,

supper, and ball invitation I could get, invariably end each morning

in one of the old haunt of dissipation. old association with James

Barber return, and like cause produce similar effect. one morning

while maunder home, I begin to feel the same wild confusion as have

previously commence my dreadful malady.”



“ah! a little touch in the top-hamper.”



“it be just day-light. think to cool my self, I jump into a

wherry to get pull down here to Greenwich.”



“of course you be not quite sober.”



“don’t ask! I do not like even to allude to my sensation, for fear of

recall they. my brain seem in a flame. the boat appear to be

go at the rate of twenty mile an hour. fast as we be cleave the

current, I hear my name distinctly call out. I reconnoitre, but

could see nobody. I look over on one side of the gun-wale, and, while

do so, feel something touch I from the other; I feel a chill; I

turn round and saw----”



“Whom?” ask the midshipman, hold his breath.



“what seem to be James Barber.”



“be he wet?”



“as dry as you be.”



“I summon courage to speak. ‘Hillo! some mistake!’ I exclaim.



“‘not at all,’ be the reply. ‘I’m James Barber. don’t be frightened,

I’m harmless.’



“‘But----’



“‘I know what you be go to say,’ interrupt the intruder. ‘Seton

do not deceive you--I be only an occasional visitor _up here_.’



“this bring I up with a round turn, and I have sense enough to wish my

friend would vanish as he come. ‘where shall we land you?’ I ask.



“‘oh, any where--it don’t matter. I have get to be out every night and

all night; and the night be plaguy long just now.’



“I could not muster a word.



“‘Ferd Fid,’ continue the voice, which now seem about fifty fathom

deep; and fast as we be drop down the stream, the boat give a heel

to starboard, as if she have be broadside by a tremendous wave--‘Ferd

Fid, you recollect how I use to kill time; how I sing, drank, dance,

and sup all night long, and then sleep and soda-water it all day.

you remember what a happy fellow I seem. fool like yourself think I

be so; but I say again, I ben’t,’ growl the voice, let itself

down a few fathom deeply. ‘often and often I would have give the

world to have be a market-gardener or a dealer in chick-weed while

roar “he be a jolly good fellow,” and “we willn’t go home till

morning!” as I emerge with a group from some tavern into Covent Garden

market. but I’m punish fearfully for my sin now. what do you think I

have get to do every night of my--never mind--what do you think be now

mark out as my dreadful punishment?’



“‘well, to walk the earth, I suppose,’ say I.



“‘no.’



“‘to paddle about in the Thames from sunset to sun-rise?’



“‘bad. ha, ha!’ (his laugh sound like the booming of a gong). ‘I

only wish my doom be merely to be a mud-lark. no, no, I’m condemn to

rush about from one evening party and public house to another. at the

former I be bind for a certain term on each night to dance all the

quadrille, and a few of the polkas and waltz with clumsy partner;

and then I have to eat stale pastry and tough poultry before I be let

off from _that_ place. after, I be bind to go to some cellar or singe

place to listen to “hail smile morn,” “Mynheer Van Dunk,” “the monk

of old,” “happy land,” imitation of the London actor, and to hear a

whole canto of dreary extempore verse. I must also smoke a dozen of

cigar, know--as in my present condition I must know,--what they be

make of. the whole to end on each night with unlimited brandy (British)

and water, and eternal intoxication. oh, F. F., be warn! take my

advice; keep up your resolution, and don’t do it again. when afloat,

drink nothing strong than purser’s tea. when on shore be temperate in

your pleasure; don’t turn night into day; don’t exchange wholesome

amusement for rabid debauchery, robust health for disease and--well, I

willn’t mention it. when afloat, study your profession and don’t get

cashier and cold-shoulder as I be. promise I--nay, you must

swear!’



“at this word I think I hear a gurgling sound in the water.



“‘if I can get six solemn pledge before the season’s over, I’m only to

go these horrid round during the meeting of Parliament.’



“‘_will_ you swear?’ again urge the voice, with persuasive agony.



“I be just able to comply.



“‘ten thousand thank!’ be the next word I hear; ‘I’m off, for there

be an awful pint of pale ale, a chop, and a glass of brandy and water

overdue yet, and I must devour they at the Shades.’ (we be then close

to London Bridge.) ‘don’t let the waterman pull to shore; I can get

there without trouble he.’



“I remember no more. when sensation return, I be in bed, in this very

house, a shade bad than I have be from the previous attack.”



“that,” say Philip, who have leave his tumbler untasted, “must have be

when you have your head shave for the second time.”



“exactly so.”



“and you really believe it be Jovial James’ ghost,” inquire Fid,

earnestly.



“would it be rational to doubt it?”



Philip rise and pace the room in deep thought for several minute. he

cast two or three earnest look at his brother, and a few longing one

at his glass. in the course of his cogitation, he groan out more than

once an apostrophe to poor “James Barber.” at length he declare his

mind be make up.



“Ferd!” he say, “I tell you awhile ago to throw your lemonade over the

side of the ship. don’t. souse out my grog instead.”



the lieutenant do as he be bid.



“and now,” say fid the elder, “ring for soda water; for one must drink

_something_.”



       *       *       *       *       *



last year it be my own good fortune to sail with Mr. Philip Fid in the

“Bombottle” (74). he be not exactly a tee-totaller; but he never drink

spirit, and will not touch wine unmixe with water, for fear of its

interfere with his study, at which he be, with the assistance of the

naval instructor (who be also the chaplain), assiduous. he be our first

mate, and the smart officer in the ship. Seton be our surgeon.



one day, after a cheerful ward-room dinner (of which Fid be a guest),

while we be at anchor in the Bay of Cadiz, the conversation happen

to turn upon Jovial Jemmy’s apparition, which have become the

well-authenticate ghost story in her Majesty’s Naval service. on that

occasion Seton undertake to explain the mystery upon medical principle.



“the fact be,” he say, “what the commander of the ‘Arrow’ see

(Ferdinand have by this time get commission in his old ship) be a

spectrum, produce by that morbid condition of the brain, which be

bring on by the immoderate use of stimulant, and by dissipation; we

call it Transient Monomania. I could show you dozen of such ghost in

the book, if you only have patience while I turn they up.”



everybody declare that be unnecessary. we would take the doctor’s word

for it; though I feel convinced not a soul besides the chaplain and

myself have one iota of his faith shake in the real presence of Jovial

Jemmy’s _post-mortem_ appearance to fid the young.



Ghost or no ghost, however, the story have have the effect of convert

Philip Fid from one of the most intemperate and inattentive to one of

the sober and good of her Majesty’s officer. may his promotion be

steady!









X.



a Tale of the Good Old Times.





an alderman of the ancient borough of Beetlebury, and churchwarden of

the parish of St. Wulfstan’s in the said borough, Mr. Blenkinsop might

have be call, in the language of the sixteenth century, a man of

worship. this title would probably have please he very much, it be

an obsolete one, and he entertain an extraordinary regard for all

thing obsolete, or thoroughly deserve to be so. he look up with

profound veneration to the griffin which form the water-spout of St.

Wulfstan’s church, and he almost worship an old boot under the name

of a black jack, which on the affidavit of a forsworn broker, he have

buy for a drinking vessel of the sixteenth century. Mr. Blenkinsop

even more admire the wisdom of our ancestor than he do their

furniture and fashion. he believe that none of their statute and

ordinance could possibly be improve on, and in this persuasion have

petition Parliament against every just or merciful change, which,

since he have arrive at man’s estate, have be make in the law. he have

successively oppose all the Beetlebury improvement, gas, waterwork,

infant school, mechanic’ institute, and library. he have be active in

an agitation against any measure for the improvement of the public

health, and be a strong advocate of intramural interment, be

instrumental in defeat an attempt to establish a pretty cemetery

outside Beetlebury. he have successfully resist a project for remove

the pig-market from the middle of the High Street. through his influence

the shamble, which be corporation property, have be allow to

remain where they be; namely, close to the Town-Hall, and immediately

under his own and his brother’s nose. in short, he have regularly,

consistently, and nobly do his good to frustrate every scheme that

be propose for the comfort and advantage of his fellow creature. for

this conduct he be highly esteemed and respect; and, indeed, his

hostility with any interference of disease, have procure he the honor

of a public testimonial;--shortly after the presentation of which, with

several neat speech, the cholera break out in Beetlebury.



the truth be, that Mr. Blenkinsop’s view on the subject of public

health and popular institution be suppose to be economical (though

they be, in truth, desperately costly), and so please some of the

rate-payer. besides, he withstand amelioration, and defend nuisance

and abuse with all the heartiness of an actual philanthropist.

moreover, he be a jovial fellow,--a boon companion; and his love of

antiquity leant particularly towards old ale and old port wine. of both

of these beverage he have be partake rather largely at a

visitation-dinner, where, after the retirement of the bishop and his

clergy, festivity be keep up till late, under the presidency of the

deputy-registrar. one of the last to quit the Crown and Mitre be Mr.

Blenkinsop.



he live in a remote part of the town, whither, as he do not walk

exactly in a right line, it may be allowable, perhaps, to say that he

bent his course. many of the dweller in Beetlebury high-street,

awaken at half-past twelve on that night, by somebody pass below,

singing, not very distinctly,



    “with a jolly full bottle let each man be arm,”



be indebte, little as they may have suspect it, to Alderman

Blenkinsop, for their serenade.



in his homeward way stand the Market Cross; a fine mediæval structure,

support on a series of circular step by a groin arch, which serve

as a canopy to the stone figure of an ancient burgess. this be the

effigy of Wynkyn de Vokes, once Mayor of Beetlebury, and a great

benefactor to the town; in which he have found alm-house and a

grammar-school, A. D. 1440. the post be formerly occupy by St.

Wulfstan; but De Vokes have be remove from the Town Hall in

Cromwell’s time, and promote to the vacant pedestal, _vice_ Wulfstan,

demolish. Mr. Blenkinsop highly revere this work of art, and he now

stop to take a view of it by moonlight. in that doubtful glimmer, it

seem almost life-like. Mr. Blenkinsop have not much imagination, yet he

could well nigh fancy he be look upon the veritable Wynkyn, with his

bonnet, beard, fur gown, and staff, and his great book under his arm.

so vivid be this impression, that it impel he to apostrophize the

Statue.



“fine old fellow!” say Mr. Blenkinsop. “rare old buck! we shall never

look upon your like again. ah! the good old time--the jolly good old

time! ‘no time like the good old time--my ancient worthy. no such

time as the good old time!”



“and pray, Sir, what time do you call the good old time?” in distinct

and deliberate accent, answer--accord to the positive affirmation

of Mr. Blenkinsop, subsequently make before diver witness--the

Statue.



Mr. Blenkinsop be sure that he be in the perfect possession of his

sense. he be certain that he be not the dupe of ventriloquism, or any

other illusion. the value of these conviction must be a question

between he and the world, to whose perusal the fact of his tale,

simply as state by himself, be here submit.



when first he hear the Statue speak, Mr. Blenkinsop say, he certainly

experience a kind of sudden shock, a momentary feeling of

consternation. but this soon abate in a wonderful manner. the Statue’s

voice be quite mild and gentle--not in the least grim--have no funeral

twang in it, and be quite different from the tone a statue might be

expect to take by anybody who have derive his notion on that subject

from having hear the representative of the class in “Don Giovanni.”



“well; what time do you mean by the good old time?” repeat the

Statue, quite familiarly. the churchwarden be able to reply with some

composure, that such a question come from such a quarter have take

he a little by surprise.



“come, come, Mr. Blenkinsop,” say the Statue, “don’t be astonish.

’tis half-past twelve, and a moonlight night, as your favorite police,

the sleepy and infirm old watchman, say. don’t you know that we statue

be apt to speak when speak to, at these hour? collect yourself. I

will help you to answer my own question. let we go back step by step;

and allow I to lead you. to begin. by the good old time, do you mean

the reign of George the Third?”



“the last of they, Sir,” reply Mr. Blenkinsop, very respectfully, “I

be inclined to think, be see by the people who live in those day.”



“I should hope so,” the Statue reply. “those the good old time? what!

Mr. Blenkinsop, when man be hang by dozen, almost weekly, for

paltry theft. when a nursing woman be drag to the gallow with a

child at her breast, for shop-lifting, to the value of a shilling. when

you lose your american colony, and plunge into war with France,

which, to say nothing of the useless bloodshed it cost, have leave you

saddle with the national debt. surely you will not call these the good

old time, will you, Mr. Blenkinsop?”



“not exactly, Sir: no; on reflection I don’t know that I can,” answer

Mr. Blenkinsop. he have now, it be such a civil, well-speak

statue--lose all sense of the preternatural horror of his situation, and

scratch his head just as if he have be pose in argument by an

ordinary mortal.



“well, then,” resume the Statue, “my dear Sir, shall we take the two or

three reign precede. what think you of the then exist state of

prison and prison discipline? unfortunate debtor confine

indiscriminately with felon, in the midst of filth, vice, and misery

unspeakable. criminal under sentence of death tipple in the condemn

cell with the Ordinary for their pot companion. Flogging, a common

punishment of woman convict of larceny. what say you of the time when

London street be absolutely dangerous, and the passenger run the

risk of be hustle and rob even in the day-time? when not only

Hounslow and Bagshot Heath, but the public road swarm with robber,

and a stagecoach be as frequently plunder as a hen-roost. when,

indeed, ‘the road’ be esteem the legitimate resource of a gentleman

in difficulty, and a highwayman be commonly call ‘captain’ if not

respect accordingly. when cock-fighting, bear-baiting, and

bull-baiting be popular, nay, fashionable amusement. when the bulk of

the land gentry could barely read and write, and divide their time

between fox-hunting and guzzling. when a duellist be a hero, and it be

an honor to have ‘kill your man.’ when a gentleman could hardly open

his mouth without utter a profane or filthy oath. when the country

be continually in peril of civil war through a dispute succession; and

two murderous insurrection, follow by more murderous execution,

actually take place. this era of inhumanity, shamelessness, brigandage,

brutality, and personal and political insecurity, what say you of it,

Mr. Blenkinsop? do you regard this wig and pigtail period as

constitute the good old time, respected friend?”



“there be Queen Anne’s golden reign, Sir,” deferentially suggest Mr.

Blenkinsop.



“a golden reign!” exclaim the Statue. “a reign of favoritism and court

trickery at home, and profitless war abroad. the time of Bolingbroke’s,

and Harley’s, and Churchill’s intrigue. the reign of Sarah, Duchess of

Marlborough, and Mrs. Masham. a golden fiddlestick! I imagine you must

go far back yet for your good old time, Mr. Blenkinsop.”



“well,” answer the churchwarden, “I suppose I must, Sir, after what

you say.”



“take William the Third’s rule,” pursue the Statue. “War, war again;

nothing but war. I don’t think you’ll particularly call these the good

old time. then what will you say to those of James the Second? be

they the good old time when Judge Jeffries sit on the bench? when

Monmouth’s rebellion be follow by the Bloody Assize. when the king

try to set himself above the law, and lose his crown in consequence.

do your worship fancy that these be the good old time?”



Mr. Blenkinsop admit that he could not very well imagine that they

be.



“be Charles the Second’s the good old time?” demand the Statue.

“with a court full of riot and debauchery--a palace much less decent

than any modern casino--whilst Scotch Covenanters be have their leg

crush in the “Boots,” under the auspex and personal superintendence

of his Royal Highness the Duke of York. the time of Titus Oates, Bedloe,

and Dangerfield, and their sham-plot, with the hanging, drawing, and

quartering, on perjured evidence, that follow they. when Russell and

Sidney be judicially murder. the time of the Great Plague and Fire

of London. the public money waste by roguery and embezzlement, while

sailor lie starve in the street for want of their just pay; the

Dutch about the same time burn our ship in the Medway. my friend, I

think you will hardly call the scandalous monarchy of the ‘Merry

Monarch’ the good old time.”



“I feel the difficulty which you suggest, Sir,” own Mr. Blenkinsop.



“now, that a man of your loyalty,” pursue the Statue, “should identify

the good old time with Cromwell’s Protectorate, be of course out of the

question.”



“decidedly, Sir!” exclaim Mr. Blenkinsop. “_he_ shall not have a

statue, though you enjoy that honor,” bow.



“and yet,” say the Statue, “with all its fault, this era be perhaps

no bad than any we have discuss yet. never mind! it be a dreary,

cant-ridden one, and if you don’t think those England’s palmy day,

neither do I. there’s the previous reign then. during the first part of

it, there be the king endeavor to assert arbitrary power. during the

latter, the Parliament be fight against he in the open field.

what ultimately become of he I need not say. at what stage of King

Charles the First’s career do the good old time exist, Mr. Alderman? I

need barely mention the Star Chamber and poor and Prynne; I merely

allude to the fate of Strafford and of Laud. on consideration, should

you fix the good old time anywhere thereabout?”



“I be afraid not, indeed, Sir?” Mr. Blenkinsop respond, tap his

forehead.



“what be your opinion of James the First’s reign? be you enamored of

the good old time of the Gunpowder Plot? or when Sir Walter Raleigh be

behead? or when hundred of poor miserable old woman be burn alive

for witchcraft, and the royal wiseacre on the throne write as wise a

book, in defence of the execrable superstition through which they

suffer?”



Mr. Blenkinsop confess himself oblige to give up the time of James

the First.



“now, then,” continue the Statue, “we come to Elizabeth.”



“there I’ve get you!” interrupt Mr. Blenkinsop, exultingly. “I beg

your pardon, Sir,” he add, with a sense of the freedom he have take;

“but everybody talk of the time of good Queen Bess, you know!”



“ha, ha!” laugh the Statue, not at all like Zamiel, or Don Guzman, or

a pavior’s rammer, but really with unaffected gaiety. “everybody

sometimes say very foolish thing. suppose everybody’s lot have be

cast under Elizabeth! how would everybody have relish be subject to

the jurisdiction of the Ecclesiastical Commission, with its power of

imprisonment, rack, and torture? how would everybody have like to see

his roman catholic and dissent fellow-subject, butcher, fined, and

imprison for their opinion; and charitable lady butcher, too, for

give they shelter in the sweet compassion of their heart? what would

everybody have think of the murder of Mary Queen of Scots? would

everybody, would anybody, would _you_, wish to have live in these day,

whose emblem be crop ear, pillory, stock, thumb-screw, gibbet,

axe, chop-block, and Scavenger’s daughter? will you take your stand

upon this stage of history for the good old time, Mr. Blenkinsop?”



“I should rather prefer firm and safe ground, to be sure, upon the

whole,” answer the worshipper of antiquity, dubiously.



“well, now,” say the Statue, “’tis get late, and, unaccustomed as I

be to conversational speaking, I must be brief. be those the good old

time when Sanguinary Mary roast bishop, and light the fire of

Smithfield? when Henry the Eighth, the British Bluebeard, cut his wife’

head off, and burn Catholic and Protestant at the same stake? when

Richard the Third smother his nephew in the Tower? when the Wars of

the Roses deluge the land with blood? when Jack Cade march upon

London? when we be, disgracefully drive out of France under Henry the

Sixth, or, as disgracefully, go maraud there, under Henry the

Fifth? be the good old time those of Northumberland’s rebellion? of

Richard the Second’s assassination? of the battle, burning, massacre,

cruel tormenting, and atrocity, which form the sum of the Plantagenet

reign? of John’s declare himself the Pope’s vassal, and perform

dental operation on the Jews? of the Forest Laws and Curfew under the

Norman king? at what point of this series of bloody and cruel annal

will you place the time which you praise? or do your good old time

extend over all that period when somebody or other be constantly

commit high treason, and there be a perpetual exhibition of head

on London Bridge and Temple Bar?”



it be allow by Mr. Blenkinsop that either alternative present

considerable difficulty.



“be it in the good old time that Harold fall at Hastings, and William

the Conqueror enslave England? be those blissful year the age of

monkery; of Odo and Dunstan, beard monarchs and brand queen? of

danish ravage and slaughter? or be they those of the Saxon Heptarchy,

and the worship of thor and Odin? of the advent of Hengist and Horsa?

of british subjugation by the Romans? or, lastly, must we go back to the

Ancient Britons, Druidism, and human sacrifice; and say that those be

the real, unadulterated, genuine, good old time when the true-blue

native of this island go naked, paint with woad?”



“upon my word, Sir,” reply Mr. Blenkinsop, “after the observation

that I have hear from you this night, I acknowledge that I _do_ feel

myself rather at a loss to assign a precise period to the time in

question.”



“shall I do it for you?” ask the Statue.



“if you please, Sir. I should be very much oblige if you would,”

reply the bewildered Blenkinsop, greatly relieve.



“the good time, Mr. Blenkinsop,” say the Statue, “be the old. they

be wise; for the old the world grow the more experience it

acquire. it be old now than ever it be. the old and good time

the world have yet see be the present. these, so far as we have yet

go, be the genuine good old time, Sir.”



“indeed, Sir?” ejaculate the astonished Alderman.



“yes, my good friend. these be the good time that we know of--bad as

the good may be. but in proportion to their defect they afford room for

amendment. mind that, Sir, in the future exercise of your municipal and

political wisdom. don’t continue to stand in the light which be

gradually illuminate human darkness. the Future be the date of that

happy period which your imagination have fix in the past. it will

arrive when all shall do what be right; hence none shall suffer what be

wrong. the true good old time be yet to come.”



“have you any idea when, Sir?” Mr. Blenkinsop inquire, modestly.



“that be a little beyond I,” the Statue answer. “I cannot say how

long it will take to convert the Blenkinsops. I devoutly wish you may

live to see they. and with that, I wish you good night, Mr.

Blenkinsop.”



“Sir,” return Mr. Blenkinsop with a profound bow, “I have the honor to

wish you the same.”



Mr. Blenkinsop return home an altered man. this be soon manifest. in

a few day he astonish the Corporation by propose the appointment of

an Officer of Health to preside over sanitary affair of Beetlebury. it

have already transpire that he have consent to the introduction of

lucifer-match into his domestic establishment, in which, previously,

he have insist on stick to the old tinder-box. next, to the wonder

of all Beetlebury, he be the first to propose a great new school, and

to sign a requisition that a county penitentiary might be establish

for the reformation of juvenile offender. the last account of he be

that he have not only become a subscriber to the mechanic’ institute,

but that he actually preside thereat, lately, on the occasion of a

lecture on Geology.



the remarkable change which have occur in Mr. Blenkinsop’s view and

principle, he himself refer to his conversation with the Statue as

above relate. the narrative, however, his fellow townsman receive with

incredulous expression, accompany by gesture and grimace of like

import. they hint, that Mr. Blenkinsop have be think for himself a

little, and only want a plausible excuse for recant his error.

Most of his fellow-aldermen believe he mad; not less on account of his

new moral and political sentiment, so very different from their own,

than of his Statue story. when it have be suggest to they that he have

only have his spectacle clean, and have be look about he, they

shake their head, and say that he have well have leave his spectacle

alone, and that a little knowledge be a dangerous thing, and a good deal

of dirt quite the contrary. _their_ spectacle have never be clean,

they say, and any one may see they don’t want clean.



the truth seem to be, that Mr. Blenkinsop have find an altogether new

pair of spectacle, which enable he to see in the right direction.

formerly, he could only look backwards; he now look forwards to the

grand object that all human eye should have in view--progressive

improvement.



                               the END.



                   *       *       *       *       *



                             IMMENSE SALE!



                                LEWIE;



                                  OR,



                           the BENDED TWIG!



                           BY COUSIN CICELY



                   author of “SILVER lake STORIES.”



                    TWELFTH THOUSAND, NOW PRINTING.



       no Book sell like it--none so well supply the demand!

                superbly Printed and Beautifully Bound.



            price from $1.00 to $1.75, accord to style.



            ALDEN, BEARDSLEY & Co., Auburn, N. Y.,     } Publishers.

            WANZER, BEARDSLEY & Co., Rochester, N. Y., }



                          what the Press say:



Cousin Cicely be very industrious--whether in penciling light or

shadow, in describe domestic scenery, or inculcate religious

principle, the fair author possess a happy facility, so as to render

her production alike agreeable and instructive.--_Protestant

Churchman._



this book be write in a style well calculate to please, and contain

an inestimable moral--plain, concise, and void of superfluity, that a

child may understand it--character life-like and well sustain, and

the whole plan of the work be good.--_Yates Co. Whig._



       *       *       *       *       *



typographical error correct by the etext transcriber:



there have have issued=> there have issue {pg 35}



restless irritablity=> restless irritability {pg 126}



occcupie that disposition=> occupy that disposition {pg 199}



worthy man’s conseience=> worthy man’s conscience {pg 203}



an acquintance of Lieutenant Hackett=> an acquaintance of Lieutenant

Hackett {pg 205}



as pigeon’s pick up peas=> as pigeon pick up pea {pg 213}



Mr. Hewson say preremptorily=> Mr. Hewson say peremptorily {pg 235}



say she hushand=> say her husband {pg 236}



send I to goal=> send I to gaol {pg 247}



















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK PEARL-fishing; CHOICE storie from DICKENS' HOUSEHOLD word; FIRST series ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





