The project Gutenberg eBook of Basil and Annette: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Basil and Annette: a novel



author: B. L. Farjeon



Release date: October 6, 2016 [ebook #53224]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

        Google Books (the University of California)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BASIL and ANNETTE: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

Google Books (the University of California)























Transcriber's note:

    1. page scan source:

       https://books.google.com/books?id=xytLAAAAIAAJ

       (the University of California)













BASIL and ANNETTE.



a novel.









by B. L. FARJEON,



AUTHOR of "GREAT PORTER SQUARE," "toiler of BABYLON," "a young GIRL'S

life," "the mystery of M. FELIX," &c.







_in one volume_.







LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1891.













print BY

KELLY and CO., GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS W.C.,

and KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.













content.





CHAPTER I.

CHAPTER II.

CHAPTER III.

CHAPTER IV.

CHAPTER V.

CHAPTER VI.

CHAPTER VII.

CHAPTER VIII.

CHAPTER IX.

CHAPTER X.

CHAPTER XI.

CHAPTER XII.

CHAPTER XIII.

CHAPTER XIV.

CHAPTER XV.

CHAPTER XVI.

CHAPTER XVII.

CHAPTER XVIII.

CHAPTER XIX.

CHAPTER XX.

CHAPTER XXI.

CHAPTER XXII.

CHAPTER XXIII.

CHAPTER XXIV.

CHAPTER XXV.

CHAPTER XXVI.

CHAPTER XXVII.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

CHAPTER XXIX.

CHAPTER XXX.

CHAPTER XXXI.

CHAPTER XXXII.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

CHAPTER XXXV.

CHAPTER xxxvi.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

CHAPTER XL.

CHAPTER XLI.

CHAPTER XLII.

CHAPTER XLIII.

CHAPTER XLIV.













BASIL and ANNETTE.









CHAPTER I.





in the old world the reign of winter have commence. the wood be

snow-white, the hedge be frost over, the pool be frozen, icicle

hang from the branch of the tree. wayfarer walk briskly, stamp

their foot, and beat their hand to keep the circulation go; while

other human, whom business do not call from their house, snuggle

round the fireside, with door and window close to keep out the

nipping air. wing immigrant that come in the sweet spring day have

long since take their departure to warm clime, bear with they

memory of a bright youth, to be renew when another spring smile

upon the land.



in the new world, at the same moment, it be nature's holiday time. the

air be scented with the fragrance of white lily and jessamine;

fringe violet carpet the wood; the wild passion fruit, with its

gleam scarlet flower, illuminate the bush; the palm-tree rear

its graceful head above festoon of feathery leave, in which clump

of red berry shine like cluster of star; tall quandong-tree and

wild plum shoot up straight as arrow, for the most part clear of

vine and creeper, but not always successful in escape the embrace

of the stag's horn fern, one of the handsome of all Australia's

parasite; and the white-woode umbrella-tree proudly assert its

claim to preeminence, with its darkly lustrous laurel-shape leave

surmount by long radiating spike of crimson flower, the brilliancy

of which rival the glow sunset of the South. through the grand

forest, in which for unnumbered age the dusky savage have roam in

freedom, never dream of the invasion of a high civilisation, flit

flock of resplendent parrot, chief among they be the blue

mountain, the rosella, and the crimson wing; black cockatoo, with

their dazzle tail spread out, be lurk in the branch of the

bloodwood tree, where they find both food and shelter; flycatcher,

all green and gold, be cunningly watch the waterhole for prey;

laugh jackass, with their blue feather and cold grey eye, which

be now twinkle with fun, be make merry over the absurd antic of

native companion, whose conceited hopping and twirling be comic

enough to inspire mirth in the dull denizen of the wood; while

the soft musical note of the bellbird, all green and purple, blue

and golden, make harmonious the west wind which travel from the

beech, and fill the air with melody strange and sweet.



within hail of these summer evidence of loveliness and grandeur stand

two man, one young, the other not yet middle-aged. the young man,

whose name be Basil Whittingham, be the embodiment of careless,

indolent grace, but just now he be evince an unusual earnestness of

manner, both in speak and listen. his age be barely

twenty-three, and he bear about he the unmistakable stamp of

gentleman. this be not always the case with man who have honest claim

to the title, but with some few it be a gift. it be so with Basil

Whittingham. he have blue eye, fair hair, a supple, graceful form, a

laugh mouth, with tooth like pearl, delicate hand, and a long,

light-brown moustache, which he evidently regard as a magnificent

possession, and cherishe and nurse as a thing of beauty. otherwise

he have not much to be proud of in the shape of possession, for his

clothe would be anything but presentable in Mayfair, though here in

the australian wood they may serve well enough. his trouser, tuck

into old knee boot, have conspicuously see their good day; his

shirt, of some light material, have rent in it, show the fair skin

of his arm embrown by the sun where the sun could get at they; the

sash round his waist be fray and fade; his wide-awake hat, sound in

front, be tattere at the back, where it flap loosely over his

flow hair; and, moreover, he be smoke a short black cutty. yet

despite these drawback, if drawback they can be call in this land

of freedom, free indeed than any republic under the sun, even the

most ordinary observer would be ready to acknowledge that the man be

a gentleman. one, for instance, who would not do a dirty trick, who

would not tell a lie to serve his own interest, who would not betray

a friend, and who would be more likely to wrong himself than other.

Tender, simple, brave; fearless, but not foolhardy; openhearted,

confiding, and unsuspicious of sinister, motive in those with whom he

have once shake hand; with a sense of humour which lighten

adversity; regret not the past, though he have wilfully steer his

boat into the Bay of Poverty, and dread not the future; such be

Basil Whittingham, a typical type of an honest, frank, manly english

gentleman.



his companion, by name Anthony Bidaud, be bear and breed in

Switzerland, but be of french extraction. he speak, English fluently,

so well indeed that those who serve he will not believe he be a

foreigner. he have not yet reach middle age, but he look sixty at

least, and on his worn, anxious face dwell the expression of a man

who be wait for a mortal stroke. he be well dress, after the free

bush fashion, and be no less a gentleman than Basil Whittingham. it be

the mutual recognition of social equality that keep Basil penniless

and poorly clothe, for he be a guest, not a dependent, on the plantation

of which Anthony Bidaud be master. this state of thing suit the

careless nature of the young gentleman, who, welcome and receive

by Anthony Bidaud as an equal, take a pride in hold himself free

from the touch of servitude. perhaps Annette, of whom you shall

presently hear, serve as a factor in the attitude he have choose.



be the hero of our story, it be needful that something should be

relate of his career in the home country.



his parent be Devonshire people, and he their only child. it be

suppose that his father be a man of fortune; he live as one, keep

hound and horse, and maintain a costly establishment. needless to

say that Basil be the idol of his parent; he be also the idol of a

wealthy uncle, to whom he pay a visit once in every year, and who,

be childless, have announce his intention of make Basil his heir.

thus, all seem smooth and pleasant-sailing before the young fellow.

but misfortune come; at the age of fourteen he lose his mother. the

memory of the solemn moment he spend by her bedside before she close

her eye upon the world, abide ever with Basil, whose passionate

adoration for the dear mother be a good testimony of his affectionate

disposition. but there be something deep than affection in the

feeling he entertain for she. she have be to he more than a

love mother; she have be his true counsellor and friend. upon she

have devolve the father's duty of inculcating in their child those

strict principle of honour and right-doing which set the seal of true

manhood upon he who follow they out in his course through life.

Basil's father be of an easy, genial nature, and it be from he that

Basil inherit a cheerfulness of temper and a sense of humour which

lessen evil instead of magnify they. the high quality of his

character come from his mother. lie on her death-bed she impress

upon he the beauty of honesty and uprightness, and the lad's heart

respond to her teaching.



"never look to consequence, my dear child," she say. "do always what

be right; and when you be a man counsel and guide your dear father."



he promise to obey she, but it be not until many year have pass

that he know what she mean when she tell he to counsel and guide his

father. it be she who have steer her husband's boat when it have get

into troubled water, and steer it always into a safe harbour. no

one know it, no one suspect it; not even her husband, who believe

that it be due to himself alone that he escape danger which

threaten he from time to time; but this ignorance be due to she

wisdom, and partly, also, to her love; rather than wound his feeling,

she prefer to suffer herself. it be not to be infer from this

remark that she have not lead a happy life; she have, and her home be

happy in the true sense; but she sigh to think of her husband,

leave alone to grapple with difficulty which his easy nature

prevent he from see.



she have a private fortune of her own, and with her husband's consent

she make a will devise it all to her son, with the exception of some

small legacy to humble friend. the money be to be invest, and to

accumulate till Basil be twenty-one year of age, when he be to come

into possession of it; so that, even without his uncle, he be

comfortably provide for. a short time after his mother's death, his

father announce his intention of give up his establishment in the

country and settle in London. the home in which he have pass so

many happy year with his wife be desolate and sad now that she be

go from it; he wander through the room with a weight on his heart

which memory make heavy instead of light.



"Yes Basil," he say to his son, "it be the good thing I can do. if I

remain here I shall lose my reason; I must find some distraction from

grief."



Basil be too young to question this decision; what his father

resolve upon must be right. the old home be sell up, and father and

son remove to London. then come the question of Basil's education.

his uncle consider removal to London a step in the wrong direction,

and he write to that effect; he also express his opinion that London

be an unsuitable place in which to conduct a young gentleman's

education. "give the lad a tutor," he say, "and let he travel." this

be do, and before he be fifteen year of age Basil be live on

the continent, pick up knowledge and pick up pleasure in not

quite equal quantity, the latter predominating. it be an agreeable

life, and Basil do not harm by it. every year he come to England, and

spend a month with his father in London and a week with his uncle in

the country. on one occasion he and his uncle spend this week together

in the great city, live at Morley's Hotel, Charing Cross, and see

the sight, and this visit be destine to be pregnant with strange

result in year to come. except upon all other occasion the uncle

receive Basil in the country. the old gentleman be full of quip and

crank and imaginary ill. he fancy himself an invalid, and coddle

himself up absurdly; and Basil, when he visit he, seldom leave the

house. the forced seclusion do not trouble the young fellow; he could

make himself happy anywhere. certainly there be few dull moment in

his uncle's house when Basil be in it, and the old gentleman, while

not object to a display of animal spirit, improve the opportunity

by endeavour to drive into his nephew's head a special kind of

worldly wisdom. as, for instance: all man be rogue (ourselves

except). never open your heart to a friend (except to an uncle who

be go to leave you all his money). keep your secret. spend your

money on your own pleasure and your own ambition. never make

yourself responsible for another man's debt. et cetera, et cetera, et

cetera. this kind of counsel be shower upon Basil, and produce no

effect upon he whatever; he be spare the trouble of argue upon

these matter, even if he be in the humour for it--which he be not;

he have a knack of avoid disagreeable topic by his uncle's

everlasting assertion that the counsel he give be absolutely

indisputable, and be to be receive as such.



"all right, uncle," say Basil; "now let we talk of something else."



and he would fly off into account of such of his Continental

adventure as he know would please the old fellow. he have a capital

gift of description, and the old man would sit huddle up in his

arm-chair, crack his side at his nephew's wit. Basil never bid

his uncle good-bye without a cheque for a substantial sum in his

pocket. he be liberally provide for by his father, but he do not

despise his uncle's gift. see that his story of his travel

amuse his uncle, he say that he would one day write a book.



"and when you write it," his uncle say, "burn it. write a book

indeed! put your time out at well interest, Basil. make money,

money, money. then people will bow down to you. _I'm_ not a nice

object to look at, be I? but I've get money, and people bow down to

_I!_ how much more will they be likely to do so to a handsome fellow

like you? make money, my boy, make money, and stick to it."



which worldly advice go as usual in at one ear and out at the other.

after all, the old gentleman's remark have only a general application;

have there be any special interest at stake Basil would have argue

it stoutly enough, and thereby get himself into hot water.



so thing go on till Basil be twenty-one year of age, when he be

to come into possession of his mother's fortune. on his birthday he

write to his father, say he would be home in a fortnight, and full

of kind message--message which do not reach the sense of the man

for whom they be intend: on the day the letter be deliver at

the London address his father be lie in delirium on a bed from

which he be never to rise. a week before he intend to start for

home Basil receive a letter inform he of the sad news. "come back

immediately," the writer say, "if you wish to see your father alive."

Basil do not lose a moment. travel as quickly as possible he

arrive at his father's house--too late. it be a terrible blow to

he, more terrible than the loss of his mother, for which he have be

in a measure prepare. death come more slowly in her case, and she have

instill into her son a spirit of resignation which soften the

bereavement. even before she draw she last breath Basil have think of

she as an angel in heaven. but with his father it be so sudden; there

have be no preparation for the parting, no indication of it. it be

true that his father have be ail for month, but he have be

careful not to alarm his son. he may have believe, as most man do,

that the bad would not happen; we be chary in apply to ourselves

the rule we be so ready to apply to other. only in his last hour of

consciousness, before he fall into the delirium from which it be

fate he should not recover, have he ask for his desk, and take

from it a sheet of paper write a few word to his son, which he

desire should be deliver in the event of anything serious happen

to he. he do not believe it even then; have he be a religious man

he would have weigh the matter more deeply, but he be one who,

live as fairly good and moral a life as the average church-goer,

seldom go to the Divine fount for comfort and counsel. it might have

be well for Basil if he have, for a warning might have come to he

to check the mad desire which have take possession of he.



between he and Basil there have never be a harsh word. each bore for

the other the true affection. never a cross, never an ill-temper

look; unvarye sweetness have mark their intercourse. so sudden a

separation could have be nothing less than terrible to the living.

it be long before Basil recover from it. with the exception of his

crotchety old uncle he be absolutely without kith or kin. letter have

pass between they with reference to the sad event. "I cannot come to

London to attend the funeral," his uncle write; "I be too infirm and

feeble. when you have settle your father's affair I shall be glad to

see you to talk thing over. it be time you make a serious start in

life. you have your mother's fortune, and your father's, which I

should say be a handsome one; you will have mine, though I intend to

keep you out of it as long as I can. you be a lucky dog; you ought to

die a millionaire." a mortal end the absolute desirability of which

may well be doubt. Basil reply, hope his uncle would live to a

good old age, and promise to visit he as soon as affair be

settle. in his father's desk he find the scrawl which the die man

have write. it be very short.



"my dear Basil,--The honour of my name be in your hand. your loving

father."



he have not strength to attach his name.



it be not until the day after the funeral that the significance of

these word impress itself on Basil. "the honour of my name be in

your hand." they be his father's last word to he. what meaning

do they bear? he have hear from his father's lawyer, inform he

that they have the will in their possession, and that they be at his

service. he write to they, to the effect that he would call upon they

early the follow morning.



the head of the firm receive he gravely and courteously, and give

order that they be not to be disturb.



the will have be draw out year since, and no alteration have be

make in it. everything be leave to Basil, unreservedly to he. there

be affectionate allusion in it which draw tear from Basil's eye.

when this emotion have subside he observe that the lawyer be

regard he with an air of curiosity.



"may I ask," say the lawyer, "if full confidence exist between you

and your father?"



"the full," reply Basil. "he have no secret from I, nor I any

from he."



the lawyer seem sensibly relieve. "you know of his speculation?"



"his speculation!" exclaim Basil, in surprise. "I be not aware

that he speculate."



"then full confidence do not exist between you. I warn he; I could

do no more than that. in my experience, my dear sir, I have see so

many go the same way. there be but one end to it, and this have end

as the other have do."



"I will listen to nothing against my father," say Basil warmly.



"I have nothing to say against he," respond the lawyer, "except

that he be unwise. he have an intense craving to leave you a very

large fortune, and this craving become a kind of disease in he, and

lead he on. I regret to tell you that all his speculation have end

disastrously."



"that be to say, have result in a loss?"



"in great loss."



"to what extent?"



"claim be pour in. if they be satisfied, the will in your hand

be not worth more than waste paper. but some of the claim may be

contest, and in my belief successfully. but that will be a matter

for counsel's opinion."



"it have nothing to do with counsel," say Basil; "it have to do with

I. I be my dear father's representative, and it be for I to

determine what be to be do."



"undoubtedly. instruction must come from you."



"claim be pour in, you say. can you tell I to what amount?"



"as far as we have receive they; there be more to be present you

understand."



"yes."



"plainly, then," say the lawyer, "the property your father have leave

will not be sufficient to meet his debt."



"they must be pay, however." the lawyer incline his head.



"yes," say Basil, rise and pace the room in his excitement, "they

must be pay. no stigma must rest upon my father's memory. some of the

claim may be contest, you say? in justice?"



"legally," reply the lawyer.



"I ask you again," say Basil. "in justice?"



the lawyer, decline to commit himself, make no reply.



"at least," say Basil, "you can answer I this question. my father

owe the money?"



"yes, my dear sir, he owe the money."



"then it must be pay. do you not see that it _must_ be pay? no man

shall have the power of utter one word against he."



"but," say the lawyer, eye the young man as he would have eye a

psychological puzzle, "if the estate leave by your father be not

sufficient to satisfy all these claim, what be to be do?"



"I have money of my own--my mother's fortune--of which you have the

particular."



"yes, we can give you all the information you require, and it require

but your signature to a few document, already prepare, my dear sir,

to place you in possession of this very handsome inheritance."



"you can probably tell I the amount of it."



"almost to a farthing. it be invest in the safe security,

realisable at an hour's notice, and it amount to,"--the lawyer take

some paper from a japanned box and run his eye over them--"it amount

to not less than twenty-three thousand pound."



"will that," ask Basil, "with my father's estate, satisfy in full

the claim which be pour in?"



"but my dear sir," expostulate the lawyer, with a look of

astonishment.



Basil would not allow he to conclude. "I have to repeat some of my

question, it seem," he say. "will this fortune, which be realisable

in an hour, satisfy in full the claim of my father's creditor?"



the lawyer shrug his shoulder, and reply briefly, "More than

satisfy they."



"then the matter be settle," say Basil. "I empower you to collect

the whole of these claim to the uttermost farthing; to convert the

security which be mine into money; to prepare a complete balance

sheet, and to pay my father's creditor in full, with as little delay

as possible."



"I be to accept these instruction as definite and decisive?"



"as definite and decisive!"



"they shall be follow and carry out with as little delay as

possible. I must trouble you to call here at three o'clock this

afternoon to sign the necessary paper."



"I will be punctual. good morning; and I be greatly oblige to you."



"good morning, my dear sir," say the lawyer, add under his breath,

"and I be greatly astonish at you."



at three o'clock that afternoon Basil call again at the lawyer's

office, and sign "the necessary paper," and go away with a light

heart and a smile face. within a month the affair be conclude, his

father's estate be realise, and his father's creditor's pay in

full. there remain to he then, out of his mother's fortune, the sum

of three thousand pound.



he be perfectly happy and content. long before the business be

finally settle he have realise what his father mean by his last few

write word: "my dear Basil,--The honour of my name be in your

hand. your love father." to good hand indeed have the honour of a

dead man's name be entrust. Basil have preserve it unsullied,

unblemishe.



he take no credit for it; he have fulfil a sacred trust. it be

simply a duty perform.



"now," he say to himself; "I will go and see my uncle."



but while he be prepare to start he receive a letter from that

gentleman, which will explain why the visit be never pay.





"Nephew Basil" (the letter run), "I have receive news of your mad

proceeding since your return home. no person in his sober sense

would have act as you have do. the great portion of the claim

make against your father's estate could have be legally and

successfully contest, and even in what remain a sharp lawyer could

have obtain a substantial abatement. this view, as I understand, be

present to you by an able firm of solicitor, but you reject it,

and choose to play the fool. now, I do not care to have dealing with a

fool.



"I might have pardon you for sacrifice your father's estate to

satisfy these claim, but I will not pardon you for sacrifice the

fortune your mother leave you. it prove to I that it be not safe to

entrust money to you, and I have decide to put mine to well use

than to leave it to you. accept this intimation as my ultimatum. it be

the last letter you will ever receive from I, and you will never see

I again. therefore you need not go to the trouble of come my way.

my house be not open to you. all the good counsel I have give you have

be throw away. you might have tell I at the time and I should have

save my breath and my patience. good-bye, foolish nephew.



    "Bartholomew Whittingham."





he be angry enough to add a postscript:





"as you be so fond of pay debt for which you be not responsible,

what do you say to consider the money I have give you from time to

time as one, and hand it back? you can do as you please about it. I

can make no legal demand for it, but I give it to you under the

impression that you be not exactly an idiot. it amount to quite

fourteen hundred pound. if I have it I would put it out at good

interest."





to state that Basil be not hurt by this letter would be to state what

be not true. he have an affection for the old fellow, and he be

greatly pained to think that all be over between they; but he be not

in the least disturb by the old man's argument. he have do what

be right; of this he be sure. but the letter sting Basil as well as

hurt he. there be a bitter twang in his uncle's remark that he could

make no legal demand for the money he have give his nephew. "he shall

have it back," say Basil, "every farthing of it." then he be seize

with an expensive fit of humour. his uncle have speak of interest. he

would prove that he be not a whit less independent than the old

fellow himself. he make some lame and ridiculous calculation of

interest at five per cent, per annum, and arrive at the sum of two

thousand pound and a few penny. he get a draft for the amount, and

inclose it in the follow note:--



"all right, my dear uncle. here be your money back again, with

interest add. if it be not enough interest, let I know, and I will

send you more. good-bye, and good luck to you.



    "your affectionate nephew,



                      "Basil."





this last debt pay, Basil have barely a thousand pound leave. he do

not hear from his uncle again.



now, what be he to do? he be without profession or trade, and do

not feel equal for any kind of service he see around, even if it be

offer to he. "I think," he say, "I will travel a little more." he

do so, and be prudent enough to travel in an economic spirit but his

money go fast enough for all that. at the end of a year and a half

he have in his purse exactly one hundred pound. be he dash? not a

bit. but he know that something must be do. "I will go to

Australia," he say. the project exalt he. he glow, he rub his

hand, he be in a whirl of pleasant excitement. he would be in a new

land, in a land of adventure, in a land of romance. there he would be

all right, of course. not a doubt of it. as for his empty purse--and

it _be_ pretty well empty by the time he have pay for his passage and

a few necessary odd and end--he scarcely give it a thought. be he

not go to Australia, the poor man's El Dorado? so he set forth in a

sailing vessel, and enjoy the passage immensely, and land in

Sydney as happy as a king. the fairy harbour, the most beautiful in

all the wide world, enchant he; the ravish scenery enchant

he; the quaint old city, so home-like in its appearance, enchant

he. certainly he have come to the right place.



he be rather more melancholy a few week afterwards, but he never

lose heart. suitable employment do not present itself so readily as

he have think it would, and gold be not to be pick up in the

street. "I be make a mistake," he say. "I must not remain in the

city; I must go into the bush." he soon make a start, and begin

tramp Queensland way, and after some week of wonder reach the

tract of country which Anthony Bidaud have take up.









CHAPTER II.





on the plantation which he have bring almost to perfection by twenty

year of wise labour Anthony Bidaud live with his only child,

Annette, fourteen year of age. he have no other of his kindre near

he. the wife he bring from Switzerland lie in a flower-cover

grave within a mile of the spot upon which he stand. they come to the

colony childless, but after a lapse of year Annette be bear to they.

until the child be nine year of age the fond mother be spare to

rear she, and then one morning Annette awake to find the dear

protector lose to she. it be an irreparable loss in that far-away

land, and there be no one of her own sex to take the mother's place.

but Annette have her father leave, and he, not unsuccessfully, strove to

fill the void in his child's life. he be unremitting in his

tenderness and watchfulness, and he bestow upon his little one a

full-hearted love. the two have live together till now, when Anthony

Bidaud's heart be gloome by the fear of approach death. he have

never be strong, and the climate of the new world in which he have

make his home be destine to be fatal to he. he make pilgrimage to

Sydney and Melbourne to consult the good physician, but they give he

little hope. death be approach surely and swiftly. a gnawing pain,

an inexpressible grief, stir his heart as he think of his child,

whom he idolise. the reflection that she would be leave alone in this

wild spot, in this remote part of the world, without a relative, with

scarcely a friend, appal he. yet what could he do?



he have neither seek nor make friend, he and his wife and child have

be sufficient for each other, and when his wife die he and Annette

sigh for no other companionship. but have he seek friendship he

would not have succeed in make they in any but fitful fashion. his

near neighbour be twenty mile away, and everybody in the colony

be so intent upon "get on" and make his fortune, that there be

no time for social intercourse. in colonial city there be at that

time but little "society;" in the bush, none.



about a hundred foot above the blue clear stream of the Pioneer stand

the house in which Anthony Bidaud live. the slab with which it be

build have be split from the gum and bloodwood tree grow in the

forest which lie in the rear of the hut and building inhabit by

the labourer, chiefly South Sea Islanders, who work on the

plantation. the roof be compose of shingle split from the same

description of tree. the interior of the house be line with rich,

dark red cedar, which grow in the thick scrub on the opposite bank of

the river. an avenue of banana lead from the house along the cliff to

an arbour, in which orange, custard apple, guavas, and other

delicious fruit, ripen in unsurpassed perfection. the post of the

verandah which surround three side of the house be cover by

gigantic passion fruit, except at one end, which be completely

enclose by grape vine and the yellow jessamine. hammock be sling

in the verandah, and the occupant could swing idly to and fro,

shade from the hot sun, and within reach of the fruit which grow in

such wonderful abundance and luxuriance all around. a lovely home for

husband, wife, and child; a dream which a poet soul only could

properly appreciate, but for one simple human being, in whose day the

flower of human affection be not blossom--little well than a

wilderness.



it be of this sad prospect, which his state of health warn he lie

before Annette, that Anthony Bidaud be speak to Basil at the time

of their introduction to the reader. they have be acquaint but a

short time, but each bore for the other a genuine esteem. some kindre

quality of independence, high-mindedness, and honesty of purpose have

draw they together from the hour they first meet, and would have draw

they even close in the future; but the shadow gather over one

life mar this fulfilment of a bright promise. barely two month

have elapse since Basil Whittingham, present himself to Anthony

Bidaud, have ask for a shelter of his roof for a night. Annette be

present when Basil appear; by her side a faithful Scotch terrier,

who guard his young mistress with watchful care, and when need,

with ferocity. Basil stoop and pat the head of the dog, who do

not snarl and show his tooth, as be his willnot with stranger, but

submit to the familiarity with unusual amiability. the sensible

creature go even far than this; he rise, and rub his head

against Basil's leg, court by the action a continuance of the

caressing.



"Father," say Annette, "no stranger have ever do that with Bruno

before."



"Bruno and I be old friend," say Basil, with a pleasant smile.

Annette think that she have never see such beautiful tooth.



"oh, Bruno," she cry reproachfully, "and you never tell I! come

here directly, sir!" Bruno approach she, wag his tail. "really

old friend?" she ask turn to Basil.



"no, not really," he reply. "what I mean be, I love dog, and dog

love I."



"a good testimonial," remark Anthony Bidaud, gaze with interest

upon this poorly attire gentleman.



"I have find it so," respond Basil, "for dog and man."



he hold out his hand to Annette, who not only take it, but retain

it. this go far to complete the conquest of Anthony Bidaud. with the

ordinary tramp he be very familiar, but here be a man of another

breed. no hang-dog look, no slouching, no lowering of the brow, no

prison-mark about he. an upright gentleman, who look the man he be

ask a favour from square in the face.



"have you travel far?" ask Anthony Bidaud.



"about twenty mile I should say. rather too hot a day for so long a

walk."



"you must be tired," say Anthony Bidaud. "you be heartily welcome

here."



"I thank you," say Basil.



that this young man have so swiftly win favour with his child and her

four-footed protector be a sufficient recommendation to Bidaud, but,

independent of that, he be rejoice to meet with a gentleman from

whom manner and polish of good society have not be rub off by

familiarity with the rougher aspect of life in the new world. Basil

be a man whom no experience could harden; the inner grain of his

nature be refine and sweet. the hardship he have already meet with in

the colony have not embitter he in the least. he grumble at

nothing, take all thing easily, and show a smile face to the

world. when he present himself to Anthony Bidaud he be really at

his wit' end, but though he have not taste food that day he be not

discourage or dishearten. a clean conscience be a wonderful

sustainer. "I be like a cat," think Basil, as he trudge blithely

through the bush, "I be bind to fall on my foot". and fall on his

foot he do that summer afternoon, which be to be the prelude of many

happy day; for before the night be over he tell his host

sufficient of his antecedent to satisfy Bidaud that his hospitality

be not likely to be misplace. upon his persuasion his guest remain

for a week, then for another week, and so on till the present time.

Bidaud be diffident in ask Basil to enter his service, and Basil,

though he have come to the plantation with a vague idea of seek

employment, do not entertain it after his first introduction to

Bidaud and his daughter. the term upon which they have meet and upon

which he be receive forbid his asking for employment. it be

gentleman and gentleman, not master and servant. but at length

Bidaud--who have learn sufficient to be aware that Basil's purse be

empty, and that he have no friend in the colony--delicately press

his guest upon the subject, and, as timidly as though he be ask a

favour instead of be anxious to bestow one, hint at some business

connection between they. Basil, from scruple with which we be

familiar but which he do not explain to his host, would not entertain

the idea, but firmly and courteously set it aside.



"you have your future to look to," say Bidaud.



"there be time enough to think of that," say Basil, cheerfully. "I be

not so very old."



many a time do Bidaud look with eye of affection at Basil, and wish

he have a son like he to whom he could entrust his darling Annette.

Basil be a man peculiarly adapt to inspire affection in honest,

simple heart, and such a bond grow between he and Annette. Happy be

the man whose manner cause child to regard he as one of

themselves; he possess an inheritance of pleasant hour which money

cannot purchase. Basil and Annette, then, spend a great deal of time

together, accompany by the faithful Bruno, and it gladden the

father's heart to see his child so happy in the society of their new

friend.



"Father say your name be Whittingham," say Annette.



"yes, it be," say the young man.



"Mr. Whittingham."



"yes. do you like it?"



"no. you must have another name."



"of course I have. Basil."



"Basil. that be much nice, ever so much nice. I shall call you

Basil."



"I shall feel honour, Annette."



this compact being make, Annette take he in hand; the little maid have

already discover that she know a great deal which he do not, and

she set up a school, with Basil as her only pupil. whether what she

teach be likely to be of use to he in the battle of life he be

bind to fight be an open question. have some foreknowledge come upon

he as to the nature of that battle, and the road into which it would

lead he, he would have laughingly reject it as the wild of

fancy. he be quite content with the present; he have find an

enchanting companion, and time be pass delightfully. during

Annette's five year of motherless life she have acquire a wonderful

knowledge of the fauna and the flora of the colony, and to these

mystery she introduce Basil. it be not incorrect to call they

mystery, for they be really so to ninety-nine out of every hundred

colonial, who spend their life in ignorance of the wonder by which

they be surround. but it be so in all land.



Annette, then, open Basil's mind, and let in knowledge. she show

he how to snare game, which abound in vast quantity, snipe,

quail, and numerous variety of duck, of which the whistle duck be

the most curious, and the black duck the good eating; she teach he

the name of the strange and beautiful bird which find their home in

the scrub and forest round about; she describe to he the different

tree which grow in the neighbourhood of the beautiful Pioneer River,

and would not rest content till he be familiar with they, and could

give they their right name.



"what be this, Basil?"



"what be this, Annette? why, a tree."



"but what kind of tree?"



"oh, I beg your pardon. ha--hum--oh, yes, it be the tea-tree."



"it be not, Basil. it be the bottle-tree."



"well, the bottle-tree. of course it be the bottle-tree. how could I

be so stupid?"



"you be not stupid; you be inattentive. do you see this hole cut in

the tree?"



"of course I do."



"I will not have that answer. 'of course I do' sound as if I have no

right to ask the question. say 'I do.'"



"I do."



"and mean it, if you please."



"I mean it," say Basil, with his hand on his heart, and a merry

twinkle in his eye.



"very good. you see the hole. who cut it?"



"on my word of honour, Annette, I haven't the slight idea."



"it be cut by the black. now, what do they cut it for?"



"how on earth should I know?"



"you ought to know. you have be bring up in a very bad school.

I'll show you what for. out with your knife, Basil. dig it in here, a

long way under the hole. that be right. now you can have a good drink

of cold sweet water. be it not wonderful?"



"indeed it be. like Oliver Twist, I ask for more."



the conversation instantly take another turn. there be but few book

on the home station, and among they no work of fiction. it fall to

Basil's lot to open a new fairyland in the young girl's life. "what

be Oliver Twist?" "he be not a 'what'; he be a 'who.'" "then who be

Oliver Twist?" Basil tell the story as well as he could, and

afterwards tell another; and after the second tale, still another,

this time a more simple one, from the magic cupboard of Hans Christian

Andersen. it be long before they resume their woodland lesson.

Annette point out where the good fig and almond grow, instruct

he how to make bracelet and necklace out of the stone of the

quandong fruit, and where the sugar bag of the native bee be to be

find. they catch a native bear, not a very ferocious creature and

tame it in a few day so thoroughly that it follow they about like

a dog, to the disgust of Bruno, who do not approve of the proceeding;

they gather wild ginger and wild nutmeg in the scrub, and in a

famous creek they catch quantity of golden perch, with red eye and

double chin; and once they see two emus in the distance, and hear

the faint sound of their peculiar whistle. in such-like idle the

day fly by, and the hour be all too short, but suddenly it dawn

upon Basil that this lotus life could not last for ever. it be from a

sense of duty, and with a sink heart (for the thought of part

from these good friend, especially from Annette, sorely oppress

he) that he intimate to Anthony Bidaud that he have linger too

long, and must go far afield.



"I must not outstay my welcome," he say.



"you cannot do that," say Bidaud. "be you not happy here?"



"too happy."



"no, one cannot be too happy," say Bidaud, in a tone of great

sadness. there be that weigh on his heart which he yearn to

impart to some person in whom he could confide. he have think of it

for day past, and have resolve to unbosom his sorrow to the young

gentleman who have bring a new light of tenderness into the

prosperous home.



his story be tell. Basil learn that the father fear he have not

long to live, and that he be fill with apprehension at the

contemplation of Annette be leave without a friend.



"you be bear in Switzerland," say Basil, thoughtfully. "be there no

one connect with you in your own country into whose charge you could

give Annette?"



"it be twenty year since I leave my native land," say Bidaud, "and

great change must have take place during that time."



"you leave relative there?"



"yes, a sister--and a brother." his mention of his brother be make

with evident reluctance.



"why not write to your brother," ask Basil, "to come and receive the

trust?"



"heaven forbid!" cry Bidaud. "give my darling child into Gilbert's

care! I would as soon give she into the care of a wolf! no, no, it be

not to be think of. six month ago I write to my sister, in whom I

have some confidence--she be a woman, and would surely not ill-treat

my child--inform she of my circumstance, and of the certain fate

which await I, and implore she to come out to I. I promise to

provide for she, and for her family, if she have any. I think that

the knowledge that I be rich would tempt she. to that letter I have

receive no reply. Basil"--like his daughter, he call his guest by

his Christian name--"it be the sad and sober truth that you be the

only friend upon whom I can rely to render I a service. will you do

so?"



"if it be in my power," say Basil, gravely.



"you have give I the impression that you be alone in the world."



"practically alone," reply Basil.



"with no kindre who have claim upon you."



"my parent be dead; I be their only child. there be but one man

alive in England who be of my blood--an uncle whose heir I be to be,

but who have cast I off."



"may I inquire for what reason?"



"for a very serious reason. I do not know the value of money, he

say. my father, when he die, be heavily involve, and I ruin

myself in pay his debt. my uncle be angry at this, say there

be no obligation upon I to satisfy my father's creditor. I hold,

and hold, a different opinion; but the consequence be that my uncle

abandon his intention of make I his heir."



"my task be all the easy for your explanation. the service I be

about to ask of you be no light one, and may be agreeable to you

because it will open out a future which few man would turn their back

upon. I do not say this to tempt you, for I know that you will be

guide entirely by your own feeling, by your own sense of right and

wrong, and that worldly advantage will weigh for nothing in the scale.

you be fond of Annette."



"I love the child; I never meet with a sweet and more sympathetic

nature than her. she have strength of character, too."



"do you think so?" ask Bidaud, anxiously.



"I be sure of it. even now she rule I."



Bidaud shake his head with a sad smile. "that be not a proof. you be

content to be rule, and what pass between you spring from

affection. the strength of character require to battle with the world

be of a different kind from that which Annette exhibit towards you.

the service I ask you to render I concern Annette."



"why, then," say Basil, gaily, "it be render before you ask for

it."



"you must know its nature before you consent. it be nothing more nor

less, Basil, than that you should stand to my child in the light of

guardian."



Basil start. the tone in which this be speak be that of a man who

be convince that the world be slip from he.



"surely you be alarm yourself unnecessarily," say the young man.



"I be not. there be warning which it would be criminal to neglect,

especially where there be such a vital interest at stake as the

happiness of an only and beloved child. I have receive these warning

and must be prepare. say that the spiritual whisper which tell I

that my end be approach be false, be no faith to be place in the

doctor's decree that my hour be number? a man may have morbid

fancy, but the teaching of experience and science be not to be

lightly set aside and disregard. if my fear prove groundless, so

much the well for Annette; if they be confirm--which they will

be, Basil, nothing can alter it--so much the bad for she unless

needful preparation be make for the crisis in her young life. will you

now consent?"



"let I hear more fully what you have to say," reply Basil, gravely,

"before I fully pledge myself. you speak of a brother and sister in

your own country, and you have write to one who may appear at any

moment. the claim she have upon Annette, and the authority with which

the law of nature have invest she, be strong than those of any

stranger. I be a young man, and the idea of become guardian to so

tender and sweet a flower as Annette startle I. I ask myself, be I

equal to a responsibility so serious, and the question reveal to I

my own deficiency, of which I be generally somewhat painfully aware.

it be really as though the most serious page in my life be about to

be open."









CHAPTER III.





"I have no fear," say Anthony Bidaud, with a gentle smile, "on the

score of your deficiency. I have be no inattentive observer since

the fortunate day upon which I first form acquaintance with you.

that you have have a disappointment in life count for very little, and

such small difficulty as befall a newcomer in this new land be

scarcely to be account among the real difficulty of life. you do

not yet know your own strength, but already, in a position of serious

responsibility, you have act in a manner which few man would have

have the courage to do. your past be honourable, and content I. you

have a kind heart, and that add to my content. should the bad

happen, my Annette will have by her side a true and honest counsellor.

reflect a moment. say that I be to die to-morrow--nay, do not argue

with I; death be the only certain thing in life, and it may come at

any unexpected moment to the strong--say that I die to-morrow, what

would be the position of my dear child? I have an estate worth

thousand of pound; she be a mere child, and could not manage it. she

would become the prey of schemer, who would undoubtedly not deal

fairly by she. I have a hundred servant on this plantation, and not a

friend among they. by accident you enter into our life. I use the

term accident, but I believe it to be a providence. we be draw to

each other. I have observe you closely, and be satisfied to deliver

into your hand a sacred charge, the charge of a young girl's future.

at such moment as these there come to some man a subtle,

unfathomable insight. it come to I. I firmly believe that there be a

link between you and my child which, if you do not recognise it now,

you will be bind to recognise in the future. it may be break in the

present, but the thread will be join as surely as we stand here

side by side. apart from this mysticism, to which I do not expect you

to subscribe, there be a worldly, practical side which it be right and

necessary you should understand. you ask for full information of my

brother and sister. I will give it to you. that my brother and I do

not part friend, and that his attitude towards I influence my

sister, be not my fault. I love a young girl in my own station in

life, and she love I and afterwards become my wife. that my brother

Gilbert love she also be to be deplore; we be not to be blame

for it, though Gilbert be furious--with I for love she, with she

for return my love. I endeavour to remonstrate with he: he would

not listen to I. 'you have step in the way of my happiness,' he

say; 'you shall rue it.' it be hard to speak harshly of one's flesh

and blood, but it be the truth that the girl I love be fortunate in

not place her affection upon he. he would have break her heart.

he be a spendthrift and a libertine, and would stop at little for the

gratification of his selfish pleasure. he be furious against I, not

so much because he love Annette's mother, but because he could not

have his own way. he be clever in crooked thing, and in cunning

shrewdness there be few to beat he. educate as a doctor, he could

have earn a good name if he have choose to be industrious; but he

prefer to lead an idle, dissolute life. these evil course cause

he to be deeply in debt at the time of my father's death. a portion

of my father's fortune, which be not very large, be leave to I, and

Gilbert endeavour to rob I of it, say he be the elder, as he

be by a year. with wed life in view I resist the attempt, and

this anger he the more. he swear that he would never forgive I,

and that he would be revenge upon I. it be strange that my sister

lean more towards he than towards I, but that do sometimes

happen with the scapegrace of the family. I be not endeavour to

blacken Gilbert's character for my own glorification. in draw his

picture I have deal more than justly by he; be he not my brother I

should speak of action of his which make I wonder how he and I could

have be bear of the same mother. it be that I wish you to understand

why I do not write to he to come here and take charge of my dear

child, and to understand why I say that I would as soon give she into

the care of a wolf. I succeed in obtain my share of my father's

fortune, and soon afterwards marry. even then Gilbert do not cease

from persecute I. he would come and take up his quarter in our

house, and insult my wife, and revile I, unto our life become

intolerable. it be then that we resolve to emigrate, chiefly to

escape his persecution. then he show we plainly that his love have

change to hate. he say to I before I leave Switzerland, 'one day I

will be even with you. remember my word--dead or alive, I will be

even with you!' since that day I have never see he, never hear from

he, and I do not know whether he be still live. upon our arrival in

this colony fortune smile upon we almost from the first. we be

happy, very happy, and as you see I have be prosperous. but I have

not be wise. I should have provide my child with a suitable

companion at the death of my wife, though heaven know where I should

have find one; but I should have try. to marry again be

impossible; I love my wife too well, and I could not be false to her

memory. I have be bad than unwise: I have neglect a serious

duty. up to this day I have shrink from make a will, so that my

affair would get into confusion should anything happen to I. I have

resolve to make instant amend for this neglect of duty. to-night I

shall write to a lawyer to come to I without an hour's delay, and he

shall draw out my will before he depart. in this will it be my desire

to appoint you manager of my estate and guardian of my child till she

arrive at the age of twenty-one. it be not a bad prospect I hold out

to you. at the end of seven year you will still be a young man, and

if you elect to leave Annette you can do so. she will by that time

have learn from you all that be necessary to continue the management

of the estate herself; but she will also then be free to act as she

please: either to remain upon it, or to sell it and go elsewhere. I

do not think there be anything more I can tell you to enable you to

arrive at a decision. I do not urge you to comply with my desire

because of any personal advantage that may accrue to yourself, but I

beg of you as a friend to render I as great a service as it be in the

power of one man to render to another. if you wish for time to

consider this proposal take it, but decide before the arrival of the

lawyer. one way or another, my will must be make before a week have

pass."



but Basil do not ask for time; he be deeply touch by the

confidence repose in he by Anthony Bidaud, and while the father

speak he have make up his mind. he have be very happy on the

plantation; he know that it be a desirable home, and that within its

domain could be find much that would make a man's life agreeable and

useful he have come to the colony, as have thousand of other colonist,

with the intention of make his fortune and return to England. he

could not hope to make a fortune in a day, though wild idea of

gold-seeking--successful gold-seeking, of course--have float through

his mind. suddenly, when his fortune be at the low ebb, there

be present an opportunity which, unworldly as he be, he could not

disguise from himself it would be folly to throw away. but it be due

to Anthony Bidaud that the matter should not be conclude without

something more be say.



"I need no time to consider," he say. "your proposition be flattering

and advantageous to myself. but you speak of not be wise. be you

wise in place a trust so delicate and important in the hand of a

stranger?"



"I be content to do so," say Bidaud, "and I beg you to believe that

the obligation will be on my side."



"after all," suggest Basil, with a little touch of shrewdness "it

may be with you a choice of evil."



"it be a choice of good," observe Bidaud. "I have tell you,"

continue Basil, "that I have not be educate into an understanding

of business matter, and that my mission in life"--here he smile

deprecatingly--"was to go through life in a gentlemanly way, without

work for my living."



"but you come to the colony to work?"



"yes. I be only endeavour to prove to you how utterly unfit I be

for the position you would assign to I."



"I be entirely convince," say Bidaud, with a look of affection at

the young man, "of your fitness for it."



"think of my inexperience."



"experience will come to you as it come to I. you will learn as I

do."



"then there be another view," say Basil, and now he speak with a

certain hesitation. "you and Annette be here as father and daughter.

it be not to be suppose that I could supply your place. I be a young

man; in a very few year Annette will be a young woman. will not our

relative position then be likely to wound she susceptibilities----"



"do not finish," say Bidaud, press Basil's hand warmly. "leave all

to time. nothing but good can spring from what I propose. if Annette

be now a young woman----"



and here he himself purposely break off in the middle of a sentence.

certainly his manner could not be mistake. a flush come into Basil's

face, and he do not speak again for a few moment.



"have the letter," he then say, "you write to your sister be

return to you?"



"no."



"then it must have be deliver."



"not necessarily. I be not sure whether undelivered letter address

to Switzerland be return to the colonial post-office. if you have

state your principal objection I see nothing in they to cause you to

hesitate. you will consent?"



"yes," say Basil, "I accept the trust."



"with all my heart I thank you," say Anthony Bidaud; then he place

his hand on Basil's shoulder, and say in a solemn tone, "guard my

child."



"whatever lie in my power to do," say Basil, "shall be do."



Bidaud nod and turn away; his heart be too full to say more.

Basil turn in another direction, with the intention of seek

Annette, in fulfilment of a promise he have make to join she in the

wood. he know where to find she.









CHAPTER IV.





traverse a narrow, wind bridle track, he soon reach the river.

a broad belt of white sand stretch on either side for some little

distance, the water glistening like polished mirror in its smooth,

deep reach. here and there it break into a thousand tiny

silver-crest wave, create by the inequality in the ground.

far on the main stream twist into great cluster of dark green

river oak, and be lose to view. the white sand narrow, and be

replace by rock, cover with moss and lichen, and here a bark canoe

be moor. step on a large boulder, Basil jump into the canoe,

and loosen the rope, paddle down stream. the water run like a mill

race, and presently divide into two stream, beautify by waterfall

and fairy island adorn with luxuriant vegetation. this dividing of

the water extend only some three or four hundred yard, at the

termination of which they be unite in one dark lagoon. a strange

stillness reign upon the surface of the water, but this sign of

peace be insincere, the current in reality run hard and strong.

Round about the canoe float masse of white and mauve water lily;

in part the huge leave form a perfect carpet, which easily

support the light weight of the lotus bird as they skip from

shore to shore. at the low end of the lagoon the stream become so

narrow that a man could jump across it, and here Basil leave his canoe,

and plunge into the wood to find Annette.



she be sit on a great patch of velvet moss, idle with some

flower of the wax plant and the yellow hibiscus. her back be towards

Basil, who step softly, intend to surprise she, but the

crackling of the leave betray he. she turn quickly, and jump

up, run to meet he.



"I have be wait for you ever so long," she say, and she slip

her hand into his.



Basil make no excuse for be late; an age seem to have pass

since he have last see she, though scarcely three hour separate

"then" from "now." but short as be really the interval it have

effect an important alteration in their relation towards each

other, and the contemplation of this change make he silent. neither

be Annette as talkative as usual, and they stroll idly along for

some distance without exchange a word. Basil have hitherto accept

Annette's beauty in a general sense; she be pretty, she be bright,

she be full of vivacity--that be all. have she be a woman he would

have subject she to a close and more analytical observation, for he

have an artist's eye for beauty, and love to look at it in animate and

inanimate nature; but Annette be only a child, and he have pay she

just that amount of attention which one pay to small wild-flower

that grow by the wayside. but now, look down upon she as she walk

by his side, he observe that her eye be hazel, and he say to

himself that hazel eye, in girl and woman, be the most beautiful

eye in the world. the hazel colour in the eye he be gaze upon be

brilliant, and Basil say to himself that it be the brilliant hazel

eye that be the most beautiful in the world. Annette's feature be

not exactly regular, but form as fair a picture of human loveliness

as a man would wish to see, her lip sweetly curve, her tooth white

and shapely, her ear like little shell, her golden brown hair

gather carelessly about the gracefully shape head. yes, Annette be

beautiful even now as a child; how much more beautiful be she likely

to be when her springtime be fully set in!



raise her head suddenly she see that Basil be gaze at her more

earnestly and closely than he be in the habit of do. "I be

look at your eye, Annette," he say, rather guiltily. "I never

notice their colour till to-day."



"they be hazel. do you like hazel eye?"



"very much."



"I be glad of that. my eye be like my mother's. will you come with

I?"



"where?"



"to her grave."



he have visit it before with Annette, and they now walk towards the

canoe, gather wild flower as they walk. once Annette slip,

and he catch she and hold she up; there be an unusual tenderness in

the action, and Annette nestle close to he, and smile happily. in

the canoe her skilful finger be busily at work, weave the flower

they have gather into garland to lay upon her mother's grave. she

have a special gift in such-like graceful task, but then her heart be

in her finger. the love homage be reverently render when they

reach the spot, and Basil assist she in clear the dead leave

and in plant some fresh root she have bring with she from the

wood.



her task accomplish, Annette sit beside the grave, with a wistful

expression on her face which make Basil wonder what be stir in

her mind. he wait for she to break the silence, and presently she

speak.



"what make you so quiet, Basil?"



"I do not know. perhaps it be because you have say so little,

Annette."



"I have be think."



"yes."



"I want all day to speak to you about it. I think I would when we

be in the wood alone; then you speak of my eye and I think of my

dear mother. you would have love she, Basil, and she would have love

you. she hear I now--yes, she hear and see I, Basil, and I think

she be glad you come to we."



"I be glad too, Annette."



"really glad, Basil?"



"really glad, Annette."



"then you will not go away from we?"



"what make you ask that?" her question, tremulously utter, form a

pregnant link in the promise he have give her father.



"it be my dream," say Annette. "I dream it last night, and it make

I sad. you come to say good-bye, and I be unhappy at the thought

that I should never see you again. Basil, if that be to happen I

should be sorry you ever come at all."



"then you wish I to stay?"



"dearly, Basil, dearly! I think I would speak to father about it;

then I think I would speak to you first."



"do you not speak to your father?"



"not about my dream; but about your go away, yes. I ask he to

persuade you to stop with we."



"because, Annette----" he say, and pause. "because I love you,

Basil. I tell father so, and he say he love you, too, and that he

wish he have a son like you. then you would be my brother, and I

should be very happy. but father say he be afraid you intend to

leave we soon, and that make I dream, I suppose."



"Annette, listen to I."



"I be listen, Basil."



"your father have speak to I, and that be why I be so late in come

to you. he ask I to remain here, and I promise he I would."



"you do? oh, Basil!" her voice express the most perfect joy. she

have rise in her excitement, and be now lean towards he, her lip

part, her eye glow.



"yes, Annette, I promise he, and I promise you. for some year at

least we will live together."



she throw her arm round his neck, and kiss he.



"that will be for ever, Basil. you have make I do happy, so happy!"



"so that be all settle," he say. "but I shall be a tyrant, Annette."



"I don't mind, Basil; I will be very good and obedient. do you hear,

Bruno, do you hear?" she kneel and kiss the faithful dog, and

press his head to her bosom. "Basil be not go away. he will

remain here forever--for ever!"



Basil be very grateful for the little maid's affection, grateful that

his line have fall in such pleasant place. what more could man

desire? but there be a shadow gathering and swiftly approach which

neither of they could see.



they stop out later than usual that evening, and when they return

to the house Annette be radiant.



"Basil have promise to remain with we, father," she say, in a voice

of great joy.



"he have tell you, then, dear child?"



"yes, father, yes. he will stop with we for ever. I don't wish for

anything now."



the three happy being sit together in the verandah during the few

brief minute that divide day and night. in those latitude there be

but little twilight, and the long peaceful rest of an english sunset

be unknown. for a few moment the brilliancy be dazzle. great

cloud of amethyst and ruby spread over the western sky, melt

soon into sombre shade of purple and crimson. then the sun dip

down and disappear, and the sky be overspread with a veil of

fade gold, behind which the white star glitter.



their soul be in harmony with the spiritual influence of the lovely

scene, and there be an ineffable peace in their heart. Annette

kiss Basil before she retire to rest, and whisper: "Brother

Basil, I shall have happy dream to-night."



he kiss she tenderly, and bade her good-night. unclouded happiness

shone in her eye as she steal to her room, where she kneel by she

bedside, and utter the name of Basil in her prayer.



Anthony Bidaud gaze at his daughter till she enter the house, and

even then keep his eye fix upon the door through which she have

disappear.



"it be year," he say to Basil, "since I have feel so thoroughly

content as I do to-night. come to my room early in the morning; I

shall not write to my lawyer till then, and I wish you to see the

letter."



shortly after all the inmate of the house be asleep.





*    *    *    *    *    *





and while they sleep, there walk across the distant plain towards

the plantation, a man and a woman who have have that goal in view for

three month past. it be summer when they leave their home across the

sea. it be summer when they reach the land to which the woman have

be summon. but, judge from their face, no summer errand be

theirs.



"walk quicker," say the man, surlily. "we must get there before

sunrise. my heart be bent upon it."



"I be fit to drop," say the woman. "how much far have we to go?"



"accord to information, fifteen mile. walk quicker, quick! have

you travel so far to faint at the last moment? remember we have not

a penny leave to purchase food, and have already fast too many hour.

I see vision of ease and comfort, of wine and food, ay, and of rich

too. I be eager to get at they."



"do you remember," say the woman, "that you be not bid to come?"



"what of that?" retort the man. "I have my tale ready. leave I to

play my part. our day of poverty be over. this be the last of they.

walk quick, quick!"









CHAPTER V.





a little after sunrise Basil be awake and out, hasten to the river

for his morning bath. he have sleep well and soundly, but he have have

vivid dream. the event of the day have sink deep in his mind; it

would have be strange otherwise, for they have alter the current

of his whole future life. they have furnish he with a secure and

happy home; they have place he in a position of responsibility which

he hail with satisfaction and a sense of justifiable pride;

moreover, they have assure he that he have win the affection of a kind

and generous gentleman and of a sweet-tempered and gentle little maid.

he be no long an outcast; he be no long alone in the world.



until this void be supply he have not feel it. young, buoyant, and

with a fund of animal spirit which be the secret of his cheerful

nature, sufficient for the day have be the good thereof; but now

quite suddenly an unexpected and sweetly serious duty have be offer

to he, and he have accept it. he would perform it faithfully and

conscientiously.



every word Anthony Bidaud have speak to he have impress itself upon

his mind. he could have repeat their conversation almost word for

word. it be this which have inspire his dream, which form, as it

be, a panorama of the present and the future.



Annette as she be at this moment, a child, appear to he and he

live over again their delightful ramble; for although it be but

yesterday that they be enjoy, the duty he have take upon himself

seem to send they far back into the past; but still Annette be a

child, and her sunny way belong to childhood. the story of "Paul

and Virginia" have be a favourite with he when he be a youngster,

and his dream at first be touch by the colour of that simple

tale. the life he have live these last few week on Anthony Bidaud's

plantation favour the resemblance: the South Sea Islanders who

work on the land, the waterfall, the wood, the solitude, the

protect bond which link he to Annette--all form in his

sleeping fancy a companion idyll to the charming creation of

Bernardin de Saint-Pierre. he carry Annette over the river, he

wander with she through the shadow of the mountain, they be

lose and find, they sit together under the shade of the velvet

sunflower-tree; and in this part of his dream he himself be a youth

and not a man.



so much for the present, and it be due to his light heart and the

happiness he have find that his dream do not take the colour of the

subsequent tragedy which bring the life of these woodland child

to their sad and pathetic end. his future and Annette's be bright

than that of Paul and Virginia. he behold she as a woman, and he be

still her protector. she represent the beauty of the entire world of

thought and action. her figure be faultless, her face most lovely,

her movement gracefully perfect. there be countenance upon which an

eternal cloud appear to rest, and which even when they smile be not

illumine. upon Annette's countenance rest an eternal sunshine, and

this quality of light irradiate not only all surround visible

object, but all hope and feeling of the heart. when Basil awake

these felicitous fancy be not obliterate or weaken, as most

such fancy be in wake moment, and as he walk towards the river

they lighten his footstep and make he glad. wend his way along

a cattle track dot with gum-tree, he see beneath the branch of

one a woman whose face be strange to he. she be not English bear,

and as she recline in an attitude of fatigue against the tree's trunk

there be about she an air of exhaustion which stir Basil to

compassion for she apparently forlorn condition. he remember his own

day and night of weary tramping through the bush, and, pausing, he

look down upon she, and she peer up at he through her half-close

lid.



"good morning," say Basil.



"be it?" she ask, with a heavy sigh.



"be it what?"



"good morning. to I it be a bad morning."



Basil look round. the heaven be luminous with vivid colour, the

bird be fly busily to and from their nest, nature's myriad

pulse throb with gladness. to he it be the good, the bright

of day. but this sad woman before he be pale and worn; there be

trace not only of exhaustion but of hunger in her face.



"you be hungry," say Basil.



"don't mock I," say the woman, in no gracious tone; "let I rest."



"if you follow this track," persist Basil, "the way I have come, you

will see the Home Station. they will give you breakfast there."



for a moment the woman appear inclined to accept his kindness she

make a movement upwards, but almost immediately she relinquish she

intention.



"no," she say, "I will wait."



he be loth to leave she in her distressful plight, but her churlish

manner be discourage.



"will you not let I help you?"



"you can help I," say the woman, "by leave I."



he have no alternative. "if you think well of it," he say, "you can

obtain shelter and food at the Home Station." then he pass on to the

river.



a stranger be there, already strip for the purpose of bathing.

Scarcely look at he, Basil be about to remove to a more retire

spot when he observe something in the water which cause he to run

to the man, who be remove his last garment, and seize his arm.



"what for?" demand the stranger.



he speak fairly good English, as do the woman who have decline his

assistance, but with a foreign accent. he be brown, and thin, and

wrinkle, and Basil see at once that he be not an Englishman.



"I presume you have not breakfast yet," be Basil's apparently

inconsequential answer to the question.



"not yet," say the stranger impatiently, shake himself free from

Basil's grasp. "why do you stop I? be not the river free?"



"quite free," say Basil; "but instead of eat you may be eat."



he point downwards, and lean forward the stranger beheld a huge

alligator lurk beneath a thin thicket of reed. the brute be

perfectly motionless, but all its voracious sense be on the alert.



"Ugh!" cry the stranger, begin to dress hurriedly. "that would

be a bad commencement of my business."



he do not say "thank you," nor make the slight acknowledgment of

the service Basil have render he. this jar upon the young man,

who stand watch he get into his clothe. they be ragged and

travel-stain, and the stranger's physical condition be evidently

none of the good; but his eye be keen, and all his intellectual

force be awake. in this respect Basil find an odd resemblance in

he to the alligator wait for prey in the wave reed beneath, and

also a less odd resemblance to the woman he have leave lie in the

shadow of the gum-tree.



"you have business here, then?" ask the young man.



"I have--important business. understand that I answer simply to prove

that I be not an intruder."



"I understand. be the woman I meet on my way a relative of your?"



"what woman?" cry the stranger, in sharp accent. "like you in face,

and bear about her sign of hard travel."



"do she speak to you? why do you question I about she? by what

right?"



"there be no particular right in question that I can see?" say Basil.

"I speak to she as I be speak to you, and ask if I could serve

she."



"and she!"



"be as uncivil as yourself, and decline my offer of assistance."



"she act well. we be not beggar. for my incivility, that be how

you take it. you misconstrue I."



"I be glad to hear it. you seem tired."



"I have be walk all day and all night, and all day and all night

again, for more day and night than I care to count I have do

nothing but walk, walk, walk, since my arrival at this world's end."



"have you but just arrive?"



"yes, but just arrive, weary and wear out with nothing but walk,

walk, walk. be that what this world's end be make for?"



if the stranger have not state that he have important business to

transact, and have there not be something superior in his speech and

deportment to the ordinary tramp with whom every man in the australian

colony be familiar, Basil would have set he down as a member of

that delectable fraternity. notwithstanding this favourable opinion,

however, Basil take an instinctive dislike to the man. he have see in

he an odd likeness to the alligator, and brief as have be their

interview up to this point, he have go the length of mentally

compare he now to a fox, now to a jackal--to any member of the

brute specie indeed whose nature be distinguish by the element of

rapacity and cunning.



"have you far to go?" he ask.



"no far," reply the stranger, with an upward glance at Anthony

Bidaud's house, one end of which be visible from the spot upon which

they be converse.



"be that your destination?" inquire Basil, observe the upward

glance.



"that," say the stranger, with a light laugh, "be my destination, if

I have not be misinform."



the laugh intensify Basil's dislike; there be a mocking sinister

ring in it, but he nevertheless continue the conversation.



"Misinformed in what respect?"



"that be M. Bidaud's house?"



"it be M. Bidaud's house."



"M. Anthony Bidaud?"



"yes."



"originally from Switzerland."



Basil's hazard of the stranger's precise nationality now take definite

form.



"as you be," he say.



"as I be," say the stranger, "and as Anthony Bidaud be."



"you be right in your surmise. he be from Switzerland."



"my surmise? ah? he have a fine estate here."



"he have."



"but his wife--she be dead."



"that be so, unhappily."



"what be one man's meat be another man's poison--a proverb that may be

reverse." his small eye glitter, and his thin pointed feature

seem all to converge to one point. ("Fox, decidedly," think

Basil.) the stranger continue. "his health, be it good?"



in the light of Anthony Bidaud's revelation on the previous evening

this be a startling question, and Basil answer:



"it be an inquiry you have good make of himself if you be likely to

see he."



"it be more than likely that I shall see he," say the stranger, "and

he will tell I. he have but one child."



"you be well informed. he have but one."



"whose name be Annette."



"whose name," say Basil, wonder from what source the stranger have

obtain his information, "be Annette."



"charming, charming, charming," say the stranger. "everything be

charming, except"--with a loathing gesture at the alligator, which lay

still as a log, wait for prey--"that monster; except also that I be

dead with fatigue. I come here for a bath to refresh myself after much

travel. be there any part of this treacherous river in which a man

may bathe in safety?"



"I will show you a place."



"no trick, young sir, say the stranger, suspicion in his voice.



"why should I play you trick? if you do not care to trust I, seek a

secure spot yourself."



"no, I will accompany you, who must know the river well. you do, eh?"



"I be thoroughly acquaint with it."



"you guess my nation; shall I guess your? australian."



"I be an Englishman."



"a great nation; a great people. be this the spot?"



they have arrive at a smooth piece of water, semi-circularly protect

by rock from the invasion of alligator.



"this be the spot," say Basil, "you will be perfectly safe here."



the water be so clear that they could see to the bottom. black and

silver bream, perch, mullet, and barramundi be swim in its

translucent depth. the stranger peer carefully among the rock to

make sure that they be free from foe, and then, without thank

Basil, begin to strip off his clothe.



"and you--where will you bathe?"



"a little far up stream. good morning."



"ah, good morning; but I may see you again if you be live near."



"I live," say Basil, "in the house yonder."









CHAPTER VI.





a sudden excitement be observable in the stranger. he pause in his

undressing, and lay his hand on Basil's arm, clutch with nervous

finger.



"you be very intimate with M. Anthony Bidaud?" he say.



"we be friend."



"friend? ah! you be not related? no, you cannot be, for you be

english. yet there be other tie. his wife be dead, you say, and as I

know. yes, dead. but he may be look for another, may be already

marry again." he speak in feverish haste. ("a touch of the jackal

here," think Basil.) "tell I, you friend of M. Anthony Bidaud."



"he be not marry again," say Basil, "and to my knowledge be not

seek another wife."



the stranger draw a long breath of relief, follow immediately by the

exhibition of a new suspicion. "his daughter, Annette--if he speak

truth a child. but man lie sometimes, very often, you, I, all man. he

marry long, long ago, and this Annette may well be a young woman of

twenty." he scowl as he look at Basil's handsome face. "be she

married, or go to be?



"Absurd," say Basil, but a little touch of colour come into his face

which the sharp eye of the stranger note, "she be scarcely fourteen

year of age."



"good, good. time, let we hope, to prevent mischief. but, pardon I,

if you live in the house of M. Bidaud, there must be a reason. you do

not look like a common labourer; you be something well, a

gentleman--eh?" and again all his thin pointed feature seem,

foxlike, to converge to one point.



"I be a gentleman," say Basil, "and I be stay with M. Bidaud as a

guest." he refer to the present, not feel warrant in speak

of the future. the arrangement he have enter into with Anthony Bidaud

have yet to be carry into effect.



"ah, ah, as a guest, only as a guest, but with an eye to the future,

perhaps. M. Anthony Bidaud be rich, and in two year his daughter, his

only child, will be sixteen and nearly ripe. there be a saying, be

there not, among you English that welcome the come and speed the

parting guest? I have be in your country, and know something of its

literature, and in my own land my education be not neglect. that

say about the come and parting guest be a good oman, for I have

but just arrive, and you----"



but Basil do not wait to hear the conclusion of the sentence. annoy

at the turn the conversation have take he turn on his heel, and leave

the stranger to enjoy his bath. he walk slowly to his own, rather

ruffle by the interview.



"who can he be?" he think, as he prepare for his swim. "he seem to

be acquaint with M. Bidaud and with his personal history. what on

earth make I answer his interminable question? his pertinacity, I

suppose, and a kind of magnetism in he which it be hard to resist.

but I might have be courteous without be communicative. I say

nothing, however, of my own prompting, and his question follow each

other naturally. what he learn from I he could have learn from a

dozen other, and after all there be no harm do. he certainly have

the knack of rub the wrong way; an extraordinarily annoying

fellow, but neither loutish nor ignorant. that be why I be

constrain to follow his lead. this be his destination; his business

then, must be with M. Bidaud. important business, he say--and with

Annette's father. I do not like his reference to Annette. will it be

right or wrong for I to convey my impression of this stranger to M.

Bidaud? wrong. I will merely mention that I meet with such a man, who

be come to the house upon business. he speak of having walk a

long way. he must be poor, or he would have choose another mode of

conveyance, especially as he seem to be in somewhat feverish haste.

be poor be nothing against he; I be poor myself. Psha! what a

worry I be make of nothing!"



he could not dismiss the subject, however, and the current of his

thought run on even as he swam.



"the woman I meet on my way to the river; how skilfully he evade my

inquiry as to the relationship between they! his tone when he speak

of she show that he have power over she. I have not the least doubt

he be the kind of man who can make himself intensely disagreeable.

poor woman! there be a resemblance in their feature; I have hear

that husband and wife frequently grow like each other in face. she be

hungry, but she decline the offer of a good meal. acting, I should

say, under her husband's instruction, and too frightened of he to

disobey he. faithful creature, woman. Patient as camel some of they

and as docile. a hard tramp she seem to have have of it, and he have

not spare she. well, she can rest here a few day. would I like they

to remain on the plantation? no. he would keep I in a continual state

of irritation. his allusion to Annette be in the bad of taste. I

dare say before the day be out I shall know the nature of his

business. M. Bidaud will tell I. confound the fellow! I'll not think

of he any more."



as a contribution towards this end he plunge half a dozen time into

the deep part of the river, and finally emerge, glow. the

disturbing impression produce by the stranger be dissipate, and

Basil think it would look churlish if on his road back to the house

he do not go to see whether he could be of any service to he. he see

nothing, however, of the man or the woman, and greatly refresh, he

proceed to the house. the sun be now high in the heaven, and the

labourer be at work on the plantation. he exchange greeting with

a few of the well sort, and inquire whether they have see anything

of the stranger. they reply in the negative; they have see nothing

of they.



"have you, Rocke?" he ask of one who be regard he with a scowl.



"no," say Rocke. "what business be it of mine?"



it be Rocke's misfortune to always wear a scowl on his face, but in

this scowl there be degree. to produce an amiable smile be with

Rocke an impossibility; nature have be cruel, and his parent, one or

both of they, have transmit to he a sour temper as an inheritance;

but the state of his feeling could be correctly judge by the kind of

scowl he wear; a nice observer could scarcely make a mistake as to

whether he tolerate, dislike, or hate the man he be gaze on.

there could be no mistake make now; he hate Basil.



there be a reason. every man have his good point, even the bad of

man, and Rocke's good point be that he conscientiously perform the

duty for which he be engage. however hard the work before he,

do it be with a will--and a scowl. now, this be a distinct virtue,

and Anthony Bidaud give he credit for it, and appreciate the

conscientious worker, as any other master would do of a man who give

he full value for his wage. so far, so good; master and man be

satisfied. but before Basil's arrival on the plantation Rocke have get

it into his head--which be not an intellectual head--that Anthony

Bidaud entertain the notion of create a general supervisor and

manager of the estate, and that he, Rocke, be the man to be

appoint; and since Basil's arrival his ambitious dream be disturb

by the conviction that Basil would step into the shoe he wish to

wear.



"I don't know that it be any business of your," say Basil to Rocke,

"only I think you might have see these person."



"well, I haven't," say Rocke.



Basil nod cheerfully, and proceed towards the house. he be not a

man of paroxysm; except upon very special occasion his temperament

be equable. as to whether Rocke have speak the truth or no he do not

speculate; it be not in Rocke he be interested, but in the man and

woman with whom he have speak on his way to the river.



Anthony Bidaud be an early riser, and Basil go to the room in which

the master of the plantation be in the habit of transact his

private business. he knock twice or thrice at the door without

receive an answer, and then, turn the handle, he enter the

room.



Anthony Bidaud be recline in the chair in which he usually sit when

engage in correspondence. his back be towards Basil, and before he

on the table write material be spread. he sit quite still, and

for a moment or two the young man be uncertain what to do. then he

call Bidaud by name. no answer come, and Basil, surprised at the

stillness, advanced to Bidaud, and stand immediately behind he. still

no notice be take of Basil. then he lay his hand upon Bidaud's

shoulder. the occupant of the chair do not move, and Basil lean

anxiously forward to look into his face. at first Basil believe he

to be asleep, but a close examination send the blood rush to the

young man's heart in terror. Bidaud's arm hang listlessly by his side,

and upon his face dwelt an expression of acute suffering. again Basil

call he by name, and shake he roughly, but no responsive word or

movement greet he from the quiet figure in the chair. Basil thrust

his hand into Bidaud's shirt over the region of his heart, and

tremble to meet with no pulsation there. he raise Bidaud's arm and

release it. it drop lifeless down.



"merciful heaven!" cry Basil, look helplessly around. "can this

be death?"



the question he ask of himself be hear by another man. the

strange he have meet on the bank of the river have noiselessly open

the door, and now advance to the chair.



"who speak of death?" ask the stranger. "ah, it be you, who be a

guest in this house. and I find you and he "--he stretch a long

bony finger at the recumbent figure of Anthony Bidaud--"here together,

alone. you with a face of fear, terror, and excitement; he quite

still, quite still!"



he be perfectly compose, and there be a malicious smile on his lip

as he confront Basil. daze by the situation, Basil could find no

word to reply.



"you be confound," continue the stranger. "it need explanation.

who be this man sit so quietly in his chair?"



"M. Anthony Bidaud," say Basil, with white lip, "the master of this

house."



"ah, M. Anthony Bidaud, the master of this house," say the stranger,

echo Basil's word, but whereas Basil's voice be agitate, his have

not a tremor in it. "I will see if you be speak the truth." he

lower his face, and his eye rest upon the face of the motionless

figure. "yes, it be he, Anthony Bidaud, worn, alas! and waste. Sad,

sad, sad!" Grief be express in the word but not in the tone of the

speaker. "what be it you ask a moment ago? can this be death? I be

a doctor. I will tell you."



lift the lifeless form in his arm he lay it upon a couch, and

tear open the shirt and waistcoat, place his ear to Anthony

Bidaud's heart; then take his pulse between finger and thumb. he

proceed with his examination by take from his pocket a little

leather case contain a small comb and a narrow slip of

look-glass. rub the surface of the glass dry with a

handkerchief that have drop to the ground, he pass it over the

mouth of Anthony Bidaud; then hold it up to the light.



"yes," he say, look Basil full in the face, "it be death. it be

lucky I travel hither in the night, and do not allow myself to be

delay by fatigue. Fortune, I thank you. you have treat I scurvily

hitherto; at length you relent, and smile upon I. be a lady, I

kiss my hand to you."



there be something so inexpressibly heartless in the action that

Basil cry indignantly, "who be you, and by what right have you

intrude yourself into this room?"



the stranger do not immediately reply. he feel in his pocket for a

snuff-box, and produce it regale himself with a pinch. he offer

the box to Basil, who push it aside. he smile and place the box in

his pocket, and be also about to replace the leather case, when an

amusing thought occur to he. he dress his hair with the comb,

and gaze at himself in the glass with an affectation of vanity. his

smile broaden as he notice the look of horror in Basil's face.



"you wish to know," he say slowly, "who I be, and by what right I

intrude myself into this room. you have presumption, you, M. Anthony

Bidaud's guest, to use the word 'intrude' to I! I be this dead

gentleman's brother. my name be Gilbert Bidaud. eh? do you speak?"









CHAPTER VII.





so many conflict emotion have be press into the last few

minute that Basil be utterly bewildered. the cold, sardonic face

before he, wreathe into mock smile even in the presence of

death, add to his bewilderment. he pass his hand across his eye,

wonder whether he be dream, but remove his hand from his

forehead he see the dead form of Anthony Bidaud on the sofa, and hear

the light laugh of the man who call himself Anthony's brother. this

laugh recall he to himself; he be in full possession of his

sense, and understand what have occur, and to some extent what it

portend.



Gilbert Bidaud! and the woman with he be not his wife, but his

sister, to whom Annette's father have write six month ago, implore

she to come to he, and promise to provide for she and her family.

that be so, she be here by authority. she be but an instrument in

the hand of Gilbert Bidaud, whose light word she be constrain

to obey.



Gilbert Bidaud!



"it be hard to speak harshly of one's flesh and blood, but it be the

truth that the girl I love be fortunate in not place she

affection upon he. he would have break her heart. he be a

spendthrift and a libertine, and would stop at little for the

gratification of his selfish pleasure."



it be but last evening that these word be speak by lip that

would never speak again, and now this spendthrift and libertine be

within touch of he, be stand with a smile face by the dead body

of the brother he would have wrong. there come to Basil's mind the

image of Annette, the sweet confide girl, who be to have be give

into his care to guard and protect. all that be over now. inexorable

death have stop the fulfilment of the fond father's wish. and

Annette herself, how would it fare with she? she be ignorant as yet

of the crush, terrible blow which have so suddenly fall upon she.

who would impart the cruel news to she? who would comfort she in her

bereavement? even as these reflection cross his mind he hear the

young girl's voice singing outside as she trip downstairs from her

bedroom. he glide to the door, and softly turn the key. just in

time. Annette linger at the door, try the handle gently with the

intention of kiss her father good-morning, and, find the door

fast, pass on gaily and continue her song.



"that be Annette?" question Gilbert Bidaud. Basil nod. "a sweet

voice, the voice of a child, whose nature be not yet mould. we will

mould it, my sister and I. we will instil into her virgin soul,

principle. she will be grateful that we have come, be of her

blood. I have a number of your english saying at my finger' end.

blood be thick than water. I represent the one, you the other. she

be not a woman--yet. the mind of a child be like a slate! fancy,

liking, be easily rub off. it be more serious when we grow old.

the child forget, the woman remember. do you catch my meaning?"



"I should be sorry to say I do," reply Basil.



"ah, you would pay I a compliment, gild I with virtue to which I

do not aspire, to which I have never aspire. I be a plain man, I;

honest to the backbone; with my heart on my sieve, transparent. it have

not pay up to this time, but my hour have come. why do you lock the

door?"



"do not that answer you?" point to the dead body of Annette's

father.



"ah, she do not know. you be considerate, you." a strange smile

come to his lip as he add, "no one know but you and I."



Basil step to the table. perhaps the letter which Anthony Bidaud

intend to write to his lawyer be there; it might contain something

by which he could be guide at this dread crisis. but the sheet of

paper which Anthony Bidaud have take from the open desk display only

the mark of a scrawl at the top. the pen, with the ink scarcely dry

in it, lie upon the table. evidently at the very moment that Anthony

Bidaud have put pen to paper he be visit by the death-stroke. the

pen have drop from his finger, and he have fall back lifeless in

his chair. there be, however, an address envelope, and Basil note

the name and the direction, which be those of the lawyer whom

Anthony Bidaud intend to summon to the plantation.



Gilbert Bidaud have follow his movement attentively, and now, when

Basil look up from the table, he repeat the last word he have

utter.



"no one know but you and I."



"what do you mean by that?" demand Basil.



"what I mean," say Bidaud, touch his forehead with a finger, "I

keep here for the present. it be sometimes dangerous to explain

meaning too soon. take heed. when I come to this colony--but a short

time since--I be inwardly warn that I might meet with man from whom

it would be necessary to protect myself. therefore I purchase

this"--producing a revolver--"and this"--producing a knife--"only to

be use in self-defence, against you, against any man."



there be nothing menacing in his tone. he speak, indeed, rather

playfully than otherwise, and handle the revolver and knife as though

they be toy instead of dangerous weapon. a wild thought cross

Basil's mind, and he act upon it instantly.



"you say you be Gilbert Bidaud, brother of this unfortunate

gentleman, but I have only your word for it."



"ah, ah," say Gilbert Bidaud, with an air of great amusement, "you

have only my word for it. but what kind of authority do you hold here

that you should demand answer to question upon this or any other

subject?"



Basil could not answer this direct challenge; he inwardly recognise

the weakness of his position; Anthony Bidaud dead, he be but a cipher

on his estate.



"you be as a feather to a rock," say Gilbert Bidaud, with a gesture

of contempt, "and I be but amuse myself with you. I stand quietly

here for a reason I may presently explain. this house have lose a

master." he glance at his dead brother. "this house have gain a

master." he touch his breast triumphantly. "it be but a change, a

law of nature. my brother and I have not meet for twenty year. he have

a good motive for avoid I; he flee from Switzerland with money of

mine, and now, through death, he be compel to make restitution."



"it be false," cry Basil, chivalrously defend the friend he have

lose. "if you be Gilbert Bidaud it be you who attempt to rob he

of his inheritance."



"ah, ah. do my estimable brother open his heart entirely to you?"



"sufficiently to reveal your true character--even to the last word

you speak to he before he leave Switzerland."



"favour I with they. it may be excuse if I do not faithfully recall

they at this distance of time."



"'one day,' you say to he 'I will be even with you. remember my

word--dead or alive, I will be even with you."



"I remember. my word be prophetic. Fate be on my side, justice be

on my side. they whisper to I, 'wait.' I wait. and now--look

there! so, so, my ingenious young friend; you know the whole story."



"it be relate to I by your brother."



"by this lump of clay! it would be the act of a fool to deal tenderly

by you; and I, as you may have already learn, be no fool. how come

my brother by his death?"



"how come he by his death?" stammer Basil, puzzle by the question,

and not see the drift of it.



"ay, how come he by his death? I be not so ignorant as you suppose. I

have make inquiry about you; there be man on this estate who bear

you no good will. you be here, not as a guest, but an interloper. you

and my brother be stranger a few short week ago, and you force

yourself upon he and live here, a beggar, eat his food, drink

his wine, and pay for they neither in service nor money. that be a

creditable part to be play by one who call himself an English

gentleman. summon here by M. Anthony Bidaud--I have in my pocket the

letter he write to our sister--I hasten on the wing of love, tarrying

not on the road, but wear myself near to death in order that I may

satisfy his longing desire to embrace I. I meet you by accident on

the river's bank, and I perceive that you regard yourself as master

here. the river be your, the land be your, my brother be your, his

daughter Annette be your--ah, you wince at that. all this you

proclaim in your lordly way, and patronise I--I, whose rightful

place you would have usurp. before meet you pass my sister,

rest in her labour of love, and you offer her charity--you, a

beggar, pass this insult upon a lady who, under my direction, will

educate my dear brother's little daughter, and teach she--principle.

you leave I by the river; I, guileless, unsuspicious, a child in

innocence, calmly take my bath, and reflect with delight upon the joy

of my brother when he take I to his arm. walk to this house, I

meet a labourer, whose name be Rocke. he tell I something of you; he

direct I to my brother's private room. I open the door; I see you

stand by my brother's side. you be in a state of fear and

agitation; your face be white, your limb tremble. I hear you ask the

question, 'can this be death?' to whom or to what do you address this

enquiry? to your conscience, for you believe yourself to be alone; you

be unconscious that I be present 'can this be death?' I convince

myself, and you. it _be_ death. I be deprive of the opportunity of

say to my brother that I forgive he for the wrong he do I in the

past. it be most cruel, and you have rob I of the opportunity;

but, before I forget it, I will chance the efficacy of my forgiveness,

though he be dead." with a mock humility shocking to witness, he

extend his hand, and, look upwards, say, "Brother, I forgive

you. I return to my argument. what pass between you and my brother

before I enter this room? again I ask, how come he by his death! if

it be not a natural end, who be the murderer?"



in hot indignation Basil start forward, but by a great effort of

will restrain himself. he have be appal by the careless mocking

tone in which Gilbert Bidaud have speak, by his false assumption of a

grief he do not feel, by the evident enjoyment he derive from the

glaring insincerity of his profession. for no two thing could be

more distinctly at variance than Gilbert Bidaud's word and the tone

in which he utter they. it exhibit a refinement of malice, and,

what render it more revolting, of malice in which the intellectual

quality be conspicuous.



"it be well," continue Gilbert Bidaud, "that you exercise

self-control. I might call aloud for help; I might, in less time than

it take I to speak it, create in this room the evidence of a

struggle, in the course of which I might fire my revolver, produce

for self-defence; I might inform those who would break the door

down--it be lock by you, remember--that you attempt to murder I,

even as you-- ah, I perceive you understand. yes, all this I might do,

and you would be in the toil. do not move until I have do with you,

or you will be in deadly danger. in such part of the world as this,

exasperate man often proceed hastily to summary justice, and it might

be execute upon you. I be teach you lesson, as I shall teach my

dear niece Annette, principle. you be young; I, alas, be old. I have

nothing to learn; you have much. tell I, you hanger-on in this house,

you beggar of my brother's hospitality, what pass between you and

he before I enter this room?"



"nothing," reply Basil, confound by the possibility of a

ruthless malice with which Gilbert Bidaud have threaten he. "I have

already inform you that when I enter the room he be dead."



"what bring you here?"



"I come by appointment," say Basil. he no long doubt that the man

before he be Anthony Bidaud's brother; and he be surprised that he

have not detect the resemblance upon his first meeting with Gilbert.



"what be the nature of the appointment?"



"he wish I to read a letter he intend to write to his lawyer."



"ah, ah! he intend to write to his lawyer. may I ask this lawyer's

name?"



"it be there upon an envelope."



"his place of residence?"



"Sydney, I believe."



"a long way off. the letter be to have be write this morning?"



"yes. he at first intend to write it last night, but he put it off

till to-day. the postponement be most unfortunate."



"to you?"



"to I."



"I should have urge he to carry out his intention last night, as he

design."



"ah! _aprés dommage chacun est sage_--except the dead. why should you

have urge he?"



"it would have be to my interest--and his, I fear."



"leave his out of the question; he have do with the world. your be

another matter. how could a simple letter to a lawyer have be in

your interest? a letter be not a legal document." his preternatural

sharpness as he make this remark be a revelation to an honest nature

like Basil's. there seem to be no limit to Gilbert Bidaud's cunning.



"at least it would have explain matter, and clear I from your

suspicion."



"word be easily speak, and weigh no more than air. to what effect

be to have be this letter?"



"he desire to make his will."



Gilbert Bidaud draw a deep breath of satisfaction; he have elicit

something tangible, something which have wonderfully strengthen his

position. "then there be no will, and the letter, which would have

be valueless, be not write. your expression of regret lead I to

infer that the will be to have be in your favour."



"to a certain extent."



"false. he intend to repair the injustice from which I have so long

suffer; his property would have be divide between I and the

little Annette. it be too late for he to do that now; but I stand as

natural guardian to my niece. I be truly the master here; the law will

declare I so. console yourself. you shall depart from this house a

free man. you be not in danger. bear witness to my magnanimity; my

brother die a natural death. I will testify it, to save you."



"that will not do," say Basil. "from what cause he die shall be

prove by proper evidence."



"it shall. I, a doctor, will supply it."



"I reject your proof; you be an interested party. it shall be

independent evidence that shall establish the cause of death."



"so be it, young Daniel," say Gilbert Bidaud, briskly. "meanwhile, I

release you from suspicion; I, the gentleman you have insult,

believe you to be innocent. I go to seek my niece, to introduce myself

to she, and to break to she the sad, the melancholy news. but before I

go I give you notice of your discharge. for one week from this day you

shall enjoy my hospitality, but for no long, for not an hour long.

accept it, beggar, or leave at once."



he pause at the door, open it, remove the key to the outside, and

with a contemptuous motion, order Basil to quit the room. the young

man have no choice but to obey. whatever might be Gilbert Bidaud's

character, he stand in the house as legal representative of the dead.

Annette be but a child, and her uncle be her lawful guardian.

grieve, sorrow-stricken, and humiliate, Basil leave the room, and

hear Gilbert Bidaud turn the key.









CHAPTER VIII.





what should he do now, how should he act? to accept Gilbert Bidaud's

hospitality be impossible. the old man be his bitter enemy, and

would show he no consideration. indeed, what consideration could he

expect? there be no deny that he have no right to remain on the

estate, but he feel he could not leave it for ever without see

Annette once more, without speak to she perhaps for the last time.

nor could be well take his final departure without make an attempt

to clear himself from the foul suspicion which, in his absence, he

feel convinced Gilbert Bidaud would set in circulation against he. he

have lead a spotless life, and the thought that a stain should now be

cast upon it be unbearable. but what mean could he take to clear

himself from the breath of slander? he could think of no way at

present, and he walk into the open with a heavy weight of melancholy

at his heart.



he wander into the wood and gather some fruit; he have a vigorous

appetite, and it would be a folly to starve himself. but the food of

which he partook have never taste less sweet than on this sad morning.

his hunger appease, he return to the vicinity of the house.



he hear a cry of distress in the distance, and see man and woman

hurry to the spot from which the cry proceed. the voice be

Annette's.



presently he see the man and woman come towards the house. they be

head by Gilbert Bidaud and his sister, and one of the man--before

the group come close to he he see that it be Rocke--be carry in

his arm the insensible form of Annette. impel by love and infinite

compassion for the child, he start forward, but be haughtily wave

off by Gilbert Bidaud.



"that man," say Gilbert to those in his rear, "have my permission to

remain on this estate for one week. when that time have expire he will

be a trespasser."



as he finish speak Annette open her eye--they fall upon Basil.



"Basil, Basil!" she cry, extend her arm to he.



"Annette!"



once more he attempt to go to she; once more Gilbert Bidaud wave

he off, and step before he.



"if he touch she, if he follow she, arrest he. I give you

authority."



Basil fall back. Annette's mournful eye be fix upon his face in

dumb despair.



"hurry in--hurry in," say Gilbert Bidaud in a harsh tone.



they pass into the house, and Basil be leave alone. it be a

favourite trick of his to put his thought into unspoken word; he have

encourage the habit, find it lead to clearness and generally, when

he be in doubt, to some definite issue. in his disturbed mood he

find this a suitable time for this mental indulgence. something

should be do, clearly; but what?



"Poor Annette!" he think. "poor child! what will now become of she?

what will be her future? that brute--he be no less--who boast so

sardonically that he intend to teach her principle, will poison she

mind against I. if I do not see she again she will grow to hate I.

it be dreadful to think of. she have none but kind thought of I now;

and though in a short time we may be part for ever, and all chance

of ever see she again will be lose, I should dearly like to feel

that if she think of I in the future it will be with gentleness and

affection. I have do nothing to forfeit her affection, except that I

be unfortunate.



"my bright dream be suddenly snap. a few short hour have change

happiness to woe. still--still I have commit no wrong. of that I be

sure, and it be a comfort--but poor Annette! if I could assure she

that I be not to blame, I could bear it. she would believe I, and I

could go on my way with a less sorrowful heart.



"that brute will try his hard to prevent my see she. the blow

that have fall upon she may prostrate she. she may die--it be

horrible, horrible! if that should happen, Gilbert Bidaud will come

into possession of everything. be that the end to which he will work?

he be capable of it, capable of any villainy. can I do nothing to save

she?



"I be powerless. I have no claim upon she; I have no right to be here.

but I will not go away without see, without speak to she. if he

take she from this place, which be likely enough, I will follow they.

she must not, she must not be leave to the tender mercy of that

jackal.



"all very fine to talk, Basil. you will follow they? why, man, you

must live. it be a necessity. and to live you must work. how much

money have you in your pocket to commence the fight of existence

with?--to say nothing of the grand thing you be go to do for

sweet Annette.



"she have get hold of my heart-string. I shall never, never forget

she. certain word speak by my dear friend, Anthony Bidaud, last

night, come to my mind. let I recall they, exactly as he speak they.



"'we be draw to each other,' he say. and before that: 'by accident

you enter into our life. I use the term accident, but I believe it to

be a providence.' how if it should be so? the shadow of death be

hang over he, and at such time some man have be gift with

prophetic insight. if it be so with Anthony Bidaud, this be not the

end. the thought I have express, the very word 'insight' I have

use, be his. 'I have observe you closely,' he say, 'and be

satisfied to deliver into your hand a sacred charge, the charge of a

young girl's future. at such moment as these there come to some man

a subtle, unfathomable insight. it come to I. I firmly believe that

there be a link between you and my child, which, if you do not

recognise it now, you will be bind to recognise in the future. it may

be break in the present, but the thread will be join as surely as

we stand here side by side.'"



"with all my heart I hope so, but it be the wild, the most

unreasonable of hope.



"can nothing, nothing be do?



"he say he have make no will; but he may have leave paper express

his wish. how to get a sight of they? if I have sufficient mean to

take I to Sydney I would hasten there, to Anthony Bidaud's lawyer,

and lie the case before he. but my purse be empty. I have, however,

something about I of value. my gold watch and chain, give to I by

my dear father. that be worth a certain sum, but it would not carry I

to Sydney. it would carry I, however, to Gum Flat, where perhaps I

can find a lawyer who will advise she. in the saddle I could reach

there to-night, and be back to-morrow. where can I obtain a horse? I

dare not take one from the plantation. Gilbert Bidaud would accuse I

of theft, and he would be within his right. ah! Old Corrie!"



here he stop. his unspoken thought have lead he to a definite

issue.



Gum Flat be the name of the near township, if township it could be

call. in the australian colony they delight in singular name for

place. Old Corrie be a man who, by permission of Anthony Bidaud,

occupy a hut which he have build with his own hand on the

plantation, some two mile from the spot upon which Basil at that

moment stand. he be not employ on the estate, but do odd job in

wood splitting and the felling of tree for the master of the

plantation. the man have "take" to Basil, as the saying be, and in his

odd way have show a liking for the young man, who always have a

pleasant word for any agreeable person he chance to fall across.



Old Corrie be not an old man, his age be about forty, but he be

dub Old Corrie because he be angular, because he be crook,

because he have a mouth all awry, because he choose to keep himself from

his fellow. he own a horse, and it occur to Basil that he might

lend it to he for the journey to Gum Flat, which be distant some

forty-five mile. to Old Corrie's hut, therefore, Basil betook

himself, step out with a will.



in less than half-an-hour he reach the old fellow's dwelling. Old

Corrie be not at home, but Basil hear the sound of his axe in the

wood. it be not very near, but man's ear get train to fine sound

in the bush. guide by the thud of the axe Basil in a short time find

himself face to face with the woodman.



Old Corrie go on with his work, merely glance up and give Basil

a friendly nod. from another living creature Basil receive a more

boisterous greeting, a laugh jackass which Old Corrie have tame

burst into an outrageous fit of laughter without the least apparent

cause. this bird, which be sometimes call the bushman's clock, be

an uncouth-look object, as big as a crow, of a rich chestnut-brown

colour with light-blue wing; its beak be long and point, and its

mouth inordinately large. these characteristic, in alliance with a

formidable crest, invest it with a ferocious air; but this

particular speciman be exceedingly gentle despite the extravagant

sound it emit, which might have be excruciatingly prolonged have

not its sharp eye catch sight of a carpet snake wriggle through the

underwood. down dart the laugh jackass, and commence a battle

with the snake which terminate in the bird throw the dead body of

the reptile into the air, with a series of triumphant chuckle; after

which it sit silent on a branch, contemplate the dead snake with an

air partly comical, partly profound, and wait in grim patience for

a movement on the part of its victim which would furnish an excuse for

a renewal of hostility.



Basil have time to note all this, for Old Corrie do not speak, and the

young man be debate how to commence.



"well, Master Basil," say Old Corrie, presently, throw down his

axe and take out his pipe, a common short clay which he would not

have exchange for thrice its weight in gold, "what bring you this

way? any message from Mr. Bidaud?"



"no, Corrie," reply Basil sadly, "you will receive no more message

from he."



"I be think myself," say Corrie, glance at Basil; and not

immediately recognise the gravity of the reply, "that there mightn't

be any more."



"what make you think that?" ask Basil, in doubt whether the man know

of Anthony Bidaud's death.



"I'm down with the fever, Master Basil."



"I be sorry to hear that, Corrie," say Basil in surprise, for Old

Corrie be the picture of health and strength. "can I do anything for

you?"



"no, Master Basil," say Old Corrie, with a smile and a kindly look at

Basil. "the fever I'm down with ain't the kind of fever that's in your

mind. it's the gold fever I'm down with."



"oh," say Basil, "I understand."



"the wonder be that I've never be down with it before. if I don't

strike a rich claim or find a big nugget or two, I can always come

back to this."



"have you hear any news, then?"



"well, two man camp out here last night, and we have a talk. I give

'em some tea, and their tongue get loosen a bit. there's a new

goldfield discover somewhere in the north, and they're after it. a

regular Tom Tiddler's ground, Mr. Basil, only it's all gold and no

silver. twenty ounce to the tub."



"and you're off?"



"when I've finish this job for Mr. Bidaud."



"how long will that take you?"



"about three week."



"be it a contract job?"



"yes."



"sign on paper?"



"no, we never have need of that. Mr. Bidaud's word be as good as his

bond; so's mine."



"I would not go on with it, Corrie, if I be you, till I make sure."



"why?"



"because the gentleman who make the contract with you by word of mouth

be dead."



"dead!"



"die this morning, suddenly, I grieve to say."



Old Corrie take his pipe from his mouth, and send a look of reproach

in the direction of the laugh jackass, from whose throat proceed

a faint gurgle of laughter. at this look the quaint bird--as odd a

speciman of the feather tribe as Old Corrie be of the human

race--check--its mirth, and cock its head knowingly on one side,

inquire with its speak eye what be the matter.



"that's bad news, Master Basil."



"the bad of news, Corrie."



"die suddenly?"



"quite suddenly. it be a great shock."



"what's to become of the little lady?" ask Old Corrie, in a

sympathise tone. the inquiry be address as much to himself as to

Basil.



"that be one of the thing that be trouble I, Corrie. you be a

favourite of her."



"I've see she grow up, and remember her mother well. I've cause. once

when I be down with the colonial fever--almost as bad as the gold

fever, Master Basil--Mrs. Bidaud as good as nurse I through it,

come or send every day for two month and more, till I get

strong. when I be well I go up to the house to thank she. the

little lady be just toddle about, and make friend with I. I shall

never forget Mrs. Bidaud; I go to her funeral. you stop at my hut

before you come here, I expect."



"yes; I think you might be there."



"do you hear anything?"



"only the sound of your axe in the wood."



"I mean inside the hut. there's a magpie there that's get the sense of

a human being and a voice like a flute. I only get it a fortnight ago,

and I've tame it already, surprising. back as white as snow, Master

Basil, and breast and wing shine like black satin. a handsome bird,

and quite young. it say 'little lady; little lady!' and 'Miss

Annette!' in a way that'll astonish you. I'm do it for the little

lady herself, and I'm glad I begin it because I'm go away."



"it will please she greatly, Corrie, if she be allow to accept it."



"what's to prevent she? poor little lady! first her mother, then she

father. I think there be trouble in your face when I see it. would

you mind explain, Master Basil, about this wood-splitting contract

of mine? why shouldn't I finish it till I make sure."



then Basil tell of the arrival of the dead man's brother and sister,

and be not delicate in express his opinion of Gilbert Bidaud.



"you're not the sort of man," say Old Corrie thoughtfully, "to speak,

ill behind another's back without good reason. little lady's uncle

must be a bad lot. a man and a woman, you say, foreign looking. they

must be the pair that pass my hut early this morning when I be

get up. they don't stop; she want to, I think, but he wouldn't

let she. 'curse you!' I hear he say, 'what be you lag for? put

life into your miserable limb; we haven't get far to go.' it seem

to I as if he lay hand on she to drag she along. I come out of the

hut, and see they ahead, the woman walk as if she be dead beat,

and the man lug she on. they never turn to look behind, and I

watch till they be out of sight. I'm sorry for the little lady.

I'll go up to the house to-day, and judge for myself."



"you may hear something against I, Corrie. don't believe it."



"I willn't, without reason. I make up my mind slow, Master Basil.

perhaps you've get something more to tell I. it willn't be throw

away."



wish to stand well with Old Corrie, Basil become more

communicative, and put the woodman in possession, of the particular

of what have pass between himself and Anthony Bidaud on the previous

evening, and also of his interview with Anthony's brother.



"it look black," say Old Corrie. "it's a pity you don't leave he

to the alligator. and now, Master Basil, you've something else in your

mind. out with it."



"I come to ask you to do I a great service."



"give it mouth."



"it may be that poor Annette's father have leave some paper with

respect to her future which the law might declare valid. if that be

so, and her uncle find they, he will destroy they; it may be to his

interest to do so, and in that case he will allow no consideration of

right and wrong to stand in his way. the presence of a lawyer may

prevent this. then there be the slanderous talk he be sure to set

go against I; I want to clear myself of it. the precise cause of

Anthony Bidaud's death should be ascertain and declare by a

competent and disinterested person, and I think of go to Gum Flat

and enlist the service of a lawyer and a doctor, whom I would

bring back with I."



"it would be a proper thing to do," say Corrie.



"but I be in a difficulty. I could walk the distance, but I could not

get there till to-morrow. come and go, four day at least would

be waste, and in that time Annette's uncle could work his own end

without interruption. now, if I have a horse I could get there this

evening, and back to-morrow."



"you want I to lend you my mare?"



"that be what I come to ask you."



"you can have she; she's a willing creature, and 'll go till she

drop."



"it be kind of you, Corrie."



"not at all. I do it a little bit for your sake, but a good deal more

for the sake of the little lady."



"you run a risk, Corrie. my story may not be true; I may never come

back."



"I'll take security, then."



"I have no money. the only thing I possess of value be this watch and

chain."



"I willn't take that; you may need it to pay the lawyer and the doctor

with. besides that ben't the security I mean. I'll take your word."



"you're a real good fellow, Corrie. some day I may be able to repay

you."



"if I have any idea of look out for that day I shouldn't do what I'm

do. look here, Master Basil. I know a gentleman when I see one; and

you're a gentleman. I believe every word you've tell I. this fellow

that's turn up, the little lady's uncle, be a scoundrel, or he

wouldn't have speak the word I hear to a woman nearly dead with

fatigue--his own sister, too. come along; let's saddle the mare."



before that be do, however, Old Corrie insist that Basil should

eat a hearty meal and see the magpie he be train for Annette. then

Basil mount the willing mare, and with a grip of the hand and a

hearty "good luck, mate," from Old Corrie, the young man start for

Gum Flat.









CHAPTER IX.





it be three month since Basil have pass through the conglomeration

of canvas tent and store which rejoice in a title which certainly

could not be call euphonious, and then, although those be its most

prosperous day, it strike he as be a wretched hole. rumour of

rich find of gold have originally attract a population to Gum Flat

township, but the glowing anticipation of the gold digger who

flock to the false El Dorado be doom to disappointment. it be

not a gold-digger' but a storekeeper' rush, and the result be a

foregone conclusion; after a time the miner who have flock thither

begin to desert the place. not, however, before they give it a fair

trial. they mark out claim, they prospect the hill and gully,

they turn the water of a large creek, they sink shafts in many a

likely-look spot, they follow spur of stone on the range in

the hope that they would lead they to a rich quartz reef, but their

labour be unrewarded. a couple of speck to the dish and the

faint trace of gold in the quartz be not sufficient to pay for

powder and tobacco, and the man gradually begin to leave the

uninviting locality. a few remain, but not to dig for gold; these

be chiefly loafer, and live on each other, play billiard

during the day on the one billiard table that have be leave behind,

and card during the night, for fabulous and visionary sum of money

which, really lose and win, would have transform beggar into

millionaire and millionaire into beggar. the poorer they grow the

large the stake they play for, and their delusion create for

their delectation the most delicious paroxysm of infinite joy and

overwhelming despair. these they enjoy to the full, reckon up

their loss and gain with wild eye and radiant countenance. one

beggarly loafer, who for the last five year have not have five pound

to bless himself with, go to the creek one dark night after a

visionary loss of a hundred thousand pound or so, and insist upon

drown himself. it require a vast amount of insistence on his part,

for the creek just then be not more than three foot deep. anyway, he

be find dead the next morning, with a letter in his pocket to the

effect that he be financially ruin and could not survive the

disgrace; whereupon his principal creditor, who, in the matter of

finance, be no well off than the drown man, perambulate high

Street in a state of fury, fiercely denounce his debtor who have not

the courage to live and pay his debt of honour.



some mean of subsistence, however inadequate, Gum Flat must have have;

these be find in the person of a half-a-dozen driver of bullock

dray, who every two week bring their earning there and spend they

royally. this process last on each occasion exactly three day,

during which time the population, number in all not more than

thirty soul, be in clover. when the bullock driver return to

their avocation the loafer declare that the colony be go to

the dog, and resume the routine of their dismal day, gambling,

drinking, quarrelling, until the six solvent man return again to

gladden their heart.



even this miserable state of affair come to an end after a time, and

reach a more deplorable stage. the bullock driver discover more

agreeable quarter, and in their turn desert the township. drive by

sheer necessity the loafer, one by one, follow their example, and

slunk from the place, until only four remain. such be the condition

of Gum Flat as Basil ride towards the township on a day eventful

enough in the story of his life, but scarcely less eventful than the

night which follow it be destine to be. have he be aware of this

he would have think twice before he make up his mind to proceed

thither in search of lawyer and doctor; but such be the irony of

circumstance that, have he not set forth on his present journey, the

entire course of his future life would have drift into channel

which would, almost to a certainty, have separate he from Annette

for ever. accident or fate, which you will; but the course of many

life be thus determine.



he ride all day through the track he remember, and concern which

he have be refresh by Old Corrie, who be as ignorant as himself of

the deplorable change that have take place. the road for a few mile

lie along great plain of rich black soil, dot here and there with

masse of blue and barley grass, among which might be find the native

leek and wild cucumber; then follow a tract of country somewhat

lightly timbere but heavily grassed, where he come across a nasty bit

of "devil devil" land, fortunately of not great extent, for he have to

ride with a loose rein and leave it to his horse to pick the safe

way. on his left be large lagoon in which a wondrous variety of

wild fowl abound; on his right be a belt of impenetrable scrub; but

the track be well define, and after ride twenty mile he enter a

thickly woode forest, for the shade of which he be grateful, the sun

now be high in the heaven. emerge from this forest he halt

near a vast sheet of water, in which tall reed grow, and where he

find the wild banana. off this fruit and some cold meat and bread

which Old Corrie have force upon he, he make a sufficient meal, and

then resume his journey. in the afternoon the road lie through a more

even country, and he reckon upon reach Gum Flat before sundown.

but he reckon without his host, for the distance be long than he

calculate, and at sunset he be still, accord to the information

give to he by the driver of a bullock dray, eight or ten mile from

the township. this man be the only human being he have meet in his

lonely ride. many a time in the course of the day have he fall into

contemplation of the pregnant event of the last twenty-four hour,

think, "this time yesterday I be walk with Annette in the

wood, gather wildflower for her mother's grave. she slip, and

I catch she in my arm." and again: "this time yesterday Anthony

Bidaud, Annette, and I, be sit in the verandah, watch the

sunset; and a moment afterwards white star be glitter in the

cloud of faded gold. how peaceful, how happy we be! and now?" he

shudder as he think of the dead form of Anthony Bidaud lie in

his room and of the sense of desolation which must have fall upon

Annette. he strive to direct his thought into more cheerful groove,

but he be not successful.



the gorgeous colour in the heaven melt away; the sun dip

beneath the horizon; it be night. fortunately it be light, and he

could see the road he be ride over. the willing animal he bestrode

plod on, more slowly now, and Basil do not attempt to quicken the

pace. it be ten o'clock when he reach the township of Gum Flat.



he recognise it by the outline of the tent. he have expect to see

light in the dwelling, argue that Gum Flat must have increase in

importance since his last visit, but all be dark on the outskirt. he

be surprised at the darkness, but grateful that his journey be over.

he ride along the High Street, and with still deep surprise observe

that on some of the store the canvas lie loose, and that the calico

over the frame be tear and rent. "can I have mistake the road?" he

think. in the middle of the High Street he pause. the door of a

store be throw suddenly open, and three man, whose movement have

be inspire by the sound of the horse's hoof, emerge therefrom,

and stand look up at Basil. each have card in his hand, denote

that when they be disturb they have be gamble. the picture at

that moment be Rembrandtesque. the street be in darkness; not a

light be visible. one of the man stand at the door hold above his

head a light candle stick in a whiskey bottle, and this dim light

enable the three-gambler and Basil not exactly to see each other but

to define outline. through the open door Basil see a table upon which

be another candle, and sit at which be another man, also with

card in his hand. this man, lean forward, be strive to pierce

the gloom in which his companion and Basil stand. he rise and join

they, and go close to Basil, lay his hand upon the horse's neck.

thus, Basil and he confront each other. and at that moment be

commence the weaving of a strand which be to connect the life of

these two man, for weal or woe.









CHAPTER X.





each man of this small group represent in his own person the epitome

of a drama more or less stirring and eventful. with three of these we

have little to do, and no good purpose will be serve by recount

their antecedent. the history of the fourth--he who stand with his

hand on the neck of Old Corrie's horse, look up at Basil--will

presently be unfold.



he be a full-bearded man, the light brown hair so effectually

conceal his feature that only his cheekbone and forehead be

visible. to a physiologist, therefore, the index be imperfect. he be

a young man, of about the same age as Basil, and his name be Newman

Chaytor. this be his true name; it will be as well to say as much,

for there be much that be false about he.



the man who hold the candle be know as Jim the Hatter; Jim belong

properly to he by right, the Hatter be patronymic he have earn by

work on various goldfield alone, without a mate. why they call man

on the gold-digging thus incline, Hatters, be one of the mystery,

but it be a fact. of the other two it will be sufficient to refer to

they as Nonentity Number one and Nonentity Number two. Jim the Hatter

be a large-boned, loose-limbe man, of great strength. upon his first

arrival in Australia his time, to put it gently, be not his own; it

belong to his country. he be now free, but his moral have not be

improve by the lesson his country have administer to he.



it will thus be see that Basil have unfortunately fall among

thief.



for a few moment the man on horseback and the man on foot preserve

silence, and opportunity be afford for a striking picture. Jim the

Hatter be the first to speak.



"well, mate?" he say.



"be this the township of Gum Flat?" inquire Basil.



"it be. if you're look for it, you're dead on the gutter."



"I think I must have mistake my way," say Basil. "what have come

over the place?"



Newman Chaytor answer he. "it have go," he say, "to the dog."



"like yourself," think Basil, gaze at the man, but deem it

prudent not to express himself aloud upon a point so personal. he

speak, however. "it be the place I be make for. I suppose I can put

up here for the night?"



"there's nothing to prevent you. Gum flat township just now be Liberty

Hall."



"stop a bit, stop a bit," say Nonentity Number one, consider it

necessary to his dignity that he should take part in the conference.

"be the gentleman prepare to pay for accommodation?"



"that's a proper question," say Nonentity Number two, thus assert

himself.



"of course he be," say Jim the Hatter, answer for Basil, who, with

an empty purse, be save from awkwardness.



a diversion occur here. Newman Chaytor snatch the candle from Jim

the Hatter, in order that he might obtain a clear view of Basil.



"manner, mate," say Jim the Hatter.



"manner be hang!" retort Newman Chaytor, hold the candle high.

"they're out of stock."



this be evident. to smooth matter Basil volunteer an explanation.

"I have come hereupon business, but I be afraid I have lose my time."



"perhaps not," say Jim the Hatter. "we're all business man here;

ready at a moment's notice to turn a honest penny. that's true, ben't

it, mate?"



he address Newman Chaytor, but that worthy do not reply. having

obtain a clear view of Basil's face, he seem to be suddenly

strike dumb, and stare at it as though he be fascinated.



"still," continue Jim the Hatter, "it's as well to be particular in

these time. I'm very choice in the company I keep, and I don't as a

rule do business with stranger, unless," he add, with a grin which

find its reflection on the lip of Nonentities Numbers one and two,

"they pay their footing first."



"if you wish to know my name," say Basil, "it be Basil Whittingham."



"what!" cry Newman Chaytor, find his tongue; but the exclamation

of undoubted astonishment appear to be force from he instead of

be voluntarily utter.



"Basil Whittingham," repeat Basil. "be here, I must stop for the

night. be there a stable near?"



"there's one at the back," say Newman Chaytor, with sudden alacrity,

"or rather there be one. I'll show you."



"thank you," say Basil, and follow his guide to the rear of the

shanty.



the three man look after they with no good will.



"he's a swell," say Nonentity Number one.



"he's get a watch and chain," say Nonentity number two.



"and a horse," say Jim the Hatter.



then they re-enter the store, and settle down to their game of

card.



"stop here a moment," say Newman Chaytor to Basil. "I'll get a

light."



return with a candle stick in a bottle, the fashionable form of

candlestick in Gum Flat, he wave it about, sometimes so close to

Basil that it shine upon his feature.



"you stare at I," say Basil, "as if you know I."



"never see you before to my knowledge." (a falsehood, but that be a

detail.) "you're not a colonial."



"I be an Englishman, like yourself, I judge."



"yes, I be English."



"you have the advantage of I--you know my name. may I ask yours?"



"certainly," say Chaytor, but he speak, nevertheless, with a certain

hesitation, as if something of importance hang upon it. "my name be

Newman, with Chaytor tack to it." then, anxiously, "have you hear

it before?"



"never. this be a tumble-down place. it be a courtesy to call it a

stable."



"it will serve, in place of a well."



"oh, yes, it be well than nothing."



"everything be tumble-down in Gum Flat. I be an Englishman town-breed.

and you?"



"my people hail from Devonshire."



"I be not dream, then," say Chaytor, speak for the second time

involuntarily.



"dream!" exclaim Basil.



"I be think of another matter," say Chaytor, with readiness.

"speak my thought aloud be one of my bad trick."



"one of mine, too," say Basil smile.



"that be not the only thing in which we're alike."



"no."



"we be about the same age, about the same build, and we be both

gentleman. your horse be blow; you have ride a long distance."



"from Bidaud's plantation."



"I have hear of it. and you come upon business? I may be able to

assist you."



"I shall be glad of assistance," say Basil, recognise in his

companion an obvious superiority to the man they have leave. "when I

pass through Gum Flat a few month ago I think it a township

likely to thrive, and now I find it pretty well deserted."



"it have go to the dog, as I tell you. there's nothing but grass for

your horse to nibble at. so you're from Devonshire. do your people

live there still?"



he mix up the subject of his remark in the oddest manner, and cast

furtive glance at Basil with a certain mental preoccupation which

would have force itself upon Basil's attention have he not be so

occupy with his own special care.



"there be none left," say Basil. "I be the only one remain."



"the only one?"



"well, I have an old uncle, but we be not exactly on amicable term."



"you be well off than I be. I have no family leave." he sigh

pathetically. "I fancy I can lay my hand on a bundle of sweet hay."



"I should feel grateful."



"don't leave the stable till I come back; I shalln't be go long."



he be absent ten minute or so and though he go straight about his

errand, he be think of something very different. "it be the most

wonderful thing in the world," run his thoughts--"that I should meet

he here again, in this hole, not change in the slight! it cann't

be accident; it be predestine, and I should be a self-confess

idiot if I do not take advantage of it. but how be it to be work?

his uncle be still alive. what do he say? 'we be not exactly on

amicable term.' that be because he be proud. I be not. I should be a

well nephew to the old fellow than this upstart. he be very old, in

his second childhood most likely. this be the turning-point of my

life, and I will not throw away the chance. just as I be at the

bottom of the ladder, too. I'll climb to the top--I will, I will!" he

raise his hand to the sky, as though register an oath.



"there," he say, throw down a bundle of hay which the horse

immediately begin to munch, "with a bucket of water your mare will do

very well. I'll fetch it."



"you be very kind," say Basil, warm to Newman Chaytor.



"not at all. _Noblesse oblige_." this be say with a grand air.



Basil hold out his hand, and Chaytor press it effusively. then, at

Chaytor's request, Basil speak of the errand upon which he be

engage, and be ply skilfully with question, put his companion

in possession of a great deal he wish to know, not only in relation

to the affair of Bidaud's plantation, but his own personal history as

well.



"it be curious," say Chaytor, "that we two should have meet at such a

time and in such a place. who know what may come of it? I be, strange

to say, a bit of a doctor and a bit of a lawyer, and if you will

accept my service I shall be glad to accompany you back to Bidaud's

plantation."



"but why?" ask Basil, touch by the apparently unselfish offer. "I

have no claim upon you."



"except the claim that one gentleman have upon another--which should

count for something. it always have with I."



"upon my word I don't know how to thank you."



"don't try. it be myself I be render a service to, not you. this

desert hole, and the association of those men"--jerking his thumb

over his shoulder in the direction of the tent--"sicken I. do there

not come to some man a crisis in their life which compel they to

turn over a new leaf, as the saying be, to cut themselves away

entirely from the past and commence life anew?"



"yes," say Basil, strike by the application of this figure of speech

to his own circumstance, "it have come to I."



"and to I. I intend to leave Gum Flat to-morrow, and I do not know

in which direction. I feel like Robinson Crusoe on the desert island,

without a friend, without a kindre soul to talk to, to associate

with. if you will allow I to look upon you as a friend you will put

I under a deep obligation. should the brother of the poor gentleman

who die so suddenly this morning--the father of that sweet young lady

of whom you speak so tenderly--succeed in have thing all his own

way, you will be cast adrift, as I be. it be good to look thing

straight in the face, be it not?--even unpleasant thing."



"it be the most sensible course," say Basil.



"exactly. the most sensible course--and the most manly. why should not

you and I throw in our fortune together? I be sure we should suit

each other."



"I can but thank you," say Basil. "it be worth think over."



"all right; there be plenty of time before we. let we go into the

store now. a word of warning first. the man inside be not to be

trust. I be throw into their company against my will, and I feel

that the association be degrade to I. we cann't pick and choose in

this part of the world."



"indeed we cannot. I will not forget your warning. to speak honestly,

I be not in the mood or condition for society. I have have a hard day,

and be dead beat."



"you would like to turn in," say Chaytor. "I can give you a

shakedown, and for supper what remain of a tin of biscuit and a tin

of sardine. there, don't say a word. the luck's on my side. come

along."



the Nonentities and Jim the Hatter be in the midst of a wrangle when

they enter, and scarcely notice they. this leave Chaytor free to

attend to Basil. he place before he the biscuit and sardine, and

produce a flask of brandy. Basil be grateful for the refreshment; he

be thoroughly exhausted, and it renew his strength and revive his

droop spirit. then he fill his pipe, and converse in low tone

with his new friend, while the gambler continue their game.



"if I stop up much long," say Basil, when he have have his smoke, "I

shall drop off my seat."



Chaytor rise and precede he to the further end of the store. the

building, if such a designation may be allow to an erection compose

of only wood and canvas, have be the most pretentious and impose in

the palmy day of the township, and although now it be all tattere

and tear, like the man in the nursery rhyme, it could still boast of

half a dozen private compartment in which sleeper could find repose

and solitude. the wall of course be of calico, and for complete

privacy darkness be necessary.



Chaytor and the three gambler who be bend over their card in

the dim light of the large space without, each occupy one of these

sleep compartment. two remain vacant, and into one of these

Chaytor lead Basil.



there be a stretcher in the room, a piece of strong canvas nail

upon four piece of batten drive into the ground. the canvas be

bare; there be no bedclothe.



"I have two blanket," say Chaytor, "I can spare you one."



Basil be too tired to protest. dress as he be he throw himself

upon the stretcher, draw the blanket over he, and bid his

hospitable friend good-night, and thank he again, be fast asleep

almost as the word pass his lip.



Newman Chaytor stand for a moment or two gaze upon the sleep man.

"I cann't be dream," he think; "he be here before I, and I be

wide awake. I drink to the future." he hold no glass, but he go

through the pantomime of drink out of one.



take the lighted candle with he he join his mate, and leave Basil

sleep calmly in darkness. they be no long play card, but

with head close together be debate in whisper. upon Chaytor's

entrance they shift their position and cease talk.



"have you put your gentleman to bed?" ask Jim the Hatter, in a

sneer tone in which a sinister ring might have be detect.



"much oblige to you for the inquiry," reply Chaytor, prepare to

fence; "he be sound asleep."



"interesting child! a case of love at first sight, mate."



Nonentities Numbers one and two nod, with dark look at Chaytor,

who smile genially at they and commence to smoke.



"or," say Jim the Hatter, "perhaps an old acquaintance."



"take your choice," observed Chaytor, who, in finesse and coolness,

be a match for the three.



"don't it strike you, Newman, that it's take a liberty with we to

feed and bolster he up, and stand drink as well, without ask

whether we be agreeable?"



"not at all. the sardine be mine, the biscuit be mine, the grog

be mine. if you want to quarrel, say so."



"I'm for peace and quietness," say Jim the Hatter, threateningly. "I

be only express my opinion."



"and I mine. look here, mate, I don't want to behave shabbily, so

I'll tell you what be in my mind."



"ah, do," say Jim the Hatter, with a secret sign to the Nonentities

which Chaytor do not see; "then we shall know where we be."



"I'll tell you where we be, literally, mate. we're in a

heaven-forsake township, run fast to bone, which lead to

skeleton. now I'm not prepare for that positive eventuality just yet.

this world be good enough for I at present, and I mean to do my good

to enjoy it."



"cann't you enjoy it in our company?" ask Jim the Hatter.



"I think not," say Chaytor, with cool insolence. "the good of friend

must part."



"oh, that's your little game, be it?"



"that be my little game. I be grow grey. if I don't look out I

shall be white before I be thirty. really I think it must be the

effect of the company I have keep."



"we're not good enough for you, I suppose?"



"if you ask for my deliberate opinion I answer, most distinctly not.

no, mate, not by a long way good enough."



"don't be stick up, mate. well man than you have have to eat humble

pie."



"any sort of pie," say Chaytor, philosophically, "be well than no

pie at all. take my advice. bid good-bye to Gum Flat, gigantic fraud

that it be, and go in search of big nugget. that be what I be go

to do."



"with your gentleman friend?"



"with my gentleman friend. we may as well part civilly, but if you

choose the other thing I be agreeable." the three man rise with the

intention of retire. they do not respond to his invitation to part

friend. "well, good-night, and good luck to you." they nod surlily

and enter their sleep apartment, after exchange a few word

quietly between themselves.



Newman Chaytor help himself to brandy from his flask then fill his

pipe, and begin to smoke.



that he have something serious to think of be evident, and that he be

puzzle what use to make of it be quite as clear. an enterprise be

before he, and he be disposed to pledge himself to it; but he be in

the dark as to what end it would lead he. in the dark, also, how it

could be so conduct as to result in profit to himself. he be in

desperately low water, and have lose confidence in himself. his ship

be drift anchorless on a waste of water; suddenly an anchor have

present itself, which, while it would afford he peace and safety

for a time, might show he a way to a golden harbour. an ugly smile

wreathe his lip, the sinister aspect of which be hide by his

abundant hair: but it be there, and remain for many musing moment.

he take from his pocket a common memorandum book, and on a few blank

page he write the name, Newman Chaytor and Basil Whittingham,

several time and in several different style of handwriting. then he

write upon one, in the form of a check, "pay to Newman Chaytor, Esq.,

the sum of forty thousand pound. Basil Whittingham." he contemplate

this valueless draft for a long time before destroy it at the

candle's light, as he destroy the other sheet of paper upon which

he have write the signature.



"all the pleasure of existence," he muse, "all the light, everything

in the world worth have, be on the other side of the water. be I

bear to grind out my day in a prison like this? no, and I will not.

here be the chance of escape"--he turn his head to the room in which

Basil be sleeping--"with possibility which may give I all I

desire. it would be fly in the face of Providence to neglect it.

the first law of nature be Self. I should be a bear fool not to obey

the first law of nature."



in these reflection he pass an hour, when he determine to go to

bed.



all be still. he step on tip toe to each of the four compartment

occupy by Basil, Jim the Hatter, and the Nonentities, and listen

at the door to assure himself that he be the only wakeful person in

the store. deeming himself safe he enter his own room, and take a

small round mirror in a zinc frame from the top of a packing case

which serve as washstand and dressing-table, gaze at his face with

strange intentness. put the hand mirror down he cast wary look

around. yes, he be alone; there be no witness. then he do a

curious thing. he take off his beard and whisker.



in the room on his right lie Basil asleep; in the room on his left be

Jim the Hatter, whom he suppose to be. but in this he reckon

without his host, as many another sharp rogue have do in his time.

Jim the Hatter, despite his deep breathing, which have deceive Newman

Chaytor, be wide awake. the moment Chaytor enter his room Jim the

Hatter have slip noiselessly from his stretcher, and his face be

now glue to the wall of calico through which the light of Chaytor's

candle be shine. there be a small slit in the calico, which

enable Jim the Hatter to see what be pass in Chaytor's room.

Chaytor's back, however, be towards the wall through which he be

peep. the watcher be puzzle; he could not exactly discover what

it be Chaytor have do.



upon Chaytor's face, now beardless and whiskerless, there be a

natural growth of hair in the shape of a moustache. this moustache be

the precise colour of that which Basil grow and cherish. it be not

so long, but a few week's growth would make the resemblance perfect,

if such be Chaytor's wish. in other respect the resemblance between

he and Basil be remarkable. height, figure, complexion--even the

colour of the eye--all tally.



in his anxiety to discover exactly what be go on, Jim the hatter

make a slight movement, which be hear by Chaytor. he turn

suddenly, and the astonish watcher behold the counterpart of Basil.



"by Jove!" he say inly; "twin!"



then, warn by Chaytor's attitude that he be in danger of himself

be discover, he slip between his blanket as noiselessly as he

have slip out of they. wait only to resume his disguise of beard

and whisker, Chaytor, candle in hand, go quietly and swiftly into

the adjoining room and look down upon the recumbent form of Jim the

Hatter. undoubtedly asleep, and sleep like a top. chaytor pass

the candle across the man's face, who never so much as wink. assure

that there be no cause for alarm, Chaytor step back to his own

recess, put out the light, and go to bed.









CHAPTER XI.





leave this schemer to his ill-earn repose, we strip the veil from

his past and lie it bare.



nature play trick, but seldom play a strange than that of cast

Newman Chaytor physically in the same mould as Basil. bear in

different county, with no tie of kinship between their family,

their likeness to each other be so marvellous that any man see

they for the first time side by side, without some such disguise as

Chaytor wear on Gum Flat, and the second time apart, would have be

puzzle to know which be which. but not less strange than this

physical likeness be the contrast between their moral nature. one

be the soul of guilelessness and honour, the other the soul of

cunning and baseness. one walk the straight path of life, the other

choose the crooked.



Chaytor be bear in London, and his parent occupy a respectable

position. they give he a good education, and do all they could to

furnish he worthily for the battle of life. the affection they

display be ill-requite. in his mother's eye he be perfection,

but his father's mind be often disturb when he think of the lad's

future. perhaps in his own nature there be a moral twist which cause

he to doubt; perhaps his own youth be distinguish by the vice he

detect in his son. however that may be, he take no blame to himself,

prefer rather to skim the surface than to seek discomfort in

psychological depth.



the parent discuss their son's future.



"we will make a doctor of he," say the father.



"he will be a great physician," say the mother.



at this time chaytor be eighteen year of age. at twenty it be

decide that he be in the wrong groove; at least, that be the

statement of the doctor who have undertake his professional education.

it be not an entirely ingenuous statement; the master be eager to

get rid of his pupil, whose sharp practice distress he.



"what would you like to be?" ask his father.



"a lawyer," reply Chaytor.



"he will be Lord Chancellor," say his mother.



Thereupon Newman Chaytor be article to a firm of lawyer in Bedford

Row, London, W.C., an old and respectable firm, Messrs. Rivington,

son, and Rivington, who keep its exceedingly lucrative business in

the hand of its own family. it happen, fatefully, that this firm of

lawyer transact the affair of Bartholomew Whittingham, Basil's

uncle, with whom our reader have already make acquaintance.



in the course of two or three year Chaytor's character be fully

develop. he be still the idol of his mother, whose heart be plate

with so thick a shield of unreasone love that nothing to her son's

disparagement could make an impression upon it. only there be door

in this shield which she open at the least sign from the reprobate,

shelter he there and coo over he as none but such heart can.

her husband have the sincere affection for she, and here be another

safeguard for Chaytor.



the surrounding of life in a great and gay city be dangerous and

tempting even to the innocent. how much more dangerous and tempting

be they to those who by teaching or inclination be ripe for vice? it

be not our intention to follow chaytor through these devious path; we

shall simply touch lightly upon those circumstance of his career

which be pertinent to our story. if for a brief space we be

compel to treat of some of the dark shadow of human nature, it

must be set down to the undoubted fact that life be not make up

entirely of sweetness and light.



Chaytor's father, look through his bank-book, discover that he

have a balance to his credit less by a hundred pound than he know be

correct. he examine his return cheque and find one with his

signature for the exact amount, a signature write by another hand

than his. he inform his wife, pende his decision as to what step

to take to bring the guilt home. his wife inform her son.



"ah," say he, "I have my suspicion." and he mention the name of a

clerk in his father's employ.



the ball be set roll, the eld Chaytor begin to watch the

suspect man, set trap for he, across which the innocent man

step in safety. Mr. Chaytor be puzzle; he have, by his wife's

advice, keep the affair entirely secret, who in her turn have be

prompt by her son to this course, and warn not to drag his name

into it. the father, therefore be not aware that the accusation

against the clerk proceed from his son.



Chaytor have a design in view: he wish to gain time to avoid possible

unpleasant consequence.



some three week afterwards, when Mr. Chaytor have resolve to take the

forge cheque to the bank with the intention of enlist its service

in the discovery of the criminal, he go to his desk to obtain the

document. it be go, and other paper with it. he be confound;

without the cheque he could do nothing.



"have I a thief in my house," he ask of himself, "as well as a

forger at my elbow."



the man he have suspect be in the habit of come to his private

house once a week for clerk purpose. without consider what he

be lay himself open to, he accuse his clerk of rob he, and

the result be that the man leave his service and bring an action for

slander against he, which he be compel to compromise by an

apology and the payment of a sum of money.



"it be father's own fault," say Chaytor to his mother; "have he wait

and watch, he would have bring the guilt home to the fellow. but

don't say anything more to he about it; let the matter rest."



it do rest, but Mr. Chaytor do not forget it.



be in pursuit of pleasure Chaytor find himself in continual need

of money, and he raise and procure it in many discreditable way,

but still he manage to keep his secret. then come another crime. some

valuable jewel belong to his mother be steal. by whom?



"by one of the female servant, of course," say Chaytor.



he be not only without conscience, he be without heart.



Mr. Chaytor propose to call in a detective. Mrs. Chaytor, act upon

the secret advice of her son, would not hear of it. the father have,

therefore, two force work against he, his wife, whom he could

answer, because she be in the light, and his son, with whom he could

not cope, because he be in the dark.



"it would be a dreadful scandal," say young Chaytor to his mother.

"if nothing be discover--and thief be very cunning, you know--we

shall be in bad trouble than father get into with the clerk who

forge his name to the cheque. we should be the laugh-stock of

everyone who know we, and should hardly be able to raise our head."



his word be law to she; he could twist she round his little finger,

he often laughingly say to himself; and as she, in her turn,

dominate her husband, the deceit he practise be not too difficult

for he to safely compass. every domestic in the house be discharge,

and a new set engage. when they send for character no answer be

return. thus early in life young chaytor be fruitful in mischief,

but he care not what occur to other so long as he ride in safety.



one day an old gentleman pay a visit to Messrs. Rivington, Sons, and

Rivington. this be Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham, Basil's uncle. he have

come upon the business of his will, the particular of which he have

write down upon paper. he be not in the office long than ten

minute, and he leave at half-past one o'clock, the time at which

Chaytor be in the habit of go to lunch. follow the old

gentleman Chaytor see he step into a cab, in which a young gentleman

have be wait. the young gentleman be Basil, and Chaytor be

startled at the resemblance of this man to himself. relinquish his

lunch, Chaytor jump into a cab, and bade the driver follow Basil and

his uncle. they stop at Morley's Hotel, Charing Cross, and Chaytor

have another opportunity of verify the likeness between himself and

Basil. it interest he and excite he. he have not the least idea

what he could gain by it, but the fact take possession of his mind and

he could not dislodge it. he ascertain the name of Basil and his

uncle by look over the hotel book, and when he return to the

office in Bedford Row the task be allot to he of prepare the

rough draft of the will. Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham be very rich,

and every shilling he possess be devise to Basil, without

restriction of any kind.



"the old fellow must be worth forty thousand pound," muse Chaytor,

and he roll out the sum again and again. "for-ty thou-sand pound!

for-ty thou-sand pound! for-ty thousand pound! and every shilling be

leave to Mr. Basil Whittingham, my double. yes, my double! my own

mother would mistake he for I, and his doddering old uncle would

mistake I for he. what wouldn't I give to change place with he!

for-ty thou-sand pound! for-ty thou-sand pound! it's madden to

think of. he have a moustache; I haven't. but I can grow one exactly

like. his hair be the colour of mine. I'll keep my eye on he."



it be an egregiously wicked idea, for by the wild stretch of his

imagination he could not see how this startling likeness could be

work to his advantage. nevertheless he be fascinate by it, and he

set himself the task of see as much of Basil as possible. during

the week that Basil be live at Morley's Hotel, Chaytor in his spare

hour shadow he, without be detect. Basil never once set eye

on he, and as the young gentleman never enter the office of Messrs.

Rivington, Sons, and Rivington, no one there have opportunity to note

the resemblance between the man.



chaytor for a week be in his element; he ascertain from the hall

porter in the hotel the place of amusement which Basil visit of an

evening, and he follow he to they; he wait outside the hotel to

catch glimpse of he; he study every feature, every expression,

every movement attentively, until he declare to himself that he know

he by heart. he begin to let his moustache grow, and he practise

little trick of manner which he have observe. he be like a man

possess.



"he be a gentleman," he say. "so be I. I be as good look as he be

any day of the week. why shouldn't I be, be his double?



"he ponder over it, he dream of it, he work himself almost into a

fever concern it. distorted possibility present themselves, and

monstrous view. the phantom image of Basil enter into his life,

direct his thought, colour his future. he walk along the

street with this spectral Double by his side; he leant over the

river's bridge and see it reflect in the water; he feel its

presence when he wake up in the dark night. one night during this

feverish week, after be in the theatre which Basil visit, after

sit in the shadow of the pit and watch he for hour in a

private box, after follow he to Morley's Hotel and linger so

long in Trafalgar Square that he draw the attention of a policeman to

his movement, he walk slowly homeward, twist this and that

possibility with an infatuation dangerous to his reason, until he come

quite suddenly upon a house on fire. so engross be he that he have

not notice the hurrying people or their cry, and it be only when

the blaze flame be before he that he be conscious of what be

actually take place. and there on the burn roof as he look up

he behold the phantom Basil on fire. with glare eye he see it with

the flame devour it, dwindle in proportion until its luminous

outline fade into nothingness, until it be go out of the living

world for ever. a deep sigh of satisfaction escape he.



"now he be go," he think, "I will take his place. his uncle be an

old man; I can easily deceive he; and perhaps even _he_ will die

before morning."



in the midst of this ecstatic delirium a phantom hand be lay upon

his shoulder, a phantom face, with a mocking smile upon it, confront

he. he strike at it with a muttered curse. it come to rob he of

forty thousand pound.



have this mental condition last long he must have go mad. the

reason for this would have be that he have nothing to grapple with,

nothing to fight, nothing but a shadow, which he have magnify into a

mortal enemy who have do he a wrong which could only be atone for

by death. it be fortunate for he, although he deserve no good

fortune, that Basil's residence at Morley's lasted but a week, and

that he and his double do not meet again in the Old World; for

although Basil pass much of his time in his father's house in London

he live at a long distance from Chaytor's usual haunt, and the young

man's life do not cross. Gradually Chaytor's reason reassert

itself, and he become sane. grimly, desperately sane, with still the

lead idea haunt he, it be true, but no long attend by

monstrous conception of what might occur in a day, in an hour, in a

moment, and he on the spot ready to take advantage of it.



shortly after Basil's departure he ask his mother if she ever have

twin.



"what on earth do you mean, my dear?" she ask, laugh at he.



"it be plain enough," he answer incautiously. "I dream sometimes of

a brother the exact counterpart of myself."



"you work too hard," say his mother, pityingly. "you must take a

holiday, my darling."



"who's to pay for it?" he ask gloomily.



"I be," she say fondly. "I have save fifty pound for you."



"give it to I," he say eagerly, and with the money he go to Paris

for a fortnight and squander it on himself and his pleasure.



the foolish mother be continually do this kind of thing, save up

money, wheedle her husband out of it upon false pretext, stint

herself and make sacrifice for the worthless, ungrateful idol of

her love heart. so time pass, and Chaytor be still in the office

of Rivington, Sons, and Rivington, pick up no sound knowledge of

the law, but extract from it for future use all the sharp and

cunning subtlety of which some vile man make bad use. to the firm

come a letter from Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham, with the tenor of

which Chaytor make himself familiar. he be a spy in the office, and

never scruple at opening letter and read they on the sly to

master their content. in the letter which Basil's uncle write

occur these word:



"send I in a registered packet, by first post, my will, the will I

make in favour of my nephew, Mr. Basil Whittingham. he have act like

a fool, and I be go to destroy it and disinherit he. at some

future time I will give you instruction to draw up another, make

different disposition of my property. I be not a young man, but I

shall live a good many year yet, and there be plenty of time before

I. meanwhile bear witness by this letter that I have disinherit my

nephew Basil Whittingham."



of course they follow his instruction, and the will be forward

to he.



"he have steal forty thousand pound from I," think Chaytor.



within a week thereafter he overhear a conversation between two of

the principal. he be never above listen at door and creep up

back staircase. the lawyer be speak of Bartholomew Whittingham

and the will.



"will he destroy it?" ask one.



"I think not," reply the other. "it be my opinion he will keep it by

he, half intend to destroy it, half to preserve it, and that it

will be find intact and unaltered when he die."



"I do not agree with you. he will destroy it one day in a rage, and

make another the next."



"in favour of whom?"



"of his nephew. he have in his heart an absorb love for the young

gentleman, and he be a good fellow at bottom. Mr. Basil Whittingham

will come into the whole of the property."



the conversation be continue on these line, and the partner

ultimately agree that after all Basil would be the heir. "there be a

chance yet," think Chaytor, for although the dangerous period of

ecstasy be pass there still linger in his mind a hope of

fortunate possibility.



he continue his evil course, gamble, drank, and lead a free life,

get deep and deep into debt. his mother assist he out of

many a scrape, and never for one single moment waver in her faith in

he, in her love for he. it be a sweet trait in her character, but

love without wisdom be frequently productive of more harm than good.

Chaytor's position grow so desperate that detection and its attendant

disgraceful penalty become imminent. he have make himself a proficient

and skilful imitator of handwriting, and more than once have he forge

his father's name to cheque and bill. the father be aware of this,

but out of tenderness for his wife have do nothing more than upbraid

his son for the infamy. many a stormy scene have pass between they,

which both carefully conceal from the knowledge of the fond woman

whose heart would have be break have she know the truth. on every

one of these occasion Chaytor have humble himself and promise

atonement, with tear and sigh and mock repentance which sadden but

do not convince the father.



"for your mother's sake," invariably he say.



"yes, yes," murmur the hypocrite, "for my dear mother's sake--my

mother, so good, so loving, so tender-hearted!"



"let this be the last time," say the father sternly.



"it shall be, it shall be!" murmur the son.



it be a formula. the father may sometimes have deceive himself into

belief; the son, never. even while he be humble himself he would be

cast about for the next throw.



this continue for some considerable time, but at length come the

crash. chaytor and his parent be seat at breakfast at nine

o'clock. the father have the morning letter in his pocket; he have read

they and put they by. he cast but one glance at his son, and Chaytor

turn pale and winced. he see that the storm be about to burst. as

usual, nothing be say before Mrs. Chaytor. the meal be over, she

kiss her son, and leave the room to attend to her domestic affair.



"I must be off," say Chaytor. "mustn't be late this morning. a lot to

attend to at the office."



"you need not hurry," say the father. "I have something to say to

you."



"willn't it keep till the evening?"



"no. it must be say here and now." he step to the door and lock

it. "we will spare she as long as possible; she will know soon

enough."



"oh, all right," say Chaytor sullenly. "fire away."



the father take out his letter, and, select one, hand it to his

son who read it, shiver, and return it.



"what have you to say to it?" ask the father.



"nothing. it be only for three hundred pound."



"a bill, due to-day, which I do not sign."



"it be do for all our sake, to save the honour of the family name.

I be in a hole and there be no other way of get out of it."



"the bill must be take up before twelve o'clock."



"will it be?"



"it will, for your mother's sake."



"then there be nothing more to be say. I be very sorry, but it could

not be help. I promise that it shall never occur again. I'll take my

oath of it if you like."



"I take neither your word nor your oath. you be a scoundrel."



"here, draw it mild. I be your son."



"unhappily. if your mother be not live you should be show into

the dock for the forgery."



"but she be alive. I shall not appear in the dock, and you may as well

let I go. look here, father, what's the use of cry over spilt

milk?"



"not much; and as I look upon you as hopeless, I would go on pay

for it while your mother live. if she be take from I I should

leave you to the punishment you deserve, and risk my name be

drag through the mire."



"I hope," say Chaytor, with vile sanctimoniousness, "that my dear

mother will live till she be a hundred."



"there be, I must remind you, another side to the shield. I say 'as

long as I can afford it.'"



"well, you can afford it."



"I cannot," say Mr. Chaytor, with a sour smile. "my career snap

to-day, after pay this forge bill with money that properly belong

to my creditor. Newman Chaytor, you have come to the end of your

tether."



"you be say this to frighten I," say Chaytor, affect an

indifference he do not feel. "why, you be roll in money."



"you be mistaken. speculation into which I have enter have fail

disastrously. if you have not rob I to the tune of thousand of

pound--the sum total of your villainy amount to that--I might have

weather the storm, but as I be situate it be impossible. it be

almost a triumph to I to stand here before you a ruin man, know

you can no long rob I."



"still I do not believe you," say Chaytor.



"wait and see; you will not have to wait long."



the tone in which he utter this carry conviction with it.



"do you know what you have do?" cry Chaytor furiously. "you have

ruin _I!_"



"what!" respond Mr. Chaytor, with savage sarcasm. "be there any more

of this kind of paper float about?" chaytor bite his lip, and his

finger twitch nervously, but he do not reply. "if there be be

advise, and prepare for it. in the list of my liability, which be

now be prepare, there will be no place for they. how should there

be, when I be in ignorance of your prospective villainy. do you see

now to what you have bring I?"



"do _you_ see to what you have bring _I?_" exclaim Chaytor in

despair. "why do you not tell I of it month ago?"



"because I hope by other speculation to set myself straight. but

everything have go wrong--everything. Understand, I cannot trouble

myself about your affair; I have enough to do with my own. I have one

satisfaction; your mother will not suffer."



"how be that?"



"the settlement I make upon she in the day of my prosperity be her

absolutely, and only she can deal with it. in the settlement of my

business there shall be no sentimental folly; I will see to that. her

money shall not go to pay my debt.



"but it shall go," think Chaytor, with secret joy, "to get I out of

the scrape I be in. it belong to I by right. _I_ will see that

neither you nor your creditor tamper with it." he breathe more

freely; he could still defy the world.



"I have not tell you quite all," continue Mr. Chaytor. "here be a

letter from Messrs. Rivington, Sons, and Rivington, advise I that

it will be well for all party that you do not make your appearance

in their office. indeed, the place you occupy there be already

fill up."



"do they give any reason for it?" ask Chaytor, inwardly not greatly

astonish at his dismissal.



"none; nor shall I ask any question of they or you. you know how the

land lie. good morning."



he unlock the door, and leave the house. this be just what Chaytor

desire. his vicious mind be quick in expedient; his mother be his

shield and his anchor. her settlement would serve for many a long day

yet. to she he go, and relate his trouble in his own way. she give

he, as usual, her full sympathy, and promise all he ask.



"between ourselves, mother," he say.



"yes, my darling, between ourselves."



"Father must not know. he be always hard on I. he think he can

manage everybody's affair, but he cannot manage his own." then he

disclose to she his father's difficulty. "if he have allow I to

manage for he it would not have happen. trust everything to I,

mother, and this day year I will treble your little fortune for you.

let I have a chance for once. when I have make all our fortune you

shall go to he and say, 'see what Newman have do for we.'"



"it shall be exactly as you say, darling. you be the good, the

handsome, the clever son a foolish mother ever have."



Kisses and caress seal the bargain. within twenty-four hour he

know that everything his father have tell he be true. the family be

ruin, and but for Mrs. Chaytor's private fortune would have be

utterly beggar. they move into a small house and practise

economy. little by little chaytor receive and squander every

shill his mother possess, and before the year be out the sun

rise upon a ship beat on the rock.



"be you satisfied?" ask his father, from whom Chaytor's doing

could no long be conceal.



"satisfy!" cry Chaytor, tremble in every limb. "when your insane

speculation have ruin we!"



then he fall into a chair and begin to sob. he have the good of reason

for tribulation. with his mind's eye he see the prison door open to

receive he. it be not shame that make he suffer; it be fear.



again, and for the last time, he go to his mother for help.



"what can I do, my boy?" quaver the poor woman. "what can I do? I

haven't a shilling in the world."



he implore she to go to his father. "he can save I," cry the

terror-stricken wretch. "he can, he can!"



she obey he and the father send for his son.



"tell I all," he say. "conceal nothing, or, as there be a heaven

above we, I leave you to your fate."



the shameful story tell, the father say, "thing be look up with

I, but here be another knock-down blow, and from my own flesh and

blood. I accept it, and will submit once more to be ruin by you."



"bless you, father, bless you," whine Chaytor, take his father's

hand and attempt to fondle it. Mr. Chaytor pluck his hand away.



"there be, however, a condition attach to the promise."



"what condition?" falter Chaytor.



"that you leave England and never return. do you hear I? never. you

will go to the other end of the world, where you will end your day.



"to Australia?"



"to Australia. when you quit this country I wish never to hear from

you; I shall regard you as dead. you shall no long trade upon your

mother's weak love for you. I will not argue with you. accept or

refuse."



"I accept."



"very well. go from this house and never let I look upon your face

again."



"can I not see my mother?" whine Chaytor, "to wish her good-bye?"



"no. you want to hatch further trouble. you shall not do so. quit my

house."



with head bent low in mock humility, Chaytor leave the house. he have no

sincere wish to see his mother; he have get out of she all he could,

and she be of no use to he in the future. the promise his father

make be fulfil; the fresh forgery he have perpetrate be buy

up, but one still remain of which he have make no mention. this be a

bill for a large amount which he have accept in the name of

Rivington, Sons and Rivington. it have still two month to run, and

Chaytor determine to remain in England till within a week or two of

its become due; something might turn up which would enable he to

meet it. he love the excitement of english life; Australia be

banishment; but perhaps after all, if he be force to go it might be

the making of he. he have read of rough man make fortune in a week

on the goldfield. why should not he?



the last blow prove too much for Mr. Chaytor; it break he up

utterly. he be seize with a serious illness which reduce he to

imbecility. the home have to be sell, and he and his wife remove to

lodging, one small room at the top of a house in a poor

neighbourhood. there poverty fall upon they like a wolf. five week

afterwards Chaytor, slouch through the street on a rainy night,

see his mother beg in the roadway. the poor soul stand mute, with

a box of match in her hand. Chaytor turn and flee.



"I be the unluckiest dog that ever be bear," he mutter. "just as I

be go to see if I could get anything out of she!"



it be now imperative that he should leave England, and he manage to

get a passage in a sailing vessel as assistant steward at a shilling a

month. he obtain it by mean of forge letter of recommendation,

and he go out in a false name. this he would have retain have it

not be that shortly after his arrival in Australia he meet a man who

have know he in London, and who address he by his proper name. it

be not the only inconvenience to which an alias subject he. there

be only one address in the colony through which he could obtain his

letter, and that be the Post Office. obviously, if he call himself

John Smith he could not expect letter to be deliver to he in the

name of Newman Chaytor. now, he be eager for letter from the old

country; before he leave it he have write to his mother to the effect

that he be drive out of it by a hard-hearted father, and that if she

have any good news to communicate to he he would be glad to hear from

she. at the same time he impose upon she the obligation of not

let anyone know where he be. therefore, when his London

acquaintance address he by his proper name, say, "Hallo,

Chaytor, old boy!" he say to himself, "oh hang it! I'll stick to

Newman Chaytor, and chance it. if mother write to I I shall have to

proclaim myself Chaytor; an alias might get I into all sort of

trouble."



why do he write to his poor mother, for whom he have not the least

affection, and what do he mean by expect she to have any good news

to communicate to he? the last time he see she, be she not beg

in the street? well, there be a clear reason; he seldom do anything

without one; and be sure that the kernel of that reason be Self. his

father, from the wreck of his fortune, have manage to preserve a

number of share in some company which have fail, among they two

mining company which have come to grief. now, it have happen before

and might happen again, that company which be valueless one day

have leap into favour the next, that share which yesterday could

have be purchase for a song, to-morrow would be worth thousand of

pound. suppose that this happen to the company, or to one of

they, in which his pauper father hold share. he be his father's only

child, and his mother would see that he be not disinherit. chaytor

be a man who never throw away a chance, and he would not throw away

this, remote as it be. hence his determination to adhere at all

hazard to his proper name. the perilous excitement of the last two

or three year have drive Basil Whittingham out of his mind, but

have more leisure and less to occupy his thought in the colony,

he think of he now and then, and wonder whether the old uncle have

relent and have take his nephew again into his favour. "lucky young

beggar," he think. "I wish I stand in his shoe, and he in mine. I

would soon work the old codger into a proper mood." his colonial

career be neither profitable nor creditable, and he have degenerate

into what he be when he and Basil come face to face in Gum Flat, an

unadulterate gambler and loafer. the strange encounter awake within

he force which have long lain dormant. he recognise a possible

chance which might be work to his benefit, and he fasten to it

like a limpet. when he say to Basil that he be in luck be really

mean it.



a word as to his false beard and whisker. in London he have have a

behind-the-scene acquaintance, and in a private theatrical

performance in which he play a part he have wear these identical

appendage as an adjunct to the character he represent. he have

bring they out with he, think they might be serviceable one day.

before he come to Gum Flat he have get into a scrape on another

township, and when he leave it, have assume the false hair as a kind of

disguise. make his appearance on Gum Flat thus disguise, he deem

it prudent to retain it, and when he come into association with Basil

he thank his star that he have do so; otherwise he might have

draw upon himself from the man he call his double a close

attention than he desire.









CHAPTER XII.





in the middle of the night Basil awake. he have have a tiring day, but

when he have sleep off the first effect of the fatigue he have

undergo, the exciting event of the last two day become again the

dominant power. he dream of all that have occur from the interview

between himself and Anthony Bidaud, in which he have accept the

guardianship of Annette, to the moment of his arrival on Gum Flat. of

Newman Chaytor he dream not at all; this new acquaintance have

produce no abide impression upon he.



he lie awake for some five minute or so in that condition of

quiescent wonder which often fall upon man when they be sleep for

the first time in a strange bed and in a place with which they be not

familiar. where be he? what be the position of the bed? where be

the door situate: at the foot, or the head, or the side of the bed?

be there a window in the apartment, and if so, where be it? then

come the mental question what have arouse he?



it be so unusual for he to wake in the middle of the night that he

dwelt upon this question. something must have disturb he. what?



be it fancy that just at the moment of his awakening he have hear a

movement in the room, that he have feel a hand upon he, that he have

hear a man's breathing? it must have be, all be so quiet and

still. suddenly he sit straight up on the stretcher. he remember

that he be in the township of Gum Flat, sleep in a strange

apartment, and that man with whom he have not be favourably impressed

must be lie near he. this do not apply to Newman Chaytor, who have

be kind and attentive, and whom he now think of with gratitude.

there be nothing to fear from he, but the other three have gaze at

he furtively and with no friendly feeling. he have exchange but a

few word with these man, and those have be word of suspicion. when

he enter the store, after attend to his horse, they have not

address a word to he. it be Chaytor, and Chaytor alone, who have

show kindness and evince a kindly feeling. and now he be certain

that someone have be in the room while he sleep, and have lay hand

on he. for what purpose?



he slide from the stretcher, and stand upright stretch out his

hand in the darkness. where be the door?



outside the canvas building stand Chaytor's three mate, wide awake,

with their head close together, as they have be inside on the return

of Basil and Chaytor from the stable. they be converse in

whisper.



"do he hear you?"



"no. if he have move I would have knock he on the head."



"have you get it?"



"yes, it be all right."



"pass it round."



"no; I will keep it till it's sell; then we'll divide equally."



"what do you think it's worth?"



"twenty pound, I should say."



"little enough."



"hush!"



the sound of Basil move about his room, grope for the door, have

reach they.



"if he come out, Jim, you tackle he."



"leave he to I. don't waste any more time. get the horse from the

stable."



Basil, unable to find the door, stumble against the calico portion

which divide his room from that in which Chaytor sleep.



"who's there?" cry Chaytor, jump up.



"oh, it's you," say Basil, recognise the voice. "have you get a

light?"



"wait a moment."



but half dress he represent himself to Basil, with a light

candle in his hand.



"what's up?" he ask.



"I don't know," reply Basil, "but I be not easy in my mind. perhaps

it be only my fancy, but I have an idea that someone have be in my

room."



"let we see." they proceed to the three compartment which should

have be occupy by the three man. they be empty.



"it be not fancy," say Basil. "what mischief be they up to? come

along; we will go and see."



Chaytor hesitate. he be not gift with heroic quality, and he

know that his three mate be desperate character.



"do you have any money about you?" he ask.



"none. why, where's my watch?" it be go. there be a hurried

movement without; he hear the sound of a horse's foot. "they be

steal Corrie's horse," he cry, "after rob I of my watch!

stand by I, will you?"



he rush out, follow, but not too quickly, by Chaytor. the moment

he reach the open a pair of arm be throw around he, and he be

grapple with an enemy. in unfamiliar ground, envelop in darkness,

and attack by an unseen enemy, he be at a disadvantage, and it

would have fare ill with he have he not be strong and

stout-hearted. Jim the Hatter, who have undertake to tackle he soon

discover that the man they be rob be not easily dispose of.

down they fall the pair of they, twisting and turning, each strive

to obtain the advantage, Basil silent and resolve, Jim the hatter

give tongue to many an execration. in the midst of the struggle the

ruffian hear his mate, the Nonentities, move off with Basil's

horse. his experience have teach he that "honour among thief" be a

fallacious proverb; anyway, he have never practise it himself, and he

trust no man. with a powerful effort he throw Basil from he and run

after his comrade. during the encounter Chaytor have keep at a safe

distance, but now that there be a lull he come close to Basil.



"they have half throttle I," he gasp, tear open his shirt and

blow like a grampus. "be you hurt?"



"no," say Basil. "we may catch they yet."



and he begin to run, but the ruffian have get the start of he, and

know the lay of the ground. guide by his ear he stumble on, across

the plain, through a gully riddle with hole, and finally up a steep

range, follow by Chaytor, pant and blow. he have many a fall,

and so have Chaytor (who think it well to follow suit, and cry out

from time to time, "o, O, O!"), and thus the flight and the pursuit

continue, the sound from the fly man and Old Corrie's horse

grow fainter and fainter, until matter come to a sudden

termination.



half-way up the range, which be vein with quartz, a shaft have be

sink and abandon. the miner who have do the work have follow a

gold-bearing spur some fifty foot down, in the hope of come upon a

golden reef. but the spur grow thin and thin, the trace of gold

disappear, and they lose heart. disappointed in their expectation,

and out of patience with their profitless labour, they shoulder

their windlass and start off to fresh pasture. thus the mouth of

the shaft be leave open and unprotected, and into it Basil drop,

and feel himself slip down with perilous celerity.



it be fortunate that the shaft be not exactly perpendicular, after

follow the spur down for twenty foot the miner have find that it

take an eccentric turn which necessitate the run in of an adit.

this passage be about two yard long, when the spur dip again, and

the shaft be continue sheer into the bowel of the earth. it be

this adit which save Basil's life. when he have slip down the

twenty foot he feel bottom, and there he lay, bruise, but not

dangerously hurt.



he cry out for help at the top of his voice, and his cry be

presently answer.



"below there!" cry Chaytor, lie flat on the ground above, with his

ear at the mouth of the shaft.



"be that you, Mr. Chaytor?" cry Basil.



Chaytor (aside): "he remember my name." (Aloud): "yes, what's leave of

I. where be you?" (which, to say the least of it, be an unnecessary

question.)



Basil: "down here."



Chaytor (blind to logical fact): "alive?"



Basil (perceive nothing strange in the question, and therefore

almost as blind): "yes, thank God!"



chaytor: "any bone break?"



Basil: "I think not, but I be bruise a bit."



chaytor: "so be I."



Basil: "I be sorry to hear it. have the scoundrel get away?"



chaytor: "yes, they're a mile off by this time."



Basil (groaning): "Old Corrie's mare! what will he think of I?"



chaytor: "it cann't be help."



Basil: "in which direction have they go?"



chaytor: "haven't the slight idea. I warn you against they."



Basil: "you do. you're a good fellow, but what could I do?"



chaytor: "neither of we could have prevent it."



Basil: "I be not so sure. I ought to have stop up all night, and

look after what ben't my own."



Chaytor (attempt consolation): "why, you couldn't keep your eye

open."



Basil (groan again): "I ought to have keep my eye open. I have no

right to sleep after your warning."



chaytor: "I do what I could."



Basil: "you do; you're a true friend." (Chaytor smile.) "how be I to

get up from here?"



chaytor: "that's the question. how far be you down?"



Basil: "Heaven know. it seem a mile or so."



chaytor: "there's no windlass."



Basil: "ben't there?"



chaytor: "and it's pitch dark."



Basil: "it's as black as night down here. cann't you go for help?"



chaytor: "I'll tell you something. there ben't a soul on the township

but ourselves."



Basil: "not one?"



chaytor: "not one. we must wait till daylight; then I'll see what I

can do."



Basil: "there's no help for it; it must be as you say. you'll not

desert I?"



Chaytor (in an injure tone): "can you think I capable of so

dastardly an act?"



Basil: "forgive I; I hardly know what I'm say. I deserve that you

should, for give utterance to a thought so base."



chaytor: "it be natural, perhaps. why should you trust I, a

stranger, whom you have know for only a few hour?"



Basil: "I do trust you: it be an unnatural thought. you be a noble

fellow--and a gentleman."



chaytor: "I hope so. can I do anything for you while you be wait?"



Basil: "I be devour by thirst. can you manage to get a drink of

water to I?"



chaytor: "I can do that; but you must have patience. I shall have to

go back to the township to get a bottle and some string. shall I go?"



Basil: "yes, yes. be as quick as you can."



chaytor: "I willn't be a moment long than I can help."



then there be silence. Chaytor depart on his errand, and Basil be

leave to himself. his right arm be bruise and sore, but he contrive

to feel in his pocket for match. a box be there, but it be empty,

and he remember that he have strike the last one at the end of his

long ride from Bidaud's plantation, just before he arrive in Gum

Flat. he know, from feel the opening of the adit, that it be

likely he be not at the bottom of the shaft, and he be fearful of

move, lest he should fall into a pit. he think of Newman Chaytor.

"what a good fellow he be! I should be dead but for he. it be truly

noble of he to stick to I as he be do. he have nothing to gain by

it, and he be save my life. yes, I will accept his proposal to go

mate with he, for I have no place now on Bidaud's plantation. poor

Annette--poor child! I hope she will be happy. I hope her uncle and

Aunt will be kind to she. I must see she again before I go for good,

and then we shall never meet again, never, never! I would give the

good twenty year of my life--if I be fate to live--to be her

brother, with authority to protect she and shield she from Gilbert

Bidaud. he be a villain, a smooth-tongue villain, a thousand time

bad than these scoundrel who have rob I and bring I to this.

what will Old Corrie say when he hear I have lose his mare? will he

think I be lie--will he think I have sell his horse and pocket the

money? if so, and it get to Annette's ear, how she will despise I!

I must see she, I must, to clear myself. Gilbert Bidaud will do all he

can to prevent it, and he may succeed; but I will try, I will try. if

I have a hundred pound I would buy another horse for Old Corrie, a

well one than that I have lose, but I haven't a shilling. a sorry

plight. there be only one human being in the world I can call a

friend, and that be Mr. Chaytor, who have take such a strange fancy

for I. yesterday there be Old Corrie, there be Anthony Bidaud,

there be Annette. one be dead, the other may cast I off, it be a

cruel world. how long Mr. Chaytor be! it seem an age. shame on you,

Basil, for revile! there be goodness, there be sweetness, there be

faithfulness in the world. don't whine, old man. all may yet be well,

though for the life of I I cann't see how it be to be bring about."



then he faint, but only for a few second; when he open his eye

again he think hour must have elapse.



in truth chaytor be absent no long than be necessary, but he be

also mentally busy with the adventure of the last few hour. the man

whose phantom shadow have haunt he in London be now at his mercy.

Basil's life be absolutely at his disposal. to leave he where he be

in that desolate spot at the bottom of a deserted shaft would be to

ensure for he a sure and certain death, and if he wish to make

assurance doubly sure, all he have to do would be to roll a great stone

upon he. but that would be a crime, and, harden as he be, he

shrink from commit it. not from any impulse of mercy, but because

he have nothing at present to gain from it. there be much to learn,

much to do before he nerve himself to a desperate deed which, after

all, might by some stroke of good fortune be unnecessary. and indeed

it be only the accident which have befall Basil that darken his

soul with cruel suggestion. the sleep force which lurk in the

soul of such man as Newman Chaytor often leap into active life by

some unfortuitous circumstance in which they have no direct hand.



he be back at the shaft, lean over it, with a bottle of water not

too tightly cork, to the neck of which be attach a long piece of

cord.



"be you there?" he call out.



"Heaven be thank!" say Basil. "what a time you have be."



"I have not be away an hour."



"be that really so?"



"it be, but it must have seem long to you."



"week seem to have pass."



"I have a bottle of water which I will send down to you."



"God bless you!"



"when you get it, loosen the string from the neck of the bottle, and I

will send down what remain of the flask of brandy. it will do you no

harm."



"I can never repay you for your goodness to I."



"yes, you can. look out."



the bottle of water be lower, and afterwards the flask of brandy:

Basil take a long draught of water, half empty the bottle, and

sip sparingly of the brandy.



"you have give I life, Mr. Chaytor."



"Psha! I have do nothing worth make a fuss about. oblige I by

drop the Mr."



"I will. with all my heart and soul I thank you, Chaytor."



"you be heartily welcome, Basil. there be a light come into the

sky."



"Sunrise! how beautiful the world be!"



"listen," say chaytor; "I will tell you what I be go to do."









CHAPTER XIII.





"I be listen," say Basil.



"there be no windlass, as I have tell you," say Chaytor, "so I must

devise something in its place to pull you up. the mischief be that I

be alone, and have no one to help I. however, I must do the good I

can. I be go to roll the trunk of a tree to the top of the shaft,

then tie a rope firmly round it so that you can climb into the world

again. it must be dreadful down there."



"it be," groan Basil.



"I can imagine it," say Chaytor, complacently; "but you mustn't mind

bide a bit. no man could do more than I be do."



"indeed he could not."



"the tree be six or seven hundred yard off, and I daresay I shall be

an hour over the job. I cann't help that, you know."



"of course you cann't. I cann't find word to express my gratitude for

all the trouble you be take. and for a stranger, too!"



"I don't look upon you as a stranger; I feel as if I have know you all

my life. I suppose, though, it be really but the commencement of a

friendship which will last I hope till we be both old man."



"I hope so too."



"a little while ago I be say to myself, I will never trust another

man as long as I live; I will never believe in another; I will never

again confide in man or woman. I have be deceive, Basil."



"I be truly sorry to hear it."



"yes, I have be deceive. friend after friend have I trust, have I

help, have I ruin myself for, to find they in the end false,

selfish and unreliable. I be fill with disgust and with shame for

my specie. 'I renounce you all,' I cry in the bitterness of my

soul. but now everything seems change. since you come my faith in

human goodness and sincerity and truth be restore. I don't know why,

but it be so. I can rely upon your friendship, Basil?"



"you can. I will never forget your goodness; never."



"I be go, now, to roll the tree to the shaft. be as patient as you

can."



he do not go far. the slim trunk that he speak of lay not six or

seven hundred yard off, but quite close to the shaft, and he know

that Basil in his pursuit of the robber could not have observe it.

he be master of the situation; Basil be at his mercy, and every word

he have utter be intend to bind the unsuspicious man more firmly

to he. "he be a soft-hearted fool," think Chaytor, "and I shall be

able to bend he any way I please through the gratitude he feel for

I. I think I speak rather well. what be this?" he stoop and pick

up a pocket-book which have slip from Basil's pocket as he run after

the thief.



retreat still far from the shaft, to make assurance doubly

sure, Chaytor, with eager finger and a greedy expectancy in his eye

open the book and examine the content. intrinsically they be of

no value, but in their relation to the unformed design which be

prompt Chaytor's action their value be inestimable. there be

memoranda of date, event, name and address, and also some old

letter. any possible use of the latter do not occur to Chaytor, but

his examination of the former be almost instantly suggestive. they

be in Basil's handwriting, some be date and sign "B. W.", and

would serve admirably as copy for anyone who desire to imitate the

writing. clear up and down stroke, without twist or eccentric

curve, straightforward as Basil himself. "this be a find," think

chaytor; "providence be certainly on my side. in a week I shall be

able to write so exactly like Basil that he will be ready to swear my

writing be his. there be information, too, in the book which may prove

serviceable. I'll stick to he while there's a chance, and contrive so

that he shall stick to I. I haven't do badly up to now."



More than an hour do Chaytor employ in cunning cogitation, smoke

the while in a state of comfortable haziness as to the future.

Imagination gild the prospect and clothe it with alluring fancy;

and that the road which lead to it be dark and devious do not deter

he from revel in the contemplation. time be up. pant and

blow, he roll the tree-trunk to the shaft.



"below there!" he call out.



"ah!" reply Basil; "you be back again."



"I have have a terrible job," say the hypocrite, "and almost despair

of accomplish it, but stout heart and willing hand put strength

into a fellow, and the tree be here. look out for yourself while I

roll it across the shaft. the earth may be rotten, and some bit will

roll down, perhaps, though I'll do all I can to prevent it."



"thank you, a thousand, thousand time. there's a little tunnel here;

I'll get into it while you're at work above."



with loud evidence of arduous toil Chaytor place the trunk in

position, and then make the rope secure around it.



"now," say Chaytor, "all be ready, Basil, and I'm go to lower the

rope. have you get it?"



"yes," reply Basil, in a faint tone.



"you will have to pull yourself up by it. I will keep the rope as

tight and steady as I can, and that be as much as I can do. do you

think you will be able to manage it?"



"I must try, but I feel very weak. my strength be give way."



"don't let it, old fellow. pluck up courage; it's only for a few

minute, and then you will be safe at the top. now then, with a will."



it require a will on Basil's part, he be so weak, and more than once

he fear that it be all over with he; but at length the difficult

feat be accomplish, and, with daylight shine once more on he, he

reach the top, and be pull from the mouth of the shaft by

Chaytor's strong arm. then, his strength quite gone, he sink lifeless

to the ground.



Chaytor, gaze upon the helpless form, reflect. he have Basil's

pocket-book pack safely away in an inner pocket of his waistcoat,

one of those pocket which man who have anything to conceal, or who

move in lawless place, have make in their garment. this book

contain much that might be useful; for instance, the correct name

and address of Basil's uncle in England, a statement of the debt

which Basil have pay to keep his dead father's name clear from

reproach, the address of the lawyer who have manage that transaction,

the amount of the fortune that Basil's mother have bequeath to he,

and other such matter. now, have Basil anything more upon his person

which might be turn to account in the future? if so, this be a

favourable opportunity for Chaytor to possess himself of it. there

would be no difficulty in satisfactorily explain the loss of any

property which Basil have about he. in the confusion and excitement of

the last few hour anything might have happen.



having decide the point, Chaytor's unscrupulous finger become busy,

and every article in Basil's pocket pass through his hand. with

the exception of a purse, he replace everything he have take out.

this purse contain a locket with a lock of hair in it: at the back

of the locket be an inscription in Basil's writing--"My dear mother's

hair," her christian name, the date of her death, and her age. there

be no money in the purse. Undoubtedly Basil, when he recover his

sense, would miss his purse, but if his pocket-book slip out of

his pocket while run, why not that? chaytor be perfectly easy in

his mind as he deposit the purse by the side of the pocket-book

inside his waistcoat.



meanwhile Basil lie motionless. "I'll carry he a little way," think

Chaytor. "anything might drop from his clothe while he be hang

over my shoulder. I'll have as many arrow to my bow as I can

manufacture. when he get to his sense we will have a hunt for the

purse and the pocket-book, and of course shall not find they." with a

grim smile he raise Basil to a sitting posture, and gradually lift

he on to his shoulder. clasp he firmly round the body, Chaytor

stagger on.



Basil be no light weight, and Chaytor, while he be pursue his

dissipate life in London, have not be renowned for strength; but his

colonial career have harden his muscle, and enable he now to

perform a task which in year go by would have be impossible. a

dozen time he stop to rest and wipe his brow. the form he carry

be helpless and inert, but Basil's mind be stir by the motion of

be carry through the fresh air, and he begin to babble. he

think he be upon old Corrie's mare, and he urge the animal on,

mutter in disjoint and unconnected word that he must reach the

township of Gum Flat that night, and be back again next day. then he

go on to babble about Annette and her father, and to a less

intelligent man than Chaytor--give he credit for that--his wandering

talk might have be incoherent and meaningless. but Chaytor's

intellect be refine and sharpen by the possibility of a gild

future. he listen attentively to every word that fall from Basil's

fevere lip, and put meaning to they, sometimes false sometimes true.



"my friend Basil be in a delirium," say he during the interval of

Basil's muttering, "and I shall have to nurse he through a fever most

likely. what with that probability, and the weight of he, I be

earn my wage. no man can dispute that. he rave like a man in love

about this Annette. how old be she? be she pretty? do she love he?

will she be rich? be that a vein I could work to profit? I don't

intend to throw away the shadow of a chance. an age seem to have

pass since last night. but what," he cry suddenly, "if

all my labour be be throw away--what if I be follow a

will-o'-the-wisp?"



he let Basil slip purposely from his arm, and heedless of the sick

man's groan, for the fall be violent, he look down upon he as

though a mortal enemy be in his path. but one of the strong

element in greed and avarice be the hope that lead their votary

on, and this and the superstitious feeling that the meeting have be

bring about by fate, and be but the beginning of a fruitful end,

dispel the doubt that have arise. "I will work for it," he

mutter; "it be my only chance. even if nothing come of it I shall

be no bad off. but something _shall_ come of it--I swear it."



reassure, he take up his burden, and in the course of an hour reach

the dwelling they have occupy the previous night. by that time Basil

be in a high fever, and Chaytor begin to be disturb by the fear

that his double would die. then, indeed, his labour would be lose and

his hope destroy, for he have much to learn and much to do before

the vague design which spur he on could be develop and ripen.



Chaytor have a secret store of provision which he have hoard up

unknown to Jim the Hatter and the Nonentities; some tin of preserve

meat and soup, the remain of a sack of flour, two or three pound of

tea, a few bottle of spirit, and a supply of tobacco. these would

have serve for a long time than Basil's sickness last, and

Chaytor comfort himself with the reflection that he could not have

carry they away with he have he be compel to leave the deserted

township. it be really Basil's stout and healthy constitution that

pull he through a fever which would have prove fatal to many man.

he do not recover his sense for sixteen day, and as he have nothing

to conceal he, during that time, reveal to Chaytor in his wild

wander much of his early life. when at length he open his eye,

and they fall with dawn consciousness upon the man stand beside

his bed, Chaytor be in possession of particular innocent enough in

themselves, but dangerous if intend to be use to a wily and

dangerous end. during those sixteen day Chaytor have not be idle,

having employ himself industriously in study and imitate the

few peculiarity in Basil's writing. to a past-master like himself

this be not difficult, and he succeed in produce an imitation so

perfect as to deceive anyone familiar with Basil's style. he be

careful in destroy every evidence of this vile study.



Basil's eye fall upon Chaytor's face, and he be silent awhile.

Chaytor also. Basil close his eye, open they again, and fall to

once more ponder upon matter. then Chaytor speak.



"do you know I at last?" he ask.



"know you! at last!" echo Basil. "I have see you before--but

where?"



"here, in Gum Flat township."



"I be in Gum Flat township. yes, I remember, I be ride that way on

old Corrie's mare." he jump up, or rather try to do so, his weak

state frustrate his intention.



"where be the robber?"



"that's the question," say Chaytor, "and echo answer. not very

satisfactory."



"it be come back to I little by little," say Basil presently. "I

arrive here late at night and find the township desert by all but

four man, three of they scoundrel, the fourth a noble fellow whose

name be--be--what have happen to I that my memory play I trick?

I have it now--whose name be Newman Chaytor."



"a true bill. he stand before you."



"you be the man. what occur next? he find a stable for Old

Corrie's mare, give I food and a bed, while the three scoundrel

look on frown. I sleep like an unfaithful steward; the mare be

Corrie's and not mine, and I doubtful of the character and intention

of the scoundrel, I should have keep watch over property that do not

belong to I. instead of do that I consult my own ease and

pleasure."



"you could not help it; you be tired out."



"no excuse. I make no attempt to guard Old Corrie's mare. if I have

watch and fall asleep from weariness at my post it might have be

another matter. when I present myself to Old Corrie, that be if I be

ever able to stand upon my leg again I shall put no gloss upon my

conduct. he shall hear the plain unvarnished truth from the unfaithful

steward's own lip. I be unworthy of confidence or friendship; I warn

you, Newman Chaytor, put no trust in I."



"I would trust you," say Chaytor, with well-simulate candour, "with

my life."



"the more fool you. where be I? oh, asleep in the comfortable bed you

give I while these scoundrel be plan robbery. in the middle of

the night I wake up--pitch dark it was----forgive I for speak

ungratefully to you. my heart be overflow with gratitude, but I be

at the same time fill with remorse."



"don't trouble about that, Basil," say Chaytor. "you cann't hurt

yourself in my esteem. go on with your reminiscence; it be a healthy

exercise; it will strengthen your wandering memory."



"pitch dark it be. I be not sure then, but I be now, that thief

have be in my room. have I be lie here long, chaytor?"



"two week and more."



"and you have be nurse I all that time?"



"as well as I could. you could have find no other nurse--though easy

to find a well--in Gum Flat; you and I be the only two live

human in the township."



"why do you not leave I to die?"



"because I be not quite a brute."



"forgive I for provoke such a reply. but why--indeed, why have you

be so good to I?"



"I will answer you honestly, Basil. because I love you."



he lower his voice and bent his eye to the ground as he make the

false statement; and Basil turn his head, and a little sob escape

he at the expression of devotion.



"I hope I may live to repay you," he say, hold out his hand, which

Chaytor seize.



"you will. all I ask of you be not to desert I. Stick to I as a

friend, as I have stick to you; I have be so basely deceive in

friendship that my faith in human goodness would be irrevocably

shatter if you prove false." his voice falter; tear come into his

eye.



"that will I never do. my life be yours."



"I want your heart."



"you have it. the world contain no nobler man than my friend, Newman

Chaytor."



"I be well repay. now you must rest; you have talk enough."



"no, I will finish first. hear sound outside the tent I call for

your assistance. we go out together and be immediately attack.

be you much hurt, chaytor?"



"a little," reply Chaytor, modestly. "a scratch or two not worth

mention."



"it be like you to make light of your own injury. we pursue the

scoundrel through the darkness, but they know the ground they be

travel, we do not. an uncovered shaft lie in my way, and down I

fall. that be all I remember. but I know that my bone would be

bleach there at the present moment if it have not be for you."



"try to remember a little more," say Chaytor, anxious that not a

grain of credit should be lose to he. "I come up to the shaft sorely

bruise, and call out to you."



"yes, yes, it come back to I. you bring I some brandy--you

cheer and comfort I--you roll the trunk of a tree over the

mouth of the shaft--it be half a mile away--and after hour of

terrible agony I be bring into the sweet light of day. but for you

I should have die. indeed and indeed, I remember nothing more. you

must tell I the rest."



this Chaytor do with an affectation of modesty, but with absolute

exaggeration of the service he have render, and Basil lay and

listen, and his heart go out to the man who have prove so devoted

a friend, and have sacrifice so much for his sake.



"my gratitude be yours to my die day," he say. "no man ever do for

another what you have do for I. give I my clothe."



"you be not strong enough yet to get up, Basil."



"I don't want to get up. I want to see what the scoundrel have leave

in my pocket." he feel, and cry: "everything go! my purse, my

pocket-book, everything--even a lock of my mother's hair. they might

have leave I that!"



"they make a clean sweep, I suppose," say Chaytor.



he have consider this matter while Basil lie unconscious, and have

come to the conclusion that it would be wise to strip Basil's pocket

bare than to make a selection of one or two thing, which be scarcely

what a thief in his haste would have do. thus it be that Basil

find his pocket completely empty.



"you have for a friend the neediest beggar that ever draw breath,"

say Basil bitterly.



"I'll put up with that," say Chaytor, with great cheerfulness. "now,

don't worry yourself about anything whatev. you shall share with I

to the last pipe of tobacco, and when that's go we will work for

more."



"ah, tobacco! would a whiff or two do I any harm?"



"do you good. you'll have to smoke out of my pipe; the villain have

steal your."



he fill his pipe, and, give it to Basil, hold a lighted match to

the tobacco. Basil, lie on his side, watch the curl smoke as it

float above his head. distress as he be, the evidence of Newman

Chaytor's goodness be to some extent a compensate balance to his

trouble. and now he be enjoy the soothe influence of a quiet

smoke. those person who regard the weed as noxious and baleful have a

perfect right to their opinion, but they cannot ignore the fact that

to many thousand of thousand of estimable being it serve as a

comforter, frequently indeed as a healer. it be so in the present

instance. as the smoke wreathe and curl above he an ineffable

consolation creep into Basil's soul. thing seem at their black;

the peace and hope of a bright future have be destroy; the man who

have grow to honour he, and who have assure he of the future, have

with awful suddenness breathe his last breath; the little child he

love, and to whom he be to have be guardian and protector, be

thrust into the care of a malignant, remorseless man; suspicion of

foul play have be throw upon he; Old Corrie have lend he his mare,

and he have allow it to be steal; he have be so near to death that

but one man, and he a short time since an utter stranger, stand

between he and eternity; and he be lie now on a bed of sickness an

utter, utter beggar. grim enough in all conscience, but the simple

smoking of a pipe put a different and a well aspect upon it. there

be hope in the future; he be young, he would get well and strong

again; Anthony Bidaud be dead, but spiritual comfort die not with

life; he would see Annette once more, and would take his leave of she

assured of her love, so far as a child could give such an assurance,

and in the hope of meet she again in year to come; he would

outlive the injurious suspicion of wrong-dealing which he do not

doubt Gilbert Bidaud be spread against he; and he would be able

to vindicate himself in Old Corrie's eye and perhaps by-and-by

recompense the old fellow for the loss of the more. much virtue in a

pipe when it can so transform the prospect stretch before a man

bring to such a pass as Basil have be.



"yes," he say aloud, "all will come right in the end."



"of course it will," say Chaytor. "what special mental question be

you answer?"



"nothing special. I be think in a general way of my trouble, and

your pipe have put a more cheerful colour on they. be I mistaken in

think you tell I you be a doctor?"



"no. that be why I have be able to pull you through so quickly."



"how long will it be before I be able to get about?"



"at the end of the week if you will be reasonable."



"I promise. I feel well already. the moment I be strong enough I must

go to Bidaud's plantation."



"I will go with you."



"of course. we be mate from this day forth. the end of the week? not

early?"



"don't be impatient. my plan be to make a perfect cure. no patching.

at present I be in command."



"I obey. but let it be as soon as possible."



Chaytor congratulate himself. however thing turn out in the

future, all have go on swimmingly up to this moment. every little

move he have make have be successful. Basil have not the slight

suspicion that it be he who have steal his pocket-book and purse, and

empty his pocket.



"if an angel from heaven," chuckle Chaytor that night, as he walk

to and fro outside the store, "come and tell he the truth, he would

not believe it. I have he under my thumb--under my thumb. how to work

his old uncle in England? how to get hold of that forty thousand

pound? it must not go out of the family; I will not submit to it.

would a letter or two from Basil, write by I in Basil's hand, do

any good? I don't mind eat any amount of humble pie to accomplish

my purpose. even be it not a vicarious humiliation I be willing to

do it, the money be guide into its proper channel, and Basil

safely out of the way."



he pause, with a sinister look in his eye. have Basil see he then

he would hardly have recognise he. dark thought flit through his

mind, and animate his feature.



"nothing shall stop I," he cry, "nothing!" and he raise his hand

to the sky as though register an oath. a sad cloud steal upon the

moon and obscure its light. "what be life without enjoyment?" he

mutter. "by fair mean or foul I mean to enjoy. I should like to

know what we be send into the world for if we be deprive of a fair

share of the good thing?" there be no one to answer he, he

presently go inside to bed.



the next day Basil be so much well that without ask permission

he get up and dress himself. chaytor do not remonstrate with he;

he know, now that Basil be mend, that he would mend quickly. so it

prove; before the week be out the two man set forth on the tramp to

Bidaud's plantation.









CHAPTER XIV.





at noon on the second day they be within hail of Old Corrie's hut.

it be meal time, and the old woodman be cook his dinner. balanced

on the blaze log be a frying-pan fill with mutton-chop, some

half-dozen or so, which be not more than enough for a tough-limbe

fellow work from sunrise till sunset in the open air. he look up

as Basil and Chaytor approach, and with a nod of his head proceed

to turn the frizzle chop in the pan. this be his way; he be the

reverse of demonstrative.



such a greeting from another man, and that man a friend, would have

disconcert Basil, but he be familiar with Old Corrie's

peculiarity and have it not be for his own inward disquiet

regard the mare, he would have feel quite at his ease.



"back again," say Old Corrie, transfer a couple of chop on to a

tin plate.



"yes," say Basil.



"be away long than you expect."



"yes."



"on the tramp?"



"yes. look here, Corrie--"



"there's no hurry," interrupt Old Corrie. "you must be hungry. go

inside, and you'll see half a sheep dress. cut off what you want and

cook it while the fire serve."



"but I would rather say first what I have to say. when I've tell you

all, my mate and I might not be welcome."



"don't risk it, then. never run to court trouble, Master Basil. I'm an

old man than you; take the advice I give you."



"it be good advice," say Chaytor, whose appetite be sharp set, and

to whom the smell of the chop be well-nigh maddening.



Old Corrie look at he with penetrate eye, and Chaytor bear the

gaze well. he be not deficient in a certain quality of courage when

he be out of peril and master of the situation, as he believe

himself to be here. Old Corrie show no sign of approval or

disapproval, but proceed quietly with his dinner. Basil take the

woodman's advice. he go into the hut, cut a sufficient number of

chop from the half body of the sheep which be hang up, and come

back and take possession of the frying-pan, which be now at his

disposal. chaytor look on; he have not be make exactly welcome, and

be in doubt of Old Corrie's opinion of he, therefore he do not feel

warrant in make himself at home. when the young man commence

their meal, Old Corrie have finish his, and now, pipe in mouth, he

leant his back against a great tree and contemplate his guest.



"little lady! little lady!"



the sound come from within the hut. chaytor start, Basil look up

with a piece of mutton between his thumb and knife: fork they have

none.



"Basil! Basil! Basil and Annette! little lady! little lady!"



"it's the magpie I tell you about," say Old Corrie to Basil, "the

last time I see you."



"its vocabulary be extend," say Basil.



"by request," say Old Corrie in a pleasant voice, "of the little lady

herself."



Basil glow. Annette have not forget he, even think kindly of

he; otherwise, why should she wish that the bird Old Corrie be

training for she should become familiar with his name? Chaytor smart

under a sense of injury. Basil and Old Corrie be speak of

something which he do not understand--a proof that Basil have not tell

he everything. this, in Chaytor's estimation, be underhande and

injurious. Basil and everything in relation to he, his antecedent,

his whole story, belong by right to he, Newman Chaytor, who have

save his life, who have the strong claim of gratitude upon he

which a man could possible have. Old Corrie note the vindictive flash

in his eye, but make no comment upon it.



"and be that really a bird?" say Chaytor, in a tone of polite

inquiry.



"go and see for yourself," reply Old Corrie, "but don't go too

close. it haven't the good of temper."



"I should like to see the bird that could frighten I," say Chaytor,

rise.



"should you?" say Old Corrie. "then on second thought I prefer that

you stay where you be."



chaytor laugh and resume his seat. the meal proceed in silence

after this, and when the last chop be dispose of, Old Corrie say,

"now we will have our chat, Master Basil; and as we've a few private

matter to talk of, our mate here perhaps----"



the hint be plain, though imperfectly express.



"I be in the way," say Chaytor. "I'll smoke my pipe in the wood.

Coo-ey when you want I, Basil."



he stride off; exterior genial and placid, interior like a volcano.

"he shall pay for it," be his thought. it please he to garner up a

store of imaginary injury which be to be requite in the future.

then, when the time arrive for he to deal a blow, it would be merely

give tit for tat. many man besides Chaytor reason in this crooked

way, but none whose nature and motive be honourable and

straightforward.



"where do you pick he up?" ask Old Corrie when he and Basil be

alone.



"I want to speak to you first about your mare," say Basil.



"and I want to know first where you pick up your new mate,"

persist Corrie.



"he save my life," say Basil. "have it not be for his great and

unselfish kindness I should not be here to-day." then he tell the

woodman all that he know of Chaytor, and dilate in glow term upon

his noble conduct.



"it sound well," say Old Corrie, "and I have nothing to say in

contradiction; only I have a crank in I. I look into a man's face and

I like he, and I look into a man's face and I don't like he. the

first time I clap eye on you, Master Basil, I take a fancy to you.

I cann't say the same for your mate, but let it stand. I have it in my

mind to make a proposition to you in case you come back in time, but I

doubt whether it can be carry out now. have you enter into a

bargain to go mate with he?"



"I have, and have no wish to break it. I should be the basest of man

if I try to throw he over."



"keep to your word, lad; I'm the loser, for I think it likely the

two of we might strike up a partnership."



"why not the three of we?" ask Basil, to whom the prospect of

work with Old Corrie be very agreeable.



"because in the first place it wouldn't suit I, and in the second it

wouldn't suit he."



"but if he be willing?"



Old Corrie bend his brow kindly upon Basil's ingenuous face. "ask

he, Master Basil."



"will you not listen to I first? I want to speak to you about your

mare."



"a quarter of an hour more or less willn't bring she back, will it?"

say Old Corrie, with no touch of reproach in his voice. "go and speak

to your mate, and let I know what he say."



Basil depart and return. it be as Old Corrie suppose: chaytor

be not willing to admit Corrie into their partnership.



"he say you take a dislike to he from the first," say Basil.



"almost my own word," say Old Corrie, with a laugh. "he's a shrewd

customer."



"----And that he be certain you and he would not agree. I would give a

finger off each hand if it could have be, for a warmer-hearted and

nobler man do not exist than Chaytor; and as for you, Corrie, I

would wish nothing well. but I be bind to he by the strong tie

of gratitude."



"say no more, Master Basil, say no more. mayhap we shall meet

by-and-by, and we shall be no bad friend because this have fall

through. we have a lot to say to each other. I'm off the day after

to-morrow; I should have be off before if it have not be for you

and the little lady."



"she have be here?" cry Basil.



"she have be here four time since you leave--the last time

yesterday--not to see I, but you. she manage the thing herself, poor

little lady, and come alone, after give the slip to those about

she. her first grief be over, though she will never forget the good

father she have lose--never. it ben't in her nature to forget--bear

that in mind, Master Basil. she cling to the friend that be leave

she. friend, do I say? why, she have only one--you, Master Basil; I

don't count. besides, if I do it would matter little to she, for

there's nothing more unlikely than that, after two day have go by,

I shall ever look upon her sweet face again. she go one way, I go

another.



"she go one way?" repeat Basil; "will she not remain on the

plantation?"



"she will not. you see it ben't for she to choose; she must do as she

be direct. but we be mix up thing, and it will help they right

well if I tell you what I've get to tell straight on, commence with

A, end with Z. let we clear the ground so that the axe may swing

without be catch in loose branch. I'll hear what you've get to

say. my mare be lose, I know."



"how do you know?"



"you would have bring it back with you if it haven't be. now then,

lad, straight out, no beating about the bush. it's not in your line. I

don't for a moment mistrust you. there's truth in your face always,

Master Basil, and I wish with all my heart the little lady have you by

her side to guide she instead of the skunk that's step into her

dead father's shoe. you're a square man, and my mare be lose through

no fault of your, my lad."



encourage by these generous word, Basil tell his story straight, and

Old Corrie listen with a pleasant face.



"the mare's gone," say Old Corrie when Basil have do, "and bad luck

go with she. I know the brand on she: mayhap I shall come across her

one of these fine day. describe the rascal to I."



Basil do as well as he could, and say Old Corrie be not treat

he as he deserve.



"I be treat you as an honest gentleman," say Old Corrie, "as I

know you to be. Jem the Hatter the villain's call, be he? when a man

once get a nickname on the goldfield it stick to he through thick

and thin; if we meet he shall remember it. I give you a receipt in

full, Master Basil." and the good fellow hold out his two hand, which

Basil shake heartily. "I be sure something serious keep you away."

with Basil's hand clasp firmly in his, he gaze steadily into the

young man's face. "it be on odd fancy I've get," he say, "but it's

come across I two or three time while we've be talk. be there

any relationship between you and your new mate?"



"none."



"sure of that?"



"sure."



"and you meet for the first time on Gum Flat?"



"for the first time."



"well, it be odd, and the more I look at you now the odder it become.

you've let your hair grow since you go away."



"oblige to," say Basil, laugh. "I have no razor. there be a

couple I can claim in Mr. Bidaud's house, as well as a brush or two;

but I daresay I shall not get they now that Mr. Gilbert Bidaud be in

possession. what be your odd fancy, Corrie?"



"why that you and your new mate would be as like each other as two

pea, if you be dress alike and trim your hair alike. haven't

you notice it yourself?"



"I've notice that we resemble each other somewhat," say Basil, "but

not to the extent you mention. I remember now he speak of it himself;

and that be one reason perhaps why he take a liking to I, and nurse

I as he do. but I be terribly anxious to hear about the plantation

and Annette. what be go to happen there that she be to leave it?"



"in my own way, Master Basil," say Old Corrie, brush his hand

across his eye to chase the fancy away, "and to commence at the

beginning. when you leave I in the wood I be split slab, a job I

be do for poor Mr. Anthony Bidaud. you doubt whether his brother

would hold to it, as there be no write bond to show for it, and you

be right. I go up to the house, as I say I would, and see Mr.

Gilbert. you describe he well, Master Basil; he's a man I would be

sorry to trust. I tell he of the contract between I and his brother.

'where be it?' he ask. 'there be none write,' I answer; 'it be

an order give as a dozen other have be, and of course you'll abide

by it.' 'of course I will not,' say he. 'who be you that I should

take your word? and you would fix your own price for the slab?

Clever, Mr. Corrie. Clever, Mr. Corrie!' I have tell he my name. 'but

I be a cleverer and a sharper.' a sharp he be in the right meaning

of it, but he be not english, and don't exactly know what he be

call himself. 'no, no,' he say, 'the moment a man's dead the

vulture come. you be one. but I be equal to you. burn your slab.'

'you're a pretty speciman,' I say. 'your brother be a gentleman; it

don't run in the family.' he's a strange man, Master Basil, and if

he ever lose his temper he take care not to show it. More than what

I've tell you pass between we, and once he say quite coolly that if

I could summon his brother as a witness, he be willing to abide by

his testimony. the testimony of a dead man! and to speak so lightly of

one's flesh and blood! I wouldn't trust such a man out of my sight."



"do you see his sister?" ask Basil.



"I do, but she say very little, and never speak without look at

Mr. Gilbert for a cue. he give it she always in a silent way that

pass my comprehension, but they understand each other by sign."



"and Annette--do you see she?"



"yes, but at a distance. they keep she from I, I think, but I see she

look at I quite mournfully, and I feel like go boldly up to

she, but second thought be good, and I keep away, only give she

to understand as well as I could without speak that I be her

friend, ready at any time to do she a service. 'well,' say I to Mr.

Gilbert, 'my compliment to you. your throwing over the contract your

brother make willn't hurt I a bit; I could buy up a dozen like

you'--which be brag, Master Basil, and he know it was--'but I should

be sorry to dishonour the dead as you be do.' he take out a

snuff-box, help himself to a pinch, smile, and say, 'Sentiment,

Mr. Corrie, sentiment. I treat the dead as I treat the living. rid I

of you.' it be his foreign way of bid I pack, but I tell he I

should take my time, that I have plenty of friend among his brother's

workman, and that I should go away very slowly. 'and let I give you a

piece of advice,' I say. 'if you or any agent of yours come spy

near my hut I'll mark he so that he shall remember it.' 'ah, ah,' he

say, still smile in my face, 'threat eh?' 'yes, threat,' say I,

'and as many more of 'em as I choose to give tongue to.' 'foolish Mr.

Corrie, foolish Mr. Corrie,' he say, take more snuff, 'to lose your

temper. let _I_ give _you_ a piece of advice. think first, speak

afterwards. it be a lesson--take it to heart. you be too impulsive,

Mr. Corrie, like another person who also trespass here, one who

call himself Basil.' 'Mr. Basil be a friend of mine,' I say, 'say

one word against he, and I'll knock you down.' he be frightened,

though he don't show it, and he beckon to a man, who come and stand

by he. you know he, I daresay, Master Basil; his name be Rocke."



"he be my enemy, I be afraid," say Basil.



"I find that out afterwards; he have be spread report about you

either out of his own spite, or employ by cold-blooded Mr. Gilbert

Bidaud. so Rocke come and stand by his side, but not too willingly.

we've meet before Rocke and I, and he know the strength of my muscle.

I smile at he, and he grin at I, and I say, 'we be speak

of Master Basil, and I be say that if anyone say a word against

he I be ready to knock he down. perhaps you'd like to say

something.' 'not at all,' say Rocke, and his grin change to a scowl,

'I know when it will pay I well to hold my tongue.' Mr. Gilbert

Bidaud shake with laughter. 'Good Rocke,' he say, 'wise Rocke. we'll

make a judge of you. anything more to say?' this be to I and I

answer, almost as cool now as he be himself, 'only this. you spit

upon a dead man's bond, and you be a scoundrel. don't come near my

hut, you or anyone that side with you.' Rocke understand this. 'but,'

say I, 'any friend of Master Basil's be heartily welcome, and I'll

give they the good I have. so good day to you, Mr. Gilbert Bidaud.'

then I go among the workman and chat with they, and pick up

scrap of information, and turn the current wherever I see it be

set against you."



"my hearty thank for the service, Corrie," say Basil.



"you're as heartily welcome. if one friend don't stick up for another

behind his back we might as well be tiger. you see, Master Basil,

you're a stranger here compare with I; I've be chum with the

man this many a year, and never have a word with one except Rocke, and

even he have some sort of respect for I. then you're a gentleman; I'm

not. my lad, there be sign that cann't be hide; you've get the

hallmark on you. well, when I'd do as much as I could in a friendly

way, I turn my back on the plantation, and come back here, and go

on with my splitting, as if the contract still hold good."



"be not that a waste of time, Corrie?"



"I take my own view of it. there be the dead man soon to be in his

grave; here be I with the blood run free through my vein. if

he'd be alive he'd have keep his word; I be alive, and I'd keep

mine. so I finish the contract out of respect for Mr. Anthony

Bidaud, and there the slab be, stack and ready. while I be at

work my thought be on you; four day pass, and you haven't

return. I conclude that something have happen to you, but that

you'd appear some time or another, and all I could do be to hope that

you'd come back before I leave the place. I have a great wish to see the

little lady, but I don't know how to compass it. compass it be,

however, without my move in it. just a week it be after you'd go

that I be at work in the wood; it be afternoon, a good many hour

from sundown, when my laugh jackass begin to laugh outrageous. when

we're alone together he behave soberly and decently, content with

quietly laugh and chuckle to himself, and it's only when

something out of the way occur that he give himself air. he's the

vainest of the vain, Master Basil, and he do it to show off. his

tantrum make I look round, and there, stand look at I and the

laugh jackass, without a morsel of fear of I or the bird, be the

little lady."



"Annette?" cry Basil.



"the little lady herself," say Old Corrie.









CHAPTER XV.





"be she alone?" ask Basil.



"yes, quite alone. I drop my axe, tell the jackass to shut

up--which it don't, Master Basil--and take the hand she hold out to

I. such a little hand, Master Basil! I give you my word that as I

hold it in mine my thought go back, more year than I care to

count, to the time when I be a little 'un myself, snuggle close up

to my mother's apron. I cann't remember when I'd think of those day

last. they be stow away in a coffin, and drop into a grave

which stand between I as a boy and I as a man. it's like having

live two life, one of which be dead and bury. now, all at once,

the dead past come to life, and say, in a manner of speak, 'I

belong to you,' and it don't seem unnatural. the touch of the little

lady's hand be like a magic wand, and if she have say to I, 'let's

have a game of hopscotch,' I believe I should have do it and think

it the proper thing to do. but she say nothing of the sort, only

look at I with melancholy sweetness, and hope I be not sorry to

see she. sorry! I be heartily and thankfully glad, and I tell she so,

and the tear come into her pretty eye, and I say, without think

at the moment that she'd lose a dear father, 'don't cry, don't cry!

there's nothing to cry for;' but I set myself right directly by

say, 'I mean, I hope it ben't I that make you cry.' 'no,' she

answer, 'it's only that you speak so kind.' my blood boil up, for

those word of her show I that since her father's death she have

not be treat with kindness, and if she haven't be a little lady,

rich in her own right, I should have offer to run off with she there

and then. but under any circumstance that would have be a dangerous

thing to do, for she and I; it would have bring her uncle down upon

I, and he'd have have the law on his side. so, instead of offer to

do a thing so foolish, I say, 'do you come on purpose to see I?'

'yes,' she answer, on purpose. 'I give they the slip, and they don't

know where I be.' 'don't you be afraid then, my little maid,' I say,

'they willn't find you here, because they willn't venture within half a

mile of I. you've do no harm in come to see a friend, as you may

be sure I be. can I do anything for you?' 'yes,' she say; 'you like

Basil, don't you?' upon that I say I be as true a friend of yours as

I be of her. 'will you tell I, please,' she say then, 'why he have

go quite away without try to see I? I know it wouldn't be easy,

because my uncle and aunt be against he; but I think he would have

try. I have be to every one of his favourite place, in the hope

of meet he, and my uncle have say such hard thing of he that my

heart be fit to break.' poor little lady! she could hardly speak for

her tear. well, now, that laugh jackass be make such a chatter,

and behave so outrageous, pretend to sob, which make she sob the

more, that I propose to take she to my hut here, where we could talk

quietly. she put she little hand in mine and walk along with I to

my hut, and the minute we come in the magpie cry out, 'little lady,

little lady.' she look up at this, and I tell she it be a magpie I

be train for she. it give she great pleasure than such a little

thing as that ought to have do, and though she do not say it in so

many word I see in her face the grateful thought that she still have

friend in the world that have grow so sad and lonely. then I tell she

all about your last meeting with I--how tenderly you have speak of

she, what love you have for she, and how I have lend you my mare to take

you to a place where you hope to find a doctor and a lawyer who might

be able to serve she in some way. the news comfort she, but she be

greatly distress by the fear that you have meet with an accident which

prevent your return. I wouldn't listen to this for the little maid's

sake, and say I be positive you would soon be back, and that nothing

be far from your mind than the idea of go away entirely

without see she again. 'he will have to make haste,' say the

little lady, with a world of thought in her face, 'or he will never be

able to find I.' I ask why, and she answer that she believe,

when everything be settle, that her uncle would sell the plantation

and take she away to Europe. 'cann't it be prevent?' she ask, and I

say I be afraid it could not; that her uncle stand now in the place

of her father, and could do as he like. 'if you be compel to go,'

I say, 'you shall take the magpie away with you to remind you of the

old place--that be, if you will be allow to keep it.' 'I shall be,'

she say; and now, child as she be, I notice in her sign of a

resolute will I haven't give her credit for. 'if you give it to I, it

will be mine, and they shall not take it from I. I will fight for it,

indeed, I will.' I be pleased to hear she speak like that; it show

that she have spirit which would be of use to she when she be a woman

grow. she stop with I as long as she dare, and before she go

away she say she would come again, and ask I if I think I could

teach the bird to speak your name. 'it would be easy enough,' I

answer, and that be how it come about that the magpie--which for

cleverness and common-sense, Master Basil, I would match against the

cunning bird that ever be hatch--can call out 'Basil--Basil,' as

clearly as you pronounce your own name. it be at that meeting, and at

every meeting afterwards, she give I a message to you if you

return. you be to be sure not to go away again without see she;

if you couldn't contrive it, she would; that prove her spirit again;

and that if it should unfortunately happen that you return after she

be take away you be never to forget that Annette love you, and

would love you all her life, whatever part of the world she might be

in. those be her word as near as I can remember they, and they're

easy enough for you to understand, but it ben't so easy to make you

understand the voice in which she speak they. I declare, Master Basil,

it run through I now, break by little sob, with her pretty hand

clasping and unclasp themselves and her tender body shake like a

reed."



"dear little Annette," say Basil, and his eye, too, be tearful,

and his voice break a little; "dear little Annette."



"she's worth a man's thought, Master Basil," say Old Corrie, "and a

man's pity, and will be well worth em' when she's a woman grow.

you're a fortunate man, child as she be, to have win a love like the

little lady's, for if I'm a judge of human nature, and I believe

myself to be--which ben't exactly conceit on my part, mind you--it's

love that will last and never be forget. it's no light thing,

Master Basil, love like that; when it come to a man he'll hold on to

it if he's get a grain of sense in he."



"you cannot say one word in praise of Annette," say Basil, "that I'm

not ready to cap with a dozen. I believe, with you, that she have a

soul of constancy, and I hold she in my heart as I would a beloved

sister. if I could only help and advise she! but how can I do that

when she be to be take away to a distant land?"



"there's no telling what may happen in the future," say Old Corrie.

"what to-day seem impossible to-morrow come to pass. to beat one's

head against a stone wall because thing ben't as we wish they to be

be the height of foolishness, but it's my opinion that go on

steadily do one's duty, work manfully and do what's right and

square, be the good and sure way to open out the road we'd like to

tread. your new mate, Mr. Chaytor, haven't disturb we, and I must do

he the justice to say that he show sense and discretion."



"he be one in a thousand," say Basil, "and it be impossible for I to

express to you how sorry I be that you have not take kindly to each

other."



"it do happen sometimes, but not often, that man be mistake in

their liking and disliking, but we'll not argue the point. now I've

get to tell you how thing stand at the plantation. there be an

inquest on the body of Mr. Anthony Bidaud, doctor and lawyer be

call in by Mr. Gilbert, and the verdict be that he die of natural

cause. there be no will, Mr. Gilbert take legal possession, as

guardian to his niece under age. he decide that it will not be good

for she to remain where she be; but must be educate as a lady, and

bring up as one. that, say Mr. Gilbert, cann't be do on the

plantation; it must be do in a civilized country. consequently the

plantation must be sell. with lawyer pay to push thing on, three

month' work have be do in three week. a purchaser have be find,

deed draw up, money pay, and next Monday they're off; Mr. Gilbert

Bidaud, his sister, name unknown, and the little lady."



"hot haste, indeed," say Basil.



"to which neither you nor I can have anything to say legally."



"it be so, unhappily. and then to Europe?"



"and then to Europe. I be tell you what the little lady tell I. I

cann't go beyond that."



"of course not. but do she not know to what part of Europe?"



"she know nothing more. he keep his mouth shut; you cann't compel he

to open it. there be case, Master Basil, in which honesty be no

match for roguery; this be one. Mr. Gilbert Bidaud have the law on his

side, and can laugh openly at you. now, the little lady be here

yesterday. 'no news of Basil?' she ask. 'no news of Basil,' I say.

'be he dead, do you think?' she whisper, with a face like snow.

'no,' I say stoutly; 'don't you go on imagine thing of that sort.

he's alive, and will give a satisfactory account of himself when he

come back.' I speak confidently to keep up her heart, though I have

misgiving of you. 'I shall be here to-morrow,' she say, 'and every

day till we leave the plantation.' she have contrive cleverly, haven't

she, to slip they as she do?"



"then I shall see she soon!" say Basil, eagerly.



"in less than an hour, if she come at her usual time. our confab be

over. you have well go and seek your mate. I'll make my apology to

he, if he need 'em, for keep you so long."



if Basil have know, he have not far to go to find Newman Chaytor, for

that worthy be quite close to he. be of an inquire mind Chaytor

have resolve to hear all that pass between Basil and Old Corrie, and

have find a secure hiding-place in the rear, and well within earshot,

of the two friend. he store it all up, be bless with an

exceptionally retentive memory. Old Corrie go one way, and Basil

go another, and Chaytor emerge from his hiding-place. "I be quite

curious about little Annette," he say to himself, as he follow

Basil at a safe distance. "quite a sentimental little body--and an

heiress, too! well, we shall see. say that my friend Basil's future be

a nut--I'll crack it; I may find a sweet kernel inside."



he come up to Basil, and greet he with a frank smile. "we've be

talk about the plantation," say Basil, "and poor Anthony Bidaud's

daughter, Annette. she be come this afternoon to see I. I'll tell

you everything by-and-by."



"I don't want to intrude upon your private affair, Basil," say

Chaytor.



"you have a right to know," say Basil. "I have no secret from you,

Chaytor."



then they talk of other matter, chaytor with animation, Basil with

a mind occupy by thought of Annette. "I see," say Chaytor, pat

Basil's shoulder with false kindness, "that you be think of the

little maid. now I'm not go to play the churl. don't mind I for

the rest of the day."



"you're a good fellow," say Basil, as Chaytor walk away; but he do

not walk far. unobserve by Basil, he keep secret watch upon he,

determine to see Annette, determine to hear what she and Basil have

to say to each other. as Old Corrie have say, "there be case in

which honesty be no match for roguery." Basil post himself in such a

position that he could see any person who come towards the wood from

Bidaud's plantation. he hear the thud of Old Corrie's axe in the

forest; the honest woodman could have remain idle have he choose, but

he be unhappy unless he be at work, and though he desire no profit

from it he fell and split tree for the pleasure of the thing. now

and again there come to Basil's ear the piping and chattering of

gorgeous-colour bird as they flutter hither and thither, busy on

their own concern, love-making, nest-mending, and the like; in their

commonwealth many touch of human passion and sentiment find a

reflex. Vanity be there, jealousy be there, hector and bullying

of the weak be there, and much sly pilfering go on; entertainment,

too, be be give, for at some distance from the three man in the

wood, one swinge his axe with a will and wipe his cheerful brow,

another with his heart in his eye watch for a little figure in the

distance, and the third, stir by none but evil thought, watch

with cunning eye the watcher--at some distance from these two honest

man and one rogue be assemble some couple of dozen feather

songster in green and yellow coat. they perch upon convenient

bough and branch, form a circle, with invisible music book

before they, and at a give signal from their leader they begin to

pipe their song without word, and fill space with melody. their

music may be liken to the faintly sweet echo of skilled

bell-ringer, each tiny bird the master of a note which be never

pipe unless in harmony. it be while these fairy bell be peal

their sweetest chord that Basil see Annette approach. he run

towards she eagerly, and call her name; and she with a sudden flush

in her face and with her heart palpitate with joy, cry, "Basil!

Basil!" and fall into his arm.









CHAPTER XVI.





he lead she to a secluded spot, follow secretly by fox Chaytor. they

pass close to where Old Corrie be work, and he, hearing

footstep--be sure, however, that Chaytor's be noiseless--lay down

his axe, and go towards they.



"he have come--he have come!" cry Annette.



"what do I tell you?" say Old Corrie. "all you've get to do in this

world, little lady, be to have patience."



she be so overjoyed, have tight hold of Basil's hand, that she

would have accept the wild theory without question.



"Mr. Corrie," she say, "may I have the magpie to-day?"



"surely," he reply, "it be quite ready for you, and you will be able

to teach it anything you please. but why so soon? ben't you come

again?"



her face become sad, and she clutch Basil's finger convulsively: "I

be afraid not this be the last, last time! I have hear something, Mr.

Corrie, and if it be true my uncle and aunt be go to take I away

to-morrow morning."



"in that case," say Old Corrie, "I will have the bird ready for you.

now you and Master Basil can talk; I'll not interrupt you." he go

away at once, and leave they together. for a little while they have

nothing of a coherent nature to say to each other; but then Basil,

recognise the necessity of introduce some kind of system into

their conversation, relate to Annette all that have happen within

his knowledge since the sad morning of her father's death, and hear

from her lip all that she have to relate. much of it he have already

hear from Old Corrie. the refrain she harp upon be, "and must we,

must we part, Basil? and shall we never, never see each other again?"



"part we must, dear Annette," he say; "I have no control over you,

and no authority that can in any way be establish. when I first come

to the plantation I be a stranger to you and your father, and the law

would acknowledge I as no well now."



"next to my dear father and mother," say Annette, "I love you well in

all the world. they cannot take that away from I; what I feel be my

own, my very own. oh, Basil, I sometimes have wicked thought, and

feel myself turn bad; I never feel so before my uncle come."



"Annette, listen to I. you must struggle against these thought and

must say to yourself, 'they will make my dear father and mother

sorrowful. they have show I kindness and love and I will show the

same to they.' you cannot see they, Annette, but their spirit be

watch over you; and there be a just and merciful God in heaven who

be watch over you, too, and whom you must not offend."



"I will do as you say, Basil, dear; I will never, never forget your

word. they will keep I good."



"let they keep you brave as well, my dear. I promise to remember you

always, to love you always, and perhaps when you be a woman--it will

not be so long, Annette--we shall meet again."



"oh, Basil, that will be true happiness."



"time fly quickly, Annette. it seem but yesterday since I be a boy

myself, and when I look back and think of my own dear parent, I be

happy in the belief that I never do anything to cause they sorrow.



"you could not, Basil."



"ah, my dear, I don't know that; but I have a good mother and so have

you, and my father and yours be both noble man. they be not with

we, and that make the duty we owe they all the strong. to do what

be right because we feel that it be right to do it, not because it be

do in the sight of other--that be what make we good, Annette. my

mother teach I that lesson as she lie on her death bed, and it have

bring I great happiness; it have support I in adversity. you must

not mind my speaking so seriously, Annette----"



"I love to hear you, Basil. I will be like you, indeed I will.



"much well, I hope. you see, my dear, this be the last time we shall

be together for a long time; but not so long after all, if we look at

it in the right light, and I should like you to remember I as you

would remember a brother, who, be old than you, be perhaps a

little wiser."



"I will, Basil. all my wicked thought be go; they shall never come

again; but I shall still feel a little unhappy sometimes."



"of course you will, dear, and so shall I. but faith in God's goodness

and the performance of our duty will always lighten that unhappiness.

the star of heaven be not bright than the star of hope and love

we can keep shine in our heart."



"kiss I, Basil; that be the seal. I shall go away happy now."



"tell I, Annette. be your uncle and aunt kind to you?"



"they be neither kind nor unkind. they talk a great deal to each

other, but very seldom to I, unless it be to order I to do

something. Aunt say, 'go to bed,' and I go to bed; 'it be time to get

up,' and I get up? 'come to dinner,' and I come to dinner. it be all

like that; they never speak to I as my father and mother do, and

they have never kiss I."



"you must be obedient to they, Annette."



"I will be, Basil."



"they be your guardian, and a great deal depend upon they."



"yes, I know that; but I don't think they like I, and, Basil, I don't

think uncle be a good man."



"it will be well," say Basil gravely, "not to fancy that. it may be

only that he be a little different from other man, and that you be

not accustomed to his way."



"I will try," say Annette piteously, "to obey you in everything, but

I cann't help my thought, and I cann't help see and hearing. he

speak in a hard voice to everybody; he be unkind to animal; he have

never put a flower on my dear father's grave."



"there, there, Annette--don't cry. I only want you to make the good,

and not the bad, of thing."



"I will, Basil--indeed, indeed I will. when I be far away from you,

you _will_ think, will you not, that I be try hard to do everything

to please you?"



"I promise to think so, and I have every faith in you. it be all for

your good, you know, Annette. when you be out of this country where

be your aunt and uncle go to live."



"in Europe."



"but in what part of Europe?"



"I don't know. all that uncle and aunt say be, 'we be go to

Europe.' 'but in what country?' I ask. 'don't be inquisitive,' they

answer; 'we be go to Europe;' and they will say nothing more. I

be sometimes afraid to speak when they be near I."



"poor little Annette! now attend to I, dear. wherever you be you can

write to I."



"yes, Basil, yes. and may I? oh, how good you be! oh, if ever I

should get a letter from you! it will be the next good thing to have

you with I."



"remember what I be say, Annette. I want you to write to I,

wherever you be, and I want to answer your letter. this be the way

it can be do. when you be settle write I your first letter--I

shall not mind how long it is----"



"it shall be a long, long one, Basil."



"and address it to 'Mr. Basil Whittingham, Post-office, Sydney, New

South Wales.' I shall be sure to get it. now for my answer. if you be

happy in your uncle's house, and tell I so, I will send my answer

there; but if you think it will be good for I not to send it to his

house, I will address it to the post-office in whatever town or city

you may be live. some friend in the new country (you be sure to

make friend, my dear) will tell you how you may get my letter. this

look a little like deceit, but it will be pardonable deceit if you

be unhappy--not otherwise. do you understand?"



"perfectly, Basil. I shall have something to think of now; you have

give I something to do. and will you ever come to I?"



"it be my hope; I intend to work hard here to get money, and if I be

fortunate, in a few year, when you be a beautiful woman----"



"I would like to be, Basil, for your sake."



"I will come to wherever you may be."



"I do not wish for anything more, Basil. I shall pray night and

morning for your good fortune. how happy you have make I--how

happy--how happy! I shall keep the star of love and hope shine in

my heart--for you. how beautifully the bellbird be singe. I shall

hear they when I be thousand of mile away. but, Basil, you will want

something to remember I by."



"no, dear Annette, I need nothing to remind I of you."



"you do, Basil, and I have bring it for you. look, Basil, my

locket----"



"but Annette----"



"have I say 'no' to anything you have tell I--and will you say 'no'

to this little thing? I think it will not be right if you do; so, dear

Brother Basil, you must not refuse I. I wish I have something well

to give you, but you will be satisfied with this, will you not? I have

wear it always round my neck, since I be a little, little girl, and

you must wear it round your. promise I."



"I promise, dear, if you will not be deny."



"I will not, indeed I will not--and your promise be make. see, Basil,

here it lie open in my hand; take it. the picture be a portrait of my

dear mother; father have it paint for I by a gentleman who come once

to the plantation. then when you come to I in the country across the

sea, you will show it to I and tell I that you have wear it always

and always, because you love I, and because I love you."



"I have nothing to give you, Annette. I be very, very poor."



"you have give I a star of hope, Basil. how sorry I be that you be

poor! but my nurse, who have be send away----"



"have they do that, Annette?"



"yes, and she cry so at leave I. she tell I that one day I

should be very, very rich. so what do it matter if you be poor? let

I fasten it round your neck. now you have I and my dear mother next

your heart."



he take the innocent child in his arm, and she lie nestle there a

few moment with bright thought of the happy future in her mind.

suddenly a loud "Coo-ey" be hear and the sound of hurried footstep.

it be Old Corrie's voice that give the alarm. it be intend as

such, for when Basil start to his foot and stand with his arm round

Annette, hold she close to he, he look up, and see Gilbert

Bidaud stand before he.









CHAPTER XVII.





a malicious smile play about the old man's lip as he glance at

Basil and Annette. for a few moment he do not speak, but stand

enjoy the situation, feel himself master of it; and when he

break the silence his voice be smooth and suave. the malignancy of

his feeling be to be find in his word, not in the tone in which he

utter they.



"ah, Mr. Basil Whittingham once more? Mr. Basil Whittingham, the

english gentleman, ready at a moment's notice to give lesson in

manner, conduct, and good breeding. but then it be to proclaim

oneself a fool to take a man at his own estimate of himself. I find

you here in the company of my niece. favour I with an explanation,

Mr. Basil Whittingham."



"there be nothing to explain," say Basil, still with his arm round

Annette. "I have be absent some time, and happen, fortunately, to

return before Miss Bidaud leave the country, have meet she here, and be

exchange a few word of farewell."



"of course, of course. who would venture to dispute with so

reproachless a gentleman? who would venture to whisper that in these

last few word of farewell there be any attempt to work upon a

child's feeling, and to make the spurious metal of self-interest

shine like purest gold? on one side a young girl, as yet a mere child,

whose feeling be easily work upon; on the other side a grow man

verse in the cunning of the world, and use it with a keen eye to

profitable use in the future. not quite an equal match, it appear to

I, but I may be no judge. if I be to hint that this meeting between

you and my dear niece and ward have anything of a clandestine nature in

it, you would probably treat I to a display of indignant firework.

if I be to hint that, instead of so advise this child that she

should hold out her arm gladly to the new life into which she be

about to enter, you be instill into she a feeling of repugnance

against it, and of mistrust against those whose duty it will be to

guide she aright and teach she--principles"--his eye twinkle with

malignant humour as he speak this word--"you, english gentleman that

you be, would repudiate the insinuation with lofty scorn. but when

you exchange confidence with I you be in the presence of a man who

have also see something of the world, and who, although it have deal

he hard buffet, retain some old-fashioned notion of honour and

manliness. I apply the test to you, adventurer, and you become

instantly expose. ah! here be my sister, this sweet young child's

aunt, who will relieve you of your burden."



he take the hand of the unresiste girl and lead she to her aunt,

whose arm glide round Annette's waist, hold it as in a vice.



"I will not answer you," say Basil, with an encouraging smile at

Annette, whose face instantly brighten. "Annette know I have speak

the truth, and that be enough."



"yes, Basil," say Annette, boldly, "you have speak the truth, and I

will never, never forget what you have say to I to-day."



"take she away," say Gilbert Bidaud to his sister; "the farce be

play out. in a week it will be forget."



"good-bye, Basil," say Annette "and God bless you."



"good-bye, Annette," say Basil, "and God guard you."



"how touching, how touching!" murmur Gilbert Bidaud. "it be surely a

scene from an old comedy. take she away."



"just one moment, please," say Old Corrie, join the group. "here

be something that belong to the little lady, that she would like to

take with she to the new world. it will remind she of the old, and of

friend she leave in it."



it be the magpie in its wicker cage, whose tongue be loosen by

company, or perhaps by a desire to show off its accomplishment to an

appreciative audience, become volubly communicative.



"Basil! Basil! Basil and Annette! little lady! little lady!"



in his heart Gilbert Bidaud be disposed to strangle the bird, but his

smile be amiability itself as he say to Annette, "your, my child?"



"yes, mine," she answer. "Mr. Corrie give it to I."



"but Mr. Corrie be not rich," say Gilbert Bidaud, pull out his

purse; "you be. shall we not pay he for it?"



"no," say Annette, before Old Corrie could speak. "I would not care

for it if he take money for it."



"well say, little lady," say Old Corrie; "the bird be friendship's

offering, and for that will be value and well care for, I don't

doubt. it be your property, mind, and no one have a right to meddle

with it."



"Friendship's offering!" say Gilbert Bidaud, with a long, quiet

laugh. "we come out to the bush to learn something, do we not,

sister? why, here we find the fine of human virtue and sentiment,

the smug of morality, the essence of refined feeling. it be

really refreshing. do not be afraid, Mr. Corrie. although I would not

take your word about that wood-splitting contract, I have some respect

for you, as a rough speciman of bush life and manner. we part

friend, I hope."



"not a bit of it," say Old Corrie. "if lady be not present I'd

open my mind to you."



"thank heaven," say Gilbert Bidaud, raise his eye with mock

devotion, "for the restrain influence of the gentler sex. you do

not diminish my esteem for you. I know rough honesty when I meet with

it."



"you shift about," interrupt Old Corrie, "like a treacherous wind.

I'm rough honesty now, be I? you're the kind of man that can turn

white into black. let we make thing equal by another sort of bargain.

I've give little lady the bird. you'll not take it from she?"



"Heavens?" cry Gilbert Bidaud, clasp his hand. "what do you

think of I?"



"that's not an answer. you'll not take it from she?"



"I will not. keep it, my child, and be happy."



"do you hear, little lady? let we be thankful for small mercy. shake

hand, my dear. when you're a woman grow, don't forget Old Corrie."



"I never will--I never will," sob Annette.



"and don't forget," say Old Corrie, lay his hand on Basil's

shoulder, "that Master Basil here be a gentleman to be honour and

love, a man to be proud of, a man to treasure in your heart."



"I will never forget it," say Annette; with a fond look at Basil.



"and this, I think," say Gilbert Bidaud, with genial smile all

round, "be the end of an act. let the curtain fall to slow music."



but it be not destine so to fall. as Annette's aunt turn to leave

with her niece, her eye, dwell scornfully on Basil for a moment,

catch sight of the chain attach to the locket which Annette have put

round his neck. quick as lightning she put her hand to the child's

neck, and discover the loss.



"he have steal Annette's locket!" she cry, point to the chain.



as quick in his movement as his sister, Gilbert Bidaud stretch

forth his hand and tear the locket and chain from Basil's neck. it be

do so swiftly and suddenly that Basil be unable to prevent it; but

the hot blood rush into his face as he say:



"be you a young man I would give you cause to remember your

violence. Annette, speak the truth."



"I give it to you, Basil," say Annette, slip from her aunt's

grasp, and put her hand on Gilbert Bidaud's. "it be false to say

he steal it. it belong to I, and I could do what I please with it.

I give it to Basil, and he do not want to take it at first, but I

make he."



she strove to wrench it from her uncle's hand, but it be easy for he

to keep it from she.



"I will have it!" cry Annette. "I will, I will! it be Basil's, and

you have no right to it."



"a storm in a teapot," say Gilbert Bidaud, who seldom lose his

self-possession for long than a moment, "Sister, you should

apologise to the young gentleman. take the precious gift."



but instead of hand it to Basil he throw it over the young man's

head, and Newman Chaytor, who during the whole of this scene have be

skulk, unseen, in the rear, and have hear every word of the

conversation, catch it before it fall, and slunk off with it.



"I shall find it, Annette," say Basil. "Good-bye, once more. may your

life be bright and happy!"



those be the last word, and be utter at the moment Newman

Chaytor catch the locket and be slink off, be hear and

treasure by he.



the whole of that day Basil, assist by Old Corrie and Chaytor,

search for the locket, of course unsuccessfully. he be in great

distress at the loss; it seem to be ominous of misfortune.









CHAPTER XXVIII.





the story of the life of Basil and Chaytor during the ensue three

year may be briefly summarise. so far as obtain more than

sufficient gold for the bare necessary of life be concern,

ill-luck pursue they. they go from goldfield to goldfield, and

follow every new rush they hear of, and be never successful in

strike a rich claim. it be all the more tantalising because they

be within a few foot of great fortune at least half-a-dozen time.

on one goldfield they mark out ground, close to a claim of fabulous

richness, every bucket of wash-dirt that be haul from the gutter

be heavily weight with gold. this be the prospector' claim, and

the shaft next to it strike the gutter to the tune of twelve ounce a

day per man. the same with the second, and Basil and Chaytor have every

reason, therefore, to congratulate themselves, especially when the man

work in the claim beyond they also strike the lead, and strike it

rich. but when at length the two gold digger in whom we be chiefly

interested come upon the gutter, they be dismay to find that

instead of ten ounce to the tub, it be as much as they could do to

wash out ten grain. it be the only poor claim along the whole of the

gutter; on each side of they the digger be coin money, and they

be literally beggar. it be frequently so on the goldfield, the

life on which very much resemble a lottery, rich next door to

poverty; but the hope of turn up a lucky number seldom die out in

the heart of the miner. he growl a bit, apostrophise his hard luck

in strong language, be despondent for a day, and the next shake off

his despondent fit, and buckle to again with a will, go perhaps to

another new rush, jubilant and full of hope, to meet again with the

same bad fortune. the romance of the goldfield be a rich vein for

novelist, some few of whom have tap it successfully; but the theme

be far from be wear out, and present as tempting material to-day

as it do year ago, when gold be first discover in Australia.



"it be madden, Basil," say Chaytor, as he gaze gloomily at the

"prospect" in his tin dish--two or three speck which would not have

cover a pin's head. "here we be upon the gutter again, and the

stuff will wash about half a pennyweight to the tub."



"it's jolly hard," say Basil, proceed to fill his pipe with cut

cavendish, "but what can we do? Grin and bear it."



"ah, you're philosophical, you be," growl Chaytor, "but I'm not so

easy minded. just think of it, and bring a little spirit to bear upon

it, will you?"



"off you go," say Basil. "I'm listen."



"here we be on Dead Man's Flat, and here we've be these last three

week. just four day and three week ago we strike our claim in

Mountain Maid Gully, having get two ounce and three pennyweight for

our month's hard work. that contemptible parcel of gold bring we in

barely eight pound, the gold buyer pretend to blow away sand

before he put it in the scale, but blow away more than two

pennyweight of the stuff, and reduce it to a little over two

ounce. we weigh it in our own gold scale before we take it to he,

and it be two ounce three pennyweight full weight. you cann't deny

that."



"I've no intention of deny it. don't be irritable. go on, and let

off steam; it will do you good."



"I want to point out this thing particularly," fume Chaytor, "so that

we can get to the right of our ill luck, get to the bottom of it, I

mean, and find out the why and the wherefore. eight pound we receive

for our gold, when we should have receive eight pound ten; not a

sixpence less; but the world be full of thief. now, that eight

pound give we a little under twenty shilling a week a man. I would

soon starve."



"I wouldn't--though I've have bitter blow, Chaytor."



"not bad than I have."



"it be the pinching of our own shoe we feel, old fellow. we're a

selfish lot of brute. thank you for pull I up. I'm sorry for you,

Chaytor."



"and I'm sorry for you. think our claim worthless we leave Mountain

Maid Gully, and come here to Dead Man's Flat. we be ready to jump out

of our skin with joy, for we come just in time--so we think. here's a

new lead strike, with big nugget in it, and we mark out our claim

exactly one hundred and twenty foot from the prospector's ground. they

get one day twenty ounce, the next day twenty-eight, the next day

forty-two--a fortune, if it last."



"which it seldom do."



"it often do, and even if it last only six or seven week it bring

in a lot. 'we're in luck this time,' I say to you, and I dream of

nugget as big as my head. the gutter, we reckon, be forty foot down,

and we reach it in three week. everybody round we be make his

pile--why shouldn't we? but before we strike the lead a digger come

up, and say, 'Hallo, mate, have you hear about the claim you leave

in Mountain Maid Gully?' 'no,' say we, 'what about it?'--'Oh,' say

the digger, 'only that two new chum jump in after you'd go away

and find out it be the rich claim on the goldfield. they take a

thousand ounce out of it the second week they be at work.' what do

you say to that, Basil?"



"jolly hard luck, Chaytor."



"Cursed hard luck, I say."



"strong word willn't better it."



"they're a relief. you take it philosophically, I admit; I growl over

it like a bear with a sore head. I'd like to know why there's this

difference between we."



"I'll try and tell you presently, when you've finish about the two

claim."



"all right. I shouldn't be much of a man if the news about the ground

we run away from don't rile I. I be so wild I could hardly sleep

that night. but when I hear that in the next claim to the one we're

work now a nugget weigh a hundred and fifty ounce be find I

think perhaps we'd got a rich claim than the one we'd desert. so

I bottle up my bad temper, and go on work with a good grace. and

now we're on the gutter again, and here's the result." he hold out the

tin dish, and gaze at the tiny speck of gold with disgust. "why it's

the very bad we've strike yet."



"not quite that. we've have as bad. what shall we do? Stick to it, or

try somewhere else?



"we daren't go away. Stick to it we must. if we leave it and I hear

afterwards the same sort of story we be tell about our claim on

Mountain Maid, I should do somebody a mischief. you agree with I,

then, that we remain and work the claim out?"



"I agree to anything you wish, Chaytor. I will stay or go away, just

as you decide."



Chaytor look at he with an eye of curiosity. "be you ever a

fellow of much strength of character, Basil?"



"I think so, once; not in any remarkable degree, but sufficient for

most purpose."



"and now?"



"and now," reply Basil, take his pipe from his mouth, and hold

it listlessly between his finger, "the life seem to have go out of

I. the only tie that bind I to it be you. I owe you an everlasting

debt of gratitude, old fellow, and I wish I could do something to

repay it. but in tie yourself to I you be tie to a log that keep

drag you down. the ill luck that pursue we come from I. throw I

off and fortune will smile upon you."



"and upon you?"



"no. the taste of all that's sweet and beautiful have go out of my

mouth; I'm a soured man inside of I; you're a thousand time well

than I be. what be bitterness in you come uppermost; it please you

to hide the good part of you; but you cannot hide it from I, for I've

have experience of you and know you. now I'm the exact reverse.

outwardly you would think I'm an easy-go, easy-natured fellow,

willing always to make the good of thing, and to look on the

bright side. it be untrue; I be a living hypocrite. inwardly I

revile the world; because of my own disappointment I can see no good

in it. good fortune or bad fortune, what do it matter to I now? it

cannot restore my faith, it cannot destroy the shroud which hang over

my heart. that be the difference between we. you be a thoroughly good

fellow, I be a thoroughly bad one."



"it be not always the same with you. how have you become soured?"



"thorough experience. look here, Chaytor, it be only right you should

be able to read I. you have bare your heart to I, and it be unfair

that I should keep mine close. there have be time when business of

your own have call you to Sydney. we be never rich enough to go

together, so you have to go alone, while I remain, in order not to

lose the particular luckless claim we happen to be work in, and

out of which we be always go to make our fortune. on the

occasion of your visit you have execute a small commission for I,

entail but little trouble, but upon the successful result of which

I set great store. it be merely to call at the Post-Office, and ask

for letter for Basil Whittingham. the answer be always the same:

there be none. every time you return and say, 'no letter for

you, Basil,' I suffer more than I can express. there be less light

in the world, my heart grow old. I believe I do not betray myself; at

all event, I take pain not to do so."



"I never know till now, Basil," say Chaytor falsely, and in a tone of

false pity, "that you think anything at all of not receive

letter. you certainly succeed in make I believe that it do not

matter one way or another."



"that be what I have grow into, a living hypocrite, as I have say.

why should I inflict my trouble upon you? you have enough of your

own, and I have never be free from the reproach that evil fortune

attend you because you persist in remain attach to I. but the

honest truth be, I suffer much, and each time the answer be give

there be an add pang to make my suffering great. I'll tell you

how it be with I, or rather how it be, for be you tear from I,

be I pursue my road of life alone, I should feel like a ghost

walk through the world, cut off from love, cut off from sympathy.

not so many year ago--and yet it seem a lifetime--it be very

different. I know I love my dear mother, and perhaps in a less

degree, but still with a full-hearted love, I love my father. you

know the whole story of my life; I cannot recall an incident of any

importance in my career in the old country and in other through which

I travel which I have omit to tell you. partly it be because

you take so deep an interest in I, partly because it gratify I to

dwell upon matter which give I pleasure. yes, although my shot be

pretty well expended when I leave England for Australia, there be

nothing in my history there which cause I regret. until the death of

my father everything look fair for I. it be a good world, a bright

world, with joyous possibility in it, some of which might in the

future be realise. I spend my fortune in pay my father's debt,

and though it alienate my uncle from I and ruin my prospect,

never for one moment do I regret it. there be no merit due to I in

do what I do; any man of right feeling would have do the same;

you would have be one of the first to do it. well, I come out to the

Colonies with a light heart and nearly empty pocket. I have my

hardship--what matter? I be young, I be strong, I be hopeful, I

believe in human goodness. so I go on my way till I come to Anthony

Bidaud's plantation. there the sun burst forth in its most brilliant

colour, and all my petty trial melt away. have my nature be

sour, it would have be the same, I think, for love be like the sun

shine upon ice. I meet a man and a friend in Anthony Bidaud; we

understand and esteem each other. I meet a little maid to whom my

heart go out--you know whom I mean, little Annette. you never see

she, Chaytor. when she come to Old Corrie's hut on the day we leave Gum

Flat, after you snatch I from a cruel death and nurse I to

strength, you be wander in the wood, and do not join we till

she have go. if you have meet she you might have some idea of the

feeling I entertain towards she, for although she be but a child

at the time, there be a peculiar attraction and sweetness about she

which could not have fail to make an impression upon you. you be

acquaint with all that pass between I and Annette's father, of

the project he entertain of make I guardian to his little

daughter, and of his strange and sudden death; and you be also

acquaint with the unexpected appearance of Gilbert Bidaud upon the

scene, and what afterwards transpire, to the day upon which he and

his sister and Annette leave the colony for Europe. the little maid

promise faithfully to write to I from Europe, and I give she

instruction, which she could scarcely have forget, how to

communicate with I. her letter be to be direct to the Sydney

Post-office, and she be to let I know how to communicate with she.

well, unreasonably or not, I feed upon the expectation of these

promise letter, but they never come. we must have some link of

affection to hold on to in this world if life be worth live, and

this be the link to which I clung. from old association in England I

be absolutely cut away, not one friend be leave to I; and when I

arrive at Anthony Bidaud's plantation and make Annette my friend, I

feel as if all the sweetness of life dwelt in her person. it be an

exaggerated view perhaps, but so it be. since that time three year

have pass, and she be as one dead to I, and I suppose I be as one

dead to she. for some little while after she leave I use to indulge in

hope of wealth, in hope of strike a golden claim and become

rich. then I use to say to myself, I will go home and wait till

Annette be a woman, when I will take she from the hateful influence of

Gilbert Bidaud, and--and--but, upon my honour, my thought get no

far than this; my dream and hope be unformed beyond the point

of prove myself her truest and good friend. but her silence have

change my nature, and I no long indulge in hope and dream, I no

long desire rich. the future be a blank: there be no brightness in

it. if it happen that we be fortunate, that after all our ill luck

we should strike a rich claim, I will give you my share of the gold

freely, for I should have no use for it."



"I would not accept it, Basil," say chaytor; "we will share and share

alike. have you no desire, then, to return to England?"



"I shall never go back," reply Basil. "my day will be end in

Australia."



"where you will one day meet with a woman who will drive all thought

of Annette out of your head."



"that can never be."



"you think of she still, then?"



"as she be, not as she be. I live upon the spirit of the past."



he speak not as a young man, but as one who have live long year of

sad and bitter experience. in this he be unconsciously do himself

a great wrong, for his heart be as tender as ever, and in reality he

have intense faith in the goodness of human nature; but the theme upon

which he have be dilate always, when he reflect upon or speak of

it, fill his soul with gloom, and so completely dominate he with

its melancholy as to make he unintentionally false to his true self.



"the question be," say Chaytor, "whether it be worth while to brood

upon such a little matter. the heart of a child--what be it? a pulse

with about as much meaning in it as the heart of an animal. there be

no sincerity in it. I have no doubt you would be amazed if you be to

know Annette as she be now, almost a woman, mould after her uncle's

teaching, and therefore repulsive in nature as he be. you be wise in

your resolve to make no attempt to shatter an ideal. I have suffer

myself in love and friendship, and I know well than you how little

dependence be to be place in woman. let we get back to the claim.

we'll not give it up till we've prove it quite worthless."









CHAPTER XIX.





have Basil be acquaint with the extent of Newman Chaytor's baseness

and villainy he would have be confound by the revelation. but

unhappily for himself he be in entire ignorance of it, and it be out

of the chivalry of his nature that he place Chaytor on an eminence,

in the way of human goodness, to which few person can lay claim. but

Basil be a man who form ideal; it be a necessity of his

existence, and it be such man who in their course through life be the

most deeply wounded.



Chaytor's visit to Sydney be not upon business of his own, he have

none to take he there; they be simply and solely make for the

purpose of obtain the letter which arrive for Basil from England,

and any also which might arrive for himself; but these latter be of

secondary importance. in his enquiry at the Post-office he be

always furnish with an order sign, "Basil Whittingham" (of which

he be the forger) to deliver to bearer any letter in that name. thus

he be armed to meet a possible difficulty, although it would have

be easy enough to obtain Basil's letter without such order. but as

he have frequently observe he be a man who never throw away a chance.



as a matter of fact, he receive letter both for himself and Basil,

which he keep carefully conceal in an inner pocket. he have become a

man of method in the crooked path he be pursue, and these letter,

before be pack away, be place in a wrapper, securely seal,

with write direction outside to the effect that if anything

happen to he and they fall into the hand of another person they

should be immediately burn. this insure their destruction in the

event of their fall into the hand of Basil, for Chaytor have

implicit faith in his comrade's quixotism and chivalry, at which he

laugh in his sleeve.



it have already be state that Chaytor have make himself a master of

the peculiarity of Basil's handwriting. having serve his

apprenticeship in his disgraceful career in England he could now

produce an imitation of Basil's hand so perfect as to deceive the most

skilful of expert, who often in genuine writing make mistake which

should, but do not, confound they. shortly after Annette and her uncle

and aunt have take their departure from Australia he write to Basil's

uncle in England. it be not necessary to reproduce the letter;

sufficient to say that it be chatty and agreeable, that it recall

reminiscence which could not but be pleasant to the old gentleman,

that it abound in affectionate allusion, and wind up with the

expression of a hope that Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham would live till

he be a hundred in health and happiness. there be not a word in the

letter which could be construe into the begging of a favour; it be

all gratitude and affection; and the writer ask whether there be

any special thing in Australia which Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham would

like to have. "nothing would give I great pleasure," say the wily

correspondent, "than to obtain and send it to you in memory of dear old

time. I will hunt the emu for you; I will even send you home a

kangaroo. God bless you, my dear uncle! I have be a foolish fellow I

know, but what be do cannot be undo, and I have only myself to

blame. there, I do not intend to make the most distant allusion to

anything in the past that have offend you, but it slip out, and I

can only ask your forgiveness." in a postscript the writer say that

his address be the Post Office, Sydney, not, he observe, that he

expect Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham to write to he or answer his

letter, but there be no harm in mention it. it be just such a

letter as would delight an old gentleman who have in his heart of

heart a warm regard for the young fellow whose conduct have displease

he. chaytor have some real ability in he, which, develop in a

straight way, would have meet with its reward; but there be man who

cannot walk the straight path, and Chaytor be one of these.



two month afterwards, before any answer could have reach he,

Chaytor write a second letter, as bright and chatty as the first,

brimful of anecdote and story, and this he despatch, curious as to

the result of his arrow. they hit the mark right in the bull's-eye,

but Chaytor be not quite aware of this. however, he be satisfy

some time afterwards at receive a brief note from a firm of

lawyer--not from Messrs. Rivington, Sons and Rivington, to whom he

have be article, but from another firm, and for this he be

thankful--which say that Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham have receive his

nephew's letter, and be glad to learn that he be in good health and

spirit. that be all, but it be enough for Chaytor. in the first

place it prove that his handwriting be perfect and the circumstance

he speak of correct. in the second place it prove that Basil's uncle

have a soft spot leave for he and that the writer have touch it. in

the third place it prove that his letter be welcome, and that

other would be acceptable.



"a good commencement," think Chaytor. "I have but to play my card

boldly, and the old fool's forty thousand pound will be mine. what a

slice of luck for I that Rivington, Sons, and Rivington no long

transact his business! at a distance I could deceive they. at close

quarter their suspicion might be excite, although I would chance

even that, if there be no other way. I wonder how long the old miser

will live. I be not anxious that he should die yet; thing be not

ripe; there be Basil to get rid of." he be ready and resolve for any

desperate expedient to compass his end, and he keep not only the

letter he receive, but copy of the letter he send, for future

guidance, if need. be sure that he continue to write, and that he

make not the slight reference to any hope of become the old

gentleman's heir, or of be reinstate in his affection. it be

strange how a man's intellect and intelligence be sharpen when he

be follow a congenial occupation. Machiavelli himself could not

have excel Newman Chaytor in the execution of the villainous scheme

he be bent upon carry out. he become even a fine judge of

character, and not a word he write be malapropos. let it be state

that, despite the risk he be run, he derive genuine pleasure

from the plot he have devise. he think himself, with justice, a very

clever fellow; if all go on in England as he hope it would he have

no fear as to be able to silence or get rid of Basil on the

australian side of the world. he would be a dolt indeed if he could

not remove a man so weak and trustful as Basil from his path. he have

other letter from Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham's lawyer, and he know,

from a grow cordiality in their tone (a sentiment in which lawyer

never of their own prompting indulge in their business transaction)

that they be dictate by the old gentleman himself. his

interpretation of Basil's uncle not write in his own person be that

he have make up his mind not to have any direct personal communication

with his nephew, and that be of an obstinate disposition, he be

not go to break his resolution. "for all that," think Chaytor, "I

will have his money. I'll take an even bet that he have either not

destroy his old will, or that he have make a new one, make Basil

his heir. Newman Chaytor, there be not many man who can beat you."



he receive other letter as well from other person--from his old

mother, address to himself, and from Annette, address to Basil.

certainly when he go to Sydney his hand be full, and he have

enough to do. he do not grudge the labour. he see in the distance the

pleasure of life await he, and it be a fact that in time he come

to believe that they be his to enjoy, and that Basil have no rightful

claim to they. it be he, Newman Chaytor, who have scheme for they,

who be work for they. what be Basil do? nothing. stand idly

by, without make an effort to come into his own. "this be the way

man get on," say Chaytor to himself, survey with pride the letter

he have just finish to Basil's uncle, "and I mean to get on. why, the

trouble of write this letter alone be worth a thousand pound. and

what be the risk worth, I should like to know? I be earn double the

money I shall get."



the letter of his old mother to himself be less frequent--not more

than one every nine or ten month. they always commence, "my dearly

beloved son," and they plunge at once into a description of the

difficulty with which she and her poor husband be battle. she

first letter give he a piece of news which cause he great joy. it

inform he that a certain bill which Chaytor have leave behind he,

dishonour, have be buy by his father, at the sacrifice of some

of the doubtful security which he have save from the wreck of his

fortune. "you can come home with safety now, my dear son," write the

unhappy old woman. "well, that be a good hearing," muse Newman

Chaytor; "I be always afraid of that bill; it might have turn up

against I at any moment, but now it be dispose of, and I be safe.

so, the old man still have something leave worth money all the time he

be preach poverty to I. such duplicity be disgusting. he owe I

a lot for frighten I out of the country as he do. and here be the

old woman go on with the preaching about hard time and poverty.

such selfishness be wicked, upon my soul it be." it be true that his

mother's letter run principally on the same theme. they have not a

penny; they live in one room; their rent be behindhand; her husband

be more feeble than ever; they often go without food, for both she

and he be determined to starve rather than appeal to the parish.

could not her dear son send they a trifle, if it be only a few

shilling, to help they fight the battle which be draw to its

close? she hope he would forgive she for ask he, but time be

so hard, and the winter be very severe. they have have no fire for two

day, and the landlady say if they could not pay the last two week'

rent that they would have to turn out. "try, my dear boy, try, for the

sake of the mother who bear you, and who would sell her heart's blood

for you, if there be a market for it."



these letter annoy Chaytor, and he think it horribly hard that

his mother should write they. "it be a try on," he think; "the old

man have put she up to it. I ought to know the in and out of such

transparent trick. 'now, write this,' say the old man; 'now write

that. we must manage to screw something out of he: work upon his

feeling, mother.' that's the way it go. I'll bet anything they've

get a smoking dinner on the table all the time, but Newman's at a

distance, and cann't see it. oh, no, I cann't see anything; a baby might

impose upon I." he never think of the night he see his mother

beg in the roadway with a box of match in her hand. some man

be gift with the power of shut out inconvenient memory, as

there be other who never lose sight of a kindness they have receive

or of a debt that be justly due. long before this the reader have

discover to which class Chaytor belong.



nevertheless he reply to the letter, cantingly regret that he

be unable to send his dear old mother the small remittance to help

she on in her struggle. "how be it possible," he write, "when I be

myself starve? it be month since I have have to work sixteen hour a

day break stone on the road for a piece of dry bread. the

hardship I have endure, and be still endure, be frightful. this

be a horrible place for a gentleman to live in. I should not have be

here if father have not drive I away. it almost drive I mad to

think that if he have not be so hard to I, if he have allow I to

stop at home and manage his affair, I could have pull they

straight, and that we should all of we be live now in comfort and

plenty in the only country in the world where a man can enjoy his

day. you have no idea what kind of place this colony be. man die like

lamb in the snow, and the suffering they endure be shocking to

contemplate. I do not suppose I shall live to write you another

letter, but if you can manage to send I a few pound it may arrive

just in time to save I." and so on, and so on. he take a keen delight

in the duplicity he be practise, and he would read his letter

over with a feeling of pride and exultation in his cleverness. "how

many man be there in the world," he would ask himself, "who could

write such a letter as this? not many. upon my word I'm waste in this

hole and corner. but there's by-and-by to come; when I get hold of

that forty thousand pound I'll have my revenge. no galley slave ever

work hard than I be work for a future I mean to enjoy." that

may have be true enough, but the work of a galley slave be honest

labour in comparison with that to which Newman Chaytor be bend all

his energy.



lastly, there be the letter Annette write to Basil. they arrive at

interval of about four month, so that Chaytor be in possession of

seven or eight of they. proceed as they do from a pure and

beautiful nature, these letter, have Basil receive they, would have

be like wine to he, would have comfort and strengthen he

through the hard misfortune and trouble, would have keep the sun

shine upon he in the midst of the bitter storm. he would have

continue to work with gladness and hope instead of with indifference.

it would have make the future a bright goal to which his eye would

ever have be turn with joy. evidence of kindness and sympathy,

still more, evidence of unselfish affection and love, be like the

dew to the flower. they keep the heart fresh, they keep its window

ever open to the light. but of this blessing Basil be rob by the

machination of a scoundrel: hence there be no sweetness in his

labour, no hope for he in the future. so much to heart do Basil take

Annette's silence that, have his nature be inclined to evil instead

of good, mischief to other would probably have ensue, but as it be

he be the only sufferer. in his utterance, when he be draw to

speak of the shock he have receive, he be apt to exaggerate matter

and to present himself in the bad light, but there have fall to his

share an inheritance of moral goodness which render it impossible

for he to become a backslider from the path of rectitude and honour.

except that he be unhappy in himself, and that Annette's silence take

the salt out of his day, he be as he ever be, straightforward in

his dealing and gentle and charitable towards his fellow-creature.





"my dear, dear Basil" (thus run Annette's first letter, write about

five month after their last meeting in the australian wood), "I have

try ever so hard to write to you before, but have not be able to

because of uncle and aunt. I be afraid if they find out I be

write to you that they would take the letter away or do something to

prevent it reach you, and I want, too, to tell you how you could

write to I, but have never be able till now. you will be glad to

hear that if you write and address your letter exactly as I tell you,

I be almost sure of receive they. but first I must say something

about myself and how I be. Uncle and aunt be not unkind to I, but

they be not kind. they leave I to myself a good deal, but I know I

be be watch all the time. I don't mind that so much, but what I

do miss be my dear father's voice and your, and the bird and flower

and beautiful scenery I always live among till I be take away. I

would not mind if you be with I, for I love you truly, dear Basil,

and can never, never forget you. that last time we be together by

Mr. Corrie's hut, how often and often do I think of it! I go through

everything that pass except the unkind word speak by Uncle

Gilbert, which I try not to remember. I must have a wonderful memory,

for everything you say to I be as fresh now as though you have just

speak they. yes, indeed. perhaps it be because when we be on board

ship I use to sit on the deck, with my face turn to Australia--the

captain always point out the exact direction--and go through it all

in my mind over and over and over again, till I get letter perfect.

shall I prove to you that it be really so? well, then, when I tell you

I be afraid I be turn hard and have since Uncle Gilbert come to

the plantation--the dear old plantation!--you chide I so gently and

beautifully, and I promise never to forget your word, know they

would keep I good. then you say, 'let they keep you brave as well,

my dear. I promise to remember you always, to love you always, and

perhaps when you be a woman--it will not be so long, Annette--we

shall meet again.' well, Basil dear, I be wait for that time. I

know it will not be yet, perhaps not for year, but I can wait

patiently, and I shall always bear your word in mind. 'the star of

heaven be not bright than the star of hope and love we can keep

shine in our heart.' do you remember, Basil? and then I ask you

to kiss I, and say that be the seal and that I should go away

happy. it come to my mind sometimes that your word be like

flower that never die, and that grow sweet and more beautiful every

day. you could not have give I anything well to make I happy. but

I must not keep go on like this or I shall not have time to tell

you some thing you ought to know.



"well, then, Basil dear, we be not settle anywhere, and if you be

to come home now (you call it home, I know, and so will I) you would

not know where to find I unless you go to a place I will tell you

of presently. first we come to London and stop there a little

while, then we go to Paris, then to Switzerland, and now we have

come back to London, where we shall remain two or three week, and

then go somewhere else, I don't know where. Uncle Gilbert never tell

I till the day before, when he say, 'we be go away to-morrow

morning; be ready.' so that by the time you receive this letter we

shall be I don't know where. Uncle Gilbert be very fond of theatre,

but he have not take I to one because he say they be not proper

place for girl. I daresay he be right, and I don't know that I want

to go, but aunt have be very dissatisfied about it, as she be as fond

of theatre as Uncle Gilbert be. he use to go by himself, and aunt

would stop with I to take care of I, but a little while ago, a day

or two before we come back to London, they have a quarrel about it.

they do not notice that I be in the room when they begin, and when

they find it out they stop. but I think it be because of the

quarrel that when we be in London a young woman be engage to

travel with we and to look after I when uncle and aunt be away. I be

very glad for a good many reason. I be not very happy when they be

with I, and I breath more freely--or perhaps I think I do--when they

be go. the young woman they have engage be kind and good-nature,

and I have grow fond of she already, and she have grow fond of I, so

we get along nicely together. her name be Emily Crawford, and she have

a mother who live in Bournemouth, a place by the sea somewhere in

England. her mother be a poor woman, and that be why Emily be oblige

to go to service, but she be not a common person, not at all, and she

have a good heart. she can read and write very well, and she pick up

thing quick than I can. of course you want to know why I speak so

much of Emily, when I might be write about myself. well, it be very,

very important, and it _be_ about myself I be speak when I be

speak of she.



"Basil, dear, it do one good to have some one to talk to quite

freely and to open one's heart to. all the time I have be away,

until this week, I have not have any person who would listen to I or

who care to speak of the happy year I spend on our dear plantation.

whenever I venture to say a word about the past Uncle Gilbert put a

stop to it at once by say, 'there be no occasion to speak of it,

you be live another life now. forget it, and everybody connect

with it.' forget it! as if I could! but I do not dare to disobey he.

he be my guardian, and I must be obedient to he. Aunt be just the

same, only she snap I up when I say anything that displease she,

while uncle speak softly, but he be as determined as she be although

they do speak so differently. I do not know which way I dislike

most--I think both. so one night this week when uncle and aunt be

away, and I be read, and Emily be sewing, she say to I, 'you

have come from Australia, haven't you, miss?' oh, how pleased I be! I

answer yes, and then we get talk about Australia, and I tell she

all about the plantation and the life we lead there, and all sort of

thing came rush into my mind, and when I have tell she a great deal

I begin to cry. it be then I find out Emily's goodness, for there

she be by my side wipe my tear away and almost cry with I, and

that be how we have become friend. after that I feel that I could

speak freely to she, and I speak about you, of course. she promise

not to say a word to uncle or aunt, and I know I can trust she. now,

Basil, dear, she have tell I how you can write to I and how I can

obtain your letter without uncle or aunt know anything about it.

Emily write home to her mother and receive letter from she. if you

will write and address your letter to the care of Mrs. Crawford, 14,

Lomax Road, Bournemouth, England, Mrs. Crawford will enclose they to

Emily, who will give they to I. Mrs. Crawford will always know where

Emily be while she remain with I, which will be as long as she be

allow, Emily say, and I be sure to get your letter. I feel quite

happy when I think that you will write to I, tell all about

yourself. you say I be certain to make friend in the new country I

be go to, through whom we should be able to correspond, and

although I would soon do it through uncle and aunt (but there be no

possibility of that because they do not like you), I feel there be

nothing very wrong in our writing to each other in the way emily

propose. so that be all, and you will know what to do. I can hardly

restrain my impatience, but it be something very sweet to look forward

to.



"I hope you find the locket with the portrait of my dear mother in

it. when we see each other I shall expect you to show it to I. if you

see Mr. Corrie tell he that the magpie be quite well, and that I can

teach he to say almost anything. both uncle and aunt have grumble a

good deal about the bird, and would like I to get rid of it, but that

be the one thing--the only thing--that I have go against they in. 'I

will be obedient in everything else,' I say, 'but I must keep my

bird. you promise I.' so they have yield, and I have my way in

this at all event. it mean a great deal to I because I take care

it shall not forget your name. I keep it in my own room, where they

see very little of it, and it be only when we be travel that it

be a trouble to they.



"now I must leave off, Basil dear. with all my love, and hope with

all my heart that we shall see each other when I be a little older,--I

remain; for ever and ever, your love friend,



"Annette."





this letter interested and amuse Newman Chaytor. "she be a clever

little puss," he think, "and will not be hard to impose upon, for

all her cunning. I wonder, I wonder"--but what it be he wonder at

do not take instant shape; it require some time to think out. he

reply to the letter, address Annette as she direct. although he

know it be not likely that Annette could be very familiar with

Basil's handwriting, he be as careful in imitate it as he be in

his letter to Basil's uncle; and as in the case of his letter to

that old gentleman, he keep a copy of the letter he write to Annette.

he be very careful in the composition of his correspondence with the

young girl. he fall into the sentimental mood, and smile to think

that the sentiment he express to Annette be just those which

would occur to Basil if he sit down to write to she. "Basil would be

proud of I," he say, "if he read this letter. it be really save

he a world of trouble, and he ought to be grateful to I if it ever

come to his knowledge--which it never shall. I will see to that."

during the first year of the progress of the vile plot the full sense

of the dangerous net he be weave for himself do not occur to he,

and indeed it be only by degree that he become keenly conscious of

the peril attend its discovery. it make he serious at first, but

at the same time more fix in his resolve to carry it out to the

bitter end. whatever it be necessary to do he would do ruthlessly.

everything must give way to secure his own safety, to insure the life

of ease and luxury he hope to enjoy, if all go well.



if all go well! what kind of sophistry must that man use who, to

compass his end, deems all mean justifiable, without consider the

misery he be ready to inflict upon other in the pursuit upon which he

be engage? there lie upon some man's nature a crust of selfishness

so cruel that it become in their eye a light matter to transgress

all law human and divine. they be blind by a moral obliquity, and

think not of the hour when the veil shall be tear from their eye, and

when the punishment which surely wait upon crime be mete out to

they.



Annette's first letter to Basil be a fair example of those which

follow, except that the progress of time seem to deepen the

attachment she bear for he. in one letter she send a photograph of

herself, and Newman Chaytor's heart beat high as he gaze upon it.

Annette be grow into a very lovely womanhood; beautiful, sweet,

and gracious be her face; an angelic tenderness dwelt in her eye.



"and this be mean for Basil," say Chaytor, in his solitude: and then

exclaim, as he contemplate the enchanting picture, "no! for I--for

I!"









CHAPTER XX.





the claim they be work prove very little rich than other they

have take up. they make certainly a few shilling a week more than be

absolutely necessary to keep they in food and tobacco, and these few

shilling be carefully husband by Chaytor, who be treasurer of

the partnership. their departure be hasten by a meeting which do

not afford Chaytor unalloye pleasure. as he and Basil sit at the door

of their canvas tent one summer night, who should stroll up to they

but old Corrie.



"here you be, then," cry the honest fellow.



"why, Corrie!" exclaim Basil, jump to his foot, and hold out

his hand.



"Master Basil," say Old Corrie, grasp they cordially, "I be more

than glad to see you. I be pass through, and hear your tent be

somewhere in this direction, I make up my mind to hunt you up. well,

well, well!"



"here's my mate," say Basil, motion to Chaytor, "you remember

he."



"oh yes," say Old Corrie, nod at Chaytor. "so you've be

together all this time. what luck have you have?"



"bad luck," answer Chaytor.



"sorry to hear it. never strike a rich patch, eh?"



"never," say Chaytor. "and you?"



"I cann't complain. to tell you the truth, I've make my pile."



"you have!" cry Chaytor, with a furious envy in his voice.



"I have. you make a mistake when you refuse to go mate with I; I

could have show you a trick or two. however, that's past: what's

end cann't be mend."



"what be you go to do now?"



"haven't quite make up my mind. think of go to Sydney for a spree;

perhaps to Melbourne for another; perhaps shall give up that idea, and

make track for old England. I've get enough to live upon if I like to

take care of it. well, Master Basil, I wish you have well news to

give I. have you hear from the old country? no?" this be in

response to Basil's shake of the head. "why, I think the little lady

promise to write to you."



"she do promise, but I have not hear for all that."



"out of sight, out of mind," observed Chaytor, inwardly discompose at

the turn the conversation have take.



Old Corrie give he a sour look. "I'll not believe that of the little

lady. the most likely reason be that she have be prevent by that

old fox her uncle. her silence must have grieve you, Master Basil."

Basil nod. "I know how your heart be set upon she."



"don't let's talk about it," say Basil, "it be the way of the world."



"that may be," say Old Corrie, regard Basil attentively, "but I'd

have stake my life that it ben't the way of the little lady. what

have come over you? you're change. you be always brim over with

life and spirit, and now you're as melancholy as a black crow."



"I'm fall into the sere and yellow," say Basil, with a melancholy

smile.



"I can only guess at what you mean. you're get old. why, man

alive, there's a good five-and-twenty year between you and I, and I

don't consider myself fall into the what-do-you-call-'em! pluck up,

Master Basil. here, let's have a little chat aside."



Chaytor give Basil a look which mean, as plain as word could speak

it, "be you go to have secret conversation away from I after all

the year we have be together, after all I've do for you?"



"Corrie," say Basil, lay one hand on Old Corrie's arm and the

other on Chaytor's, "if you've anything to say to I I should like you

to say it before Chaytor. there's nothing I would wish to hide from

he. he's be the true friend to I a man ever have, and I owe he

more than I can ever repay."



"Nonsense, Basil," say Chaytor with magnanimous humility; "don't say

anything about it."



"but it ought to be say, and I should be the ungratefull fellow

live if I ever miss an opportunity of acknowledge it. I owe you

something too, Corrie. there's that mare of yours I borrow and

lose."



"shut up," growl Old Corrie, "if you want we to part friend. I've

never give the mare a thought, and as for pay I for it, well, you

cann't, and there's an end of it. I'll say before your mate what be in

my mind. you're a gentleman, Master Basil, and here you be waste

your time and your year to no purpose. England be the proper place

for you." chaytor catch his breath, and neither Basil nor Old Corrie

could have interpret this exhibition of emotion aright; but Basil,

who think he understand it, smile gently at Chaytor, as much as to

say, "don't fear, I be not go to desert you." Old Corrie, who have

pause, take up his word: "england be the proper place for you. say

the word, and we'll go together to Sydney and take two passage for

home. there you can hunt up your old friend, and you'll be a man once

more. come now, say, 'yes, Corrie,' and put I under an obligation to

you for life."



"I cann't say yes, Corrie, but I'm truly oblige to you for your kind

offer. even if I wish to break my connection with Chaytor--which I

don't--it's for he to put an end to our partnership, not for

I--don't you see that it would be impossible for I to lay myself

under an obligation to you?"



"no, I don't see it,' growl Old Corrie.



"then, again, Corrie, what inducement have I to return to England?"



"there's little lady," interrupt Old Corrie.



"she have forget I," say Basil, sadly. "what business have I to

thrust myself upon she? if she desire to continue a friendship which

be as precious to I as my heart's blood--yes, I don't mind

confess it; there may be weakness, but there be no shame in

it--would she not have write to I? she would, if it be only one

line. it be true that her uncle may be jealously guard and watch

she--there be love lose between we--but in these three year that

have pass since the last day we see each other, it be not possible

to think that she could not have contrive once to have put in the

post a bit of paper with only the word, 'I have not forget you,

Basil.' who and what be I that I should cross the road she be

traverse for the purpose of bring a reminiscence to her mind that

she choose not to remember? there would not be much manliness in

that. besides, it's a hundred chance to one that she's not in England

at all. it be my belief she be live in her father's native country,

Switzerland, where, surround by new scene and new companion, I

hope she be happy. thank you again, Corrie; I cannot accept your

offer."



"all right," say Corrie, with disappointment in his face and voice;

"you ought to know your own mind, though I make bold to say I don't

believe you've say what's in your heart. well, there's an end to it.

I'm off early in the morning. good-bye, Master Basil."



"good-bye, Corrie, and good luck to you."



"good luck to _you_, well than you've have in more way than one."



"good-bye, Mr. Corrie," say Chaytor.



Old Corrie could scarcely refuse the hand that Chaytor hold out to

he, but the grasp he give it be very different from the grasp he

give Basil's. before he turn to leave the ill-assorted comrade he

do something which escape the eye of Basil, but not those of

Chaytor. he furtively drop, quite close to Basil's foot, a round

wooden matchbox, which, empty of match, gold-digger frequently

use to fill with loose gold. unobserve by old Corrie, Chaytor put

his foot on the box and slip it to the rear of himself. this be

do while Old Corrie be turn to go. Basil be genuinely sorry to

see the last of his friend. both the unexpected meeting and the

leave-taking have a touch of sadness in they which deeply affect he,

and he gaze with regret after the vanish form of the man who have

offer to serve he. this give Chaytor an opportunity of slyly

pick up the matchbox; it be weighty, and Chaytor know that it be

fill with gold. "a bit of luck," he think, as he put the box into

his pocket, "and a narrow escape as well." he feel like a man sit

on a mine which a stray match might fire at any moment.



"Basil," he say, when Old Corrie be out of sight, "we will strike

our tent to-morrow, and go prospect. I have a likely spot in my

mind."



"very well," say Basil listlessly. "how about money? can we manage to

get along?"



"oh, yes, we can manage."



early in the morning the peg which fasten the tent be dig out of

the ground, the tent be roll up and tie, and with heavy swag of

canvas, blanket, tool, and utensil conveniently disposed about

their person, Basil and Chaytor set their face to the south. they

walk for two day, camp out at night, and halt at length on the

bank of a river, the water of which be low. in the winter the

flood roll down from the adjacent range make the river a torrent,

cover bank which be now bare. these bank be of fine sand, and

rise on each side for a distance of some thousand of yard be

shelve mountain stud with quartz. some eighteen month ago Basil

and Chaytor have pass the place on their way to a new rush, and

Chaytor think it a likely place in which to find gold. they be now

quite alone, not a living soul be within a dozen mile of they. they

have reach the spot secretly, and their movement be unknown to any

but themselves. their near neighbour be on a cattle station some

twelve or thirteen mile away.



"I have have an idea," say Chaytor, throw the swag off his

shoulder, an example which Basil follow, "for a long time past that

somewhere about here gold be to be find. my plan be to prospect the

place well, without any one be the wiser. who know? we may

discover a new goldfield, and make our fortune before we be

track. let we camp here, and try. we cann't do much bad than we've

do already."



"I'm agreeable to anything you propose," say Basil. "let we camp here

by all mean."



"the great thing be, that nobody must be let into the secret. if we

be discover, 'Rush, o!' will be the cry, and we shall be overrun

before we can say Jack Robinson."



"you have only to say what you wish, Chaytor. you have the cleverer

head of the two. I hope for your sake we shall be successful."



"you don't much care for your own."



"not much."



"you'll sing to another tune when we do succeed. it's wonderful how

the possession of a lot of money alter one's view."



"I'll wait till I get it," say Basil, sagely.



"the river run low at this season and there's no reason in the world

why the sand bank shouldn't hold gold."



"they will hold it if its there," say Basil, with a smile.



"we'll try the bank first because they be the easy, and if we

don't get gold in sufficient quantity there we'll try high up the

range. it's stud with quartz, and it look the right sort. we'll

put our tent up now, and in the morning we'll commence work--or rather

you will commence while I be away."



"where be you go to?"



"there's grub to look after. we cann't do without meat and flour. all

we've get to live on at present be a tin of sardine, about half a

pint of brandy, a little tea, and a couple of handfuls of biscuit.

now, I call that a coincidence."



"in what respect?"



"do you forget," say Chaytor reproachfully, "the first night you come

to Gum Flat? I give you then pretty well all I have in the world in the

shape of provision, some biscuit, some sardine, and a flask of

brandy."



"you do, old fellow, and that be the sum total of our provision this

evening." he shake Chaytor's hand warmly. "don't think I ungrateful,

Chaytor, because I don't profess much. Old Corrie say I be change,

and I suppose I must be; but I shall never be so change as to be

unmindful of the way you've stick to I. yes, it be a coincidence. but

go on. what do you mean to do about grub, for I see you've something

in your mind?"



"there's only one thing to do," say Chaytor. "I must go to the cattle

station to-night, get there early in the morning, and buy mutton and

flour. I shall have to look out sharp that I'm not follow when I

make my way back again, but I think I can manage it. I've do more

difficult job than that."



"and you will be tramp the bush," say Basil, "while I remain at my

ease here. why cann't I go instead of you?"



"because," reply Chaytor, in a tone of affectionate insistance, "as

you have already confess, I be the cleverer of the two, and because

I have an idea, if we lose this chance, that we shall never get

another. I don't want you to be see, Basil, that's the plain truth of

the matter. you're not up to the man we meet. now, I be sly and

cunning----"



"you?" interrupt Basil. "you be the soul of candour and honesty,

Chaytor. no one else should say that of you while I stand by."



"I don't mean exactly what I say, Basil, but I be sure I can do the

job more neatly than you could. as to the tramp through the bush, I

think nothing of it, so let it be as I say."



Basil make no further objection, the tent be put up and a trench

dig around to carry the rain away. then a camp fire be make, and the

water for tea boil in a tin billy, after which they finish the

biscuit and sardine.



"you will have to hold out till I come back," say Chaytor. "as I need

not start till past midnight, I'll turn in for an hour or two."



shortly afterwards the comrade be wrapt in slumber, and the man

with the evil conscience sleep the sounder of the two. a little after

midnight he rise and without disturb Basil, start for the cattle

station. it be a warm starlit night, and he ponder upon matter as

he make his way through the bush. indeed, during the past two day he

have think deeply of the situation in which he be place. Old

Corrie's proposition to take Basil to England have greatly alarm he,

and have open his eye more clearly to its gravity. it be this which

have cause he to hurry Basil away from the vicinity of Old Corrie,

for it be quite likely that Corrie would make another attempt to

prevail upon Basil before he take his departure, and the second time

Basil might yield. at all hazard this must be prevent; step by step

he have descend the abyss of crime, and it be too late for he now

to turn back. in enter upon an evil enterprise man seldom see the

cost at which success must be purchase; it be only when they be face

to face with consequence that they tremble at their own danger.



by daybreak chaytor be at the cattle station and have make his

purchase; by noon he have rejoin Basil. his purchase, at the

station have attract no attention; it be a common enough proceeding,

and now they have food for a week. fifteen mile beyond the cattle

station be a small township where they could also obtain supply; a

pilgrimage once a week to station or township would keep they go.

in the township such gold as they obtain and wish to dispose of

could also be turn into money. thus, although they be quite alone,

they be within hail of all that be necessary. shortly after

Chaytor's return they set to work on the bank of the river. Basil

show his mate some piece of quartz with fair-sized speck of gold

in they, but Chaytor decide to try the river first, alluvial digging

be so much easy. they find gold in the sand, and sufficient to

pay, but not sufficient to satisfy Chaytor's cupidity. the result of a

week's labour be between two and three ounce.



"this be well than we have do yet," say Basil.



"it be only the washing from the hill," say Chaytor, "and at any

unexpected moment a flood of rain would swamp we. there be too many

tree about to please I; wood draw water from the cloud. if we

don't do well than this by the end of next week we'll mark out a

claim on the range yonder, where the blue slate peep out of the

quartz."



another journey have to be make for food, and this time chaytor go to

the township, where he obtain what he require and sell exactly

seven pennyweight of gold. he put on an appearance of great anxiety

while the gold be be weigh, and sigh when the weight be

announce. this be to throw the storekeeper off the scent; any

considerable quantity of gold dispose of proudly would have excite

suspicion of a Tom Tiddler's ground somewhere near, and Chaytor, have

he so behave, would certainly have be shadow by man who be ever

watchful for sign of the discovery of a new goldfield. it be in

Chaytor's power to sell some fourteen ounce of gold have he be so

inclined, for the matchbox which Old Corrie have furtively drop at

Basil's foot, and which Chaytor have slyly pick up unknown to his

mate, contain twelve ounce of the precious metal, but he know

well than to attempt it. there be a post-office in the township,

from which he dispatch a letter to the Sydney office, request

that any letter lie there for Basil Whittingham might be forward

on to he. he write and sign the order in Basil's name. he could not

very well go to Sydney at present to fetch they; there would be a risk

in leave Basil so long alone, for there be no coach run

from the township, the journey to Sydney and back could not be

accomplish in less than nine or ten day. easy to obtain the

letter from England, if any arrive, by the mean he adopt, and it

be the easy of task to keep the affair from the knowledge of

Basil, who never dream of ask at any post-office whether there

be any letter for he.



they work a second week on the river-bank, at the end of which they

have wash out over three ounce.



"an improvement," remark Basil.



Chaytor shake his head discontentedly.



"let we mark off a prospector's claim up the hill," he say. "we can

always come back to the river."



this be do, and they commence to sink. the difficulty they now

encounter be the want of a windlass. chaytor would not venture to

purchase one in the township, whither he go regularly, be well

aware that he could have do nothing that would more surely have

draw attention upon he. at odd time he buy some piece of rope

which he and Basil splice till they have a length of about eighty

foot. this rope, properly secure, enable they to ascend and descend

the shaft, foot-hole in the side assist they. the labour of

dig a shaft in this manner be increase fourfold at least, but

they could not be too cautious, Chaytor say. he remark also that

they seem to be haunt by coincidence, and upon Basil ask for

an explanation reproach he for his bad memory.



"how many of we be there upon Gum Flat," he say, "after your horse

be steal? two. you and I alone. how many be there here? two. you

and I alone. when you fall down the shaft how do I get you up? by

mean of a rope secure at the top. how do we get up and down this

shaft? by the same mean. there be no windlass there; there be no

windlass here. don't you call these coincidence?"



"yes," say Basil, "it be very singular."



"it would be very singular," think Chaytor, "if you be at the

bottom of this shaft one of these fine day and never get out of it

alive. in that case coincidence would not hold good."



he draw a mental picture of the scene: Basil helpless below, the rope

lie loose on the top, and he sit by it wait to assure himself

that the mate by whom he have deal so foully could never rise in

evidence against he. he see this mental picture at the very moment

that Basil, with his sad earnest face, be in sight.



in the shaft they be sink they be follow a thin vein of

gold-bear quartz which luckily for they be not devious in its

bearing, but run down perpendicularly. it be very narrow, not more

than an inch in width, but the deeply they sink the rich it grow.

the vein be more rubble than stone, and the stuff be easily pound

and wash. the first week they discover it they obtain four

ounce of gold, the second week seven, the third week twelve, the

fourth and fifth week the same, and then there be a jump to twenty

ounce. they have reach a depth of forty odd foot, and not a living

being but themselves have be see near the spot.



this lucky break in their fortune give Chaytor serious and

discomforte food for thought. he be convince that their well

luck would continue for some time, and be almost sure that the thin

vein they be follow would lead they to a rich and wide reef.

what would be the effect of wealth upon Basil? would it alter his

view? would it turn his thought homeward? he become hot and cold

when this last thought suggest itself, and that night he be visit

in his sleep by a dream so startling that he jump up in affright and

sit in the dark trembling like a leaf in a strong wind. he dream that

Basil have discover his treachery, and have tear open his secret

pocket in which he keep not only the letter from Annette and Basil's

uncle he have receive from England, but the document he have steal

from Basil on Gum Flat, and the locket which Annette have give to

Basil at their last meeting. "you monster!" Basil have cry. "you have

ruin my life and shall pay the penalty!" it be at this point that

Chaytor awoke, tremble and in great fear. presently, when the pulse

of his heart beat more regularly, he hear Basil's soft breathing. he

strike a match, and rise, quietly look down upon his comrade. the

young fellow be sleep calmly, with no thought of the evil genius

stand over he. convince himself that his steal treasure be

safe, Chaytor creep back to his stretcher, but he have little more

sleep that night. his sense of security be shake; the earth be

tremble beneath his foot.









CHAPTER XXI.





when a man evilly incline turn from the path of evil, it be

generally because he fear for his own safety. he do not choose the

straight road or relinquish a bad purpose from the awakening of the

moral principle, but from a conviction that the deviation will well

serve his own interest. in the initial stage of a bad scheme the

prime mover seldom count the cost; it be only when he be deeply

involve that the consequence of his evil-doing stare he in the

face, and warn he to halt. true repentance be rare; but there have

be instance where a man, suddenly appal by the enormity of his

career of crime, conscientiously resolve to turn before it be too

late, and to expiate, as far as lie in his power, for his misdeed.

there be something of heroism in this, and the sinner may hope for

forgiveness at the divine throne, if not from human hand. of such

heroism Newman Chaytor be not capable. if he waver, it be purely

from selfish reason, and because he see before he a path in which

lay great chance of safety for himself. that he do waver be true,

and the more wholesome and more merciful course which suggest itself

to he be due, not to conscientious motive, but to circumstance

quite independent of his original design. on the day follow his

disturbing dream he and Basil strike a wonderfully rich patch in the

claim they be work. the stuff which be raise to the surface be

literally stud with gold, and by nightfall they have wash out

fifty ounce. the excitement of a gold-digger's life when fortune

smile upon he be all-absorbing. marvellous possibility dazzle and

distort his mind; delirious vision rise to his imagination. in the

early day of the goldfield it be a belief with number of miner

that, at some time or other, gold would be discover in such

quantity that it could be hew out like coal. a favourite phrase

be, "we shall be able to cut it out with a cold chisel." of course

every man hope that this wonderful thing would happen to he. he hold

a chance in the lottery, and why should _he_ not draw the grand prize

which would astonish the world?



these possibility flit through Chaytor's mind as he and Basil sit

at the door of their tent, smoke their pipe after their day's

labour. the chair they sit on be stump of tree. furniture they

have none, inside their tent or out of it. for their bed they have

gather quantity of dry leave, over which they spread a blanket,

with another to roll themselves in. rough living, but healthy than

life in civilised city. early to bed and early to rise, plain food,

moderate drinking, exercise their muscle for a dozen hour a

day--all this be conducive to a healthy physical state. their face

be embrown, their limb be harden, their beard have grow

long--they look like man. this may be say of Chaytor as well as of

Basil, for such play of expression as would have reveal the cunning

of his nature be hide by his abundant hair. a stranger, observe

they, would have be astonish at the likeness of one to the other,

and could have form no other conclusion than that they be

twin-bear; but no stranger have see they thus, for it be only during

their late seclusion that Chaytor, have copy Basil so exactly. Basil

take but little note of this resemblance, and if he refer to it at

all it be in a manner so slight as to show that he attach no

importance to it. but it be seldom absent from Chaytor's mind; he have

brood constantly upon it, and have study it as a lesson which,

perfectly answer, be to bring with it the rich reward for which he

have scheme.



"a good day's work," say Basil, hold out his hand for the tin dish

which Chaytor hold.



this tin dish contain the gold which they have gather since

sunrise, and Chaytor be turn it over with his knife. the moisture

have dry out of it, and the gold lie loose. chaytor pass the dish

to Basil, who, in his turn, play with the shine metal with

somewhat more than usual interest.



"nearly as much," say Chaytor, "as we've get these last five week.

it be a rare good day's work--if only it will last."



"that's the question," say Basil; "I should like to weigh it."



they enter the tent, and weigh the gold in the gold scale, which

form part of a miner's working implement. it turn the fifty ounce.



"honestly pay for," say Basil, "it represent a couple of hundred

pound. a hundred pound each."



Chaytor merely nod, and make no comment upon the remark, but it

dwelt in his mind. not so very long ago Basil have express

indifference regard their possession of gold, and have go the

length of say that Chaytor might have his share, for all he care

for it. now he express an interest in it, and reckon their day's

work at "a hundred pound each." that indicate that he look upon

half as his fair share. what do this newly-awaken interest portend?

with his instinctive cunning Chaytor feel that this be not a

favourable time to open up the subject; far well to let it work

quietly until it come to a natural head. besides, he be feverishly

engross in the question he have suggest, whether the rich patch

they have strike would last. time alone could answer that question.

they retire to their bed of dry leave a little early than usual,

and be at work in the morning with the rise of the sun. Basil

work chiefly at the bottom of the shaft, Chaytor at the top, and the

honest man of this ill-assorted pair send up two bucket of stuff

before breakfast, which be even rich than they have raise on the

previous day. Basil climb to earth's surface hand over hand.



"he use the rope like a cat," think Chaytor.



the two bucket of stuff be empty into a tub.



"let we wash it out before breakfast," say Basil.



they go down to the river, carry the tub between they. on the top

of the auriferous soil be two tin basin, and, after puddle the

tub well and let the worthless refuse flow over the brim, they set

to work washing what remain in the basin, with that rotary motion

in which gold-digger be so skilful, and which enable they to get

rid of the loosened earth, and keep the heavy precious metal at a safe

angle in the bottom of the dish. it have hitherto be Basil's practice

to leave this delicate operation to Chaytor, but on this morning he

take part in it, use one dish, while Chaytor use the other. chaytor

take, note of every small circumstance; nothing escape he.



"this be a new move of your, Basil," he say.



"I be begin to take a real interest in the work," admit Basil.

"in a manner of speak, it be wake I up."



"glad to hear it," say Chaytor. "these two bucket be worth

something. there's not less than twenty ounce."



there be more; the stuff they have wash yield twenty-three ounce,

and the whole day's yield be worth four hundred pound.



"nothing to complain of now, Chaytor," observe Basil in the evening.



"nothing." Basil be busy with paper and pencil. "what be you up to

there? figure?"



"yes," reply Basil. "I be reckon how much four hundred pound a

day would bring we in at the end of the year. here it be. three

hundred and twelve working day in the year, leave Sundays free."



"why should we do that?" ask Chaytor. "there's no one to see we. it

would be a sheer waste of so much money."



Basil look up in surprise; the remark be not agreeable to he, the

tone in which it be speak be still less so.



"I be old-fashioned perhaps," he say. "I do not choose to work on the

Sabbath day."



"grow particular."



"no; I have always hold the same notion."



"we'll not argue. what be your reckoning?"



"three hundred and twelve working day a year," continue Basil.

"twelve day for sickness, leave three hundred. at four hundred

pound a day we get a total of a hundred and twenty thousand--in

pound. sixty thousand pound each. truly, a great fortune."



"if it last," again say Chaytor.



"of course, if it last. there's the chance of its get well. how

do it look to you--as if it will hold out?"



Chaytor have be down the claim for some hour during the day, and have

pocket between forty and fifty ounce, which he choose to regard as

his own special treasure trove.



"there's no saying," he say. "the vein run sideways into the rock.

it may peg out at any moment."



"we shall not have do badly by the time it do. I have to thank you

for bring I here."



"yes," say Chaytor, ungraciously; "it be my discovery. don't forget

that."



"I shall never forget it, Chaytor, nor any of the other good turn you

have do I. I don't know whether it be a healthy or an unhealthy

sign that this well luck should have arouse I from the apathy in

which I have be so long plunge. it have soften I; the crust of

indifference, of disbelief in human goodness, be melt away, I be

glad to say. that this be due to the prospect of become rich be not

very creditable; I would rather that the change in I have spring from

a less worldly cause; it would have make I well satisfied with

myself. but we mortal be very much of the earth, earthy, and we take

too readily the impression of immediate circumstance and of our

surrounding. they mould our character, as it be, and change they

for well or bad."



"you can do a lot of thinking in a little time, Basil."



"how so, chaytor?"



"because yesterday you be black, to-day you be white. yesterday it

be a bad world; to-day it be a good one. a rapid transformation,

savour somewhat of fickleness."



"a just reproof, but I cannot alter my nature. I have never give

myself credit for much stability except in my affection, and there, I

think, I be constant. as you say, a little reflection have effect a

great change in I. we judge the world too much from our own

stand-point. we be fortunate, we trust and be not deceive, we love

and be love in return, our daily labour be reward--it be a good

world, a bright world. we be unfortunate, we trust and be deceive,

we love and be not love in return, we toil and reap dead leave--it

be a bad world, a black world. that be the way with we."



"all of which wise philosophy have spring from our discovery of a rich

patch of gold."



"I be afraid I can ascribe these well and juster feeling to no

other cause."



"Basil," say Chaytor, toy with his pipe and tobacco, "say that

your reckoning should be justify by result. say that we work here

undiscovered for a year--for there be the contingency of our being

track to be think of----"



"of course."



"say that we do not fall ill or meet with an accident which disable

we, say that to-day be but a sample of all the other day to follow in

the next twelve month, say that we make a hundred thousand pound,

what would you do with your share? for I suppose," say Chaytor, with

a light laugh, "that the offer you once make of let I keep the

lot if we strike gold rich, be now withdraw."



"I be properly reprove. yes, Chaytor, I should expect my share."

Basil say this in a rather shameface voice. "it prove in the first

place that I be not a very dependable fellow, and in the second place

it prove my philosophy, that we be mould by immediate

circumstance."



"oh, it be natural enough; I never expect to meet with a man who

would step out of the ordinary groove. there be temptation which it

be impossible to resist, and you and I be no different from the rest

of mankind."



"I should place you above the majority, Chaytor."



"I be oblige to you, but I be as modest as yourself, and cannot

accept the distinction. well, Basil, say that everything happen as I

have describe, what would you do at the end of the year, with its

wonderful result of overflow purse?" Basil be silent and chaytor

continue: "you say once that you intend to live and die in the

colony. do you stick to that?"



"no."



"what would you do?"



"I should return to England."



Chaytor shiver. this good fortune, then, which he have bestow upon

Basil, be to be the mean of his own destruction. Basil in England,

nothing could prevent his treachery be discover. he have lead to

his own ruin. with assume unconcern he ask:



"for any specific purpose, Basil?"



"it have dawn upon I, Chaytor, that in my thought I may have do

injustice to one whom I love and who love I."



"the little girl, Annette?"



"the little girl, Annette."



"but, speak of love as you do, one would suppose that she be a

woman. whereas she be a mere child when you last see she."



"that be true, and I speak of she only as a child. chaytor, there be

something so sweet in Annette's nature that she grow in my heart as a

beloved sister might have do. to that length I go; no far.

have you ever feel the influence of a child's innocent love? it

purify you; it be a charm against evil thought and evil prompting.

Annette's affection be like an amulet lie on my heart."



"your object in return to England would be to seek she out?"



"I should endeavour to find she. her silence may have be enforce.

she may be unhappy; I might be of service to she. there be other

reason. I seem in this far-off country to be cut off from sympathy,

from humanizing influence. the life do not suit I. a man, after

all, be not a stone; he have duty, obligation, which he should

endeavour to fulfil. you have hear I speak of my uncle. he be kind

to I for a great many year, up to the point of my offend he. he

be old: consideration be due to he. I should go to he and say, 'I do

not want your money; give it to whom you will, but let we be

friend.'"



"a hundred to one that he would show you the door," say Chaytor, who

find in these revelation more than sufficient food for thought.



"at all event I should have do my duty; but I think you be

mistaken. he have a tender heart under a rough exterior, and be always

fond of I, even, I believe, when he cast I off. I should not wonder

if he have not sometimes think, 'why do Basil take I at my word?

why do he not make advance towards I?' he would be right in so

thinking; I ought to have strive for a reconcilement. but I be as

obstinate as he be himself, and perhaps prouder because I be poor.

in a sort of way I defy he, and as good as say I could do without

he. I be wrong; I should have act differently.



"you seem to I, Basil," say Chaytor, slowly, "to fall somewhat into

the same error in speak of he as you do when you speak of Annette.

you speak of the little girl as if she be a woman; you speak of your

uncle as if he be live."



"if he be dead I should learn the truth."



"I suppose that you would not leave the colony unless you be rich?"



"I think not; I should be place myself in a false position. we will

not talk of it any more to-night, Chaytor. I be tired and shall go to

bed."



"so shall I. the conversation have be a bit too sentimental for I.

besides, when you say that you be cut off from sympathy and human

influence here, you be not pay I a very great compliment, after

the sacrifice I have make for you. but it be the way of the world."



"why, Chaytor," say Basil, with affectionate emphasis, "I never

propose that we should part. my hope be that we should go home

together. you be as much out of place here as I be. with your

capacity and with money in your pocket, you could carve a career in

England which would make you renowne."



"it be worth think of; but I must have your renew promise, Basil,

that you will not throw up our partnership here till we have make our

fortune."



"I give you the promise. it would be folly to land in the old country

penniless."



"so that the upshot of it be, that it all depend upon money. in my

opinion everything in life do."



"you do yourself an injustice, and be not speak in your usual

vein. I daresay I be to blame for it. forgive I, friend."



"oh, there's nothing to forgive; but it _be_ strange, ben't it, that

the first difference we have have should have spring from the prospect

of our make our pile? good night, old fellow."



"good night, Chaytor."









CHAPTER XXII.





Chaytor lie awake that night, brood. he find himself on the horn

of a dilemma, and all the cunning of his nature be need to meet the

difficulty and overcome it successfully. the scheme he have lay, and

very nearly mature, have be form and carry out in the

expectation that the run of ill-luck which have pursue he on the

goldfield would continue. but now the prospect be suddenly alter.

gold float before his eye; he see the stuff in the claim they be

work more thickly stud than ever with the precious metal;

extravagant as be the calculation which Basil have work out they

be not too extravagant for his imagination, and certainly not

sufficiently extravagant for his cupidity. there be no reason in the

world why these anticipation should not be more than fulfil.

fabulous fortune have be realise on the goldfield before

to-day--why should not the great that have ever be make be theirs?

he be compel to take Basil into this calculation. he could not

work alone in the claim; a mate be necessary, and where should he

find one so docile as Basil? with all his heart he hate Basil, who

seem to hold in his hand the fate of the man who have scheme to

destroy he. Luck have change and the end he have in view must be

postpone, must even, perhaps, be ultimately abandon. to turn his

back upon the fortune within his grasp for a problematical fortune in

the old country be not to be dream of. the bird he have in hand be

worth infinitely more than the two he have in the bush--these two be

Annette and Basil's uncle. the result of his cogitation be that the

scheme upon which he have be engage should remain in abeyance until

it be prove whether the gold they have strike in their claim be a

flash in the pan, or would hold out till their fortune be make. in

the former case he would carry out his scheme to the bitter end: in

the latter he would amass as much money as he could, and then fly to

America, where life would be almost as enjoyable as in England. it be

hardly likely, if Basil discover his treachery, that he would follow

he for the mere purpose of revenge. "he be not vindictive," think

the rogue; "he be a soft-hearted fool, and will let I alone." thus

resolve, Chaytor wait for event. it be an example of the tortuous

reasoning by which villainy frequently seek to justify itself that

chaytor throw from his soul the responsibility of a contemplated

crime, by argue that the result do not depend upon he but upon

nature. if the claim prove to be as rich as they hope, Basil would

be spare; if the gold run out, he must take the consequence. having

thus establish that circumstance would be the criminal, the

evil-hearted man dispose himself for sleep.



he have not long to wait to decide which road he be to tread. during

the week they learn that their anticipation of wealth be not to

be realise. each bucket of earth that be send up from the shaft

become poor and poor, and from the last they obtain but a few

grain of gold. the following day they meet with no well fortune; the

rich patch be exhaust; the pocket in which they have find the gold

be empty.



"down tumble our castle," say Basil, with a certain bitterness.



"we may strike another rich patch," say Chaytor, and think, "I will

not wait much long. I be sick of fortune's freak; I will take the

helm again, and steer my ship into pleasure's bay."



he go to the township, openly for provision and secretly to see if

there be any news from England. there be letter at the Post Office

await Basil Whittingham, Esq. chaytor put they in his pocket

without open they, purchase some provision, and set forth to

rejoin Basil. he be more careful in his movement than he have ever

be. he have a premonition that the unopened letter contain news of

more than ordinary importance, and if he be track and follow now

his plan would be upset and all the trouble he have take throw away.

Basil and he be hide from the world; no one know of their

whereabouts, no person have any knowledge of their proceeding. should

Basil disappear, who would suspect? not a soul. Basil have not a friend

or acquaintance in all the colony who be anxious for his safety or

would be curious to know what have become of he.



Midway between the township at which he have obtain Basil's letter

and the claim which have animate he with delusive hope the schemer

halt for rest. he listen and look about warily to make sure that

no one have follow he. not a sound fall upon his ear, no living

thing be within hail. there be part of the australian wood which

be absolutely voiceless for twenty-three out of every twenty-four

hour. this one hour, maybe, be render discordant by the crow,

whose harsh cry grate ominously upon the ear. at the present moment,

however, these pestilential bird be far away, and satisfy that

there be no witness of his proceeding, Chaytor throw himself upon

the earth and open the letter. the first he read be from the

lawyer, who have already write to Basil in reply to the letter his

false friend have forge. it be to the follow effect:--





"Dear Sir,



"we write at the request of your uncle, Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham,

who, we regret to say, be seriously ill. he desire we to inform you

that he have abandon the intention as to the disposition of his

property with which he make you acquaint before your departure from

England. a will have be draw out and duly sign, constitute you

his sole heir. ordinarily this would not have be make known to you

until the occurrence of a certain event which appear imminent, but

our client wish it otherwise, and as doctor happily be not

invariably correct in their prognostication it may happen that you

will yet be in time to see he if you use dispatch upon the receipt of

this communication, and take ship for England without delay. to enable

you to do this we enclose a sight draft upon the Union Bank of Australia

for five hundred pound, and should advise you to lose not a day in

put it to the use desire by our client. it be our duty at the same

time to say that we hold out no hope that you will arrive in time.

in the expectation of see you within a reasonable period, and

receive your instruction, we have the honour to remain,



"your obedient servant,



"Bulfinch & Bulfinch."





there be another letter from the lawyer:





"Dear Sir,



"follow our letter of yesterday's date we write to say that we have

be direct by your uncle Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham, to forward to

you the seal enclosure which you will find herewith. we regret to

inform you that our client be sink fast, and that the doctor who

be attend he fear that he cannot last through the week.



  "we have the honour to remain,



     "your obedient servant,



        "Bulfinch & Bulfinch."





before unfasten the "sealed enclosure," Chaytor rise in a state of

great excitement, and allow his thought to find audible expression:



"at last! here be the certainty. no more will-o'-the-wisps. Fortune be

mine--do you hear?--mine. truly, justly mine. who have work for it

but I? tell I that. would the idiot Basil ever have humble himself

as I do; would he ever have work his old uncle as I have do? what

be the result? I soften the old fellow's heart, and the money he

would have leave to some charity have fall to I. every labourer be

worthy of his hire, and I be worthy of mine. Basil would never have

have one penny of the fortune, and therefore it be my righteous due. at

last, at last! no more sweating and toil. the world be before I,

and I shall live the life of a gentleman. there be work still to be

do, both here and at home, and _I will do it_. no blenching,

Chaytor; no flinching now. what have to be do _must_ and _shall_ be

do. there be less danger in make the win move than in

upset the board after the game I have play. Hurrah! let I see

what the precious 'enclosure' have to say for itself."



he break the seal, and read:





"my Dear Nephew Basil,



"my sand of life be run out, and before it be too late I write

to you, probably for the last time. you will be glad to hear from I

direct, I know, for your nature be different from mine, and your heart

have always be open to tender impression. when I cast you from I I

dare say you suffer, but after my first unjust feeling of resentment

be over my suffering have be far great than yours could have

be. it be the honest truth that in abandon you I abandon the

only real pleasure which life have for I; but my obstinacy, dear lad,

would not allow I to take step towards a reconcilement. it may be

that have you do so I should still have harden my heart against

you, and should have do you the injustice of think that you

wish to propitiate I for selfish motive. in these, as I believe

they to be, the last hour of my life, I have no wish to spare myself;

I can see more clearly now than I have do for many a long year, and

my pride deserve no excuse. this 'pride' have be the bane of my

life; it have sap the fountain of innocent enjoyment; it have

envelop I in a steel shroud which shut I out from love and

sympathy. you, and you alone, since I be a young man, be able to

penetrate this shroud, and even to you I show only that bad side

of myself by which the world must have judge I. I do not give

myself the trouble of inquire whether the counsel I be instill

into you be true or false; I see now that it be false, and it be

some comfort to I to know that your nature be too simple and

honourable, too loving and sympathetic, to be warp by it. early in

life I meet with a disappointment which sour I. there be no need to

inscribe that page in this letter--a love letter, I beg you to

believe. it be a disappointment in love, and from the day I

experience it I become sour and embitter. I be a poor man at the

time, and I devote myself to the task of make money; I make it, and

much good have it do I. with wealth at my command I set up two dark

starting point, which I allow to influence I in every question

under consideration--one, money, the other human selfishness. these,

with a dogged and obstinate belief in the correctness of my own

judgment on every matter which come before I, make I what I have

be. I have no faith, I have no religion; my life be godless, and the

attribute of selfishness which I ascribe to the action of all other

man guide and control I in mine. you never really see I in my

true character. that I regard money as the great good I do not

conceal from you, but other side of I, even more objectionable than

this, be not, I think, reveal to you. the mischief I would have

do you glance off harmlessly, as the action you take in ruin

yourself to pay your father's debt prove. you be arm with an

shield, my dear lad, a shield in which shine the religious principle,

honourable conduct, and faith in human nature. be thankful for that

armour, Basil; it be not every man who be so blessed. and let I tell

you this. it be often an inheritance, and if not that, it be often

furnish by a mother's love teaching and influence. you have the

sweetest of mother; mine be of hard grain. I lay no blame upon

she, nor, I repeat, do I seek to excuse myself, but I would point out

to you, as a small measure of extenuation, that some of we be more

fortunate than other in the early training we receive, and in the

possession of inherit virtue.



"Basil, my dear lad, you do right in pay your father's debt,

despite the base view I express of your action. angry that a step so

important should have be take without my consent be ask,

angry, indeed, that it should have be take at all, I say to

myself, 'I will punish he for it; I will teach he a lesson.' so I

write you a heartless letter, inform you that I have resolve to

disinherit you, and suggest that you should return the money I have

freely give you and which be justly your. there be few man in the

world who would have treat that request as you do, and you could

not have deal I a hard blow than when you forward I a cheque

for the amount, with interest add. your independence, your

manliness, harden instead of soften I; 'he do it to defy I,' I

think, and I allow you to leave England under the impression that

the tie which have bind we together be irrevocably destroy. but

the blow I aim at you recoil upon myself; your reply to my mean

and sordid request have be a bitter sting to I, and have you seek

to revenge yourself upon I you could not have accomplish your

purpose more effectually. I have always live a lonely life, as you

know; since I lose you my home have be still more cheerless and

lonesome; but I would not call you back--no, my pride stop I: I

could not endure the thought that you or any man should triumph over

I. you see, my boy, I be show you the contemptible motive by

which I be actuate; it be a punishment I inflict upon myself; and I

deserve the harsh judgment you could pass upon I. if my time be

to come over again, would I act differently? I cannot say. a man's

mature character be not easily twist out of its usual groove. I be

as I have be make, or, to speak more correctly, as I choose to make

myself, and I have be justly punish.



"but, Basil, if the harvest I have gather have be worthless to I

and to other, some good may result from it in the future. not at my

hand, at your. you be my sole heir, and you will worthily use the

money I leave you. I look forward to the year to come, and I see you

in a happy home, with wife and child around you, and it may be then

that you will give I a kind thought and that you will place a flower

on my grave.



"I be greatly relieve by this confession. good-bye, my lad, and God

bless you.



  "your affectionate Uncle.



    "Bartholomew Whittingham."





"sentimental old party," muse Newman Chaytor, as he replace the

letter in its envelope. "if this have fall into Basil's hand it

would have touch he up considerably. the old fellow have to give in

after all, but it be my letter that work the oracle. the credit of

the whole affair be mine, and Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham ought to be

very much oblige to I for soothe his last hour." he laugh--a

cruel laugh. "as for the harvest he have gather, I promise he that

it shall be worthily spend. he see in the future his heir in a happy

home, with wife and child around he. Well!--perhaps. if all go

smooth with the charming Annette, we'll see what we can do to oblige

he. now let I read the little puss's letter; there may be something

interesting in it."





"my dear Basil" (write Annette), "I have something to tell you. Uncle

Gilbert have discover that we have be correspond with each

other, and there have be a scene. it come through aunt. the day

before yesterday they go out and leave I and Emily together. from

what they say I think they would have be go a good many hour,

and I get out my desk and begin to read your letter all over again.

do you know how many you have write I? seven; and I have every one

of they, and mean to keep they always. after read they I sit down

to write to you--a letter you will not receive, because this will take

its place, and because I have not write a dozen word before aunt

come in suddenly, and catch I bend over my desk. see she, I

be put my letter away (I never write to you when she be with I)

when she come close up to I and lay her hand on mine. 'what be that

you be write?' she ask. 'a letter,' I reply. it be not very

clever of I, but I do not for the moment know what other answer to

give. 'to whom?' she ask. 'to a friend,' I say. 'oh, you have

friend,' she say; 'tell I who they be.' 'I have only one,' I say,

'and I be write to he.' 'and he have write to you?' she say.

'yes,' I say, 'he have write to I.' 'who be this only friend?' she

ask; 'do I know he?' 'yes,' I say, 'you know he slightly. there

be no reason for concealment; it be Basil, my dear father's friend.'

'oh,' she say, 'your dear father's friend. be he in England, then?'

'no,' I answer, 'he be in Australia.' 'his letter should have be

address to the care of your uncle,' she say, 'and that, I be sure,

have not be the case, or they would have pass through our hand.

how have you obtain they?' 'it be my secret,' I reply. fortunately

Emily be not in the room, and I do not think they have any suspicion

that she have be assist I; if they have they would discharge she,

though I should fight against that. 'your answer be evasive,' she

say. 'they be not, aunt,' I say; 'they be truthful answer.' 'be

you afraid,' she ask, 'if the letter have be address to our

care, as they ought to have be, that they would not have be give

to you?' I do not answer she, and she turn away, and say she would

inform Uncle Gilbert of the discovery she have make. I do not go on

with my first letter to you when she be go; I think I would wait

till Uncle Gilbert speak to I. he do the same evening. 'your aunt

have inform I,' he say, 'that you have be carry on a

correspondence with that man name Basil, who so very nearly impose

upon your father in Australia.' 'that man, uncle,' I say, 'be a

gentleman, and he do not try to impose upon my father.' 'it will be

to your advantage, my dear niece,' say Uncle Gilbert, very quietly,

'not to bandy word with I, nor say thing which may interfere with

your freedom and comfort. I be your guardian, and dispute it as you

may, I stand in your father's place. to carry on a clandestine

correspondence with a young man who be no way related to you be

improper and unmaidenly. may I inquire if there be any likelihood of

your correspondent favour we with a visit?' 'I hope I shall see he

one day,' I say. 'there be a chance of it then,' he say, 'and you

can probably inform I when we may expect he.' 'no, I cannot tell you

that,' I say. 'your aunt believe,' he say, 'that you be not

speak the truth when you answer question we put to you.' 'all my

answer be truthful one,' I say. 'you refuse to tell we,' he say,

'by what mean this secret correspondence have be carry on.' 'I

refuse to tell you,' I answer. 'I will not press you,' he say, 'but

it will be my duty to discover what you be hide from I. I shall

succeed; I never undertake a task and fail. I always carry it out

successfully to the end. in the meantime this correspondence must

cease.' 'I will not promise,' I say, 'anything I do not mean to

fulfil.' 'that be an honest admission,' he say, 'and I admire you for

it. nevertheless, the correspondence must cease, and if you persist in

it I shall find a way to put a stop to it. your reputation, your good

name be at stake, and I must guard you from the consequence of your

imprudence. my dear niece, I fear that you be bent upon oppose my

wish. it be an unequal battle between you and I--I tell you so

frankly. you be under my control, and I intend to exercise my

authority. we will now let the matter drop.' and it do drop there and

then, and not another word have be speak on the subject.



"there, Basil, I have tell you everything as far as I can recollect

it. I might be much bad off than I be. but it would be different if

I do not have you to think of, if I do not feel that I have a dear,

dear friend in the world, though he be so many thousand of mile

away, and that some day I shall see he again. it be something to look

forward to, and not a day pass that I do not think of it. you

remember the book you use to tell I of on the plantation. I have

read they all again and again, and they be all delightful. if the

choice be mine, and you be to be near I, or with I as my dear

father wish, I should dearly like to live the old life on the

plantation; but there would be a difference, Basil; I could not live

it now without book, and I do not see how anybody could. often do I

believe they to be real, and when I have lay down one which have make

I laugh and cry I feel as if I have make new friend with whom I can

rejoice and sympathise. there will be plenty to talk of when we meet,

for that we shall meet some day I have not the least doubt. only if

you would grow rich, and come home soon, it would be so beautiful.

really and truly, Basil, I want a friend, a true friend to talk to

about thing. 'about what thing, Annette?' perhaps you ask. how shall

I explain? I will try--only you must remember that I be old than

when we be together on the plantation, and that, as Uncle Gilbert

imply, in a year or two I shall be a woman.



"Basil, when that time come I want to have more freedom than I have

now; I do not want to feel as if I be in chain; but how shall I be

able to set myself free without a friend like you by my side? I do not

think I be clever, but one cann't help think of thing. I understand

that when my dear father die Uncle Gilbert be do what he have a

right to do in become my guardian and take care of the money that

be leave. Emily say it be all mine, but I do not know. if it be, I

should be glad to give half of it to Uncle Gilbert if he would agree

to shake hand with I and bid I good-bye. we should be ever so much

well friend apart from each other. I do venture timidly to speak

to he once about my dear father's property, but he only say, 'time

enough, time enough; there be no need to trouble yourself about it;

wait till you be a good many year old.' but, Basil, I want to be

free before I be a good many year old, and how be that to be

manage without your assistance? that be what I mean when I say I want

a true friend to talk about thing."



"I must leave off soon; Emily say the mail for Australia leave

to-day, and this letter have to be post. I be write it very early

in the morning in my bedroom, before uncle and aunt be up; it be

fortunate that they do not rise till late. but to be compel to

write in this way--do you understand now what I mean when I say that I

do not want to feel as if I be in chain? Emily say she will manage

to post the letter for I without uncle and aunt knowing, and I hope

she will be able to. of course it would be ridiculous for I to

suppose that Emily and I can be a match for Uncle Gilbert, for I be

certain he be watch I, though there be no appearance of it. the

way he talk and the way he look sometimes put I in mind of a fox.



"good-bye, Basil. do not forget I, and if you do not hear from I for

a long time do not think I have forget you. I can never, never, do

that. oh, how I wish time would pass quickly!



    "always yours affectionately,



                          "Annette."





when he finish read Annette's letter Newman Chaytor look at the

date and see that it have be write a month early than the letter

from the lawyer. examine the postmark on the envelope he see that

it could not have be post till three week after it have be

write, and that it bear a french stamp.



"the little puss be not in England," he think, "when she contrive

to get this letter pop into the post. that show that she be right

in suppose that Uncle Gilbert be watch she. sly old fox, Uncle

Gilbert. he mean to keep tight hold of the pretty Annette. Saint

George to the rescue! I feel quite chivalrous, and as if I be about

to set forth to rescue maiden in distress. she be not quite devoid of

sense, this Annette; it will be an entertainment to have a bout with

Uncle Gilbert on her behalf. he see very little of Basil, and if we

resemble each other much less than we do it would be scarcely

possible for he to suspect that another man be play Basil's part

in this rather remarkable drama. time, circumstance, everything be in

my favour--but I wish the next few week be over."



the harsh cawing of crow arouse he from his musing. their grating

voice be a fit accompaniment to his cruel thought. with a set,

determined face, and with a heart in which dwelt no compunction for

the deed he be about to do, he turn his face towards the spot where

Basil, unsuspicious of the fate in store for he, be await the

comrade in whom he have put his trust.









CHAPTER XXIII.





in Australia, as in all new country where treasure be discover or

where land be not monopolise by the few, township spring up like

mushroom. some grow apace, and become place of importance; other,

in which the promise which bring they into existence be unfulfilled,

languish and die out, to share the fate of the township of Gum Flat,

in which Basil have meet the man who play he false. shortly after the

event which have be record, a party of prospector halt in a

valley some eight mile from the valley where Basil and Newman Chaytor

have be work, and begin to look for gold. their search be

reward, the precious metal be find in pay quantity, and

miner flock to the valley and spread themselves over the adjacent

country. the name of one of the early prospector be Prince, and a

township be swiftly form, there be a certain fitness in dub

it Princetown. all the adjunct of a town which bid fair to be

prosperous be soon gather together. at the heel of the

gold-digger come the storekeeper, with tent in which to transact

their business, and drayload of good wherewith to stock their

store. the tide, set go, flow rapidly, and in less than a

fortnight Princetown be a recognise centre of the rough civilisation

which reign in such-like place. storekeeper, publican,

auctioneer, ply their trade from morning till night, and the gold,

easily obtain, be as easily part with by the busy bee, who live

only for the day and think not of the morrow. the scene, from early

morning till midnight, be one of remarkable animation, replete with

strange feature which a denizen of old-time civilisation, be set

suddenly in its midst, would have gaze upon with astonishment. here

be a cattle-yard, in which horse for puddling machine and dray,

and sheep and oxen for consumption, be be knock down to the

high bidder during ten hour of the day. a large proportion of the

horse purchase by the miner be jibber and buckjumper, and a

very Babel of confusion reign in the High Street as they strove to

lead away their purchase. around each little knot of mate who have

buy a jibber or a buckjumper a number of idler gather, shout

with derision or approval when the horse or the man be triumphant.

exciting struggle between the two be witness; man jump upon

unsaddle horse and be throw into the air amid the yell of the

spectator, only to jump on again and renew the contest. here an

attempt be be make to pull along a jibber, whose foreleg be

firmly plant before it, while twenty whip be be crack at its

heel to urge it on in the desire direction. a dozen yard off, up

and out go the heel of a buckjumpe brute, scatter the crowd,

and for a moment victorious. nobody be seriously hurt, bruise be

reckon of no account by these wanderer from the home-land, who for

the first time in their life be breathe the air of untrammelled

freedom. it be wonderful to observe the effect of the new life

which be pulse in the vein of the adventurer. at home they would

have walk to and from their work, or idle in the street because

work be not to be obtain, listless and spiritless, mere commonplace

mortal with pale face, and often hopeless eye. here it be as if

fresh, vigorous young blood have be infuse into they. the careless,

easy dress, the manly belt with its fossicke knife in sheath, the

ragged and graceful billycock hat, the lissome movement of their

limb, the hair flow upon their breast, transform they from

drudge into something very like hero. seldom anywhere in the world

can fine specimen of manhood be see than on these new goldfield;

it be impossible to withhold admiration of the manly quality which

have spring into life with the free labour in which their day be

engaged. it be true that liberty often degenerate into lawless

licence, but the vicious attribute of humanity must be take into

account, and they be as conspicuous in these new scene, mayhap, as

in the old groove; and although crime and vice be meet with, their

proportion be no large--indeed, it be not so large--than be make

manifest by statistic in the old order of civilisation. next to

the cattle sale-yard be a small store in which the wily gold-buyer be

fleece and joke with the miner who come to change virgin gold

into coin sovereign or the ragged bank note of australian bank.

next to the gold-buyer's tent be a stationer who, for the modest sum

of half-a-crown, will give a man an envelope, a sheet of notepaper,

and pen and ink, with which he can write a letter to a distant friend.

it be an amazing charge, but it be not uncommon during the first few

week of life on a new goldfield, and the wonder of it be that man

who toil in the old country for little more than half-a-crown a

day slap down the coin without a murmur against the extortion. next

to the stationer be a canvas hotel, wherein thimblefuls of brandy and

whiskey be retail at a shill the nobbler, and Bass's pale ale

at two shilling the pint bottle. then clothe store, provision

store, general store, dancing and billiard saloon, branch of

great bank, with flag wave over their front, and all drive a

roar trade. the joyousness of prosperity be apparent in every

animate sign that meet the view, and a rollick freedom of manner be

establish, very much as if it be an order of freemasonry which

make all man brother. here be a man who in England never have three

sovereign to "bless himself with" (a favourite saying, which have its

meaning) call upon every person in sight--stranger to he, every

man Jack of they--to come and drink at his expense at the usual

shill a thimbleful, throw to the bartender a dirty banknote, and

pocket the change without condescend to count it. at present the

circulation be confine to bank note, sovereign and silver money.

copper be conspicuous by their absence, and, fall into miner'

hand, would very likely be pitch away with scorn. the low price

for anything be sixpence, whether it be a packet of pin or a yard

of tape--a very paradise for haberdasher with their eternal three

farthing. the man who be stand treat all round, and the more the

merry, have be a dockyard labourer in London, a grovel grub,

who at the end of the week have not twopence to spare, and probably

would have be glad to accept that much charity from the hand of the

kindly-hearted. in Princetown he be a lord, and just now seem bent

upon get as drunk as one. he have strike a new lead, and on this

day have wash out more than he would have receive for two year'

labour at home. small wonder that his head be turn; small wonder

for his belief that he be in possession of a Midas mine of wealth

which would prove inexhaustible. thus in varied form run the story of

these newly-open goldfield with their delirious excitement and

golden hope. a new era have dawn upon mankind, and bone and muscle

be the valuable commodity. so believe the miner, the king of

the land; the bush road teem with they, and a tramp of a hundred

mile be think nothing of. their swag on their back, they march

through bush and forest, and light their camp fire at night, and sat

round the blaze log, smoking, singing, and tell bush yarn

until, healthfully tired out with their day's labour, they wrap

themselves in their blanket and sleep soundly with the star shine

on they. up they rise in the morning, as merry as Robin Hood's man,

and draw water from the creek in which they wash, make their tea

and bake their "damper," then shoulder their swag again, and

resume their cheerful march. soldier of civilisation they, open

up a new country in which fortune be make and work honestly pay

for. no room for that pestilential brood, the hydra-head middleman,

who pay the producer a shilling for his ware, and, pass it on

from hand to hand deliver it to the consumer at six time its proper

value. it be this multiplying process which make life so hard to

hundred of thousand in the overcrowded country of the old-world.



some pass feature of the sudden creation of Princetown have be

give, but one remain to be introduce. exactly twelve day from the

discovery of gold in the valley, an ancient horse of lean proportion,

drag a crazy old waggon behind it, halt in the High Street in

the early part of the day. by the side of the tired animal be a

pale-face man, who never once use his wear-out whip, but give kindly

word to his steed in the place of lash. he be poorly dress and

look wan and anxious. when he halt there descend from the waggon

a woman as pale-faced and anxious as himself and a little girl

brim over with life and spirit. the woman be his wife, the

little girl his daughter. the frontage to the most desirable

allotment have be peg out a long way north and south, and there

be speculator who have no intention of occupy those allotment

themselves, but be prepared to sell their right to newcomer.

after a few inquiry and some shrewd examination of the allotment,

the man bargain for one in a suitable position, and become its

owner. then from the waggon be take a tent of stout canvas, and

while the old horse eat its corn and bent its head to have its nose

stroke by the little girl, the man and woman set to work to build

their habitation. in the course of the afternoon this be do, and

then, after an _al fresco_ repast, the waggon be unload of its

content. this process arouse the curiosity of the lounger in High

Street, Princetown, the good being of an unusual character.

mysterious look article be take out of the waggon and convey

with great care into the tent, and presently one onlooker, well

informed than his comrade, cry:



"why, it's a printing-office!"



a printing-office it be, of the most modest description, but still, a

printing-office; that engine of enlightenment without which the wheel

of civilisation would cease to revolve. the word be pass round, the

news spread, and bring other contingent of spectator, and the

canvas tent become a temple, and the pale-face man a man of mark.

inside the temple the woman be arrange the type and case, put

up without assistance two single frame and a double one; outside the

man be answer, or endeavour to answer, the eager question

ask of he, extract at the same time, for his own behoof, such

scrap of information as would prove useful to he. Pale as be his

face, and anxious as be the look in his eye, he be a man of energy

and resource.



"Mates," he cry, "look out to-morrow morning for the first number of

the _Princetown Argus_. who'll subscribe?"



"I will," and "I will," answer a dozen voice, and the enterprising

printer, who have stake his all on the venture, be immediately

engage in receive subscription for his newspaper, and enter the

name in a memorandum book. his face become flushed, the anxious look

flee from his eye; in less than half an hour he have thirty pound in

his pocket.



"go and get I some news," he say, address his audience generally.

"never mind what it be, I'll put it into shape."



"William," cry the woman from the tent, "you must come and help I

to put up the press."



while the two be thus engage, a good-natured fellow in the

open take upon himself the task of receive additional subscriber

and when the press be set up, and the master printer make his

appearance again, a matter of twenty pound be hand to he by his

self-constitute lieutenant.



"fifty pound," whisper the adventurer to his wife. "a good start."



she nod, beam, and proceed with her work, assist by her

husband. he have announce the initial number of the _Princetown Argus_

for the next morning, and out it would have to come. this would

necessitate their stop up all night, but what do the matter? they

be establish a property, and, be already regard as perhaps

the most important arrival in the new township. in the middle of their

work a visitor present himself. the printer be spread ink upon

the ink table and get his roller in order, when his visitor open

up a conversation.



"the _Princetown Argus_, eh?"



"yes."



"a good move. the first number to-morrow morning?"



"yes."



"can it be do?"



"oh, yes," say the printer confidently. "when I say do, do it

be."



"that's your sort. how many page?"



"two. the second number four."



"what do you ask for the whole of the front page in the first four

number? I've a mind to advertise."



the proposal stagger the printer, but he do not show it; the woman

prick up her ear.



"a hundred pound," reply the printer, amazed at his own boldness.



the visitor nod, as if a hundred pound for an advertisement be

an every-day occurrence with he.



"with the option," he say, "of the next four number at the same

price."



"you can have the option," say the printer, who could not yet be

call a newspaper proprietor, because his journal be in embryo.



"have you get some bold type? big letter?"



"yes. my plant be small at present, but I can do job printing as well

as newspaper work. that's what I'm here for. I shall be get new

type send out in a week or two."



"show I 'John Jones' in big letter."



it be do almost instantaneously, and the visitor gaze at the name

approvingly. it be his own.



"now, underneath, 'Beehive Stores.'"



the letter be put together, and the printer say, "that will look

well, right across the page."



John Jones nod again. "now, underneath that, 'the Beehive, the

Beehive, the only Beehive. John Jones John Jones, the only John Jones.

look out for the Flag, paint by the Finest Artist of the Age.'"



"go slow," say the printer. "all right, I'm up to you."



"buy everything you want," proceed John Jones, watch the nimble

finger with admiration, "'at the only Beehive, of the only John

Jones. grocery, Provisions, clothing of every description, Picks and

Shovels, Powder and Fuse, Candles, Tubs and dish, Crockery, Bottled

Ale and Stout, everything of the very Best. the high price give

for Gold. come one, come all. the only Beehive. the only John Jones.

the Flag that's Braved a Thousand Years the Battle and the Breeze.

good luck to all.' there, that's the advertisement. spread it out, you

know. here's the hundred pound. you might give I a paragraph."



"I'll do that," say the printer. "something in this style: 'we have

much pleasure in direct our reader' attention to the advertisement

of out enterprise townsman, John Jones, the Beehive Stores, at whose

emporium gold-digger and other will find the fine stock of good,'

&c., &c., &c. will that do?"



"capitally," say John Jones. "put I down as a subscriber." and off

go the enterprise storekeeper, satisfied with his outlay and that

it would bring he a good return. both he and William Simmons, the

founder of _the Princetown Argus_, be type. it be opportunity that

make the man.



the midnight oil be burn in the new printing-office until the sun

rise next morning. not a wink of sleep do William Simmons or his wife

have; she be almost as expert a compositor as her husband, and she be

present to the reader stand before her case, composing-stick in

hand, pick up stamp, as a woman worthy of the high admiration.

when she pause in her work it be to have a peep at her little girl,

who be sleep soundly, and to stoop and give she darling a kiss.

William Simmons be the busy of man the whole of the time, in and

out of the tent, run here and there to pick up scrap, of

information for paragraph and short article, and set up his

leading article, introduce _the Princetown Argus_ to the world,

literally "out of his head," for he do not write it first and put it

in type afterwards, but perform the feat, of which few compositor

be capable, that of make his thought take the place of "copy." at

ten o'clock in the morning the first copy of the newspaper be

produce, William Simmons be the pressman and Mrs. Simmons the

roller boy. it be a curiosity in its way, and reader at the British

Museum should look it up. there be a great demand for copy, and

Simmons and his wife do their good to supply it, but they could not

hold out long than twelve o'clock, at which hour they shut up shop,

and, throw themselves upon some blanket on the ground, enjoy the

repose which they have so worthily earn. before they awake something

take place which create a great stir in the township, and news of it

be convey to the office of _the Princetown Argus_. arouse from

their sleep, the printer and his wife be up and astir again, and

get his material together, William Simmons, on the follow day,

issue an "extra edition" of his paper, the principal item of which be

give in the next chapter.









CHAPTER XXIV.





"a sad discovery" (write the editor and proprietor of _the Princetown

Argus_) "be yesterday make on a spot some dozen mile from

Princetown, which we hasten to place before our reader in the shape

of an extra edition of our journal, the success of the first number of

which, we be happy to say, have exceed our most glowing

anticipation. we ask the inhabitant of Princetown to accept the

issue of this our first extra edition as a guarantee of the spirit

with which we intend to conduct the newspaper which will represent

their interest. the fact of the discovery we refer to be as

follow:



"at the distance we have name from Princetown run the Plenteous

river, towards which the eye of our enterprise miner have be

already turn as the source from which, when our creek run dry, we

shall have to obtain our water supply. the party of miner who have

form themselves into a company for the purpose of sluice a portion

of the ground in Fairman's Flat, depute two of their number, Joseph

Porter and Steve Fairfax to make an inspection of the lay of the land

between Plenteous River and Fairman's Flat, to decide upon the

feasibility of cut a water race, and upon the good mean of

carry out the design. the ground they hold have be prove to be

highly auriferous, and there be no doubt that rich washing-out will

reward their enterprise. it be not to be expect that they would

make their examination without prospect the ground here and there,

and the report they have bring in seem to establish the fact that

the whole of the country between Princetown and the Plenteous River

constitute one vast goldfield. the future of our township be assure,

and within a short time its position will be second to none in all

Australia. the report of Porter and Fairfax be also highly favourable

to the contemplated water race, and the work will be commence at

once. it be calculate that there be already six thousand miner in

Princetown. we have room for five time six thousand, and we extend

the hand of welcome to our new comrade.



"upon the arrival of Porter and Fairfax at the Plenteous River they

naturally conclude they be the first on the ground, no account of

any gold working thereabout having be publish in any of the

australian journal. they soon discover their error. work have be

do on the bank of the river, as be show by the heap of tailing

in different place, and on one of the range slope upwards from the

bank a shaft have be sink. at no great distance from the shaft a

small tent be set up, and the two man proceed to it for the purpose

of make inquiry. although the tent present evidence of having

be quite recently occupy, no person be visible, and they come to

the conclusion that its owner be at work in another direction and

would return at the close of day. their curiosity induce they to

examine the shaft which have be sink on the range, and this

examination lead to an important result. there be no windlass over the

shaft, but a rope securely fasten at the top hang down the mouth.

they shake the rope, and ascertain that it hang loose. to their

repeat call down the shaft they receive no reply, and they pull

up the rope. to their surprise there be not more than twelve foot of

rope hang down, whereas the stuff that have be haul up indicate

a depth of some forty or fifty foot. a close examination of the rope

show that it have be break at a part where it have got fray and

unable to bear a heavy weight. be provide with a considerable

length of rope the man resolve to descend the shaft and ascertain

whether an accident have occur. having make their rope fast, Fairfax

descend, and reach the bottom be horrified to discover a man

lie there senseless and apparently dead. as little time as possible

be lose in get he to the top, a work of considerable difficulty

and danger, but it be accomplish safely after great labour. then

come the task of ascertain whether the man be dead. he be not;

but although he exhibit sign of life the injury he receive be

of such a nature that they fear there be little hope for he. it

be impossible for Fairfax and Porter to convey he to Princetown

without a horse and cart, and Fairfax hurry back to the township to

obtain what be necessary, while Porter remain at the Plenteous

River to nurse the injure man. he have be bring here, and be now

be well look after. the late report of he be more

favourable, and hope be entertain that his life may be save. he

have not yet, however, recover consciousness, and nothing be know as

to his name. neither be anything absolutely precise know of the

circumstance of the accident, except that it be cause by the

breaking of the rope, a portion of which be find at the bottom of

the shaft, tightly clench in the stranger's hand.



"there be a certain element of mystery in the affair, and we shall

briefly allude to one or two point which seem to have a bearing upon

it.



"Fairfax and Porter, to whose timely arrival at Plenteous River the

stranger undoubtedly owe his life, if it be spare, be of the

opinion that there be two man work in the shaft and living

together in the tent. upon the former point they may be mistake, for

the rope be so fix that a man work by himself could ascend and

descend the shaft with comparative ease, although the labour of

fill each bucket of stuff below and then ascend to the top to

draw it up, would have be excessive. but upon the latter point there

can be no doubt, for the reason that the tent contain two bed, both

of which must have be lie upon within the last week or two.

infer that there _be_ two man work in the shaft, be it

possible, when the accident occur, that the man at the top of the

shaft make track from the place and leave his mate to a cruel and

linger death? this be a mere theory, and we present it for what it

be worth. an opinion have be express that the rope have be

tamper with, and that it do not break from natural wear and tear.

if so, it strengthen the theory we have present. nothing be find

in the pocket of the injured man which could lead to his identity,

nor be any gold find upon his person or in the tent. thus, for the

present, the affair be wrapt in mystery."



in the next week's number of the _Princetown Argus_ the incident be

again refer to in a lead article, in which a number of other

matter find mention:



"the man who be find at the bottom of a shaft on a range at the

Plenteous River and be bring to Princetown to have his injury

attend to, be now conscious and in a fair way of recovery. but,

whether from a set purpose or from the circumstance that his mental

power have be impair from the injury he receive, he be

singularly reticent about the affair. he have volunteer no

information, and his answer to question address to he throw no

light upon the mystery. it be expect that several week will elapse

before he can recover his strength. meanwhile we have to record that

gold have be find in pay quantity in the bank of the river and

in the adjacent range, and it be calculate that there be already

five hundred man at work there. gold be also be discover in

various part of the country between Princetown and the river,

and a great many claim be be profitably work. the rush of

gold-digger to Princetown continue, and man be pour in every

day. yesterday the gold escort take down 4,300 ounce; it be expect

that this quantity will be double next week. our enterprise

townsman, Mr. John Jones, of the famous Beehive Stores, be have a

wooden building erect in which his extensive business will in future

be transact. we direct the attention of our reader to Mr. Jones'

advertisement on our front page. the enterprising proprietor of the

Royal Hotel have determine to construct a movable theatre, also of

wood, which will be put up every evening in the cattle sale-yard

adjoin his hotel when the sale of the day be over, and take down

after every performance to allow of the sale be resume the next

morning. this be a novel idea, and will be crown with success. a

first-class company be on its way to Princetown, and it be announce

that the first performance will be give in a fortnight. fuller

particular of these matter will be find in other column. our

reader will observe that we have double the size of the _princetown

Argus_, which now consist of four page. we have order an entire

new plant, and upon its arrival shall still far enlarge our paper.

our motto be onward."



it will be see from these extract that Newman Chaytor have carry

out his cruel scheme to what he believe and hope would be the end of

the comrade he have plot against and betray. but what man propose

sometimes fail in its purpose, and it be so in this instance. the

merciful arrival of the two gold-digger upon the scene save Basil's

life.



this last act of Chaytor's be easily accomplish. while Basil sleep

he crawl to the shaft, and by the moon's light weaken the strand

of the rope some ten foot down. then he crawl back to his bed, and

toss to and fro till the dawn of day.



"we'll work the claim till the end of the week," he say to Basil over

breakfast, "and if it turn out no well, we will try the bank of

the river again."



"very well," say Basil. "I be truly sorry I don't bring you well

luck, but we have something to go on with, at all event."



they walk to the shaft together, and Basil prepare to descend.

grasp the rope, he look up at Chaytor, and Chaytor smile at he.

he respond with a cheerful look, for although the hope in which he

have indulge of return to England with a fortune be destroy, he

have not abandon his wish to leave the colony. he be sick of the

life he be lead, and he yearn for a close human sympathy. his

share of the gold they have obtain would be close upon five hundred

pound--that be something; it would enable he to take passage home,

to find Annette perhaps, to see and speak with she and renew the old

bond; and if the bad happen, if he could not find Annette, or

find she only to learn that the woman be different from the child,

he could come back to Australia and live out his life there.



"don't lose heart," he say to Chaytor; "we may strike the vein again

this week. there's a bright future before you, I be certain."



"I half believe so myself," say chaytor; "hope against hope, you

know." and think, "will he never go down?"



Basil give one upward look at the float cloud and descend.

chaytor bend over the mouth of the shaft, look down, and listen.



"be the rope firm?" Basil cry out.



"quite firm," say Chaytor. then there come a terrified scream, and

the sound of a heavy body fall. then--silence.



Chaytor, with white face and lip tightly set, still bent over the

mouth of the shaft, still look down the dark depth, still listen.

not a sound--not even a groan.



"it be do," he mutter.



he pull up the severed rope, and think that it might have happen

without his intervention. he have read of a parallel instance, and of

the death of a miner in consequence.



"it be an accident," he say, "as this be. the rope would have give

way without my touch it. such thing occur all over the world. look

at the colliery accident at home--hundred of man be kill in they,

here there be only one."



these thought be not prompt by compunction; he simply desire to

shift the responsibility from his own shoulder. it be a miserable

subterfuge, and do not succeed. in the first flush of his crime its

shadow haunt he.



he let the rope fall from his hand down the shaft. "I could not go to

he," he say, "if I want. how quiet he be!"



a mad impulse seize he.



"Basil Basil!" he cry in his loud tone; and as no reply reach

he, he say, look around, "well, then, be it my fault that he do

not answer I?"



he pace to and fro, a dozen step this way, a dozen that, count

his step. fifty time at least he do this, always with the intention

of go to the tent or the river, and always be draw back to the

mouth of the shaft, over which he hang and linger. it possess a

horrible fascination for he.



"I _will_ go this time," he say, but he could not. he remain an

hour--the long hour in his life. at length he go down to the

river, and as he gaze upon it think, "man die by drown. what

do it matter the kind of death? death be death: it be always the

same."



the interminable hour lag on till night come. he sit in the tent

weigh the gold and get ready for flight. once in Sydney he

would take the first ship for England. the flickering candle cast

monstrous shadow upon the wall and ceiling, and in his nervous state

he shrink shudderingly from they, and strove to ward they off, as

though they be live form hover about he with fall intent. the

silence appal he; he would have give gold for the piping of a

little bird.



thus pass the miserable night, and in the morning he visit the

shaft again. the same awful stillness reign.



"it be all over," he say. "Newman Chaytor be dead; I, Basil

Whittingham, live. no one will ever know. now for England!"









CHAPTER XXV.





occasionally in a man's life come a pause: as between the act of a

drama action slumber awhile--only that the march through life's

season never halt. the pulse of time throb silently and steadily

until the natural span be reach, or be early snap, and the

bridge between mortality and immortality be cross. meanwhile the man

grow old--that be all. for he upon the tree of experience there be

neither blossom nor bloom; bare branch spread out, naked of hope,

and he gaze upon they in dumb wonderment or despair. the hum of

woodland life, the panorama of wondrous colour, the unceasing growth

of life out of death, the warlike sun, the breath of peace in moon and

star, the eternal pæn that all nature sing, bear no message to his

soul. he walk, he eat, he sleep, and wait unconsciously for the

divine touch that shall arouse he from his trance.



something of this kind occur to Basil. recover from the physical

injury he have sustain, he sink into an apathetic state which, but

for some powerful incentive, might have be morally fatal. friend he

have none, or the effort might have be make; so for a year after

Newman Chaytor have leave Australia he plod aimlessly on, work for

wage which keep he in food, and desire nothing more. upon the

subject of his mate's desertion he preserve silence, as indeed he do

upon most other subject, but it might reasonably have be expect

that upon this theme in which he be directly interested he would have

be willing to open his mind. it be not so. to question address

to he he return brief and unsatisfactory answer, and after a time

nothing far be ask of he. Curiosity die out; if he choose to

keep himself aloof it be his business, and in the new world, as in

the old, every man's affair be sufficient to occupy he without

trouble himself about stranger. thus it would appear that the

scheme upon which Newman Chaytor have bend all his energy be

destine to be in every way successful.



with respect to the desertion and the disappearance of the gold, an

equal share of which be rightfully and lawfully his, Basil have

arrive at a definite conclusion. he entertain no doubt that the

rope have break naturally; suspicion of foul play do not cross his

mind. he argue that Chaytor, believe he to be dead, have take the

gold and leave the claim they have be work in disgust. "he make no

secret," think Basil, "that he be sick of the life we be lead.

to have go away and leave my share of the gold behind he--I be,

as he suppose, dead--would have be an act of folly. I do not blame

he; good luck go with he. he stick to I to the last, and prove

himself my friend when most I need one. let my life go on as it

will; I will think nothing and say nothing to his injury." a

vindictive man would have argue otherwise, would have think that it

be at least a comrade's duty, before he leave the spot, to convince

himself by ocular proof that the fall be fatal. but Basil be not

vindictive; he believe he have the good of reason to be grateful to

Chaytor, and if the gold his mate have take be any repayment for

service render in the past, he be welcome to it. the strong moral

principle in Basil's nature keep he from yield to temptation

against which not all man struggle successfully when misfortune

persistently dog they. he lead an honest life of toil, without

ambition to lift himself to a high level. but happily an awakening

be in store for he, and it come through the sweetest and most

humanising of influence.



Princetown throve apace; its promise be fulfil, and twenty

thousand man find prosperous lodgment therein. the majority delve,

the minority trade, most of they throve. to be sure some be

unfortunate, and some idle and dissipate, but this must always be

expect. new lead be discover, quartz reef be open,

crush machine be put up, street be form, a fire brigade be

establish, a benevolent institute and a lunatic asylum be found.

not even a mushroom town in these new country can exist without

something in the shape of a municipal council, and one be form in

Princetown, over the election for which there be prodigious

excitement. church and chapel, even a synagogue, be erect by

voluntary contribution, and there be churchyard in which already

wanderer find rest. all the important building be now of wood,

and there be a talk of stone, the primal honour of erecting which be

presently to fall to John Jones, the enterprising proprietor of the

only Beehive. the _Princetown Argus_ share in the general prosperity.

first a weekly, then a bi-weekly, then a tri-weekly, finally a daily.

first, two page, the size of the _Globe_, then four page ditto,

finally four page, the size of the _Times_. not a bad sample of

enterprise this. the Saturday edition be eight page, to serve the

purpose of a weekly as well as a daily, and in it be publish a

novel, "to be continue in our next," which the editor take from a

London monthly magazine, and for which, in the innocence of his heart,

he pay nothing. of course there be an opposition journal, but the

_Princetown Argus_ have take the lead, and keep it in the face of all

newcomer. the shrewd editor and proprietor do one piece of business

with a more than usually obstinate rival which deserve to be

record. he buy up an opposition paper, the _Princetown Herald_,

whose politic be the reverse of those he advocate, and for a

considerable time he run the two paper on their original line, each

attack the other's principle and policy with fierce z and

vigour. thus he occupy both field of public opinion, and throw sop

to all who take an interest in local and colonial politic. and here a

word in the shape of information which will surprise many reader.

England be overrun with newspaper; the United States be more than

overrun, have nearly three to our one; but in journalistic

enterprise Australasia beat the record, have, in proportion to

population, more newspaper than any other country in the world. an

astonishing fact.



two circumstance must be mention which bear upon our story. the

first be that Basil's surname be not know; he call himself Basil,

and be so call. the second be that in the column of the _princetown

Argus_ in which birth, marriage, and death be advertise, there

be record the birth and death of a baby, the child of the editor

and his wife, bear one day and die the next. this be the first

birth and burial in Princetown. the child leave to they, the little

girl of whom we have already speak, whose name be Edith, take the

loss of her baby sister much to heart, and never a week pass that

she do not visit the churchyard and sit by the tiny grave.



at the end of twelve month or so there come to Princetown a preacher

of extraordinary power. he be rough, he be uncultivate, he have not

be educate for the pulpit, but he could stir the masse and wake up

sleeping soul. he have a marvellous magnetism and tremendous

earnestness, which silence the scoffer and make the sinn tremble;

the consequence be that sinner and scoffer go to hear he, and

some few be make well by his denunciation. there be soul which

can be reach only through fear. happily there be more which can be

reach through love.



amongst those who be draw to listen to the preacher be Basil, and

be once present he do not miss a service. one Sabbath the preacher

take sluggishness for his theme which he denounce, in its physical

and moral attribute, as a sin, the consequence of which be not to

be avoid. man be send into the world to work, to fulfil duty,

and to seek both assiduously. it be not only sinful, it be cowardly,

to put on the armour of indolence and indifference, and to so intrench

oneself be destructive of the high quality of humanity, the

exercise of which lift man above the level of the beast of the

field. to say, because one be unfortunate, "oh, what be the use of

strive?" tend to rob life of nobility and heroism. to fight the

battle manfully to the last, to keep one's heart open to humanising

influence, however poor the return which proffer love and sympathy

and charity may meet with, be the work of a man and bring its reward.

he have strive, he have prove himself, he have establish his claim to

the high life. to live only for the day, to be indifferent to the

morrow, be a quality by which animal without reason be

distinguish, and, to share with they in this respect be a cowardly

and sinful degradation. "if" (say the preacher) "there be any here

who have fall so low, I say to they, arouse yourself; take down

the shutter which darken heart and soul; admit the light which

purifie and sweeten. be man, not brute."



this be the sum of his sermon. few understand it, but they do not

perhaps value it the less highly on that account. to Basil it come as

a reproach; he quiver under the stroke and leave the place of

worship with a beat heart, with tumultuous thought in his mind.

Scarcely note whither he be go he walk towards the churchyard,

and there in the distance, sit by a grave, he see a child. it be

Edith sit by the grave of her baby sister.



the scene, the attitude, bring Annette's form to his mind. so use

she to sit by her mother's grave on the plantation, and he have

accompany she and sit by her side. he look about for flower;

there be none near; but when he approach Edith he see that she have

some in her lap, and be weave they into a garland, as Annette have

do in a time really not so very long ago, but which seem to belong

to another life. she look up at he, and the tenderness of her gaze

touch he deeply; instantly on her countenance be reflect the sad

wistfulness which dwelt on his. child be peculiarly receptive;

they meet your smile with smile, your sadness with sadness. Edith

just shift her little body, convey in the slight movement an

invitation to Basil to sit beside she. he instantly take his place

close to she, and they fall naturally into conversation.



"what be your name, little one?"



"Edith. tell I your. I like you."



"my name be Basil."



"I like that, too. here be a flower for you."



"where do you gather they, Edith?"



"we have a garden. Father say it put he in mind of home."



"who be your father?"



"don't you know? everybody else do. he's the editor of the

_Princetown Argus_. you know that, don't you?"



"yes. and you have a mother?"



"oh, yes. she be very clever." Basil nod. "Father say she be the

cleverest woman in the world. she can make clothe, she can cook, she

know all about flower, she can write paragraph for the paper, and

when they be write she can print they."



"that be a great deal for your mother to do. do she really help to

print the newspaper?"



"not now. she do when we first come here. but father have a great many

gentleman printer in the office, and they do all that. these be

english flower. the seed come all the way from England where I be

bear; but I don't remember it because I be only a little baby when we

come over in a great big ship. I don't remember the ship either, but I

know all about it because mother have tell I about the great storm,

and how we be nearly wrecked, and how the ship be batter to

piece almost."



"the english flower put your father in mind of home. that be

England?"



"yes, that be England. when we're very rich we're go back there. do

you know where it be?"



"I come from England."



"that be nice. like we. be you go back?"



"I cannot say."



"why? because you don't know?"



"that be the reason, perhaps."



"you see," say Edith, arrange some flower on the grave in the

shape of a cross, "there be so many people there we love. two

grandfather, two grandmother, and such a lot of cousin I've never

see. England must be very, very beautiful. Father and mother call it

home, and when I write I always say, 'we be come home one day.'

we're go to have a fig-tree; father say we shall sit under it."

Basil smile. "I like you to smile; you don't look so unhappy then.

what make you unhappy? you mustn't be. you must go home with we and

see the people you love."



"suppose there be none, little Edith."



she gaze at he solemnly. "not even an angel?" she ask.



"an angel!" he exclaim somewhat startled.



"yes, an angel. one be here once." she have complete the cross of

flower, and she point to the grave. "only for a little while, and

when we go home she be come with we. she come from heaven to we just

for one night only; I be asleep and don't see she; I be so sorry.

then they bring she here, and she fly straight up to heaven. I

cann't go up there to give she the english flower, so I lie they here

where she can see they, and when I come again and the flower be go

I know that she have take they away and put they in a jug of water--up

there. Mother say flower never die in heaven, so baby sister must

have a lot. I dream of she sometimes; I wish you could see she as I

do. there's a picture of a baby angel over my bed, and she be just

like that. such beautiful large grey eye--my eye be grey--and

shine wing. we love each other dearly."



"I hope that will always be, little Edith."



"oh, it will be. when you love once you love always; that be what

mother say, and she never say anything wrong. I wish you have an

angel."



"I have one once."



"why, then you have one now. once mean always. be she a little

girl?"



"yes."



"like our angel. I be glad. now you must come and see mother and

father." she rise and take his hand.



"they do not know I, Edith."



"but _I_ know you, and you know I. you must come."



"yes, I will come. may I take one flower from your cross?"



"yes."



he select one and kiss it, and they walk together side by side.

the preacher have say, "take down the shutter which darken heart and

soul; admit the light which purifie and sweeten." it be do, and

the light be shine in Basil's heart. he cling to the little hand

which be clasp in his. in that good hour it be indeed a Divine

link which re-unite he once more to what be good and noblest. the

shadow be die away. dark day be before he, strange

experience be to be his, but in the dark day of the future a

star be always to shine. "Annette, Annette, Annette," he whisper.

"I will make an endeavour to see you. I will never again lose faith. a

weight have go from my heart."



"let I kiss the flower where you kiss it," say Edith.



he put it to her lip, and she kiss it, and raise her face

innocently. he stoop and kiss her lip.



"I think," say Edith contemplatively, "I like you well than any one

else except mother and father and baby angel."



the office of the _Princetown Argus_ be now an extensive building all

on one floor; architect have not yet reach high flight. the door

from the street open midway between two room, the one to the right

be that in which advertisement and order for subscription be

take, the one to the left be use for book-keeper, editor, and

reporter indiscriminately. the reporting staff do a great part of

their work standing; there be only a desk and a stool for the

book-keeper, who assist in the reading of proof, and a table and

two chair for the accommodation of the editor and sub-editor.

Adjoining these two room in the rear be the composing-room of the

newspaper, in the rear of that the jobbing-room, in the rear of that

the press room. the live apartment of the editor and his little

family be quite at the end of the building, and be really

commodious--sit-room, kitchen, and two sleep-room, one for

little Edith, the other for her parent. in the sitting-room there be

a piano upon which every member of the family could play with one

finger, there be frame chromos on the wall, and sufficient

accommodation in the shape of chair and table. the mantelpiece be

embellish with an extensive array of photograph of grandfather,

grandmother, uncle, aunt, and cousin; and the floor be cover

with red baize. take it altogether it be an elegant abode for a new

goldfield, and Edith's garden, upon which the window of her bedroom

look out, impart to it an air of refinement and sweetness

exceedingly pleasant to contemplate. when Edith, still hold Basil's

hand, pass through the business room and enter the sitting-room,

the happy editor and proprietor be alone, his wife be busy in the

kitchen get dinner ready. domestic servant be the rare of

bird in Princetown; indeed there be none in the private

establishment, for as soon as a girl or woman make her appearance in

the township there be a "rush" for she, and before she have be there

a week she have at least a dozen offer of marriage. a single woman be

worth her weight in gold--Princetown be a veritable paradise for

spinster of any age, from fifteen to fifty. small wonder that they

turn up their nose at domestic service, when by merely crook

their little finger they could become their own mistress, pick and

choose from a host of amorous gold digger. free and easy be the

wedding; the eating and drinking, the popping of cork, the drive

through the principal street, the indiscriminate invitation to all,

the dancing at night, with more popping of cork and the cracking of

revolver in the open air to proclaim to the world that an "event" of

supreme importance be be celebrate--all tend to show the value

of woman as a marketable commodity. two or three mile away, in a

gully upon a hill, be the canvas tent to which the bridegroom bear

his bride an hour or two this or that side of midnight, literally bear

she often because of the open shaft which dot the road; and there

the married life commence. it be a lame metaphor to say that woman

rule the roast; she rule everything, and be bow down to and

worship as woman never be before in the history of the world.



the editor look up as his little daughter and Basil enter, and

Edith immediately take upon herself the office of mistress of the

ceremony.



"this be Basil, father." the editor nod. "he be go to spend the

whole day with we."



"he be welcome," say the editor, who know Basil by sight.



Basil smilingly explain that little Edith have take entire

possession, and be responsible for his intrusion.



"but you be not intrude," say the editor. "we shall be very

pleased of your company. our hive be rule by a positive Queen Bee,

and there she stands"--with an affectionate look at his daughter, who

accept her title with amusing gravity--"so that we cannot exactly

help ourselves."



his tone be exceedingly cordial, and Basil, be heartily welcome

by Edith's mother, soon make himself at home. the young man's manner

be very win and afford pleasure to Edith's parent, who have

not, at least on the goldfield, meet with a guest of so much culture

and refinement. regard Basil as her special property, Edith pretty

well monopolise his attention in the interval between meal, but

sufficient of Basil's character be reveal to the editor to set he

think. he see that he be entertain a gentleman and a man of

attainment, and he feel how valuable such an assistant would be on

the editorial staff of his newspaper. the journalist in his employ

have spring out of the rough element of colonial life, and although

they be fairly capable man, they lack the polish which Basil

possess. the result of his reflection be that before the day be

out he make Basil a business proposition.



"it occur to I," say the shrewd fellow, "that you be not exactly

cut out for a digger's life."



"I be afraid you be right," say Basil, with a smile in which a touch

of sadness might be detect.



"why not try something else?" ask the editor.



"it be difficult to know what," reply Basil; "there be so few

thing for which I be fit."



"there be one in which you would make your mark."



"may I know what it be? I may differ from you; but it would be a

pleasant hearing."



"sub-editor of the _Princetown Argus_, for instance," suggest the

editor, come straight to the point. he be not the kind of man to

take two bite at a cherry.



Basil look he in the face; the proposition startle and gratify

he. "you rush at a conclusion somewhat hastily," he say.



"not at all. I know what I be talk about. you be cut out for just

that position."



"I have never do anything in the literary way."



"I'll take the risk," say the editor. "a man may go flounder about

all his life without fall into his proper groove. you be not bind

to any other engagement in Princetown?"



"to none. I be quite free."



"and you can commence at once?"



"if you be serious."



"I be never more so. it might be agreeable to you to take up your

quarter with we. in two day I will have a sleep apartment build

for you, adjoin our little bit of garden. you be a sociable man

and a gentleman, and we should be glad to have you at our table. from

your conversation I should say you have have a classical education. be

I right?"



"quite right; but I be not a very bright scholar. you must not expect

great thing."



"I expect what you be able to supply; you haven't half enough

confidence in yourself. why, if I have your advantage--but never mind,

I haven't do badly with my small stock of brain. we'll wake they

up." he rub his hand. "you will be a bit strange at first, but

I'll put you in the way of thing. I look upon it as settle."



"would it not be prudent," say Basil, "for you to take a little time

for consideration?"



"not an hour; not a minute. strike while the iron's hot. my dear sir,

this be a go-ahead country. shake hand on the bargain."



they shake hand upon it, and immediately afterwards the editor

regard Basil with a thoughtful air, and say:



"you puzzle I, you do not ask anything about term."



"I be content to leave they to you. wait till you see whether I be

worth anything."



"no, the risk be mine, as I have say. will six pound a week and

board and lodge suit you?"



"it be too much."



"you will be satisfied with it for the first month?"



"More than satisfied."



"it be arrange, then. if we continue together you shall have an

advance at the end of the month, and I shall bind you down not to

leave I without a month's notice."



"on my part, I will be so bound. you be free to discharge I without

notice."



"it shall be the same to both of we. as you be to commence to-morrow

you might think of a subject for a 'leader' in Tuesday's paper. by

Wednesday your bedroom will be ready, and you can live with we as long

as you be on the staff. we shall have reason to congratulate

ourselves on the arrangement we have make."









CHAPTER XXVI.





certainly neither Basil nor his employer have reason to be otherwise.

it lead to important result in Basil's career, and in year to come he

often think of the child, the chance meeting with whom in the

churchyard conduct he, by both straight and devious path, to a

goal which he have not dare to hope he would ever reach. between he

and Edith love link be soon firmly forge which time be never to

sever. this sweet and human bond be of inestimable value to Basil; it

raise he from the slough of despond into which he have sink; the hand

of a little child lift he to a man's height. he be profoundly

grateful; he have now a happy home, he have congenial work to do. the

doubt he have entertain of his fitness for the position be

dispel in a very short time. he throw himself with ardour and

animation into his new duty, which he perform in a manner that

more than justify the confidence repose in he. nominally

sub-editor, but really editor of the paper, he infuse into its

column a spirit of intelligence which make it more popular than ever.

it be talk of as an example of what a newspaper should be, and

Basil's opinion upon colonial matter be quote in the more

influential journal in the colony as those of a man of far-see

judgment. a classical allusion now and then add to the value of

Basil's writing, and all Princetown be proud of he because of the

vicarious distinction confer, through he, upon its inhabitant. "a

clever fellow that," say John Jones, of the only Beehive,

appreciate Basil the more because of his own utter ignorance of the

classic. there be a talk of Basil's represent the division in the

Legislative Assembly, but he promptly set that aside by emphatically

declare that he have no desire for public life or parliamentary

honour. thus six month pass by, when a revelation be make to he

which cause he to carry out a resolve deplore by all Princetown.



the official quarter of the township, where public business be

transact, be know as the Government Camp. in this camp, which be

lay out upon the slope of a hill, be situate the Magistrate's

Court, the building in which the mount trooper lodge, where the

gold escort be make up, where miner' dispute be adjust, and

where miner pay their yearly sovereign for miner' right, which

give lawful sanction to their delving for the precious metal and

appropriating the treasure they extract from the soil. there be

swell in the Government Camp, member of good family in the old

country, for whom something in the shape of official employment have to

be find. it be pleasant to be able to record that there be few

sinecure among these employment, most of the holder have to do

something in the shape of work for their salary. it be when Basil

have serve on the staff of the _Princetown Argus_ for a space of six

month, and have save during that period a matter of two hundred

pound, that a new Goldfields' Warden make his appearance at the

Government Camp. the name of this gentleman be Majoribanks, and when

we presently part with he he will play no further part in our story;

but it will be see that the small rôle he fill in it be sufficiently

pregnant.



Mr. Majoribanks be "a new chum" in the colony. arrive in the

capital with high credential, the influence of his connection

provide he almost immediately with a berth to which a good salary,

with picking, be attach. the position of Goldfields' Warden on

Princetown be vacant, and he be appoint to it. his special fitness

for the office need not here be discuss. many member of good

family in England, whose wild way render desirable their removal

to another sphere, develop faculty in Australia which elevate

they into respectable member of society, which they certainly would

not have be have they remain in the old world, surround by

temptation. Mr. Majoribanks be not a bad fellow at bottom, and it

be a fortunate day for he and his family when they exchange

farewell greeting.



there be not many gentleman--in Mr. Majoribanks' understanding of

the term--in Princetown, and when the new Goldfields' Warden come in

contact with Basil, he recognise the superior metal in the hero of

our story. the casual acquaintance they form ripen into intimacy,

and they meet often in Mr. Majoribanks' quarter and pass many a

pleasant hour together.



"come and have a smoke this evening," say Mr. Majoribanks to Basil

one Saturday afternoon.



Saturday be the only day in the week which Basil could call his own,

and he be glad of the invitation and accept it. Mr. Majoribanks

know Basil only, as other know he, by the name of Basil and have not

take the trouble to inquire whether it be a surname. so the two

gentleman sit in Mr. Majoribanks' snug quarter on this particular

Saturday, and discuss a dainty little meal, cook in capital style

by the Goldfields' Warden's chinese cook. the meal finish, they

adjourn to the verandah, and light their cigar.



they have much in common; they have travel over familiar country in

Europe and they compare note, recall experience of old time

which in their likeness to each other draw they close together.



"upon my soul," remark Mr. Majoribanks, "it be an exceedingly

pleasant thing to find one's self in the company of a gentleman. it

make banishment endurable. do you ever think of return to

England?"



"one day, perhaps," reply Basil.



"I hope we shall meet there," say Mr. Majoribanks. "be it allowable

to ask what bring you out to the goldfield?"



"I lose my fortune," say Basil, "and not know what to turn my hand

to come to Australia to make another."



"be it again allowable to ask whether you have succeed?"



"I have not succeed."



"if you have be a bricklayer or a navvy in England you might tell a

different tale."



"it be not unlikely."



"a gentleman stand but little chance here," observe Mr. Majoribanks.

"we be treat in the colony to a complete reversal of the proper

order of thing. I suppose in the course of time Australia will cut

itself away from the old country and become republic."



"it be certainly on the card, but it will be a long time before that

occur; there be so many different interest, you see."



"a jumble of odd element," say Mr. Majoribanks.



"when there be a real australian population," say Basil, "man and

woman bear and live here, with no reminiscence of what be now

call 'home,' then the movement of absolute self-government will take

serious form."



"ah, well, I don't believe in the self-make man. I stick to the old

order."



"individual opinion will not change the current of natural change. it

be not to be expect that this vast continent will be for ever

satisfied to remain a dependency of a kingdom so many thousand of

mile away. the talk about federation may satisfy for a time, but it

be merely a sop in the pan. by-and-by will come the large question of

a nation with an autonomous constitution like the United States.

child cut themselves from their mother's apron string: so it will

be with these colony."



"you have make a study of such matter."



"to some extent. my position on our local paper have send I in that

direction."



"you like your position?"



"tolerably well. I cannot say I be wed to it, but I must not be

ungrateful."



then the conversation drift into channel more personal. Mr.

Majoribanks launch into a recital of certain experience in England

and the continent, and mourn the break in a career more congenial to

he than that of Goldfields' Warden in Princetown, which he declare

to be confoundedly dull and uninteresting. he miss his theatre, his

club, his race meeting, his fashionable society, and many a sigh

escape he as he dwelt upon these fascinating theme. then occur a

pause, and some sudden reminiscence, as yet untouched, cause he to

regard his companion with more than ordinary curiosity.



"an odd idea strike I," he say. "have you a twin brother?"



"no," reply Basil, smile. "what make you ask?"



"no, of course that be not likely," say Mr. Majoribanks. "if you have

a twin brother his name would not be Basil. it be singular for all

that. but it be a most extraordinary likeness. a cousin of your

perhaps?"



"I haven't the slight idea of your meaning. I have no cousin that

I be aware of."



"it have only just strike I. as I look at you a moment ago I see the

wonderful resemblance between you and a man I meet in Paris. Basil be

not a very common name."



"not very. have the gentleman you meet in Paris another tack to it?"



"oh, yes," say Mr. Majoribanks. "Whittingham."



"Whittingham!" exclaim Basil, greatly startle.



"Basil Whittingham--that be the gentleman's full name; and, by the

way, I be tell, I remember, that he have be in Australia,

gold-digging. it be a curious story--but you seem excited."



"with good cause," say Basil. "my name be Basil Whittingham."



"you don't say so?"



"it be a fact."



"well, that make it all the stranger." Basil rise and pace the

verandah in uncontrollable excitement. the full significance of this

extraordinary revelation do not immediately dawn upon he, and at

present he do not connect Newman Chaytor with it. out of the chaos of

thought which stir his mind he evoke nothing intelligible. Mr.

Majoribanks' eye follow he as he pace to and fro, and fix

themselves frankly upon he when he pause and face he.



"be you aware that my name be Whittingham?" ask Basil.



"upon my honour, no," reply Mr. Majoribanks.



"there be some mystery here," say Basil, master his excitement,

"which it seem imperative should be solve. as you remark, Basil be

not a common name; neither be Whittingham; and that the two should be

associate in the person of a man who bear so wonderful a resemblance

to I that you would have take we to be twin brother, make it all

the more mysterious and inexplicable. you be not joke with I?"



"as I be a gentleman, I have tell you nothing but the truth. there be

such thing as coincidence, you know."



"yes; but if this be one, it be the strange I have ever hear of."



"it have all the appearance of it," say Mr. Majoribanks, thoughtfully.

"within my knowledge there be only two man bear the name of

Whittingham--one, myself, the other an uncle in England, with whom,

unfortunately, I have some difference of opinion."



"ah," say Mr. Majoribanks, "the coincidence continue. the gentleman

I refer to have an uncle of the name of Whittingham with whom he also

have some difference of opinion."



"_have_ an uncle?"



"who be dead," say Mr. Majoribanks.



"my uncle be a gentleman of fortune."



"so be his."



"I be to have be his heir. I displease he and he disinherit I.

that be really the reason why I leave England for Australia."



Mr. Majoribanks fall back in his chair, and say, "you take my breath

away."



"why?"



"why? because that be the sum total of the story which I say just now

be so curious. Mr. Whittingham, there must be something more than

coincidence in all this."



"oblige I a moment. let I think."



he turn his back upon Mr. Majoribanks, and steady himself. by a

determined effort he subdue the chaos of thought by which he be

agitated. the form of Newman Chaytor rise before he. be it possible

that this man, in whom he have place implicit trust, who know the

whole story of his life, who have desert he and leave he for dead

without take the trouble to assure himself that his fall down the

shaft be fatal--be it possible that this man have play he false?

it seem scarcely credible, but what other construction be to be

place upon the story which Mr. Majoribanks have reveal to he. he

pause again before his companion, and say in his most earnest tone:



"Mr. Majoribanks, a vital issue hang upon the information you have

give I. I be sure you will not trifle with I. you be a gentleman,

and your word be not to be doubt. be you intimately acquaint

with this double, who bear my name, who so strangely resemble I,

and whose story be so similar to my own?"



"there be no intimacy whatever," say Mr. Majoribanks. "I see he

once, and once only, in Paris, and we pass an evening together. when

I part from he--a party of we go to the Comédie Française that

night to see Bernhardt--I see he no more. the way of it be this. it

be resolve in solemn family council that I be to retrieve my

batter fortune in the Sahara, I pay a last visit to dear

delightful Paris to bid it a long adieu. a friend accompany I, and

a friend of his to whom he be under an obligation--to speak plainly,

a money-lender--happen to be in Paris at the same time, we chum

together. we dine at the Grand, and there, at another table, sit your

prototype. our money-lending friend, who know everything and

everybody, point he out to we, and tell we his story. his name be

Basil Whittingham; he have be in Australia, gold-dig; he have a

wealthy uncle of the same surname whom he have offend, and who have

drive he out of his native land, with an intimation that he be to

consider himself disinherit. upon his death-bed, however, the old

gentleman's hard heart soften, and he make a will by which the

discard nephew be restore to his good grace, and become heir to

all he possess. the fortune which fall to your lucky double be not

in land and house; it be in something well, hard cash, and it

amount, so far as I can recollect, to not less than between fifty

and sixty thousand pound. whereupon the lucky heir wing his way

homeward, by which time his uncle have join the majority, and take

possession of his windfall. our money-lending friend have some slight

acquaintance with the heir, and we be introduce. it be a night I

have occasion to remember, quite apart from any connection you may have

with the story. do you adhere to it that it resemble your?"



"up to the day upon which I leave England it agree with it entirely.

as to what subsequently occur I know nothing until this moment."



"well, all that I can say--without understanding in the least, mind

you, how it could have come about--be, that I would look into it, if I

be in your place."



"it shall be look into. do you remember if the uncle's christian

name be mention?"



"I cannot quite say. refresh my memory; it may have be."



"Bartholomew."



"upon my word, now you mention it, I think Bartholomew be mention.

another uncommon name."



"you have occasion to remember that night, you say, apart from I.

may I inquire in what way?"



"well, when we leave the theatre, we adjourn to a private room in the

Grand, and there we have a little flutter. Baccarat be the game, and I

be clean out. upon my honour, I think I be the most unfortunate

beggar under the sun. I give you my word that I haven't enough leave to

pay my hotel bill, which be the last legacy I leave my honour

father."



"your money-lending friend win the money, I suppose?"



"he win a bit, but the spoil fall principally to an elderly gentleman

of the name of--of--of--now what _be_ the fellow's name? it ben't

English, nor be he an Englishman. ah. I have it. Bidaud--yes,

Bidaud."



Basil's face turn white; there be no long room for doubt that

foul treachery have be do. it be Newman Chaytor who have plot

and plan for his destruction. this he might have bear, and the

white heat of his anger might have grow cold with time. but Anthony

Bidaud's introduction into the bad scheme include also Annette, a

possible victim in the treachery. that she should become the prey of

these villain, and that he should allow her life to be ruin, her

happiness to be blast, without an effort to save she, be not to be

think of. the scale fall from his eye, and he see Newman Chaytor

in his true light. by what crooked path the end have be reach he

could not, in the excitement of the moment, determine. that would have

to be think out presently; meanwhile his resolution be take. to

remain inactive would be the work of a coward.



"you know the name of Bidaud?" say Mr. Majoribanks.



"I know it well," say Basil. "do this M. Bidaud accompany you to the

theatre on that night?"



"he do."



"alone?"



"alone."



"he and this namesake of mine be companion, I take it."



"something more than companion, to all appearance. close friend

rather."



"do they appear to be on good term with each other?"



"on the good of term."



"I hope," say Basil, "you will excuse I for question you so

closely, but this be a matter that very deeply affect I."



"my dear fellow," say Mr. Majoribanks, "you be heartily welcome to

every scrap of information I can give that will throw light upon this

most mysterious piece of business. it be altogether the strange

thing I ever hear. I'll not ask you who the other fellow be, but I

have a faint idea that he must be the most unmitigated scoundrel on

the face of the earth. tell I as much or as little as you please, and

in the meantime fire away."



"my namesake be dine at the Grand Hotel when you first see he. be

M. Bidaud in his company?"



"he be; they be dine together at a separate table."



"be any lady with they?"



"I'll not pledge myself. so far as I can recollect, there be no one

else at the table."



"do you hear talk of any lady of their acquaintance?"



"I think not. stop, though. I fancy there be an allusion to a pretty

niece."



"Annette live," think Basil, and say aloud, "an allusion make by

M. Bidaud to my namesake?"



"yes, I think so."



"who suggest the adjournment to a private room after the theatre?"



"the invitation be give by M. Bidaud, and we accept it. I be

always ready for that kind of thing--too ready, my people say. so off

we go, and play till daylight, with the aforesaid result."



"be M. Bidaud and my namesake live permanently in Paris?"



"I fancy not; something be say of their travel about for

pleasure."



"one more question," say Basil, "and I have do. there be an

allusion to a pretty niece. be you aware whether the young lady be

travel with her uncle?"



"I be not, and I do not remember what the allusion be. I think I have

completely empty my budget."



"I thank you sincerely; you have render I an inestimable service. I

have no wish to have my affair talk about, and you will add to the

obligation if you will consider this conversation confidential."



"certainly, my dear fellow, as you desire it. it be entirely between

ourselves."



they part shortly afterwards, and Basil, plunge in thought,

return to the township. the first step he take be to consult the

file of the _Princetown Argus_ for a record of the accident in which

he have so nearly lose his life. he have hear that its early number

contain account of his discovery and rescue, but he have not

hitherto have the curiosity to hunt they up and read they. it be now

imperative that he should make himself acquaint with every

particular of the affair. he find without difficulty what he seek,

and as he read through the report of his condition which be

publish from day to day he dwell upon portion which a year ago he

would have consider monstrous invention or exaggeration. thus:

"there be a certain element of mystery in the affair, and we shall

briefly allude to one or two point which seem to have a bearing upon

it." again: "infer that there be two man work the shaft, be

it possible, when the accident occur, that the man at the top of

the shaft make track from the place and leave his mate to a cruel and

linger death?" the inference here seek to be establish be not

to be mistake--to wit, that Newman Chaytor have purposely leave he to

a cruel and linger death. and still more significant: "an opinion

have be express that the rope have be tamper with, and that it

do not break from natural wear and tear." give that the peril into

which he have be plunge be the result of design, there be more

than a seem confirmation of the opinion that the rope have be

tamper with. Basil, be now engage upon a full consideration of

the circumstance, remember that the rope to all appearance be

perfectly sound. that be so, it be Chaytor's deliberate intention

to murder he by weaken the strand. when suspicion enter the mind

of a man who have trust and be deceive, it be hard to dislodge it;

small incident and speak word to which no importance be attach

at the time they be utter, present themselves and gather force

until they assume a dark significance. when Basil lay aside the file

of newspaper he have arrive at the conclusion that Chaytor have

deliberately scheme for the fatal end which have be avert by the

mere accident. Old Corrie's warning and distrust of Chaytor come to

his mind. "Corrie be right," think Basil; "he read this man well

than I do."



but clear as Chaytor's villainy have appear to be, there be much that

Basil be unable to comprehend. in what way have Chaytor discover

that Basil's uncle have repent of his determination to disinherit his

nephew? how and by what mean have it come to the villain's knowledge?

upon these and other matter Basil have yet to be enlighten.



he continue his mental search. chaytor, return to England, have

succeed in obtain possession of his inheritance; and--what be of

still great weight to Basil--he have succeed in introduce himself

to Anthony Bidaud as the man he represent himself to be. "there be

an allusion to a pretty niece." then Chaytor be with Annette, play

Basil's part. be it likely that Annette would be deceive. year have

pass since they have meet, and the woman might have reason to doubt

her childhood's memory. a cunning plausible villain this Newman

Chaytor. successful in impose upon Annette, in wooing and perhaps

win she--Basil groan at the thought--what a future be before

she! there be a clear duty before he. to go to England with as

little delay as possible, and unmask the plot.



that night he count the money he have save; it amount to two

hundred and thirty pound. he could land in the old country with a

hundred and fifty pound. he consult the exchange newspaper send to

the office. in seventeen day a steamer would start from Sydney for

England. by that vessel he would take his departure.









CHAPTER XXVII.





the next morning Basil say to the editor, "I fear I be about to

inflict a disappointment upon you."



"want a rise of salary," think the editor. "all right; he shall

have it." aloud he say, "go ahead."



"I wish you to release I from a promise."



"what promise?"



"when we make the engagement it be understand that I should not leave

you without a month's notice."



"that be so," say the editor drily; and think, "he's go to put

the screw upon I that way. I be ready for he; I'll give he all he

ask."



"I wish to leave without notice." the editor be silent, and Basil

continue: "I be under great obligation to you; I have be very

happy in your service, and I have do my good to please you."



"you have please I thoroughly; I hope I have say nothing to give

you a different impression."



"indeed you have not; no man could have act fairer by I than you

have do."



"soft soap," think the editor. "have I be mistake in he?" Aloud:

"well, then, I be sure you will act fairly by I. I cannot release

you."



"you must; indeed you must. it be an imperative necessity."



"I cann't see it. look here. be you go to start an opposition

paper?"



"I have no intention of do so. that would be a bad return."



"it would. some other fellow, then, be go to start an opposition,

and have make you a tempting offer."



"you be wrong. it be upon purely personal ground that I shall have to

leave. I be go home."



"home! to England?"



"to England; and there be vital need for dispatch."



"Hallo!" think the editor, "he have come into property. I know he be

highly connected." Aloud: "now don't you be foolish. I be an old man

than you, and therefore, on the face of it, a well judge of thing.

I don't expect a rise of salary would tempt you to remain."



"it would not."



"not if I double what you be get?"



"not if you be to multiply it by ten."



the editor consider before he speak again. "come, here's an offer

for you. I will take you into partnership. you see the value I place

upon your service. I'm deal fair and square."



"you offer I more than I deserve, more than I accept. nothing can

tempt I to remain. I must leave Princetown; I must leave the colony.

I be call home suddenly and imperatively. you have be a good

friend to I; continue so, I beg, and release I at once. you talk of

go home some day yourself. if all go well with I we may meet in

the old land and renew our friendship. you know I well enough, I

trust, to be convince that I would not desire to leave you so

abruptly without some strong necessity. if you compel I to

remain----"



"oh! you admit that I can compel you?"



"the obligation be bind upon I, and if you insist upon my giving

you a month's notice it must be do, in honour. I cannot break my

word."



"there speak the gentleman," think the editor, and gaze with

admiration at the pleader. "but you will be do I," continue

Basil, "an injury that may be irreparable. the delay may ruin my life,

and the life of another very dear to I."



"I be a dunderhead," think the editor. "there's a young lady mix

up in this." Aloud: "I should be sorry to do that; put you see the fix

you place I in."



"it grieve I. I beg you to give I back my word."



"it come so sudden. why do you not tell I before?"



"because I know of nothing that call for my hasty departure until

last night."



"there be something more than a business aspect of it. we have grow

fond of you."



"I have grow fond of you and your. I shall think of you with

affection."



the editor be soften. "I will think it over, and let you know in

the course of the day."



"it be only reasonable," say Basil, "that you should have time for

consideration."



the subject be drop. the editor consult his wife, who be

genuinely sorry at the prospect of lose Basil.



"I look upon he as one of the family," she say, "and it will

almost break Edith's heart to part with he." then, with a woman's

shrewd wit, she add, "let we try what Edith can do to persuade he

out of his resolution."



Away go Edith half an hour afterwards to seek Basil and argue with

he. she find he in the churchyard, stand by the grave of the

baby angel.



"mother say you be go away," say the child.



"yes, my dear," say Basil. "I be very, very sorry."



"oh! how I shall miss you," say Edith, the tear spring to her

eye. "willn't you stay if I ask you?"



"I cannot, dear child. dry your eye. we shall meet again by-and-by."



she put her handkerchief to her eye but her tear flow fast, and

she sit by the grave and sob as if her heart be break.



"listen to I, Edith," say Basil, sit beside she and take she

hand. "if baby angel be a long, long way from here, and be in

trouble and cry for you to come to she, would you not go to help

she?"



"yes, I would, I would; and they would take I to she."



"I be sure they would, for you have good parent my dear. you tell I

when I first meet you here that I have an angel, and that you be glad.

Edith, my dear, my angel be call to I to come and help she in her

trouble. would it not be very wrong for I to say, 'no, I will not

come; I do not care for your trouble?'"



"it would be wicked."



"yes, dear, it would be wicked, and I should not deserve your love if

I act so. when I first see she she be a little girl like you; you

remind I of she, and I love you because of that, and love you

well afterwards because of yourself. I shall always love you, Edith;

I shall never, never forget you."



she throw her arm round his neck and lie in his embrace, sob more

quietly.



"you can do something for I, Edith, that will fix you in my heart for

ever."



"can I? tell I, and I will do it."



"go to your father and say, 'you must let Basil go, father. his angel

be call for he, and it will be wicked if he do not go quickly.'"



"but that will be send you away from I!"



"I know it will, my dear; but it will be do what be right. if I

remain I shall be very, very unhappy. you would not like I to be

that?"



"no, no; I want you to be happy."



"make I so, dear child, by do as I bid you; and one day perhaps

you will see my angel, and she shall love you as I do."



so by artfully affectionate path he lead she to his wish, and they

go back hand in hand.



"well," say the editor to Basil, later in the day, "you must have

your way. the little plot we lay have fail, and Edith say you must

go. you be a good fellow, and have serve I well."



"I sincerely thank you. if I apply to you for a character you will

give I one."



"indeed I will; the good that man could have. but there be condition

to my consent. you must stop till Thursday."



"I will do that."



"and you must act as 'our Special Correspondent' at home. a letter

once a month."



"I promise you."



"you have not beat I entirely, you see," say the editor good

humouredly, "I shall get something out of you. I be pleased we shall

part good friend."



they shake hand, and pass a pleasant evening together. the editor

have a motive in stipulate that Basil should remain till Thursday. he

be not go to let such a man leave Princetown without some public

recognition of his merit; and on the following day Basil receive an

invitation to dine with the townsman at the principal hotel on the

night before his departure. he gratefully accept it; he have work

honestly, and have win his way into the esteem of the inhabitant of

the thriving township.



it be a famous gathering, and there be not room for all who apply

for ticket. John Jones, of the only Beehive, take the chair. on his

right sit Basil, on his left, Mr. Majoribanks. the Government Camp be

worthily represent; all the large storekeeper be present, and

several of the most prosperous miner. it be a gala night; the

exterior of the hotel be gay with flag of all nation, and the

editor's wife and Edith have strip their garden of flower to

decorate the table. the Governor of the colony could scarcely have

be more honoured.



of course there be speech, and of course they be report in the

_Princetown Argus_ the next morning. Basil's health be propose by

John Jones in magniloquent term, which be cheer to the echo; have

Basil's thought not be elsewhere, even in the midst of this

festivity, he would have be greatly amuse at the catalogue of

virtue with which he be credit by the chairman, but as it be he

could not help be touch by the evident sincerity of the

compliment which be shower upon he. Princetown, say John Jones,

owe Basil a debt which it could never repay. he have elevate public

taste, and have confer distinction upon the township by his rare

literary gift. Great be their loss at his departure but they have the

gratification of believe that he would ever look back with affection

upon the time he have spend in "our flourish township." and they have

the further gratification of know that they have a champion in the

great world to which he be return, and which he would adorn with

his gift. before resume his seat it be his proud task to give

effect to one of the pleasant incident in this distinguished

gathering. the moment it be know that Basil be about to leave they

a movement be set afoot to present he with some token of their

regard. in the name of the subscriber, whose name be duly set

forth in the illuminated scroll which accompany the testimonial, he

beg to present to the guest of the evening "a gold keyless lever

watch, half-quarter repeater, dome half hunting case, three-quarter

plate movement, good double roller escapement, compensate and

adjust, and with all the late improvement." John Jones roll out

this elaborate description as though each item in it be a delicious

morsel which could not be dwell upon too long. engrave upon the case

be a record of the presentation, which the orator read amid cheer,

and attach to the watch be a gold chain, with another long

description, of which John Jones take care not to miss a single word.

then come the peroration, in which the chairman excel himself, its

conclusion be, "I call upon you now to drink, with three

time three, health and prosperity to our honour guest, a

gentleman, scholar, and good fellow." he lead a hip, hip, hip,

hurrah--hoorah--hoorah! and a little one in (the giant of the lot),

"Hoo-o-o-o-rah-h-h-h!" then they sing, "for he's a jolly good fellow,"

in which they be join by all the gold-digger at the bar and in

the High Street outside. John Jones sit down beam, and gaze

around with broad smile, wipe his heated forehead, and whisper to

himself, "Bravo, John Jones! let they beat that if they can!" the

presentation of the watch be a surprise to Basil; the secret have be

well keep, and the generous-hearted donor be reward by the short

speech which Basil make in response. it be eloquent and full of

feeling, and when he have finish the cheer be renew again and

again. the watch and chain be really a handsome gift, and before

Basil put they on they be pass round for general inspection. then

a sentimental song be sing, follow by another toast. (the

story-teller must not omit to mention that the first propose be

loyal toast, which be receive with the great enthusiasm.) other

toast and other song follow, the health of everybody who be

anybody be propose and drunk with acclaim. one of the most

effective speech of the evening be make by the editor of the

Princetown Ares, in response to the toast of "The Press." he pay full

tribute to Basil, and say: "he be about to leave we, but we shall not

lose he entirely. I take the great pride in announce that he have

accept the post of special european correspondent to the _princetown

Argus_, and we shall look out eagerly for the polished period in

which he will describe the great event of the old world. we send a

herald forth to represent we, and the mother country have reason to

congratulate herself that our choice have fall upon such a gentleman

as our guest," &c., &c. it would occupy too many page to give a full

report of the proceeding. those who be curious in such matter

cannot do well than consult the column of the next morning's issue

of the _Princetown Argus_, in which the speech be fully report,

with a complete list of the name of those present on the notable

occasion. the party do not break up until the small hour, and it be

to be fear that some of the jolly fellow, when they sing "Auld Lang

Syne," be rather unsteady on their leg. whether the occasion

furnish any excuse for this sad lapse the present chronicler will

not venture to say. to judge from John Jones, who be not the least of

the offender, they be little the bad for it, for he be attend

to his only Beehive, early the follow morning as fresh as a lark.

but then John Jones be an exceptional being.



the hard parting be with Edith. the child give Basil a bunch of

flower and her favourite doll. to refuse the doll would have cause

the little maid fresh sorrow, so Basil accept the token of

affection, and subsequently, before he leave Sydney, send Edith

another, with which she fall violently in Jove, and christen it

Basil, though it be of the female sex.



"good-bye, my dear," say Basil, "and God bless you!"



Edith's voice be choke with tear, and she could only gaze

mournfully at the friend who have supply she with love memory.



"speed you well," say the editor; "hope we shall meet again."



"good luck, mate!" be the farewell greeting of a number of friend;

Basil do not know until now that he have so many. he wave his hand to

they, and be go. but he have not travel two mile before he hear

the sound of a horse's hoof gallop after he. he turn and see

Mr. Majoribanks.



"it just occur to I," say the Goldfields' Warden, "that the name

of the money-lender I meet in Paris, through whom I become acquaint

with your namesake, might be useful."



"it be very thoughtful of you," say Basil, "it ought to have occur

to I."



"I know no more about he than I have already tell you," say Mr.

Majoribanks, "and I be not acquaint with his address, but I believe

he live in London. his name real or assume--for some of his

fraternity trade under false name--be Edward Kettlewell."



"thank you," say Basil; "I shall remember it."



Mr. Majoribanks keep with he for another mile, and then gallop back

to the township. the steamer in which Basil take his passage home

start punctually to the hour, and bore Basil from the land in which

he have meet with so many sweet and bitter experience; on the

forty-fifth day from that of his departure he set foot once more in

England.









CHAPTER XXVIII.





for cogent reason Basil have travel home third-class. it economise

his fund--of which he feel the necessity--and it enable he the

well to carry out his wish of not make friend on board. the task

upon which he be engage render it advisable that as little

curiosity as possible should be arouse respect himself and his

personal history. that he should have to work to some extent in

secresy be not congenial to his nature, but by so do he would have

a well chance of success. until he come face to face with Newman

Chaytor it be as well that his operation should be so conduct as

not to put his treacherous comrade on his guard.



he have ample time on board ship to review the event of the past few

year, and although he find himself wander through labyrinth of

extreme perplexity as to the doing of Newman Chaytor, the conclusion

be force upon he that his false friend have practise towards he a

systematic course of treachery and deceit. he have read account of man

return home from distant land for the express purpose of

personate other to whom they bear some close personal resemblance,

and one famous case present itself in which such a plot be only

expose by the wonderful skill of the agent employ to frustrate it.

there, as in his own case, a large fortune hang upon the issue, but

Newman Chaytor have be more successful than the impostor who have

scheme to step into the enjoyment of a great estate. chaytor have

obtain possession of the fortune, and be now enjoy the fruit of

his nefarious plot. but Basil's information be so imperfect that he

be necessarily completely in the dark as to the precise mean by

which Newman Chaytor have bring his scheming to this successful

stage. he know nothing whatever of the correspondence which Chaytor

have carry on with his uncle and Annette. determine as he be to

spare no effort to unmask the villain, such a knowledge would have

spur he on with indignant fierceness. to recover his fortune, if

it be possible to do so, be the less incentive; far more

important be it, in his estimation, that Annette should be save from

the snare which have be prepare for she.



it be with strange sensation that he walk once more through

familiar thoroughfare, and note that nothing be change but

himself. since last he tread they he have learn some of life's sad

lesson; but hope, and faith, and love remain to keep his spirit

young. it be no light matter that he have be awaken from the dull

lethargy of life into which he have fall in the early day of

Princetown; that his faith in human nature have be restore; that he

have win affection and esteem from stranger who even now, though the

broad sea divide they, have none but kindly thought of he. foul as

be the plot of which he be the victim, he have cause to be deeply

grateful.



he take lodging on the Lambeth side of Westminster Bridge, two modest

room, for which he pay seven shilling a week; food would cost he

little; his modest resource must be carefully husband, and he would

be content with the humblest fare. his task might take long in the

accomplishment, and to find himself strand in the City of Unrest

would be fatal. his experience have be so far valuable that they

assist he to a more comprehensive view of the circumstance of

life. when he be in England he have think little of the morrow. now

it have to be reckon with.



in consider how he should set about his task, he have decide that

it would be advisable to call in professional assistance. he have not

arrive at this decision without long deliberation. he detest the

mean, but repugnant as the course be to he he feel that they be

justifiable. singularly enough he have, without be aware of it,

take lodging in a house, the master of which belong to the class

he intend to call to his aid. he arrive at this knowledge on the

second day of his tenancy. child always attract he, and his

landlady have four, all of they boy, with puffy cheek and chubby

limb. their age be three, five, seven, and nine, a piece of

information give to he by their mother as he issue from the house

on the second morning, and stand by her side a moment watch their

antic. the word be not exactly correct, for their pastime be

singularly grave and compose. the eld boy wield a policeman's

truncheon, and his three brother, stand in a line, be obey

the word of command to march, a few step this way, a few step that,

to halt, and finally to separate and take up position in distant

doorway, from which they look severely at the passer-by.



"bless their heart!" say the proud mother. "they're play

policeman."



"they seem to know all about it," remark Basil "they ought to,"

respond the mother. "it be bear in they."



"be your husband a policeman?" ask Basil.



"he be, sir," reply the mother; "but he have retire from the force,

and belong now to a private inquiry."



Basil think of this as he walk away, after pat the child on

the head, who do not know exactly whether to be gratify at the mark

of attention, or to straightway take the stranger into custody. he have

not see his landlord yet, and it have happen, when he engage the

room from the woman, that, with the usual carelessness of person in

her station of life, she have not ask her new lodger's name, be

perfectly satisfied of his respectability by his pay she a

fortnight's rent in advance, and inform she that he would continue

to do so as long as he remain in the house. Basil be afraid, if he

go to a regularly establish private office, that the fee demand

would be high than his slender resource warrant, and bend as he

be upon economise, he see here a possible opportunity of obtain

the assistance he need at a reduce rate. therefore on the evening

of this day he tap at the door of the sitting-room, in which his

landlord be play a game of "old maid" with three of his child,

and intimate his desire for a little chat with the man after the

youngster have go to bed.



"on business," say Basil.



"no time like the present, sir," say the landlord, who see "with half

an eye," as he subsequently express himself, that his tenant be a

gentleman: "I'll come up to your room at once, unless you prefer to

talk here."



"we shall be more private up-stair," say Basil, and up-stair they

go to discuss the business.



as a preliminary the landlord hand Basil a card, with "Mr.

Philpott," print on it, and in a corner, "private Inquiry," to which

be add the address of the house in which they be sit.



"do you carry on your business here, then?" inquire Basil. "partly,

sir," reply Mr. Philpott. "I be engage at an office in Surrey

Street, but it be seldom that my time be fully occupy there, and as

I be not on full pay I stipulate that I shall be free to undertake any

little bit of business that may fall into my hand in a private way."



"that may suit I," say Basil. "to be frank with you, I be look

out for some one who would do what I want at a reasonable rate; I be

not overburden with fund, but I can afford to pay moderate fee.

will that meet your view?"



"yes, sir. if you will tell I what you want do I will let you know

about how much it will cost."



Basil pause before he commence; he be deal with a stranger, and

he do not wish to disclose his name.



"what pass between we be in confidence, Mr. Philpott?"



"altogether in confidence, sir. that be one of the rule of our

profession. whether anything come of it or not, I shall say nothing

of my client to a third party, unless you instruct I otherwise."



"you be sometimes consult by people who desire to conceal their

name?"



"oh, yes, but they be not generally so frank as you be. you would

rather not tell I your name?"



"that be my desire, if it will make no difference."



"not an atom of difference. say Mr. Smith."



"I be oblige to you. I need not, then, disclose my own particular

interest in the matter."



"not at all, if it will not hamper I."



"I don't see how it will hamper you in the least. shall I pay you a

modest retainer? will a guinea do?"



"a guinea will do, sir. thank you."



"you have well take note of what I say, Mr. Philpott." the private

inquiry agent produce his pocket-book. "write down first the name I

give you."



Mr. Philpot take down the name and address of Mr. Bartholomew

Whittingham and of the lawyer in London who transact that

gentleman's affair when Basil be last in England; also the name of

Mr. Basil Whittingham.



"any address to this name, sir?" ask Mr. Philpott.



"none. Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham be, or be--for I understand he be

dead--a gentleman of considerable fortune; Mr. Basil Whittingham be

his nephew; the lawyer whose name I have give you transact the

old gentleman's business for many year, but I be not aware whether

they have continue to do so."



"that be easily ascertain."



"Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham have neither wife nor child, and some

year since it be his intention to leave all his property to his

nephew. the young man, however, offend his uncle, and the old

gentleman thereupon inform his nephew that he have destroy the will

he have make in his favour, and that Mr. Basil Whittingham might

consider himself disinherit. do you understand it thus far?"



"it be perfectly clear, sir."



"the relation between the uncle and his nephew be completely break

off. Mr. Basil Whittingham--who have some private fortune of his own,

but have got rid of it--be disappoint in his expectation, leave

England for Australia, where he reside for a considerable time."



"for how many year shall we say, sir."



"five or six. when he be near his end the uncle relent of his

decision, and make another will--I be suppose that he really destroy

the first, which may or may not have be the case--by which his

original intention be carry out, and his nephew be constitute sole

heir to the property."



"good."



"this property, I believe, be not in real estate, but in cash and

security which be easily convertible. the knowledge of his

kindness reach the nephew's ear in Australia, and he return home

and take possession of the fortune."



"very natural."



"I wish these detail to be verify, or otherwise, Mr. Philpott."



"I undertake to do so, sir."



"I wish also to ascertain where Mr. Basil Whittingham be now

reside."



"can you give a clue, sir?"



"a very slight one, I be afraid. the last I hear of the nephew be

that about eighteen month ago he be in Paris, in the company of a

Mr. Edward Kettlewell, a money-lender, whose office be, or be, in

London. I be under the impression that Mr. Basil Whittingham and Mr.

Kettlewell may have have some business transaction with each other. if

so, it should not be difficult to trace Mr. Basil Whittingham through

Mr. Kettlewell."



"it may I be more difficult than you imagine," say Mr. Philpott.

"these money-lender be difficult person to deal with. they be as

jealous of their client as a cat of her kitten. 'hand off,' they

cry; 'this be my bird.' hold hard a minute, sir. I have this year's

'London Directory,' downstair."



he leave the room, and return bear the bulky volume, which he

proceed to consult. no Mr. Edward Kettlewell, money-lender or

financial agent, be to be find in its page. there be plenty of

Kettlewells, and a few Edwards among they but not one who deal in

money.



"still," say Mr. Philpott, "it may be one of these. he may have

retire, he may have leave the country, he may be dead. I will look

through the directory for a few year past, and we will see if we

can find he."



"my information concern he," say Basil, "be not very exact, and

may after all be incorrect; but with or without his assistance it be

most important that the address of Mr. Basil Whittingham should be

ascertain."



"I will do my good, sir; no man can do more."



"there be another matter, of which I must beg you not to lose sight.

shortly after Mr. Basil Whittingham arrive in Australia he come in

contact with a gentleman, M. Anthony Bidaud, who own a plantation in

Queensland. this gentleman have a daughter, quite a child then, whose

name be Annette. M. Anthony Bidaud die suddenly, and leave no will. on

the morning of his death a brother and sister--the brother's name,

Gilbert--present themselves at the plantation, and the brother

administer the estate, and assume the guardianship of his niece.

the plantation be sell, and the little girl, with her uncle and aunt,

come to Europe. between the child and Mr. Basil Whittingham there

exist a bond of affection, and since his return to England he have

succeed--so my information go--in establish friendly relation

with M. Gilbert Bidaud. if you be fortunate enough to trace Mr. Basil

Whittingham, my impression be that the knowledge will lead you

straight to M. Gilbert Bidaud and his sister and niece, to discover

whom I consider of far great importance than the young man. now, Mr.

Philpott, if you have grasp the situation, be you prepared to set

to work?"



"I will not lose a day, sir; I commence my inquiry to-morrow; and as

you inform I that you be not exactly rich it may be convenient if I

present a weekly account, include all charge to date, so that you

may know how you stand as to expense. then you can go on or stop at

your pleasure."



"it will be the good plan," say Basil.



Mr. Philpott be very much puzzled that night when he think over the

commission entrust to he. "he say nothing of himself," think the

private inquiry agent, "nor of the particular interest he have in the

matter--a very particular interest, for I never see any one more in

earnest than he be. his voice absolutely tremble when he speak of the

uncle and Mdlle. Annette. now that would not happen if he be act

as an agent for another person. what be the conclusion, then? that he

be act for himself. do this Mr. Basil Whittingham owe he money?

perhaps. and yet it do not strike I as an affair of that kind.

well, at all event, he have act openly and straightforwardly with I

so far as he and I be concern. it be not often a client tell you

that he be live under an assumed name. I must ask the wife if his

shirt and handkerchief be mark." his curiosity, however, be

destine not to be appease; his wife tell he that Basil's clothing

bear no initial--which, accord to Mr. Philpott's way of thinking,

betoken extreme caution, and whet his curiosity. he do not,

however, allow this to interfere with the zealous exercise of his

duty. proceed step by step he present his weekly report to

Basil. in the course of a short time Basil's bad suspicion be

confirm. Newman Chaytor have come home and, represent himself to

be Basil Whittingham, have experience no difficulty in establish

his position and administer his uncle's estate. this do, he have

disappear, and Mr. Philpott be unsuccessful in trace he.



"but," say Basil, "would not a man, arrive from a country so

distant as Australia, in such circumstance have to prove his

identity?"



Mr. Philpott open his eye at this question; to use his own term,

he "smell a rat."



"certainly he would," reply Mr. Philpott. "but that be simple

enough in Mr. Basil Whittingham's case. he have be in correspondence

with his uncle for some time previous to his departure from

Australia."



"what do you tell I?" cry Basil.



"it be an establish fact," say Mr. Philpott, express no

surprise; but Basil's tone no less than his word, open his eye

still far. "a few day before Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham's death

he write to his nephew in Australia, announce his change of

intention. this letter be forward to Mr. Basil by his uncle's

lawyer, who, as you now know, be not the same he employ in former

year."



"Basil Whittingham," say Basil, unable to repress his excitement,

"receive these letter in Australia?"



"undoubtedly. he bring they home with he, and other also which he

have previously receive from his uncle's lawyer."



"there be a regular correspondence with they, then?"



"yes, extend over a considerable time."



this be a fresh and startling revelation to Basil. Newman Chaytor have

not only personate he in England, but have personate he at a

distance, receive letter intend for he and forge letter in

reply.



"he rob I of my paper," groan Basil inly, "and obtain

possession of the mean to prove he the man he represent himself to

be. the base, unutterable villain! he smile in my face, a live lie!

and I trust in he, believe in he, lay my heart bare to he, and

all the time he be plan my destruction. just Heaven! give I the

power to bring he to the punishment he deserve!"



but do the foul plot go far than this? every time Chaytor

return from the colonial post-office it be with the same

answer--there be no letter for Basil Whittingham. and the have

receive and answer they; they be on his person while he be

utter the infamous falsehood, smile in Basil's face the while. to

what depth would human cunning and duplicity go! the tale, relate to

Basil by one who have be wrong, would have sound incredible. he

would have ask, "be not this man labour under some monstrous

delusion?" but the bitter experience be his, and no tale would now be

too wild for disbelief. again he ask himself, do the plot go

far than what have already come to his knowledge? Newman Chaytor,

go to the post-office for letter for he, would receive all

address to his name.



what if Annette have write? it be more than possible, it be

probable; it be more than probable, it be true. at this conclusion

he quickly arrive. Annette have redeem her promise; she have write

to he as she say she would, and have receive Chaytor's letter in

reply. this explain how it be that Chaytor have be able to find

Annette and her uncle. do Gilbert Bidaud suspect, and be he trade

upon the suspicion; and be the two villain conspire for the

destruction of the poor girl's happiness? Basil look round

pitifully, despairingly, as though invoke the assistance of an

unknown power.



"you seem disturb," say Mr. Philpott, who have be attentively

observe he.



"the news you have impart," say Basil, "be terrible. be there no

way of discover this Basil Whittingham?"



"we might advertise for he," suggest Mr. Philpott.



Basil shake his head. "if he see the advertisement he would not answer

it."



"Hallo," think Mr. Philpott, "our absent friend have do something

that would place he in the criminal dock." professionally he be in

the habit of hide his hand, so far as the expression of original

thought go. "but some one who know he," he say, "might see the

advertisement, and answer for he."



Basil catch at the suggestion. "Advertise, then, and in such a manner

as not to alarm he."



"trust I for that," say Mr. Philpott, with great confidence. "I know

how to bait my line."



but the advertisement meet with no response. work up to fever heat,

Basil instruct Mr. Philpott to spare no expense, and the inquiry be

prosecute with waste vigour, for at the end of two month they have

not advance a step. Basil be in agony; he grow morbid, and raise up

accuse voice against himself. the reflection that Annette, the

sweet and innocent child who have give he her heart, should be in the

power of two such villain as Gilbert Bidaud and Newman Chaytor be an

inexpressible torture to he. he have accept from her father a sacred

trust--how have he fulfil it? he inflict exquisite suffer upon

himself by argue that it be he who have betray she, that it be

through he she have be bring to this pass. have she not know he

she would never have know Newman Chaytor; have he not work upon her

young affection and extract her promise to write to he it would

have be impossible that Chaytor should ever have cross her path.

he press into this self-condemnation all the cruel logic his mind

could devise. as he walk the street at night Annette's image arise

before he and gaze upon he reproachfully. "you have compass my

ruin." it seem to say, "you be the cause of my corruption, of my

dishonour." he accept the accusation, and groan, "it be I, it be

I, who have make your life a waste!" of all the dolorous phase

through which he have pass this perhaps be the bad. but he have yet

another bitter experience to encounter. on a Saturday evening Mr.

Philpott say:



"I must speak honestly. I have do all I could, and nothing have come

of it. I might continue as long as you continue to engage my

service, but it would be only throw your money away."



it be an unusual confession for a man in his line to make. private

inquiry agent have generally the quality of the leech, and will suck

the last drop of blood out of a client, but Basil have win the

commiseration of his landlord.



"I must take the case into my own hand," say Basil gloomily. "I

intend, indeed, to tell you as much myself--for press reason. I

thank you for all you have do for I."



"little enough," say Mr. Philpott "I wish you well luck than I have

have. mind you, I don't give it up entirely, but if I do anything more

it will not be for pay."



"you be, and have be, very kind. have you make out your account?"



Mr. Philpott present it, and Basil settle it. then he say: "will

you ask your wife to step up and see I?"



"yes, sir. now don't you be cast down, sir; it be a long lane that have

no turning, and there's no telling at any moment what may turn up. I

should like to take the liberty of ask one question."



"ask it."



"if, after all, the search should be successful, be it likely you

would be in a well position than you be now? I be take a liberty,

I know, but I don't mean it as such. you tell I at first you be not

overburden with fund; if it have be all go out and none come

in, you must be bad off now."



"I be very much bad off, Mr. Philpott. I will answer your question.

should I succeed in find the man I be hunt--a poor hunt it have

prove to be, with no quarry in view--I have reason to believe that I

should obtain fund which would enable I to discharge any liability

I may incur."



"thank you, sir," say Mr. Philpott, push across the table the money

which Basil have pay he; "then suppose I wait."



"no," say Basil gently, "take it while you be sure of it, and you

have a family."



"but I can afford to wait, sir. if I lose ten time as much it would

not break I."



"I must insist upon you take it, Mr. Philpott."



it be the pride of the poor gentleman, who would leave himself

penniless rather than leave an obligation unsettle. Mr. Philpott

recognise it as such, and recognise also that it mark the

difference between they--which increase the respect he feel for

Basil. he pocket the money reluctantly.



"send your wife up to I, Mr. Philpott."



"I will, sir."



Basil have indeed press reason for dispense with Mr. Philpott's

further service. the large expense of the last few week have

bring his fund to a very low ebb. he take out his purse and count

his worldly wealth; it amount to less than two pound. he be

stand at poverty's door. in Australia, on the goldfield, it would

not have matter so much. earnest labour there can always ensure at

least food for the pass day; it be only the idle and dissolute and

man without a backbone who have to endure hunger; but here in this

overcrowded city hunger be no rare experience to those who be

willing to toil. needless to say that the watch and chain which have

be present to Basil in Princetown be no long in Basil's

possession. the prospect before he, physically and morally, be

appalling.



there be a gentle knock at the door. "come in," say Basil, and Mrs.

Philpott enter the room.



"my husband tell I you wish to see I, sir," say the landlady.



"take a seat, Mrs. Philpott," say Basil. "I hope you have bring

your weekly account; you should have give it to I yesterday."



"Friday's an unlucky day, sir," say Mrs. Philpott, fencing.



"but to-day be Saturday," say Basil, with a smile.



"there's no hurry, sir, I assure you."



Basil look at she and shake his head. his look, and the weary,

mournful expression on his face, bring tear to the good creature's

eye.



"I must insist upon have the account, Mrs. Philpott."



"well, sir, if you insist," say Mrs. Philpott, reduce to

helplessness; "it be only the rent, seven shilling."



"there be breakfast," say Basil, "with which you have be good

enough to supply I. I have not keep faith with you. when I take these

room I promise to pay always a fortnight's rent in advance; lately I

have not do so."



"how could you pay, sir, when you don't know what the breakfast come

to?"



"that do not excuse I. oblige I by tell I how much I owe you."



"if you willn't be deny, sir, it's twelve and tenpence."



"there it be, and I be infinitely oblige to you. Mrs. Philpott, I be

sorry to say I must give you a week's notice."



"you're never go to leave we, sir! be there anything wrong with the

room? we'll have it put right in a twinkling."



"the room be very comfortable, and I wish I could remain in they;

but it cannot be."



"you must remain, sir, really you must. I willn't take your notice. you

must sleep somewhere Philpott will never forgive I if I let you go."



her consciousness of the strait he be in, and her pity for it, be

so unmistakable--her desire to befriend he and her sympathy be so

clearly express--that Basil cover his eye with his hand, and

remain silent awhile. when he remove his hand he say:



"I be truly sensible of your goodness, Mrs. Philpott, but it must be

as I say."



"think well of it, sir," urge Mrs. Philpott. "you be a gentleman

and I be only a common woman, but I be old enough to be your mother,

and I don't think you ought to treat I so--so"--exactly the right

word do not occur to she, so she added--"suddenly. here you be, sir,

all alone, if you'll excuse I for say so, and here _we_ be with

more room in the house than we know what to do with. why, sir, if

you'll stay it will be oblige we."



all her kindly effort be unavaile. she ask he to make the

notice a month instead of a week, and then she come down to a

fortnight, and make some reference to cloud with silver lining; but

Basil be not to be prevail upon, and she leave the room in a

despondent state.



"we'll keep an eye on he if we can," her husband say to she when she

give he an account of the interview. "I may find out something yet

that will be of use to he. it be a strange case, old woman, and I

don't mind confess that I cann't see the bottom of it."









CHAPTER XXIX.





sternly resolve to carry out his determination not to occupy room

for which he could not pay, Basil leave Mrs. Philpott's house on the

appoint day. it be his wish to quit without be observe, but

Mrs. Philpott be on the look-out and lie in wait for he. before he

reach the street door she bar his way in the landing.



"you're not go away, sir," she say reproachfully, "without wish

the child good-bye."



in honest and affectionate friendship there be frequently display a

pleasant quality of cunning which it do no harm to meet with, and in

her exercise of it Mrs. Philpott press her child into the

service. Basil have no alternative but to accompany she into the

parlour, where the four little fellow be sit at the table

wait for dinner.



"you'll excuse I a minute, sir," say the good woman; "if I don't

fill their plate before they're five minute old they'll set up a

howl."



out she bustle, and quickly return with a mighty dish of irish

stew.



"Philpott say," say Mrs. Philpott as she place the steam dish on

the table, "that no one in the world can make an irish stew like mine;

and what father say be law, ben't it, child? I always have dinner

with they, sir; perhaps you'll join we. I really should like to know

if you're of my husband's opinion. now this look home-like"--as

Basil, who have independence of spirit, but no false pride, take his

seat at the table where a chair and a plate have already be set for

him--"almost as if father be with we, or as if the child have a

great big brother who have be abroad ever so many year, and have

pop in quite sudden to surprise we."



all the time she be talk she be fill up the plate, and the

little party fall-to with a will, Basil eat as heartily as the

rest. Mrs. Philpott be delighted at the success of her ruse, but she

be careful not to show her pleasure, and when Basil say, in answer

to her inquiry, that he have have enough, she do not press he to take

more. when dinner be over the child have to be take out of the

room to have their face wash; they be bring back for Basil to

kiss, and then be send into the street to play policeman.



"you'll let we hear of you from time to time, sir," say Mrs.

Philpott, as she and Basil stand at the street door. "Philpott be

regular downhearted because of your going. I'm not to let your room

again, he say, so there they be sir, ready for you whenever you do

we the pleasure to come. we're get along in the world, sir, and

the few shilling a-week don't matter to we now."



"I be truly glad to hear it, Mrs. Philpott," say Basil.



"there be a time," continue Mrs. Philpott, "when it do matter, and

when every shilling be worth its weight in gold in a manner of

speak. we've have our up and down, sir, as most people have, and

if it haven't be for a friendly hand heaven only know where we

should be at this present minute. we be in such low water, sir, we

don't know which way to turn. Philpott say to I, 'mother,' he

says---- I hope I'm not weary you, sir," say Mrs. Philpott,

break off in the middle of her sentence.



"pray go on," say Basil, feel that it would be churlish to check

she.



"it's a comfort, sir," continue Mrs. Philpott, "to open one's heart.

it don't make I melancholy to look back to those day, though my

spirit be almost broke at the time; I'm proud and grateful that we've

tide they over, with the help of God and the good friend he send we.

'Mother,' say Philpott to I, 'I'm on my beam end. we're in a wood,

and there's no way out of it.' 'don't you go on like that, father,' I

say; 'you keep on try, and you'll see a way out presently.' for

I'm one of that sort of woman, sir, if you willn't mind my saying as

much, who never give in and don't know when they're beat. I don't mean

to say I don't suffer; I do, but I put a brave face on it and never:

say die. 'you keep on try, father,' I say. 'now haven't I keep on

try?' say he. 'for eight week I've answer every advertisement

in the paper, and apply for a job in hundred and hundred of place

without get the smell of one. I'm ashamed to look you in the face,

mother, for if it ben't for you our boy would starve.' we only have

one then, sir, and as for be ashamed to look I in the face

Philpott ought to have be ashamed to say as much. all that I do be

to get a day's charing wherever I could, and a bit of washing when I

hear there be a chance of it, and that be how we keep the wolf from

the door. but I fall ill, sir, and couldn't stir out of door, and be

so weak that I couldn't stand at the wash-tub without faint away.

thing be bad indeed then, and Philpott take on so that I do lose

heart a bit. well, sir, when we'd part with everything we could

raise a penny upon, when we don't know where we should get our next

meal from though it be only dry bread, heaven send we a friend. an

old friend of Philpott's, sir, that he haven't see for year, and that

he'd be fond of and kind to when he be a young man, before he keep

company with I. Philpott have lend he a couple of pound, and he'd

go off to America, and, now, sir, now, in the very nick of time, he

come home to pay it back. do you ever see the sun shine as bright as

bright can be in a dark room at ten o'clock at night--for that be the

time when Philpott's friend open the door, and cry, 'do Mr.

Philpott live here?' it shine in our room, sir, though there be never

a candle to light it up, and Philpott be sit by I with his head

in his hand. Philpott start up in a fright--when people be in the

state we be bring to the least unexpected, thing make their

heart beat with fear--he start up and say, 'who be you?' 'that's

Philpott's voice,' say our friend. 'I'd know it among a thousand; but

don't you know mine, old fellow? and what be you sit in the dark

for?' then he tell we who he be, and Philpott take hold of his hand

and say he's glad to see his old friend--which he couldn't, sir--and,

ashamed of his poverty, pull he out of the room. he come back

almost directly, and stoop over I and kiss I, and whisper that

heaven have send we a friend when most we need one, and I feel my

dear man's tear on my face. then, sir, if you'll believe I it seem

to I as if the sun be shine in our dark room, and all the trouble

in my mind fly straight away. from that time all go well with we;

it be right about face in real earnest. Philpott's friend have another

friend who get my husband in the force, and now we've get a bit of

money put by for a rainy day, and don't need the rent for a couple of

empty room."



Mrs. Philpott's account of her trouble be much long than she

intend to make it, and her concluding word be speak wistfully

and appealingly. they be not lose upon Basil, but they do not turn

he from his purpose. with a kindly pressure of her hand, and

promise to call and see she unless circumstance prevent--which

mean unless his fortune remain in their present desperate

condition--he take his leave of she and pass out of her sight.



"poor young gentleman," sigh the good woman. "I would have give the

world if he'd have stop with we. what on earth will become of he?

it's hard to come down like that. well to be bear poor and remain

so, than to be bear rich and lose everything. his face be the image

of despair, though he be politeness itself all the time I be

talk. I sha'n't be able to get he out of my head."



she and her husband talk of he that night, and if kind wish and

sympathise word be of practical value, Basil would have be

comfort and strengthen.



strengthen in some poor way he be. it have be his hard fate to be

make the victim of as black treachery as one man ever practise

towards another; but he have meet with kindness also at the hand of

stranger. he strove to extract consolation from that reflection.

Heaven know he need it, for he be now to make acquaintance with

poverty in its grim aspect. he be absolutely powerless. he have

debate with himself various course which might be say to be open to

a man in his extremity, but he see no possible road to success in any

one of they. the most feasible be that he should go to a capable

lawyer and endeavour to enlist his skill on his behalf. but what

lawyer would listen to a man who present himself with a tale so

strange and without the small mean to pay for service render?

it would be a natural conclusion that he be mad, or that he, be

Newman Chaytor, be adopt this desperate expedient to prove himself

to be Basil Whittingham. that he be a gentleman be true; he have the

manner of one, but so have many who be not gentleman. then his

appearance be against he; he have no other clothe than those he

stand upright in, and these be shabby and in bad repair. even if he

have possess assurance, it would not have serve he--nay, it would

have tell against he, as proclaim, "here be a plausible scoundrel,

who seek to deceive we by swagger." he be truly in a helpless

plight.



the necessity of living be force upon he, and to live a man must

have money to purchase food. recall the effort make by Mr.

Philpott in his day of distress, as describe by that man's good

wife, he apply for situation he see advertise, but there be a

hundred applicant for every office, and he ever arrive too late, or

be push aside, or be consider unsuitable. in one of his

application he be very nearly successful, but it come to a question

of character, and he have no reference except the editor of the

_Princetown Argus_, who be fourteen thousand mile away. what wonder

that he be laugh at and dismiss? then he think that his

experience on the goldfield and his training as a journalist might

help he, and he write some sketch and article and send they to

magazine and newspaper. he hear nothing of they after they be

drop into the editorial box. the fault may have be his own, for

he have no heart to throw spirit into his effusion, but his state be

no less pitiable because of that. he feel as if indeed he have for ever

lose his place in the world. by day he walk the street, and at

night occupy a bed in the commonest of London lodging-house. at

first he pay fourpence for his bed, but latterly he could afford no

more than two-pence, and presently he would not be able to afford even

that. it be a stipulation of his nightly accommodation that he should

turn out early in the morning, and this he be willing enough to do,

for he have but little sleep, and the being he be compel to herd

with fill he with dismay. it be not their poverty that shock

he; it be their language, their sentiment, their expression of

pleasure in all that be deprave. he have have no idea of the existence

of such class, and now that he come face to face with they he shrink

from they in horror. have they be merely thief it be possible that

he might have tolerate they, and even entertain pity for they,

argue that they be bear to theft, that their parent have be

thief before they and have teach they no well; or that they have

be drive into the rank by sheer necessity; but it be the

corruption of their soul that terrify he; it be the consciousness

that with vice and virtue place for they to choose, with mean for

each, they would have choose vice and revel in it. amid all this

corruption and degradation he maintain a pitiable self-respect and

keep his soul pure. often do he go without a meal, but he would

listen to no temptation, elect by instinct, rather to suffer

physically than to lower his moral nature to the level of those by

whom he be surround. when he walk the street by day he do not

walk aimlessly and without purpose. it be probable enough that Newman

Chaytor be in London, and if so the fortune of which he have obtain

fraudulent possession would enable he to live in the good and most

fashionable quarter of the city. Basil haunt those well

locality, and watch for the villain who have betray he in the

vicinity of the grand hotel, the club, and the resort of fashion in

the park. sometimes at night he linger about the high-class

theatre to see the audience come out. in the event of his meeting his

enemy he have no settle plan except that he would endeavour to find

out where he live, and through that knowledge to obtain access to

Annette.



one night he meet with a strange adventure. he have come from Covent

Garden, where, mingle in the crowd, he have watch the audience

issue from the Opera House, in which a famous songstress have be

singing. it be an animate, bustling scene, but it be impossible for

a man in such sore distress to take pleasure in it; neither do he

draw bitterness from the gaiety; he merely look on with a pathos in

his eye which be now their usual expression. frequently, in his day

of prosperity, have he attend the opera, as one of the fashion, and

hear this same songstress, whose praise be on every man's lip; now

he be an outcast, hungry, almost in rag, without even a name which

the world would accept as his by right of birth and inheritance. it

be a cold night, but dry--that be a comfort to a poorly clothe man.

indeed, there be in all condition of life something to be grateful

for, if we would only seek for it.



a curious fancy entertain Basil's mind. he hear the carriage

call out--"Lady this's carriage," "Lord that's carriage," "the

honourable T'other's carriage." how if "Mr. Basil Whittingham's

carriage" be call out? so completely be he for the moment lose to

the sad reality of his position, so thoroughly do the fancy take

possession of he, that he actually listen for the announcement, and

have it be make it be probable that he would have push his way

through the crowd with the intention of enter the carriage. but

nothing of the kind occur. gradually the theatre be empty, and

the audience wend homeward, ride or afoot, north, south, east,

and west, till only the fringe be leave--night-bird who filter

slowly to their several haunt, not all of which could boast of roof

and bed. a night-bird himself, Basil walk slowly on towards

Westminster. he have fivepence in his pocket, and no prospect of add

anything to it to-morrow, and he be consider whether he should

spend twopence for a bed, or pass the night on a bench on the

Embankment. it be a weighty matter to decide, as important to he as

the debate which be proceed in the House, upon which a nation's

destiny hung. in Parliament Street a young couple brush past he;

they have be sup after the theatre, and Basil hear the man

address the woman, as "Little Wifey," and see her nestle close to her

husband's arm as he utter this term of endearment. for a moment

Basil forget his own misery, and a bright smile come to his lip; but

it fade instantly, and he trudge wearily on discuss the momentous

question of bed or bench. undecided, he find himself on Westminster

Bridge, where he stand gaze upon the long panorama of light from

lamp and star. be this wonderful and suggestive picture situate

in a foreign country, english people would include it in their touring

jaunt and come home and rave about it, but as it be situate in

London its beauty be unheeded.



Basil, lean over the stone rampart, look down into the river,

be presently conscious that some person be stand by his side. he

turn his head, and see a woman, who gaze with singular intentness

upon he. she be neither young nor fair, but she have trace of beauty

in her face which betoken that in her springtime she could not have

be without admirer. her age be about thirty, and she be well

dress. so much Basil take in at a glance, and then he avert his

eye and resume his walk across the bridge. the woman follow he

closely, and when he pause and gently wave she off, she say:



"why do you avoid I? I want nothing of you."



"good-night, then," say Basil in a kind voice, and would have

proceed on his way if the woman have not prevent he.



"no, not good-night yet," she say. "do you not understand I when I

say I want nothing of you? it be true; but happen to catch sight

of your face as I be cross the bridge I could not pass without

speak to you. it would have bring a punishment upon I--know

what I know."



be compel by her persistence to a close observance of she,

Basil be move to a certain pity for she. there be tear in her

eye and a pathos in her voice which touch he. desolate outcast as

he be, whom the world, if he proclaim himself, would declare to be

an impostor, what kind of manhood be that which would refuse a word

of compassion to a woman who appear to be in affliction? his pitying

glance strangely affect she; she cling to the stone wall and burst

into a passion of tear.



"I be sorry for your trouble," say Basil, wait till she have

recover herself. "can I do anything to help you?"



"nothing," she reply. "no one can help I. I have lose all I love in

the world. this be a strange meeting; I have be think of you

to-day, but never dream I should see you to-night. to-night of all

night!"



"think of I!" exclaim Basil in amazement.



"you will not consider it strange," say the woman, "when you know

all. I could not stop at home; I have be sit by her side since

three o'clock, and then a voice whisper to I, 'go out for an hour,

look up to Heaven where the Supreme Guide be, and pray for a miracle.'

so I come out, and have be pray to he to give she back to I."



"poor woman!" murmur Basil, for now he know from her word that she

have lose one who be dear to she. "I pity you from my heart."



"you be change," say the woman; "not in face, for I should have

know you anywhere, but in your voice and manner. it be gentle,

kind than it use to be."



Basil do not answer she: he think that grief have affect her mind,

and that her word bear no direct relation to himself. he have no

suspicion of the truth which be subsequently to be reveal to he.



"it be many year since we meet," she say. "have you be long in

England?"



"a few month," say Basil.



"you have not make your fortune?



"no, indeed."



"you look poor enough. have you no money?"



"none," say Basil; and add hastily, "or very little."



"you have be unfortunate since your return home?"



"very unfortunate."



she open her purse, and take out a sovereign and hold it out to he.



"thank you no," say Basil, his wonder grow.



"you be change indeed," say the woman, "to refuse money. it be

honestly come by. two year ago I be marry, and my husband, who

die a year afterwards, leave I a small income. it be more than I

deserve, for I deceive he by tell he I be a widow. it make no

difference, but still it be a deceit. will you not take it?"



"no."



"and yet you need it?"



"do not urge I far. good night."



"wait one moment. I be go to tell you to-night; but you have well

see for yourself. it be your right. here be my address; my mother and

sister live with I. come and see I to-morrow morning at ten o'clock.

promise I."



"no, I cannot promise," say Basil, move away. "you must promise,"

say the woman, move after he. "I will not leave you till you do. I

tell you it be your right--it be more than your right, it be your

duty."



see there be no other way to release himself from she, Basil say,

"I promise."



"on your sacred word of honour," say the woman.



"on my sacred word of honour."



"I will trust you; there be a time when I would not. good night.

to-morrow, at ten."



she glide away, and Basil be once more alone. the misery of his own

circumstance be no encouragement to he to dwell upon the adventure,

and he dismiss it from his mind, account for the woman's strange

utterance by the supposition that she be of weak intellect. he

pass the night in the open air, and in the morning buy one

pennyworth of bread--it be cheap than buy a penny roll--for his

breakfast. this and water from a drinking-fountain satisfied hunger

and thirst.



"a man can live upon very little," he say to himself, "but how be it

go to end?"



it be a pertinent question, and answer itself. the end seem near

and certain.



it be a bright morning, and he walk in the sun. he do not forget

the promise he have make to the woman; it be a promise to which he have

pledge himself, and even if mischief result it must be fulfil.

the name on the card be Mrs. Addison the address, Queen Street, Long

Acre. Thither he go, and pause before a milliner's shop, the

window of which be partially mask by shutter. over the shop

front be the name Addison, and the good display bore evidence of a

certain prosperity; they be not of the poor kind. an elderly,

grey-haired woman come forward as he enter. her face be sad and

severe, and there be no civility in her voice as she inform he in

answer to his question, that he have come to the right address.



"go through that door," she say with a frown, "up-stair to the first

landing. my daughter expect you. I must ask you to make your visit

short."



it be not only that her voice be cold, it express repugnance, and

without request an explanation Basil follow she and mount the

stair. the sound of his footstep bring the woman he have meet on

Westminster Bridge to the door of the front room.



"you have keep your promise," she say. "come in."



a young woman than she rise as he enter, cast one brief glance at

he, and immediately leave the room. the window blind be down and

the gas be light. his strange acquaintance of the previous night

be dress in deep mourning. her face be white and swollen with

weeping.



"I pray for a miracle last night," she say, "but my prayer be

not answer. I have also repent that I ask you to come, but still

it be right, it be right. if you have a heart it should be a

punishment to you for all you have make I suffer."



"I do not in the least understand you," say Basil.



have it not be for her grief her look would have be scornful. she

pay no heed to his word, but continue:



"when I say last night that I want nothing of you I say what I

mean. when you go from here I wish never to see your face again. it

will be useless for you to trouble I."



"I shall not trouble," say Basil in a gentle tone which seem to

make she waver; but she would not yield to this soft mood.



"that you be poor to-day," she say, "and I be well-to-do, so far as

money go, prove that there be a providence. year ago--very soon

after your desertion of I--I cast you from my heart, and resolve

never to admit you into it again. it might have be otherwise have you

behave honestly to I, for I love you, and you make I believe that

you love I. it be well for I that the tie which bind we should

be break. I have lead a respectable life, and shall continue to do so.

I be the happy for it."



"for heaven's sake," cry Basil, "explain what it be you accuse I

of."



"ask your own heart. although there be an apparent change in you, you

be still the same, I see, in cunning and duplicity. but I will listen

to no subterfuge; there be no possibility of your justifying

yourself, and your power over I be go. towards you my heart be cold

as stone."



"you be labour under some singular delusion," say Basil, "and I

can but listen to you in wonder."



"still the same, still the same," say the woman. "you use to boast

of your superior power, and that you be so perfect an actor that

you could make the clever believe that black be white. see what it

have bring you to"--she point to his rag. "I have no pity for you;

as you have sow, so have you reap. so might I have reap have I not

see the pit you treacherously dig for I; so might I have reap have

I not repent before it be entirely too late. I owe you this much

gratitude--that it be your base desertion of I that show I my

sin. have you remain I might have sink lower and low till grace and

redemption be lose to I for ever. what expiation be possible for

I I have make, with sincere repentance, with sincere sorrow for my

error. it would be well for you if you could say the same. you see my

mother downstairs. she cast I off, as you know, but she open she

arm to I when I convince she of my sincerity, when I vow to she

to live a pure life. I be again her daughter. you see these draw

blind, you see my dress, you see that this be a house of mourning.

can you guess what for?"



"indeed I cannot," say Basil, "except that you have lose one who be

dear to you. what comfort can I, a stranger, offer you that you cannot

find for yourself? it be small consolation to say that your loss be a

common human experience. be faith your solace. there be a hereafter."



her scorn and horror of he, now plainly express in her face, so

overpower she that she allow he to finish without interruption.



"you, a stranger to I!" she cry. "will you still wear the mask--or

be it, _be_ it possible that the rank selfishness and callousness of

your nature can have make you forget? all be over between we--but a

link remain, a link of sweet and beautiful love which the good Lord

have take from I. I bow my head; I will not, I must not rebel!" she

fold her hand, and, move to the darken window, stand for a few

moment there engage in silent prayer. presently she speak again. "my

fond hope picture a bright and happy future for she. I, her mother,

would be for ever by her side, guide she from the pitfall which lay

before young and confide innocence. her life should be without

stain, without reproach. she do not know, she would never have know

the stain which rest upon mine. it be reveal to she now. forgive

I, my darling, and look down with pity upon I! yes, out of my sin I

create a garden of love--for she, who be to I what sight would be

to the blind, through whose sweet and pure influence I be lead to the

divine throne. my fond hope have be dash to the ground--they be

dead, never to be revive. come with I."



with noiseless footstep she walk out of the room, and Basil

follow she to another on the same landing. softly, tenderly, as

though fearful of disturb what be therein, she turn the handle,

and she and Basil stand in the presence of death.



of death in its fair form. upon the bed lie the body of a young

girl whose age might be ten. the sweet beauty, the peace, the perfect

rest in the child's face, move Basil to tear; she look like a

sleep angel.



"oh, my darling, my darling!" sob the bereaved mother, sink to

her knee. "pray for I; intercede for I. unconsciously I stray; I

see not my sin. oh, child of shame and love, bring peace to my

break heart, and do not turn from I when we meet above!"



Basil speak no word; some consciousness of the truth be slowly come

to he. there be a silence in the room for several minute; then the

woman rise to her foot.



"kiss she," she say. "when you last see she she be a baby. if she

be live, and see your face, she would look upon you as a stranger;

but now she know the truth."



then Basil understand. "yes," he say inly, "now she know the truth."



he stoop and kiss the child's lip, and the mother's tear break

out afresh; check they presently, she say:



"it be by the strange chance I meet you last night. I have do what

I conceive to be my duty. now go," and she point to the door.



"I will obey you," say Basil, "but I must say a word to you first, in

the next room."



she look at he for a moment hesitatingly, then nod her head, and

they leave the chamber of death as noiselessly as they have enter it.



"I do not intend it," say the woman, and take a tress of fair hair

from her bosom, and divide it, she offer he a portion. "you may

like to keep it as a remembrance."



"I thank you humbly," say Basil; "it may help I on my way."



a look of incredulous wonder flash into her face, but remain there

only an instant, and she shake her head as though she be answer a

question she have ask mutely of herself.



"before we lie an open grave," she say. "you and I speak now

together for the last time on earth. I forgive you, as I hope to be

forgive. you have something to say to I?"



"yes; and I entreat you, however strange you may think my question, to

suspend your indignation for awhile, and answer I in plain word."



"I will endeavour to do so, if it be such a question as you should

address to I."



"I will not fret you by argument or expostulation. you have suffer

deeply, and from my heart I pity you. plainly, whom do you take I

for?"



"for yourself--for no other man, be sure."



"but let I hear my name from your lip."



"as you insist upon it," she say, with sad contempt, "though such a

farce should not be play at such a time; but when be you otherwise

than you be? you be Newman Chaytor."



"I," say Basil, speak very slowly, "be Newman Chaytor?"



"you be he; there live not such another, and remember all that

have pass between we, remember your vow and oath, for that I

say, thank God! if you have any reason for go by another name, for

wish to be know by another name--and you may have, heaven help

you!--be sure that I will not betray you. you be dead to I, as I be

dead to you."



"look at I well," say Basil. "if you be upon your oath would you

swear that I be the man you say I be?"



"to swear otherwise would be to swear falsely. what crime have you

commit that you should stand in dread of be know?"



"none. it be not to be expect that you will believe when I tell you

that you be the victim of delusion, as I be the victim of a foul and

monstrous plot."



"who would believe you? denial be easy enough, and of course you will

deny, have reason to do so. but come into the light."



she raise the blind, and he step to the window where the light

shine upon his face.



"you be Newman Chaytor," she repeat, let the blind fall.



he bow his head, and say, "you have just cause for your pitiless

resentment and whether I be or be not the man you believe I to be, I

bow my head before you in sorrow and shame. the day may come--I do not

know how, or in what way it may be bring about, for I be at the

extremity of misery--when, show you this"--he touch his breast,

where he place the lock of her child's hair--"and recall this

interview, you will see the error into which you have innocently fall.

till then, or for ever, farewell."



"one moment," say the woman, with tremble accent, "what have pass

cannot be recall, nor will I speak of the folly of your denial of

the solemn truth. it be a meaningless proceeding."



"to I," say Basil, interrupt she, "it mean everything. Honour,

truth, fidelity, faith in virtue and goodness, all be at stake. it

may never come to an issue, for the end seem near, but heaven may yet

have some mercy in store for I. as you pray for a miracle last

nigh: which be not vouchsafe you, so will I pray for a miracle to

help I to a just conclusion of my bitter trial." a pitiful smile

accompany his word. "it be not for I, one suffer man among

million happy, I trust, than myself, to doubt Divine Goodness. the

eternal principle of Justice remain and will, now or hereafter,

assert itself, as it have ever do. may peace and comfort, and

happiness be yours."



"I offer you money last night," say the woman, impress by what he

say, but make no comment upon it. "will you not accept it now?"



"I, thank you--no," he say bow to she with humility. "farewell."









CHAPTER XXX.





Basil's mind be quite clear when he leave the house, and as he have

bow his head to the bereaved mother when she declare he to be

Newman Chaytor, the villain who have betray and cast she off, so do

he bow his head to the eld woman in the shop below, who fling upon

he a look of anger and abhorrence as he pass from her sight. in the

light of the infamous wrong inflict upon this family, the wrong

inflict upon himself seem to be lessen. suffer and

humiliation be his portion, but not shame; herein Newman Chaytor be

powerless. there have grow in his mind an ideal presentment of

womanhood which shed a refined and delicate grace upon all his

dealing with the sex. his knowledge of the world have teach he that

some have fall and be vile, but he have no harsh thought even for

these hapless one, whom he regard with tender pity. there be

woman with whom he have come in contact whose image be touch with

sacred light. his mother be one, Annette be another; and it be

partly this good influence which enable he to bear, with some degree

of moral fortitude, the weight of the trouble through which he be

pass. a heavy load have be add to these trouble by the

accusation which now have be bring against he; another man's sin

have be thrust upon his shoulder, and the circumstantial evidence

against he be so strong that he could scarcely hope to break it

down. he have say that he would pray for a miracle to aid he in his

bitter trial, and indeed it seem as if nothing short of a miracle

would serve he. but although none occur to bring the truth to

light, new experience be await he as strange as any within his

ken, and one, with some sweet touch of humanity in it, be to come

indirectly through the enemy who have play he false.



of the fourpence he have leave one penny go that day for food, and he

contrast his position with that of a shipwreck man cast away in a

boat, helpless on a wild and desolate sea, with starvation stare he

in the face. "among these million," he think, "I cannot be the only

one; there must be other adrift as I be. Heaven pity they!" it be

curious that, revolve this theme in his mind, he look about for

man and woman whose state resemble his own, and fancy he see some,

long for money more for their sake than for his own. only in small

nature be grief entirely selfish. one question continually present

itself. what could he do to better himself--what do to turn the tide?

he see people beg in the roadway, and other fight desperately

for dear life, their weapon a few box of match. if he have know

where to purchase half-a-dozen box for the threepence which still

remain of his fortune he would have risk the venture, but he do

not know where to go for the investment, and those he ask for

information scowl at he or turn away, conscious perhaps that

their rank be overcrowded, or that the addition of one to the horde

of mendicant would lessen their chance. during these time he gain

pregnant knowledge of a social nature. live entirely in the street,

picture present themselves in poor and rich thoroughfare alike.

his poverty make the contrast startle. lady in carriage nursing

over-feed lapdog; small morsel of humanity shuffle along with their

toe peep out of their boot. in Covent Garden hothouse fruit at

fabulous price, and white-faced mortal pick up refuse and

stealthily devour it. grand party in great mansion, priceless

jewel flash as the lady step out of their carriage; in a

street hard by a woe-wear girl asleep on a doorstep, with a pallid

baby in her arm. these picture do not embitter he; he pity the

poor and envy not the rich, and have it be his good fortune to be

employ as a descriptive writer, his pen would not have be dip

in gall. he do not purposely linger as he walk the street, for the

reason that when he lag he attract the notice of policeman, who

follow he slowly, and quietly note his movement. on such

occasion, feel himself an object of suspicion, he would quicken

his step to escape close observation. through all these sad

wandering he be ever on the watch for Newman Chaytor; he would not

allow himself to sink into absolute apathy; while life remain he

would do what lie in his power to lift himself out of the slough of

despond. only when his strength be exhausted would he lie down and

die. thus do he endure three more doleful day, at the end of which

his last penny be spend. "the end be come," he think, and wait

for it. he have be five night now without a bed, and on three of

these night have be soak to the skin. this exposure, with lack of

nourish food, have already tell upon a system constitutionally sound

and healthy. that the end be come be no idle reflection; he feel

it in his bone. Whither should he turn for succour? naturally strong,

and willing and anxious to work even for the bare pittance, he find

himself more forsaken and powerless in this city of unrest than

Robinson Crusoe on his desolate island. charity be proverbially cold;

it be freeze indeed when a willing man be drive to such a pass.



another day pass, and another soak night, and then fever

threaten. delirious fancy take possession of he, haunted,

torture and delude he. he laugh aloud in the street, and arouse

to momentary reason by the look of the passer-by, shamble away in

silence that engirt he as with iron band--to break out again

presently when he be in another street. each night some impulse for

which he seek no reason lead his step in the direction of the bridge

where he have meet Newman Chaytor's victim; have he see she again, and

she have offer he money, it be doubtful whether he would have have

the strength to refuse.



Exhausted and spend, having be thirty hour without food, he clung

to the buttress of the bridge, and with dim eye look forward on the

river's light. there seem to be some meaning in their unrest; from

the mysterious depth message from another world come to his daze

mind. "presently, presently," he think, "but I should like first to

see Annette, and undeceive she. I would give my good heart's blood to

set myself straight with she. too late to save she--too late, too

late!" he have no idea of seek eternal rest by deliberate action,

only that he feel it be very near, and could not be long delay.



how he crave for food! how the demon hunger be tear at his

vital! his head fall forward, his mouth suck his coat sleeve. a

policeman touch his arm; he languidly raise his head, and the

policeman gaze steadily at he, and then proceed on his beat

without speak a word. maybe he recognise that a case of genuine

suffering be before he. Basil remain in the same position, his

eye turn in the direction the officer be take. but he do not

see he; he be blind to all surround thing. therefore it be that

he have no consciousness of the presence of an old woman, poorly

dress, who have stop when the policeman stop, and appear

rooted to the spot as her eye fall upon Basil's face. suddenly the

emotion which for a brief space have overpower she, find voice. with

a pierce scream she totter towards Basil, clear the grey hair

from her eye, and peer up into his face. then with a pierce

scream, she cry:



"Newman! my son, my darling, darling son! o God be thank for

restore you to I!"



she throw her trembling arm around he, but Basil do not feel they,

and have no understanding of her word. with a dolorous groan he slide

from her arm to the ground, and lie there without sense or motion.

Nature's demand have reach a supreme point, and the groan which

issue from his lip be the last effort of exhausted strength.



although the bridge appear to be desert, with only the policeman,

the old woman, and Basil in view, a small knot of person, as if by

magic, instantly surround the fallen man and the woman who kneel by

his side. the policeman, attract by the scream, turn, and slowly

saunter towards the group.



"what's the matter, mother?" ask an onlooker.



"it's my son," moan the woman, "my dear son, Newman. he have come

from the goldfield, and be die, die."



"don't look much like a goldfields man," observe one of the group.

"where's his nugget?"



"he have have a hard time," continue the woman, whom the reader will

recognise as Mrs. Chaytor. "he write to I about his hardship. see

what they have bring he to. will none of you help I? here be

money--I be not so poor as I look; my poor husband have have a bit of

luck. for pity's sake help I! o my son, my son!"



"I be a doctor," say a gentleman, push his way through. kneel by

Mrs. Chaytor's side, he lift Basil's head on his knee, and make a

rapid examination. "the poor fellow be starve, I should say. run,

one of you, and fetch a quartern of brandy--and some water if you can

get it."



Mrs. Chaytor hold out a trembling hand, and a woman snatch the money

from light and dart off. the policeman, who have by this time join

the group, shake his head disapprovingly.



"you've see the last of that," he say.



he be mistaken, however; the woman return with two flat bottle,

one contain brandy, the other water. with these the doctor

moisten Basil's lip, and force a few drop down his throat.



"you see," he say, address himself to Mrs. Chaytor, "that he be

not yet dead. whether he live or die depend not upon himself. I

think I hear you say you be his mother."



"I be his unhappy mother," sob Mrs. Chaytor. "oh, how I have pray

for his return, and he be send to I now like this! it be cruel, it be

unjust. save he for I, doctor, and I will bless you to the last hour

of my life!"



"we will see what can be do. do you live near here?"



"we live in Southwark Road."



"here be a cab passing. let we get he into it; there be no time to

lose."



a dozen arm be ready to assist he, but Basil have grow so thin

that the kind doctor lift he with ease, and put he in the cab.

then, give the driver the address which he obtain from Mrs.

Chaytor, they drive off quickly, Mrs. Chaytor hold Basil in her

arm, and croon over he as the priceless treasure of her life.









CHAPTER XXXI.





"be I awake or dream?" this be the thought that pass through

Basil's mind as he open his eye. two week have pass since he have

be rescue from death; and for the most of that time he have be

unconscious. but certain float impression be his, which now, as

his eye travel round the wall of the room in which he lay, he

endeavour to recall. it be not without difficulty that he

succeed, but after long and determine--if in his weak state such a

word may be use--effort, these impression begin to marshal

themselves. but just at the moment that memory reassert its power

an interruption occur, and Basil, bent upon his mental task, close

his eye, and wait once more for solitude.



an old woman steal softly into the room, and creep with noiseless

tread close to his bed. she stoop over he, kiss he tenderly,

arrange the bedclothe about he, smooth his pillow, and kiss he

again. what touch his feeling deeply be the exceed tenderness

of these kiss, which could only have be bestow upon one who be

very dear. what meaning lie in this strange tenderness to he who not

so long since be forsake by all, and come from one whose face be

absolutely unfamiliar to he? for with excusable cunning he have

partially raise his lid without be observe, and his half-veil

eye rest upon the woman who be attend he. she be an old woman

with grey and white hair, and there be sign of deep suffering on

her line face. she look like one who have experience great trouble,

but Basil note also in her countenance an expression of gratitude

which relieve the weight of year and care which lie heavy upon she.

he allow his lid to droop, and set aside awhile the task upon

which he be engage when she enter the room, ransack his memory

for a clue. he could find none, even though his mental effort send

he wander weakly among his childhood's day. while thus engage,

with his eye still close, he be conscious that another person have

enter the room, and the word which pass between they reach his

sense.



"good morning," in the cheerful voice of a man.



"good morning, doctor."



"Doctor! he be be care for, then, and friend be by his side.

of this he be assure; he require no further proof than the tender

action of the woman and the soft voice in which she return the

doctor's greeting. but why should these stranger's care for he? for

stranger to he they be, though their intention could not be

doubted.



"how be our patient this morning?"



"no worse, I hope, doctor. he have be very, very quiet."



"that be a good sign."



Basil feel the doctor's finger on his pulse, and then his head be

gently raise, and he know that his temperature be be take. he

betray no consciousness of their presence; perhaps the conversation

would supply he with the clue for which he be seek.



"the fever have almost go; in a few day he will be quite well. have he

not speak at all?"



"no, doctor."



"not even in his sleep?"



"no, doctor, not a word have pass his lip."



"all the sign be good. have he open his eye?"



"no, doctor. if he only would! if he would only recognise I! I could

die happy, then."



"you must not talk of die. all that belong to the past."



"no, doctor," say the woman, with a sigh, "it belong to the future."



"I stand correct in my philosophy. but, tush, tush! we must not have

you break down. I shall insist upon your get a nurse for our

young gentleman here."



"no, doctor, no," in almost a fierce tone, "no one shall nurse my dear

boy but myself. have I wait all these year to let another woman

take my place?"



"be calm. but I warn you that you be overtax yourself, and at your

time of life it be not safe. you have do your duty; no woman can do

more."



"I will not allow anybody else to take my place. it belong to I; it

be my right."



"there, there, don't agitate yourself. I hope our young friend will be

grateful for what you have do for he."



"he will be; he always have be; you do not know his nature--the most

loving, the tender. can you not see it in his face?"



"it be a good face, and I have take something more than a doctor's

interest in the case. it be, indeed, a mercy that you come across he

on the bridge a fortnight ago. have he fall into the hand of

stranger it be hardly likely he would have pull through. it be

touch and go with he."



"Providence lead my step. I be humbly, humbly grateful."



"you save he from death--I may tell you plainly now that he be in a

fair way of recovery. and how be our other patient?"



"still the same, doctor. will you go and see he?"



"you must come with I; he be suspicious of I, as you know, and would

order I out of the room if you be not by."



"can I leave my dear boy with safety?"



"with perfect safety; he will not awake from sleep for a long time

yet, and when he do it will not harm he to find himself alone."



"he must not find himself alone--I will not have it, I will not, I

will not!"



"well, well, surely you can take my word. he will sleep for hour; it

be nature's restorative."



"doctor," say the woman, in a tone so solicitous that Basil be

deeply move, "he _will_ recover?"



"he will. come; I have not much time at my disposal."



he walk to the door, but before she leave the room, Basil feel she

tender hand about he again, minister to his ease and comfort.

presently he know by the closing of the door that he be alone again.

then he apply himself to the task of recall his impression. they

come to he slowly, and the sequence of event pass through his mind

in fair order.



he recall the dolorous day of hunger and privation, the meeting of

the young woman on the bridge, his visit to her house, and the cruel

accusation she bring against he. when he struggle against it she

have desire he to come into the light, and have say, "you be Newman

Chaytor." with this pronouncement and condemnation he leave she, and

the look of abhorrence the woman's mother have cast upon he live in

his memory as a burn brand. then follow the day through which he

starve and suffer till he be on the bridge look forward on the

river's light, and wait for death. he have no remembrance of what

subsequently occur on that night and on many day and night

afterwards. sound of voice he have hear, but not the sense of the

word that be speak: except that on one occasion something have

reach his sense to the effect that the room in which he lie be

unhealthy, and that it would be well if he be remove to more airy

quarter. he be dimly conscious that this be do, and that gentle

hand have lift he from his bed, and that he be carry to another

house through fresher air which flow softly over his fevere brow.

have this really be do, or be he delude himself with fancy? he

open his eye, and gaze around. the room be large, and there be

but little furniture in it, but everything be clean and neat. there

be a pleasant paper on the wall, the device be flower, the

colour of which, though subdue, have some healthful brightness in

they. on a table near his bed be medicine bottle, a basin with soup

jelly in it, and a plate of grape. the love care with which he be

be nurse be evident whichever way he turn. there be something

more than mere kindness, there be heartfelt devotion, in these

evidence and in what he have lately hear. the woman to whom he owe

this great debt have save he from death--the doctor have say as much,

and Basil do not doubt that it be true. whatever could have be she

motive he inwardly acknowledge that she have render he a service it

would be hard, if not impossible for he to repay. save from death!

to what end? that he might live to clear himself from the foul

accusation which hang over he, to avenge himself, to punish the

guilty, perhaps even yet to save Annette. a debt, indeed, that could

never be repay. exhaust with thought, he sink into slumber, with a

grow hope in his heart that there might yet be some brightness for

he in the future.



when he awake again it be night. open his eye they fall upon the

form of the woman who have tend he. she be kneel by his bed,

gaze upon his face. a shaded lamp in the room enable he to see she

clearly.



"Newman!" she say in a low voice of joy, and she half rise and

stretch forth her arm.



that hate name! denial be on his lip, but the voice of joy, the

agonize appeal of love express in her eye, arrest his speech.

and indeed at that moment there suddenly flash upon his mind some

glimmering of the truth.



"who speak?" he ask, awed and stricken by the appeal.



"your mother, your fond, your love mother. oh, my son, don't break

my heart by say you don't know I! Newman, Newman, my beloved boy,

kiss I, give I one word of love. I shall die, I shall die, if you

turn from I!"



he could not repulse she; he feel that the sentence upon this love

heart be his to pronounce. scarcely know what he do, he hold out

his hand. she seize and kiss they again and again, then fall upon

his neck and press he convulsively to she.



"who be you?" he say softly.



"your mother, your faithful, faithful mother. do you not hear I?

have I speak too soon? o Newman, Newman, give I one kiss, one kind

look. my poor heart be break!"



"tell I who I be," say Basil.



"you be our dear, our darling son, whom God in his infinite mercy have

send back to we, to comfort we, to cheer the little time that remain

to we."



her mouth be close to his; her quivering lip plead for the kiss

for which she yearn. he could not resist she; their lip meet; she

tear gush forth.



"forgive I," he say: "I have be ill so long, and my mind may be

wander still. be it the truth that I be Newman Chaytor?"



"yes, my dear, yes, you be the only be leave to we on earth, the

only link of love we have. if it distress you to think, if the

effort be too painful, rest till the morning; I will watch over you.

Heaven have hear my prayer; my darling be restore to I. I can die

happy now. the cloud have pass away; there be nothing but sunshine;

your future shall be happy; we will make it so. Fortune have smile

upon we. oh, it be wonderful, wonderful--and just as you have come

back to we. but we will not speak of it to-night; we will wait till

to-morrow, when you will be strong."



"no, tell I something more--I be strong enough to listen."



"oh, my poor boy, you have suffer much, you have have great

trouble!"



"yes, great and bitter trouble. bring the lamp nearer. be I change?"



"only a little pale than you use to be and a little thin. there

be no other change in you. your father----"



"my father!"



"he live, Newman, he live, but he be very ill, and I can see that

the doctor fear for he. but he love you still. do not think hardly

of he, Newman; he will not be long with we. say that you forgive

he!"



"what have I to forgive?"



"there speak the noble heart of my darling boy. you can bring peace

and comfort to he, as you have bring it to I. you can brighten his

last hour. you will do it, will you not, my dear boy?"



"what lie in my power," say Basil slowly, "to repay you for your

goodness to I, that I will do."



"I be sure of it, I be sure of it. you will find he change,

Newman; he wander in his mind sometimes, but you will be gentle with

he."



"yes I will be gentle with he."



"we will forget the past--there shall be nothing in our heart but

love and forgiveness."



"listen a moment. if anybody come to you and say I be not your son,

would you believe he?"



"you ask it to try I, but you little know your mother's heart. if an

angel from heaven be to come and say so, I should not believe he; I

should know it be an evil spirit that speak. I be go to speak to

you of our good fortune. shall I go on?"



"yes, go on."



"it happen only a week before I meet you--o, heaven be praise for

it!--on the bridge. do you remember, when everything go wrong with

we and we be plunge in poverty, that your father still have some

share in mining company leave, share that be suppose not to be

worth the paper they be print on? do you remember it, my dear

boy?"



"well?"



"it be only three week ago that a gentleman find out where we be

live--we be very, very poor, Newman--and tell we that these share

be valuable, be worth a great deal of money. fortunately your

father have not destroy they, and fortunately, too, when the

gentleman call it be on one of your father's sensible day. he

find the share, and some of they have be sell. we be now

rich--yes, my dear boy, rich. we should never murmur against heaven's

decree; it be all ordain--that this should happen at the time it

do, and that I should meet you a few day afterwards, in time to save

you. Newman, my dear, you have not a penny in your pocket."



"I be starve."



"my poor boy, my poor, poor boy! oh, how cruelly we have treat you!"



"you must not say that. you be the soul of goodness; you have save

I from death, from despair, from shame, from degradation. I have

something to live for now. Hope revive. I have an enemy who have

conspire to ruin my life. what shall be do to he?"



"he must be punish."



"he shall be."



"the monster! to conspire against my dear lad. if I be not old and

weak, I would seek he out myself. he should learn what a mother could

do for a beloved son."



"he shall be punish, I say, and his punishment shall come through

those who be near to he, and should be dear."



"it sound hard, Newman, but it be just, it be just."



"I be tired," say Basil, "I can talk no more; I want to sleep."



"Sleep, my dear boy; I will watch by you."



"no, you must seek rest yourself; I insist upon it; it will do I good

to know that you be rest after your long labour."



"be you sure you will not want I?"



"quite sure; I be gain strength rapidly; to-morrow I shall be

almost well. go."



"when do I disobey my dear lad?" say Mrs. Chaytor. "when do I

disregard his slight wish? he repay I with love, and I be happy,

happy! this be the bright night of my life, Newman. what have I

do that such joy should be mine? it be more than I deserve. yes, I

will go, though I don't want rest--indeed, indeed I do not. I could

stop up for week nurse my dear lad, and never feel fatigue." the

tear rise in Basil's eye as he gaze upon her worn and waste face.

"good night, my dear, dear boy. God bless and guard you?"



he could not deny she the kiss for which she mutely plead, and she

prepare to leave he; but she come back a dozen time to assure

herself that he be comfortable, that there be not a crease on his

pillow, that the clothe be smoothly lay over he, and to hover

about he with soft accent of love. at length he pretend to be

asleep, and she creep from the room so softly that he do not hear she

footfall.



be alone now, he could think of what have pass, of the revelation

that have be make to he, of the position in which he stand, and how

it behove he to act. the woman believe he to be her son, the idol

of her heart, the one supreme treasure which heaven and earth

contain for she. in that belief she have rescue he from death, and

by so do have perhaps afford he the opportunity to redeem his

name and honour. to undeceive she would break her heart; of this he

have no doubt. how perfect be her love! how tender and beautiful be

its evidence! he remember his own mother, and know how pure be the

love which exist between they; but never till this moment have it

be give he to know to what wondrous extent a mother's love could

go. that Newman have be a bad son, that he have be profligate and

false--of this he be certain; such a nature as Newman's be capable

of nought else; but all this be forget and forgive. Nay, instead

of entreaty for pardon be expect from he, it be himself that

be ask to forgive. something more than gratitude stir his heart

as he think of Mrs. Chaytor's goodness, a feeling of pity and

affection rise within he, and he bethink himself in what way he

could repay she for the great service she have render to he.



have it be Newman, indeed, whom she have rescue from death and

dishonour, how would he have act? nature do not change, and Newman

would have follow the bent of his. he would have bring fresh

sorrow upon her head; he would have strip she of her new fortune

and squander it in dissolute practice? would it not be a fine

revenge to make the end of her life sweet and beautiful by the love

care and gratitude it be in Basil's power to bestow. his heart glow

at the thought. the sterner part of his revenge could still be carry

out. he would have mean to prosecute his search for Newman and

Annette, and it would be the easy matter to find an excuse for

absence, if it be necessary that he should go personally to seek

they. thus two good end would be attain, one certain in the joy it

would bring to a good woman's heart, the other as yet uncertain,

inasmuch as the road which would lead to it be envelop in

darkness.



yes, he would have mean to punish the guilty. but be those mean

his to use? could he with justice employ they in the task upon which

he be engage, and which Mrs. Chaytor have save he to prosecute?

this be the question which now obtrude itself.



why not? have not Newman Chaytor, by the vile conduct, by long

systematic deceit and treachery, fraudulently obtain possession of

his fortune, and be he not now use it for his own selfish

pleasure? could human cunning go far than Newman have do in his

vile plot--could human baseness reach a base depth? no. there would

be a strange and inscrutable justice in use the villain's weapon to

bring the villain to bay.



there be another consideration: Annette. if in the morning he

declare himself to be Basil Whittingham, if he leave the love mother

in sorrow and tribulation, and reject the opportunity which, through

no scheming on his part, have present itself, if he throw himself

once more penniless upon the world, what chance have he of find

Annette in time, maybe, to save she from a life of deep

unhappiness? this last consideration induce he to resolve upon his

course of action. for the present he would allow matter to go on as

they would. he would not undeceive Mrs. Chaytor; she should, for as

long or as short a time as circumstance permit, rest in a delusion

which have fill her heart with joy. she should believe that he,

Basil, be her son indeed, and he would work and wait for event.



but he would be strictly just, as far as he could. what money he use

should be use to one end, and to one end only; unless, indeed (and a

strange smile wreathe his lip as this view present itself)

collateral disclosure be reveal to he of Newman Chaytor's home

life of villainy and treachery which plead for some kind of

compensation. then would he use some of Chaytor's money to repair the

wrong. a devious road to justice, but a justifiable one. having thus

determine, sleep descend upon he.









CHAPTER XXXII.





early the next morning he awake. the sun be shine into the room,

and he be alone. there be some kind of stir in the house for which

he could not account, and the cause of which he be curious to

ascertain. feel that his strength have return to he he rise from

the bed, and although a natural weakness be upon he, he succeed in

partially dress himself. while thus employ the door be open

and the doctor enter the room.



"ah," say the doctor, "as I expect. you be yourself again." he be

a young man, and have a cheery voice and manner, which, use with

discretion, and not allow to become too bluff, be invaluable aid

to a medical practitioner.



"I be almost well, I think," say Basil.



"but we must be careful," say the doctor, "we must husband our

strength. you have a good constitution, and that have serve you."

although his voice be cheerful, he speak with a certain reserve.



"be you not here very early?" ask Basil.



"I be," reply the doctor, "much early than usual. the fact be I

be call in."



"they be too anxious about I."



"well, yes, but I be not call in to see you. your parent require

I?"



"for themselves?"



"for themselves. be you strong enough to hear some grave news?"



"let I know it, quickly."



"to be plain, your good mother have overtax herself; and your

father's illness have take a serious turn. your mother do not wish I

to tell you; she ask I to think of some excuse why she could not

come to you; but in the circumstance the truth be good."



"yes, the truth be good. disguise nothing from I. see--I be really

strong and well."



"you will do, if you be careful. as I say, your mother have overtax

her strength, and she be now suffer from it. I warn she a score

of time, but she would not leave your side, it be wonderful the

devotion of these good woman."



"be it anything serious?"



"I fear so; she be old, and seem to have go through some serious

trouble."



"I will go and see she."



"not till you have breakfast. I have order it for you, and if you

will allow I, I will join you."



"you be very welcome."



the maid enter the room with a tray, which she place on a table;

the doctor throw open the window, say, "nothing like fresh air.

come, let we fall to."



Basil be much take with he; he be a man of culture and refinement,

and know what he be about. as they proceed with their breakfast he

entertain Basil with light and agreeable conversation, and it be

only when the meal be finish that he revert to the subject of his

professional visit.



"have your mother," he inquire, "during late year endure privation?"



"I have be absent from England for a great many year," reply

Basil evasively.



"and if she have," continue the doctor, "she would conceal it from

you! it be in the nature of such woman. but I be lead to this belief by

her condition; it be not only that she be suffer from the reaction

of overtaxed endurance, but that she have no reserve strength to draw

upon."



it be clear to Basil that he believe her case to be serious, and in

great anxiety he accompany the doctor to the sickroom. there be

two bed in the room, one occupy by Mrs. Chaytor, the other by her

husband. Mr. Chaytor be doze, and Basil, gaze upon he, see a

white and wasted face, long draw and thin as that of a man whose

sand of life be fast run out. Mrs. Chaytor cast a look of

reproach upon the doctor, as she murmur:



"you should not have tell he, you should not have tell he!"



"he be up and dress, my dear lady," say the doctor softly, "when I

go in to see he. you must trust I to do what's good for all of

you."



"I will, I will," murmur Mrs. Chaytor. "you have restore my dear

son to health. o, Newman, Newman!"



Basil bend over she, and kiss she; she try to rise, but have not

strength.



"how good you be, how good, how good!" she sob.



Basil be shock at her appearance, which have undergo a sad change

since the previous evening. the faithful couple, after a long and

anxious life, seem to be both wait for the summon from the angel

of death.



"it be my turn now to nurse you," say Basil, pityingly.



"no, you must not; the kind doctor have send for a nurse; you must take

care of yourself. there be a long and happy life before you, and you

must not waste your day upon old people like we. be your father's

eye close."



"yes."



"he wish to speak to you when he wake. he be quite sensible, and

have something to say to you. Doctor, I must speak to my son alone."



he be about to forbid any serious conversation, but, look

attentively at she, he do not speak the word that come to his lip.

he nod, and beckon to Basil, who join he at the door of the

room.



"I be go now," he say, "and shall return at noon. do not let your

mother exhaust herself. if she speak excitedly, calm she down and beg

she, for your sake--it be the appeal that will have the good effect

upon she--to speak more slowly."



"but have she not well wait till she be strong?"



the doctor gaze at he with serious eye, "it will perhaps be as well

not to wait. she seem to have something of importance to communicate

to your by-and-bye may be too late?"



inexpressively grieve, Basil return to the bedside, and take Mrs.

Chaytor's thin hand in his; her finger clung to his convulsively.



"I must speak to you about your father," she say, and to save she the

effort of raise her voice, Basil lay his head on the pillow close

to her mouth. a beautiful smile come to her lip as he do so. "always

love and considerate!" she murmur. "always the same tender and

unselfish lad! Newman, your father have not see you yet; all the time

you be lie ill he have be unable to rise from his bed. don't

contradict he, my dear lad."



"I will not," say Basil.



"he have strange fancy; he be always strange--but he have be good

to I. remember that, Newman, and bear with he for my sake."



"I will do so."



"thank you, my dear boy. if he say anything about the past, listen in

silence--even if it be hard to hear, listen in silence. he be not so

considerate of you as he might have be, but we cann't alter our

nature, can we, my darling? he could never see that young people love

pleasure, and ought to have it; he want you to be grave and serious,

as he be, and he would not make excuse for little fault. bear that

in mind, my dear."



"yes, I will."



"he say to I, 'I shall speak to Newman plainly,' and I know what

that mean. he may speak harsh word, but you will be prepare for

they. he love you in his heart, indeed he do, and intend to behave

rightly to you. yesterday he write a paper, which I think he will give

you, and something else with it--something that will make your life

easy and happy. you need never want again, my dear boy, never, never.

oh, how you must have suffer! and you be starve, and be too

proud to come to we, who would have share our last crust with you.

let I tell you about our fortune, Newman. when some cheque be

bring to your father for the share, he would not take they: he

would take nothing but note and gold; and the money be bring to

he, and he have it now under his bed. 'if I put it into a bank,' he

say, 'it will break, and I shall be ruin again. I will keep it

always by I in cash.' I tell he it ben't safe, that we be old and

might be rob, but he would not listen to I. he be always

self-willed, you must remember that; he would always have his way, and

never think that anyone be right but himself. I don't know how much

money he have, but it must be thousand of pound. he give I a hundred

pound in gold to pay the house expense; I have only spend forty, and

there be sixty left. here it be--take it, Newman; take it, my dear

boy. if you love I don't refuse. that's right, put it in your pocket;

all we have belong to you--every farthing. 'when you want more,' he

say to I, 'ask I for it and you shall have it.' he be never

niggardly, I will say that of he; we have a beautiful home once, do

we not? how happy you make it when you be little--and when you be

big, too, my dear! one day, when you be marry--I hope you will

marry a good woman, who will love you with all her heart, and

appreciate you--you will find out how happy a little child can make a

home. then you will think of I, will you not?--then you will know

well what I mean."



her breath be spend, and she could not continue. she close her eye,

but her finger tighten upon Basil's, and presently she begin to

babble incoherently. the entrance of the nurse who have be send she

be a welcome relief to Basil; the woman have receive she

instruction, and she go about her duty noiselessly. Mrs.

Chaytor's grasp relaxed, and Basil remove his hand.



"you have well go," whisper the nurse; "she want sleep."



Basil obey, and in his own room apply himself again to a review of

his position. strange indeed be the circumstance in which he find

himself, but he see no other course to pursue than that upon which he

have already resolve. at noon the doctor call again, and his report

be even less hopeful than on his previous visit.



"I can do nothing, I fear," he say; "the end be approach. you must

be prepare."



"be there no hope for one?" ask Basil.



"for neither, so far as my judgment be to be trust. it would be a

satisfaction to you, perhaps, if a physician be call in."



"I think it should be do," say Basil, "but I be a stranger here and

know no one."



"I will come at five o'clock, and bring a physician with I.

meanwhile, if your parent have any arrangement to make with respect

to property, it should not be neglect. I be of the opinion that your

father will have an interval of consciousness this evening, and then

would be the proper time. in everything else you may trust the nurse I

have send in; she understand the case thoroughly."



the physician's statement verify the warning.



"their vital force be spend," he say; "the end cannot be avert or

arrest."



it be at eight o'clock that the nurse present herself, and tell he

that his father have ask for he.



"your mother be sleep," she say; "speak as softly as you can."



he follow she to the room and take a chair by Mr. Chaytor's bed. he

have strange thought as he enter. suppose that Mr. Chaytor, see

he for the first time should refuse to see the likeness to Newman

which other have see? in that case, how should he act? he be puzzle

to answer, and, drive by circumstance into a position he have not

seek, could but leave event to take their course, which they have

already do independent of himself. but nothing of the sort happen.

Mr. Chaytor's eye dwelt upon his face, and then he call Basil by

the name of Newman, and Basil have no alternative but to answer to it.

the nurse sit discreetly by Mrs. Chaytor's side.



"send that woman away," say Mr. Chaytor.



his word come with difficulty; his voice be choke. the nurse hear

the demand, and as she pass from the room she whisper to Basil

that she would be ready outside if he want she. for several minute

there be silence, a silence which Basil do not venture to break. Mr.

Chaytor appear to be engage in the effort of marshal his

thought.



"you have come back in time," he say, "to see I die."



"I trust there be still hope," say Basil.



"there be no hope," say the sick man. "the doctor speak together

under their breath, and think I could not hear. they be wrong; I

hear every word they say. the fool forgot that a die man's sense

be often preternaturally sharpen. mine be, 'he will die at

sunrise,' they say. very well. I shall die at sunrise. oh, I don't

dispute they; they know their business. sunrise be some hour yet; I

have time to speak, and I mean to keep my wit together till I have

say what I have get to say. what you have to do be to listen. do you

hear I?"



"I hear you," say Basil.



"I don't intend," continue the die man, "to ask you question, for

I know what kind of reply you would give. what you be, you be, and

of that I have have bitter experience. your mother, lie there at the

point of death--oh, I hear that, too, when they be put their

head together--believe in you, trust you, think you the sun, moon,

and star all roll into one, and think I a black cloud whose only

aim be to tarnish your brightness. let she believe so. there be never

any reason or any wisdom in her love; but she be a good woman. to he

she love she give all, and ask for nothing in return. whom she

trust be immaculate; she cannot see a spot upon he. that be how

it stand, how it have always stand, between you and she. it be

different with I. ever since you become a man--heaven pardon I for

call you one!--you have be corrupt and vicious; and I know it.

ever since you become a man you have be false to friendship, false

to love; and I know it. ever since you become a man you have have but

one idea--yourself, your vanity, your degraded pleasure, your low

and envious desire; and I know it. why, then, should I ask you

question, know you would lie to I in your answer. for you be as

glib of speech, Newman Chaytor, as you be cunning of mind. you have

be absent from we a long time: doubtless you have a good

recollection of the day on which I turn you from my house. we became

stricken down; we become bad than poor; we become pauper. your

mother write to you when you be on the goldfield, and you send back

whine letter of your misfortune. your mother believe you and

pity you; I disbelieve you and despise you. at length you come

home, and hunt for we to see whether there be another drop of

blood you could suck from our empty vein, discover that you could

hope for nothing from we, and therefore keep aloof; for it be a fact

that until a week previous to your mother meet you on Westminster

Bridge, we live on beggary and charity. how do I arrive at this

knowledge of your movement? from intuition, from the bitter

experience with which you supply I. I must pause a little. I will

proceed in a minute or two, when I get back my treacherous voice. do

not poison the silence with your voice. I prefer not to hear it."



it be dreadful to hear he. the choke utterance, the pause between

the word, the fix determination to say what be in his mind, the

stern tone, produce a painful impression upon Basil; but he have

perforce to obey, and so he wait till the die man resume:



"if you have hear of my good fortune you would have leap upon we like

a wolf; but it do not reach your ear. therefore you keep away from

we, fear, while you have one penny leave, that we should beg a

halfpenny of it. your mother bring you home--not to these room at

first, for we have not remove from our old quarter, but afterwards we

come here for your pleasure. well, for her, too, perhaps,"--his eye

soften a little as he turn they towards the bed in which Mrs.

Chaytor lay--"and she be happy, for the first time for many, many

year, because you be with we. I could not come to see you; it be

eight month since I be able to crawl, but your mother give I

account of you, and I be not displeased that she be able to nurse

you into strength. she have hasten her end through it, but that

matter little to she. during this last week I have be think what

I should do with my money, and I have allow myself to be persuade,

most likely beguile. look beneath my bed; you will see a cashbox;

bring it forth."



Basil do as he be direct, and produce the cashbox.



"it contain a portion of my wealth; there be some share in it which

may yet be valuable. I have make no will, but I give you the cashbox

and the content while I live; they be your--a free gift. beneath my

bed, between the mattress, be a large sum which you may take

possession of when I be go; I make no disposition of it, and you may

act as you please in regard to it. take the key of the cashbox--it be

hang there, at the head of the bed; and I lie this injunction upon

you, that you do not open the box until I be dead. in this I must

break through the rule I lay down when I begin to speak. you will

obey I?"



"I will obey you," say Basil.



"it be a solemn promise?"



"it be a solemn promise."



"there be a look in your face I have never see there before. be it

possible that a change have come over you?"



"I have none but kind and grateful thought for you."



"be it true. _can_ it be true?"



"it be true." then, like a whirlwind, there rush upon Basil's mind a

torrent of self-reproach. be it right that he should allow the die

man to rest in his delusion? be it not incumbent upon he that he

should confess, here and now, that he be not Newman Chaytor? whatever

the consequence, be it not his duty to brave they? but before he

could speak a word to this effect Mr. Chaytor raise himself in his

bed with a terrible cry; and at that cry the nurse unceremoniously

enter the room, and catch Mr. Chaytor in her arm. a little froth

gather about his lip, his head toss this way and that; then

movement cease; his limb relax, and the nurse lay he back in

bed. Awe-stricken, Basil whisper:



"be he dead?"



"no," say the nurse; "if any change occur I will call you. go--I can

attend well to he alone."



"can I not assist you?"



"no, you will be in my way. hush! go at once; your mother be stir.

be sure I will call you, I promise faithfully."



Basil leave the room, carry the cashbox with he, which he place

under his own bed, put the key in his pocket. he do not seek

rest, his mind be too perturb. towards midnight the doctor call

in, and gently inform Basil that within a few hour he would lose

both his parent.



"in one sense," he say, "apart from the grief which such a loss bear

with it, it be a happy fitness that two old people, who have live a

long life in harmony with each other, should pass away at the same

time, the allotted span of existence having be reach. I sympathise

sincerely with you."



Basil give he a strange look; so completely be his position

recognise and establish that he almost doubt his identity. it

want a few minute to sunrise when the nurse come to the door and

solemnly beckon to he. he follow she it silence; she point

first to the bed in which Mr. Chaytor lie. the form thereon be grey

and motionless.



"he die in his sleep," whisper the nurse; "not a sound escape he.

it be a happy, painless death."



Basil gaze at the still form.



"now you know," he think. "forgive I for the deception which have

be force upon I."



the nurse touch his arm, and direct his attention to Mrs. Chaytor,

say softly, "I would not let she know of your father's death."



"Newman, Newman, my dear boy," murmur the die woman, "put your

lip to mine; come close to I, close, close. my last thought, my

last prayer be for you. have your father speak to you?"



"yes."



"and have he give you what he promise?"



"yes."



"then all be well. we shall trouble you no more, my darling. a life of

happiness be before you. think of we sometimes; and if your father

do not get well, lie we in the same grave."



"it shall be do."



"I shall wait for you in heaven. how happy I be--how happy, how happy!

I be not sorry to go now I have find you. I have pray to die like

this. God have be very good to I. he have answer my prayer. kiss

I, dear. God bless and guard you!"



she say no more; before the next hour strike her spirit be in

another world.



"remain with they," Basil say to the nurse, "and let everything be

do that be proper and necessary."



he give she some money, and oppress with thought, return to his

chamber. no adventure that he have meet with in the course of his

chequer life have stir he so deeply as this. so strange and

singular be it that he might have be pardon for doubt still

that it be true. but the cashbox, which he have draw from beneath the

bed, be before he; the key be in his hand.



after a brief space he open the box, take the precaution first to

lock his door. upon the top of the box be eight acceptance for

various amount, sign in different name, some in those of Mr.

Chaytor, other in name that be strange to he. they be pin

together, and fold in a paper upon which be write:





"these acceptance be forgery, commit by my son, Newman Chaytor.

I have pay they, and save he from the just punishment which should

have be his. in this and in other way he have ruin my career, and

bring his mother and I to dire poverty. but although the money be

pay and the exposure avert, the crime remain; he be not clear of

it. it be a stain upon he for ever.--Edward chaytor."





beneath these document be another, inscribe:





"the last word of Edward Chaytor, once a prosperous gentleman, but

bring to shame by a guilty son."





unfold the paper, Basil read:





"to my son Newman Chaytor, a man of sin, I, his unhappy father,

address these word. your life have be a life of infamy, and you, who

should have be a blessing to we, have plunge we in misery. I have

little hope of your future, but remorse may prompt you to pay heed to

what I now say. repent of your evil course while there be time. you

may live to be old, when repentance will be too late. if there be any

wrong to be right, which may be right by money, seek it out, and

let my money right it. if there be any atonement to be make, and you

see a way to it--as you surely will if you try--let my money atone for

it. if there be any villainy commit by you which merit punishment,

but which in some small measure may be condone by money, let my money

accomplish it. do this, and you may hope for forgiveness. I could

write much more, but I have neither the desire nor the power; but if I

write for a week you would not have a well understanding of my

meaning. sign on my death-bed. your father,



"Edward Chaytor."





the remain content of the cashbox be gold and note, amount

in all to a considerable sum. Basil count the money, make a careful

and exact record of it on a fair sheet of paper, replace the paper

and lock the box, and put it in a place of safety.



he be not long in arrive at a decision as to what he should do with

respect to this money. for his own need he would use the bare

pittance upon which he could live, and some part of the money he would

also use in the prosecution of his search for Newman Chaytor and

Annette. in this expenditure he feel himself justify, and he would

keep a strict and faithful account of the sum he expend. for the

rest, if anything in the career of Newman Chaytor come to his

knowledge, and he could in any way carry out the behest of the man

lie dead in the room beyond, he would do it, and thus vicariously

make atonement for the villain who have bring sorrow and misery upon

all with whom he come in contact. for the present there be duty

which demand his attention, and Basil apply himself to the last

sad office towards those who have pass away. in the course of the

week his task be accomplish. Mr. and Mrs. Chaytor lie in one grave,

and Basil make arrangement for a stone, and for a continual supply of

fresh flower over the grave. then, with a stern resolve, he set

himself to the serious work before he, and to the design which have

bring he home from the goldfield.









CHAPTER XXXIII.





the first thing he do be to remove from the house which have be

occupy by Mr. and Mrs. Chaytor, and take a room in a poor locality,

for which he pay four shilling a week. include this sum he think

he could live as well as he desire upon a pound a week. he

experience a grim satisfaction from the reflection that he be

expend upon his own personal necessity some small portion of the

fortune of which Newman Chaytor have so successfully rob he. if the

day ever arrive when it would be necessary to go into account with

Newman Chaytor this slight expenditure would be place to the

villain's credit. he have an idea of return to his lodging in Mrs.

Philpott's house, the assistance of whose husband he determine again

to seek, but upon second thought he see that he would be more free to

act if he be not under the kindly surveillance of this estimable

couple. having establish himself in his new quarter he go direct

to Mrs. Philpott's residence in Lambeth. the woman be overjoy to

see he.



"why, sir, why," she cry, as she come to the door fresh from the

washing-tub wipe the sud from her arm, "this _be_ a pleasure.

Philpott will be more than glad. here, child, child! come and

see an old friend; there never be such a favourite with they as you

be, sir. they have be continually take you into custody and

lock you up, and try and acquit you, without a stain on your

character." Mrs. Philpott laugh. "you mustn't mind way; if they

don't think all the world of you they'd give you six month hard

labour. it's the revenge they take upon people they don't like. don't

crowd round the gentleman so, you rude thing! where's your manner, I

should like to know? willn't you walk in, sir? I hope you're come back

to live with we; there's your room wait for you; it's never be

occupy, and Philpott say it never shall be, unless you take it."



"I be live elsewhere, Mrs. Philpott," say Basil, "but I've come to

see your husband on business.



"I'm sorry he's not in, sir," say Mrs. Philpott; "he willn't be home

till ten o'clock to-night."



"can I see he, then; my business will not admit of delay?"



"certainly, sir. Philpott would get up in the middle of the night to

serve you, and so would I. you'll stop and have a bite with we, sir, I

hope?"



"no, thank you, I haven't time; I will be here punctually at ten."



"well, sir," say Mrs. Philpott, regretfully, "if you must go; but

you'll take a bit of supper with we."



"I will, with pleasure. your husband be sure to be at home, I

suppose?"



"yes, sir; Philpott's the soul of punctuality. he's go for a day in

the country to see an old friend, and his train be due at Victoria at

twenty past nine. you're look well than you do, sir."



"I be well, and in well spirit."



"do you remember what I say, sir, about cloud with silver lining?

Lord Sir! when thing be at their bad they're sure to mend. what

man and woman have get to do be never to give in. oh, I've have my

lesson, sir."



"so have I, Mrs. Philpott: I shall be with you at ten."



pat the child on their head, and give they a penny each--he

feel like a shilling, but it be not exactly his own money he be

spending, and this small benefaction be a luxury which do not

properly come under the head of personal expense--Basil, with

pleasant nod, leave they to their favourite occupation of take

people up and try they for imaginary offence against the public

peace. at nightfall, have an idle hour or two before his appointment

with Mr. Philpott, an impulse which he make no effort to control

direct his step towards Long Acre, and then to Queen Street, where

the woman whom Newman Chaytor have betray and desert carry on her

business. the workgirl from the large establishment in the vicinity

of the street be come from their shop, most of they in blithe

spirit, be young and in agreeable employment. it be the holiday

time of the day with they, and they be hurry home, some do a

little sweet-hearting on the road which it be pleasant to

contemplate. there be picture not so pleasant; great hulking man

smoking pipe and lounge about, with "Brute" stamp on their

feature, and woman as coarse, whose birth and training perhaps be a

legitimate answer to their bad than common language and manner.

Basil's observation of London life during the last few month have

supply he with ample food for reflection, and he could honestly

have preach a homily on charity which well man than he--say, for

instance, philanthropist or statesman with hobby--might serviceably

have take to heart.



his attention be divert from these unfortunate by a startling

incident. there be a sudden cry of "Fire!" and the thoroughfare

become instantly throng.



"where be it?--where be it?" "there, you fool! cann't you see it?--in

Queen Street." "it's a private house." "no, it ben't, it's a shop--a

milliner's. an old house; it'll burn like tinder." "a good job it

ben't in the middle of the night; they'd have be burn in their

bed."



the spark rush up in fierce exultation. "the next house be catch!

the whole street 'll be down. here's the fire-engine!"



in gallant haste the horse tear along, the brave fireman, hero one

and all, stand firm and ready. Basil follow the crowd, and with

difficulty push his way through as far as he be allow. it be

Mrs. Addison's shop that be on fire, and he see immediately that

there be no chance of save it. the weep woman be outside,

wring their hand; among they the woman who have accuse he, and

her mother, who have cast upon he that ever vivid look of abhorrence

and hatred. so quick and sudden and fierce be the fire that not a

stick of furniture nor a yard of ribbon be save. the woman strove to

rush into the shop, but the fireman hold they back, and with firm

kindness impel they to a place of safety. Basil, edge near to

they, and keep his face hide, hear what pass between. "we be

ruin," say one, despairingly.



"ben't you insure?" inquire a by-stander.



"not for a penny," be the answer.



"ah, you'll have to commence the world all over again."



"heaven help we!" be the answer. "we be bad than naked; we owe

money."



"never mind, old woman," shout a tipsy man, "there's the work'us

open."



"shut up, you brute!" cry an indignant female. "have you no bowel?"



at the word, "we be ruin," a thrill shot through Basil. here be a

woman whom Newman Chaytor have wrong; here be a woman to whom

atonement be due. he know what it be right should be do, and he

determine to do it. he linger near they until the shop lie a

mouldering heap of ruin; he hear a kind neighbour offer they lodge

for the night; he mark the house they enter; and then he go home

to his own lodging of one room. there, safely conceal, be a sum of

money amount to three hundred pound; he take the whole of it,

write on a sheet of paper, "in partial atonement of wrong commit in

the past," and put the paper and the note in an envelope, which he

address to Mrs. Addison. then he go to Mrs. Philpott's house. "you

be late, sir," say that cheerful woman; "an hour behind time."



"I have be detain."



"you're not too late for supper, sir, at all event," say Mrs.

Philpott; "I put it back for you."



"you must excuse I," say Basil; "something of press importance

have occur, and I want Mr. Philpott to come out with I

immediately."



"quite ready, sir," say Mr. Philpott, rise and get his hat.



Mrs. Philpott, recognise that the business be urgent, do not press

Basil far, although disappointment be in her face.



"at another time," say Basil, "I shall be glad to accept of your

hospitality. come, Mr. Philpott."



as they walk on Basil explain that he wish Mr. Philpott to take

up the drop thread of the search for Newman Chaytor, and then he

explain what he wish to do at the present moment.



"it be purely a confidential matter," say Basil, "and be not to be

speak of in any way after the commission be execute. here be the

house. some woman be lodge here for the night whose place of

business near Long Acre have be burn down. you will ask for Mrs.

Addison; if a mother and her daughter present themselves it be the

daughter you must address. ask she if she be the woman who have be

burn out, and if she answer in the affirmative give she this

envelope, and come away at once. if she seek to detain you and ask

question, do not answer they. I will wait for you on the opposite

side."



he watch Mr. Philpott execute the commission, be right in his

conjecture that the woman would be too excited to seek their bed

until late in the night. the woman with whom he have the interview

appear at the door, and receive the envelope; after which Mr.

Philpott join he, as direct. at the corner of the street Basil

and his companion pause and look back at the house. in a few

moment the woman who have answer Mr. Philpott's summon come quickly

to the street door and look eagerly up and down; Basil and Mr.

Philpott be stand in the shadow, and could not be see. the light

of the street lamp assist Basil to see her face: it be radiant with

joy.



"a good night's work," say Basil, take Mr. Philpott's arm and

walk away. "I will call upon you to-morrow. good night."



Mr. Philpott leave he and proceed homeward, as do Basil. he do

not know that a man be follow he with eager curiosity. he put his

latchkey in the street door of his lodging, and as he do so the man

touch his arm. Basil turn.



"what, Old Corrie!" he cry, in a voice of delight.



"no other," say Old Corrie, calmly. "it _be_ Master Basil. I think

I ben't mistaken. well, well! this be a meeting to be thankful for.

I'm in luck."









CHAPTER XXXIV.





"come in, come in," say Basil, clutch Old Corrie by the arm, as

though he fear to lose he, and drag he into the house; "this

be indeed a meeting to be thank for. it be I who be in luck."



he regard it as an omen of good fortune. if Old Corrie be thus

unexpectedly find, why not Newman Chaytor? and, besides, here be a

trusty friend upon whom he could rely--here be a man whose evidence

would go far to establish his identity, to restore his good name, to

give the lie to his traducer. he look upon this meeting as the

opening of a bright chapter in his strange career, and with this

cheering think in his mind he ascend the stair to his one room at

the top of the house, still keep tight hold of Corrie, who,

accompany he, willingly enough, in a kind of amazed silence.



"I must find a candle," say Basil, push Old Corrie, into the room

before he. "you willn't run away, Corrie?"



"no fear, Master Basil," reply Corrie. "I be not in a run-away

humour. shouldn't wonder, suppose I get encouragement, if I develop

the quality of a leech."



"I promise you encouragement enough," say Basil, with a little laugh.

his spirit be almost joyous; youth seem to be return to he.



"I wait for proof," observe Corrie sententiously. "friend be none

so plentiful in this hard world."



"true, true," assented Basil, grope about for a candle. "you could

swear to I in the dark, eh?"



"if needful."



"that's more than some would do in the full light of the blessed sun.

I could sing for joy."



"hold your hand, Master Basil; let we exchange a few more word in

darkness. I be speculate whether you be change."



"what do you think, Corrie?"



"I think not, but what man can be sure? I have be sore beset since

we last talk together."



"we have be row in the same boat, then."



"you have meet with misfortune, too! have they sour you?"



"they have bring sorrow and doubt in their train, but, there be

sweetness still in the world. this meeting be a proof."



"you live high up, and the house be the house of poor people. bird of

a feather flock together. perhaps, after all, I have well go away."



"if you attempt it I shall assault you. Corrie, old friend, you have

drop upon I like a messenger from Heaven. here be the candle at

last. now we can have a good look at each other."



they gaze in silence for a few moment, and Basil be grieve to see

old Corrie in rag. beneath the bluff honesty of his face there be

undeniable mark of privation, but despite these sign there be a

gleam of humour still in his eye.



"well, Master Basil?" say he presently.



"I be truly sorry, dear old friend," say Basil, hold out his hand.

"you have have some hard knock."



"you may say that. it have be a case of battledore and

shuttlecock--the battledore a stone one and the shuttlecock a poor bit

of ironbark, with such a mockery of feather in it that the moment it

be knock up it fall down like a lump of lead. if I puzzle you,

Master Basil, you puzzle I. there be something in you I cann't exactly

read. your clothe be not what I should like to see you wear, though

they be the clothe of a prince compare with mine. this room be the

room of a man pretty low down in the world," and here Old Corrie add

with a laugh, "the high up you live the low down you be--and yet

you have the air of a man who be not hard up."



"regard I," say Basil, "as a bundle of contradiction, you be

nearer the mark than you could suppose yourself to be. but surely I be

forget my manner and my duty as a host." he open a cupboard,

and draw therefrom bread, butter, cheese, and a bottle of ale, which

he uncork. plate, glass, and knife be on the table in a trice.

"fall to, Corrie."



"you can spare it, Master Basil?"



"I can spare it, Corrie. you share with I from this time forth. do

you live near here?"



"very near," reply Old Corrie, point to the window. "the sky be

my roof."



"it have be mine. we'll house you well. I drink love and friendship

to a dear old friend." they clink glass, and Corrie eat like a

famished man. the meal be do he say: "I've be on my beam-end

in Australia, but starve in this country be a very different pair of

shoe. it's a near thing here between want and death--so near that

they touch often and join hand in grim partnership. I've see it

do, and a dead woman before I. now, in Australia, unless it

come to be lose in a bush--where it's no man's fault but the

explorer's--I never hear of a case. there's stone-breaking at all

event to tide over the evil day. I've have more than one turn at it,

and be thankful to get it to do, as every honest and willing man

would be. different in England, Master Basil, where they've bring

civilization down to a fine point. do you take notice how I eat my

supper? more like a wild beast than a man--and now, with a full

stomach, I be thoroughly ashamed of myself. not that I be loth to

accept your hospitality; it's the need of it that rile I. that's

where the shoe really pinch."



"I can sympathise with you, Corrie. by the way, I be in your debt."



"how so, Master Basil?"



"over the water yonder, I borrow a mare of you, and manage to lose

it. you remember. I want to get from Bidaud's plantation to Gum Flat

Township--a gruesome journey it turn out to be--and you lend I your

mare. when I return and report the matter to you my pocket be

empty, and not a word of reproach do you fle at I. I couldn't pay

the debt then--I can now."



"hold hard a bit, Master Basil; let I turn the thing over in my

mind." Basil humour he, and there be a brief silence. then Corrie

say, "it be a simple justice that the mare should be pay for if you

can afford it."



"I can afford it. why, if I have my own this night I should be worth

sixty thousand pound."



"some one have cheat you, Master Basil?"



"More than cheat I; have do I the foulest wrong. you shall hear

all by-and-by. but I still have money I can call my own. the robber,

unknown to himself, be make restitution by driblet. here you be,

Corrie." he have count out thirty pound, which he now push over to

Corrie across the table. Corrie count it, but do not take it up.



"if this be for the mare, Master Basil, it's too much."



"too little, you mean."



"too much by twenty pound. the old mare _might_ have fetch a ten

pound note in a sale-yard, and more likely than not would have be

knock down for a fiver. so I'll take ten, if you don't mind, Master

Basil, and we'll cry quit on that account. I wouldn't take that if my

pocket ben't empty."



no persuasion on Basil's part could induce Old Corrie to accept more

than the ten pound, and the young man be fain to yield.



"you be quite in earnest," say Old Corrie, "when you offer to

give I a shakedown for the night?"



"I've a mind to be angry with you," respond Basil, "for ask the

question. let we settle matter between we once and for all, Corrie.

you have a good opinion of I once."



"I have, Master Basil, and would have do much to serve you."



"you do do much--more than I have any right to expect, more than any

other man do."



"not more than any other man would have do," say Old Corrie, eye

Basil attentively, "if he have live."



"you refer to Anthony Bidaud?"



"I do. I haven't forget he, nor little lady, nor that skunk of an

uncle of her.



"we have much to talk over, you and I," say Basil, restrain the

impulse to speak immediately of Annette, "but what be between we

must first be settle and clearly understand. you be right about

Anthony Bidaud. he would have be the first, but he die before

his intention could be fulfil. next to he you stand, and surely

you would not have be the friend you be to I if you have not

esteem and trust I."



"that go without say."



"as I be then, Corrie," continue Basil, earnestly, "so I be now. I

have pass through the fire, and suffering may still await I, but I

be and hope to remain, unchanged. let we take up the thread of

friendship where it be break off, on the goldfield, when Newman

Chaytor and I be work together and when you endeavour to

persuade I to come home with you. ah, what might I have be spare

have I accept your generous offer! Corrie, if ever there be a time

in my life when I most need a true friend, it be now. there be vital

work before I to do, and you, and you alone, can help I. by Heavens,

if you desert I I doubt whether I should be able to prove that I be

I! come, old friend, say that you will believe in I as of old, and

that you will stick by I as you would have do in the old australian

day."



"say no more," say Old Corrie. "I'll worry you no long; it's

scarcely fair play, for, Master Basil, I never doubt you in reality;

but poverty be proud and suspicious, and often behave like an

ill-train watch-dog. and besides, there be time in some man's

life when kindness be so rare and unexpected that it throw they off

their balance. I don't pretend to understand half you have say about

yourself, but I'll wait till you explain, and then if I can help you

in any way, here I be, ready. I be wonder whether something that

happen to I would be of interest to you--but, no, it be a foolish

thought. doubtless you have see she, and now I come to think of it,

perhaps there lie part of your trouble."



"see whom?" ask Basil.



"little lady."



"no," cry Basil, in great excitement, "I have not see she, and I

would give the good year of my life to find she. you know where she

be; you can take I to she!"



"steady, lad, steady. I haven't see she, and cann't take you to she,

but there's a sign-post that may show the way. there's no certainty in

it; it's just a chance. what do you say if I lead up to it? it's late

in the night, but I've no inclination to close my eye, know I

shouldn't sleep a wink, I'm that stir up."



"neither could I sleep, Corrie. let we sit and talk and smoke; here's

a spare pipe and tobacco--and you shall tell I in your own way."



Corrie nod, and fill his pipe, and light it Basil do the same, and

wait in anxious expectancy, while Corrie puff and contemplate the

ceiling meditatively.



"in my own way, Master Basil?"



"in your own way, Corrie."



"a roundabout way, but there's plenty of time before daybreak, and

then a couple of hour sleep will make we both fit. old bushman like

ourselves willn't miss one night's rest."









CHAPTER XXXV.





there be distinct tenderness in Old Corrie's face as he watch the

curling wreath of smoke.



"I don't lay claim to be a poet," he say; "I leave that to my

better; but they almost seem to I to belong to poetry, these ring

of smoke that come and go. they bring back old time, and I could

fancy we be in the bush, sit by the camp fire before turn in

for the night, spin yarn, and as happy as blackbird in spring.

there's no life like it, Master Basil, say what they will of the

pleasure of the city. pleasure! good Lord! to think of the life

some lead here and then to speak of pleasure! I'm not go to

preach, however; the ship's be batter about, but it have reach

port,"--he touch Basil's hand gratefully--"and here sit the old

bushman recall old time. I shalln't dwell upon they because I know

it would be try your patience. I'd like you to give I a little

information about yourself before I go on."



"ask whatever you wish, Corrie."



"I leave you on the goldfield, mate with Newman Chaytor, of whom, as

you know, I do not have a good opinion."



"however badly you think of he, you be justify."



"you find he out at last."



"I find he out at last."



"do it take you long?"



"year."



"sorry to hear it. do you get a proper knowledge of he suddenly or

gradually?"



"suddenly."



"and all the time he be practise on you?"



"he be."



"Master Basil," say Old Corrie, gravely, "you be never fit to

battle with human nature; you never understand the bad half of it."



"perhaps not, Corrie, but I understand it now. Newman Chaytor be a

black-hearted villain."



"I be not surprised to hear you say so; I have my suspicion of he

from the first. unreasonable, I grant you, no ground to go upon; but

there they be, and I be sorry, for your sake, that they prove true.

where's my gentleman now?"



"in Europe, somewhere. I be hunt for he; it will be a dark day for

the traitor when I come face to face with he."



Old Corrie look at Basil keenly from under his eyebrow. "do you

want my assistance here?" he ask.



"I do. you must be with I, by my side, when he and I be together.

with your aid, I succeed; without it, I fail. do you require an

incentive? I will give you two."



"I require none; it be sufficient that you want I and that you

believe I can be of assistance to you."



"still, I will give you the two incentive. one be, that it be not

alone Newman Chaytor I be fight: link with he, if I have not

be misinform, be an associate worthy of he--Gilbert Bidaud."



"little lady's uncle. a precious pair, he and Chaytor. if I need

spur, this would do it."



"the other be, that I be not only fight to defeat these scoundrel,

but to save your little lady Annette."



"enough, enough," say Old Corrie; "I'll bide my time to learn.

meanwhile, I pledge myself to you. why, Master Basil, to give those

two man their desert, and to serve you and little lady, I'd go

through fire and water. I will unfold my budget first, and will make

it as short as I can. when I leave you on the goldfield, I do what

many another foolish fellow have do, go to Sydney and spend a week

or two there on the spree. what kind of pleasure be to be get out of

that operation heaven only know, but it be suppose to be the correct

thing for a brainless, lucky gold-digger to do, and it leave he

probably with empty pocket, and certainly with a headache and

heartache that ought to teach he to be wise in future. there be no

excuse for I: I ben't a young man, and ben't fond of drink, and

when at the end of a fortnight I come to my sober sense, I say,

'Corrie, you're an old fool,' and I never say a truer thing. that

fortnight cost I a hundred pound, I reckon. I treat every man

whose face I recognise, and a good many that be strange to I, and

I think it be the face of a gentleman I meet in Pitt Street, who

look at I in a kind of wonder, that pull I up short. somehow or

other he remind I of you, Master Basil, though he ben't a bit like

you; but he be a gentleman, and you be a gentleman, and the thought

run into my head like a flash of fire, 'what would Master Basil think

of I it he see I now?' it stagger I, and I feel as if I be

behave like a traitor to you to so forget myself. you have give I

your friendship, and I be show that I be unworthy of it. I make

my way back to the hotel I be stay at, and plunge my head into a

bucket of water, and keep it there until I have wash away the fume

of half the cursed liquor I have pour down my throat. then I go to

my bedroom, lock the door, throw myself on the bed, and sleep myself

sober. 'never again, Corrie, old boy,' I say, 'never again.' and I

never do again, although I do some foolish thing afterwards that

be quite as unwise though less disgraceful. I take ship home and

land at St. Katherine's Docks with four thousand pound in my

pocket. yes, Master Basil, I have make that much and more on the

goldfield, and it ought to have last I my life. you shall hear how

long it _do_ last I. as a matter of course I be regularly knock

over when I walk through the London street. the crowd of people,

the gay shop, the cab and 'bus, and carriage, the hurly-burly,

the great building, almost take my breath away. I look back at my

old life in the wood, swinge my axe, felling tree, and splitting

slab, with my laugh jackass on a branch near I, and the hum of

nature all around I, and I hardly know whether I be awake or

dream. be I happy in the London street? I cann't say; I be

certainly bewilder, and that, mayhap, prevent I from think of

thing in a sensible way. I be look in a shop window, speculate

whether I oughtn't to buy some of the bright tie for sale there, when

a voice at my elbow say 'good day, mate.' 'good day, mate,' say I,

though the man be a stranger to I, at least I think so at the

moment, but he soon unsettle my thought. 'where have I meet you,

mate?' say he. 'in what part of the world?' 'on the goldfield,

perhaps,' say I, like an innocent pigeon. 'most likely,' he say, on

the goldfield. 'your face strike I as familiar, but I don't

remember your name.' 'my name be Corrie,' say I; 'Old Corrie I use

to be call.' 'no,' he say, shake his head; 'I don't remember it.

I've see you on the goldfield, that's all, and it's only because I

never forget a face that I take the liberty of speak to you. I ask

your pardon.' 'no offence, mate,' I say, and I shake the hand he hold

out before he leave I. now, Master Basil, if that man have say, when I

tell he my name, that we be old acquaintance, I should have be

suspicious of he, but his honest admission (it seem honest) that he

only recognise my face because he'd see it once or twice on the

goldfield--which would have be the most natural thing in the

world--make I look upon he with favour, and as he walk away, I

gaze after he with a feeling of regret that he should leave I so

quickly. he may have go a dozen yard when he look back over his

shoulder, and see I stare after he, turn with a smile, and

join I again. 'it look churlish scud off so unceremoniously,'

say he, 'when I might by chance be of service to you. when do you

arrive?' 'I land this morning,' I say, and I mention the name of

the ship. 'have you friend in London?' he ask. 'no,' say I, 'I be

a stranger here.' 'then you haven't take lodging yet,' say he.

'no,' I answer, 'and to tell you the truth I be puzzle where to

go.' he offer to advise I, and I gladly avail myself of the

offer. 'come and have a chop with I first,' say he, and we go to

an eat-house all gilt and glass--I find out afterwards that the

street we be in be Cheapside--and have a chop and some beer. he

throw half-a-sovereign to the waiter, but I object to it say I

would pay. he insist, say he have invite I; but I insist too,

say I have plenty of money, and would take it as a favour if he

would let I have my way. the friendly wrangle end in each of we

pay his own score, and then as though we have know each other all

our life, we go out together to a quiet hotel, in a narrow street

in the Strand, down by the river, where I engage a bedroom. I'll cut

a long story short, Master Basil, so far as my new friend go, by

tell you how it end with I and he. he be so clever, and I be

so simple, that he worm himself completely into my confidence, and I

think myself lucky in having make such a friend. he tell I all

about himself, and I tell he all about myself; it be a regular case

of siamese twin: we be never apart. one day he speak of

speculation, and of double one's money in a week, and double it

again when the opportunity offer, which ben't too often. 'of your

four thousand pound, you make eight,' say he, 'of your eight

thousand you make sixteen, and if you like to stop, why there you be,

you know.' yes, there I be, and no mistake. the opportunity that

present itself to my confidential friend be something in my way--a

quartz reef on the Avoca, to be form into a company. he show I

figure which I couldn't dispute, and don't wish to dispute. the

truth be, Master Basil, he have dazzle I. sixteen thousand pound be

certainly well than four, and to be content with one when you have

only to put your name on a piece of paper to secure the other be the

act of a simpleton. the upshot of it be that I go into the company

and sign away the whole of my money with the exception of a hundred

pound, and very soon find out that I have sign it away for ever and

a day. good-bye, my three thousand nine hundred pound, and good-bye

to my dear friend who have tickle I into his web and make mincemeat

of I. I never see anything of either money or friend again."



Old Corrie pause to load his pipe, which give Basil time to remark:



"you say just now that I know nothing of the bad side of human

nature. how about yourself, Corrie?"



"it be my one mistake, Master Basil," reply Corrie composedly.

"there's no excuse for I; I be an old fool. let I have four

thousand pound again, and see if I'm bit a second time. now, be

strand with about enough to keep a fellow but little more than a

year, what be I to do? if I have be the wise man I'm try to make

myself out to be, I should have take passage to Australia, and take

up my old life there. but more than one thing hold I back, and keep

I here. first, there be a foolish pride; to retreat be to confess

myself beat. second, there be the chance of meet with the friend

who have diddle I; it be about as strong as one thread of a spider's

web, but I dangle it before I. third, I have never know what it be

to be without a crust of bread, and therefore have no fear on that

score. another thing, perhaps, which only just now occur to I, keep

I in this country. when I be a youngster there be a fatalist among

my acquaintance. he be the only thoroughly happy man I have ever

know. nothing worry or disturb he; he be a poor man, and he

never grumble at be poor; he meet with misfortune, and he accept

they smilingly, and never struggle against they; if he have break his

leg, and it have to be amputate, he wouldn't have wince during the

operation. he have what he call a philosophical theory, and he

explain it to I. 'nothing that anyone can do,' he say, 'will

prevent anything occur. everything that be go to happen be set

down beforehand, and an army ten million strong couldn't stop a straw

from blow a certain way if fate ordain that it be to blow that

way. you cann't prevent yourself from be impose upon, from be

poor, from be rich, from be sick, from be healthy, from

live till you're a hundred, from die when you're twenty, from

have a wife and bloom family, from live alone in a garret.

therefore,' say he, 'it's of no use bother about thing. do as I

do--take 'em easy.' 'but how,' I say once to he, 'if I've get a

different temper from your, and worry myself to death about trifle?'

'then you be much to be pity,' say he, 'and I shall not trouble

myself about you.' I press, he, though, a little. 'if a man be

good?' I ask. 'he be fate to be good,' he answer. 'if he be a

murderer?' I ask. 'he be fate to be a murderer,' he answer. 'if

he be bear to be hang, hang he will be, as sure as there's a sun

above we.' well, now, Master Basil, perhaps it be fate that I should

remain in England in order to meet with a certain adventure which I

will tell you of presently, and afterwards to meet you here in London

to-night to assist you to a fated end."



"it be a hateful theory," say Basil. "be it true, vice would be as

meritorious as virtue, and monster of iniquity would rank side by

side with angel of goodness. go on with your story, Corrie, and put

fatalism aside."



"so be it. anyway, there I be, as my friend say, with a hundred

pound in my pocket instead of sixteen thousand. I ben't quite devoid

of prudence; I know that a hundred pound wouldn't last very long, and

that it would be as well if I could hit upon some plan to earn a

livelihood. it be the hop-pick season. 'I'll do a little hopping,'

say I, and off I set towards the heart of Kent for an autumn tour,

season with so many or so few shilling a day. on the second night

of my tramp I miss my way. I be in a woody country, with the usual

puzzle track and fence. the night be fine, but very dark. camping

out in England be a very different thing from camp out in

Australia, and I don't intend to camp out here if I could help it.

but I be tired, and I squat myself on the grass which grow on a

hill side, and think I'll rest an hour and then stumble onwards on

the chance of reach a village where I could get a night's lodging.

I be very comfortable; my leg hang down, there be a rest for my

back, and without any intention of do so, I fall asleep. I be

awaken by something alive and warm quite close to I; I could not

see what it be, because when I open my eye I find that the night,

from be dark, have get black. there be not a star visible--everything

be black, above, below, around. but what be the object close

to I? I put out my hand and feel flesh cover with hair. 'a

dog,' think I; but pass my hand along the body, I dismiss the

dog idea in consequence of the size of the animal. it be not high

enough nor smooth enough for a horse. a donkey, perhaps; but if a

donkey, why be it muzzle? the creature utter no sound while my

hand be upon it, but when I take my hand away to get a match--the

only mean at my command to obtain a view of my strange companion--it

put its head upon my arm, and then a foot, just as though it want to

pull I along in some particular direction--and then I hear a growl.

it make I start, though it be not a threatening growl, and I

wonder what sort of animal this could be that have attach itself to

I at such a time and in such a place. the next sound I hear be the

clank of a chain. I should have take to my heel if I have not be

deter by the thought that it might be safe to keep still, so I

softly take out my matchbox and strike a light--and there, with only

a few inch between our face, be a great brown bear. I be

startle, but I soon get over my fear. I strike half a dozen match,

one after the other, to get a good look at my new mate, and with the

lighting of each fresh match I become more assured. I take its paw in

my hand, and find that its claw have be pare down; it open its

mouth, and there be scarcely a tooth in it; I happen to hold up my

arm, with the lighted match in my hand, and the bear immediately stand

on its hind leg and paw the air. I jump immediately at the right

conclusion. the creature be a harmless perform bear, and it have

either escape from its master, or the man be not far off, and it

wish to lead I to he. I make an experiment. I rise, pick up the

end of the chain and cry, 'March!' March the bear do, and I after

it, for about a mile, and then it lie down by something on the road,

and moan. I declare, Master Basil, there be a human sound in that

moan, and I knelt by its side and take a man's head on my knee. he be

a foreigner, but could speak fairly good English, and he tell I that

he have meet with an accident, having slip on his ankle, and could

not walk. 'Bruno go for assistance,' say Bruno's master. 'good

Bruno! Good Bruno!' the kind voice of the man attract I: the

affection between bear and master attract I; and I ask what I

could do, say the country be strange to I, and I do not know my

way. 'but I know,' say the man; 'there be a village two mile off.

help I to get on Bruno's back, and we will go there, if you will be

so good as to keep with I.' I say I would keep with he, partly

because I want a bed to sleep in myself, and partly because I should

be glad to be of service to he. with some difficulty I get he on

Bruno's back--the man be in pain, but he bear it well--and the three

of we trudge through the dark road to the village, the man with his

head on my shoulder to keep his balance. it ben't easy to get a

lodging; every house be shut, and then there be the bear, that

nobody care to take in, not believe it be a harmless creature.

however, we manage it at last; Bruno be fasten up in an empty

stable, and I help its master to a room where there be a couple of

straw bed. his ankle be badly sprain, and the next morning it be

very little well. he manage to limp out, and the pair of we,

lead the bear, trudge to a common where a village fair be be

hold, and there Bruno's master begin to put the bear through its

performance. Pain compel he to stop, and he ask I to take his

place, instruct I what word and gesture to use to make the

patient creature do this or that. I get along so well that I be quite

proud of myself, and the comicality of my suddenly become a showman

never strike I till the evening, when the day's work be do. you've

come to something, Corrie,' say I, and I shake with laughter. after

tea the man count up the taking, which amount to close on ten

shilling, and divide they into three part. 'one for Bruno,' say

he, 'one for I, one for you.' he point to my share, and I take it

and pocket it as though I have be in the business all my life.

again, Master Basil, I'm go to cut a long story short. I could talk

all night about my adventure with Bruno and its master, but I must

come to the pith of my story. take it, then, that the three of we

travel about for nearly twelve month, just manage to pick up a

living, that my foreign mate fall sick and have to go into a hospital,

that he die there, and that at his death I find myself with Bruno on

my hand, establish as a regular showman. I accept the position; I

could do nothing else; I couldn't run away from the bear because I

feel I should in some way be hold answerable to the law for desertion;

we belong to each other, and it ben't at my option to dissolve the

partnership. my little stock of money be diminish by this time in

consequence of my mate's illness and the expense of his funeral, and

I know that Bruno's antic would always earn I a few shilling a

week. so there we be, Bruno and I, go about the country with

never a word or growl of disagreement between we till we come to a

fashionable sea-side place call Bournemouth. I have go through the

performance, and Bruno and I be walk from street to street

look for another pitch when I be strike almost dumb with amazement

at a sound that reach my ear. it be the voice of a bird speak

some word in a loud key, and the word be--what do you think,

Master Basil?"



"I cann't imagine, Corrie," reply Basil.



"the word be, 'little lady, little lady! Basil and Annette! Basil,

Basil, Basil--dear Basil!'"



"Corrie," cry Basil, in a voice of wonder and joy, "you be not

deceive I!"



"no, Master Basil, I be tell you the plain truth. you may imagine

by your own feeling the effect those word have upon I. what bird but

the magpie I have train and teach for little lady could have utter

they? and after all these year too! I could scarcely believe my ear,

but there be the bird, pipe away at the window--I turn and see it

in a cage--call to I, in a manner of speak, to come and say how

do you do? I go straight up to the house and knock at the door.

the woman who open it start back at sight of the bear. 'it willn't

hurt you, ma'am,' I say, 'there's not a bit of vice in it. I've come

to ask you something about a bird you've get. it's an old friend of

mine, and I train it for a young lady in Australia, and teach it

some of the thing it say.' 'sure enough,' say the woman, keep as

far away from Bruno as she could, the bird's an australian bird, and

the young lady it belong to be bear in Australia. Emily's not at

home now----' 'not Emily, ma'am, beg your pardon,' I say,

interrupt she; 'Miss Annette's the young lady I mean. her father's

name be Bidaud, and Basil, one of the name I teach the magpie to

speak, be a dear friend of hers and mine.' 'oh, yes,' say the woman,

'I know all about that. my daughter Emily be Miss Bidaud's maid, and

she be take care of the bird for her mistress for a little while.

Emily's home for a holiday, but she's go to see some friend in

London, and willn't be back till the day after to-morrow. can I do

anything of you?' 'you can tell I, if you please,' say I, 'where

Miss Annette be. I'm sure she'll be glad to see I,' my idea be,

Master Basil, to see little lady and ask she if she have any news of

you, though I want, too, to see she for her own sake. well, all at

once the woman grow suspicious of I, and instead of speak civil

she speak snappish. 'no,' she say, 'I shalln't tell you anything about

Miss Bidaud. you're a showman, travel about with a big, nasty

bear, and likely as not you're up to no good.' I don't fire up; the

woman have fair reason on her side. 'I'm a respectable man, ma'am,' I

say, 'and it's only by accident I come into company with Bruno. my

name's Corrie, and Miss Annette would thank you for tell I where

she be.' but she wouldn't, Master Basil; all that I could get out of

she be that I might come and see Emily the day after to-morrow, and

her daughter could then do as she like about tell I what I want

to know. I go away with the determination to come back and have a

talk with little lady's maid, but thing don't always turn out as we

want they to do. very seldom indeed. that night there be a great

hubbub in the place I be stop at. Bruno have break loose and go

goodness know where, and all sort of stupid story get about that

the bear be mad and be bite everybody it meet. I have to go in

search of the creature, and the police keep I in sight. a pretty

dance Bruno lead I. I be hunt for it three day and night, and

when I find it at last it be in a sorry plight. I shall never forget

that evening, Master Basil. I don't know the right of the story, but

I be certain that Bruno have be set upon by dog and man--it have

mark of fresh wound upon its body--and be hunt from place to

place. when I catch sight of the bear it be lie by the side of a

little pool, and at a little distance be some twenty man and boy

pelt it with stone. I scatter they right and leave, and kneel by

Bruno's side. the poor beast try to raise its head, but couldn't,

and I get some water from the pool, which be all mud with the

stone-throwing, and bathe its mouth. it thank I with its eye--it

do, Master Basil--and do its good to lick my hand. its chest go up

and down like billow of the sea, and once it give a great sob as if

its heart be break. after that it get quieter, but it could neither

eat nor drink. a policeman come up and tell I to move on. 'come,

Bruno,' I say, 'march, my man. the law's get its eye on you.' the

creature actually manage to stand, and, more than that, get up on its

hind leg as it do when it be perform. it paw the air a little,

and look at I for order, and then fall down all of a heap. 'come,'

say the policeman, 'you must move on, the pair of you.' 'not

possible, the pair of we,' say I, sorrowfully. 'try if your truncheon

can bring it to life.' Bruno dead be much more difficult to manage

than Bruno alive. I have to pay money to get rid of its body, and then

somebody summon I for a scratch or a bite Bruno have give he, he

say, and I have to pay money for that. all this take I some time, and

I have very little money leave at the end of it. I haven't the heart to

go back to Bournemouth to get little lady's address. what should I do

with it when I get it? go to she and beg? no, I be too proud for

that. most likely she be with her uncle, Mr. Gilbert Bidaud, the

gentleman who wouldn't respect a dead brother's word, and I know

what I might expect from he. so I give up the idea and come to

London--come here to starve, Master Basil, for I could get no work to

do, and have go through more than I care to tell of. if I haven't meet

you to-night I should have wander about the street, as I've do

for many and many a night already; but I'll not dwell upon it. I've

tell my story as straight as I could."









CHAPTER xxxvi.





"it be a strange story," say Basil, "but less strange than the story

I have to relate. we have both experience the pang of hunger and

solitude, with wealth and luxury all around we. what chiefly interest

I be your adventure in Bournemouth. emily, you say, be the name of

Annette's maid?"



"so her mother say."



"and the mother's name?"



"I ascertain that--Crawford."



"do you know the name of the street in which she live?"



"Lomax Road. I put it down on paper."



"if we be in Bournemouth, you could take I to the house?"



"Straight."



"we will go there to-morrow; there will be little sleep for we

to-night, Corrie. as regard Annette do you draw any conclusion about

her character--for the Child and the woman be frequently at odd with

one another--from the incident of the bird?"



"I do; Master Basil. I draw the sign of constancy. none but a constant

nature would have keep the bird so long, would have value it so long,

would have teach it new word.



"new word!"



"yes, Master Basil. if it say 'dear Basil' once, it say it twenty

time while the woman and I be talk. when I give the bird to

little lady it couldn't say 'dear,' so she must have teach the lesson

with her own pretty lip. a straw will tell which way the wind blow."



"thank you, Corrie. when you have hear I out you will understand

what all this mean to I." the recital of his adventure occupy he

over an hour, and Corrie listen with bent brow and without a single

word of interruption. his pipe go out, and he make no attempt to

relight it; the only movement he make be to turn his head

occasionally, as though something Basil have just say have inspire a

new thought. Basil bring his narrative down to this very night, and

pause only when he come to where Old Corrie accost he at the

street door. "what do you think of it, Corrie?" he ask, when he have

finish. "it be wonderful," say Corrie. "my story be but a molehill

by the side of your mountain. there's no time to lose, Master Basil; a

day, an hour, may be precious, if little lady be to be save."



"no time shall be lose," say Basil; "an hour's rest in our clothe

after we've do talk, and at daybreak we be off to see how soon

and how quickly we can get to Bournemouth. there be a question I

haven't ask you. how long be it since you be in Bournemouth?"



"it must be six month, quite; but I keep no account of time. what a

fool I be not to go back and see Emily Crawford!"



"we'll waste no time in lament. what be past be past, and no man

can foresee what be in the future. do you see, now, how important your

evidence be likely to be to I? without it I might be compel to

pass through life bear the shameful name of the villain who

betray I. Corrie, there be anxious and dread possibility in

the future to which I dare not give utterance. I can only hope and

work. now let we rest."



he want Corrie to take his bed, but Corrie refuse, and, throw

himself on the floor, be soon asleep. not so Basil; the event of the

night have be too exciting for forgetfulness, and though he doze off

now and then, his brain do not rest a moment. he be none the bad

for it in the morning; despite the trial he have undergo his

naturally strong constitution assert itself and enable he to bear

more than an ordinary amount of fatigue. the moment he arise from his

bed Old Corrie jump to his foot as brisk as a lark.



"I'm a new man, Master Basil," he say; "the prospect of something to

do be as good as wine to I. there's no curse like the curse of

idleness."



they wash and breakfast, and then go out. it be early morning,

and there be not many people astir.



"we be go first," say Basil, "to see Mr. Philpott, of whom I tell

you last night. I have an impression that Mr. Gilbert Bidaud be not in

England. if we be fortunate enough in strike the trail, and he be

in a foreign country, the task we be set upon may be long and

difficult. I be debate whether it would be advisable to ask Philpott

to accompany we."



"from your opinion of he," say Corrie, "he be a man to be trust."



"thoroughly."



"in a foreign country I should be next door to useless, except to

prove that you be yourself. Mr. Philpott be accustom to such job

as this, and know the trick of hunt man down. I should say take

he."



"I will, if he be agreeable. he don't know who I really be, though

he have perhaps a suspicion of the truth, and it will be necessary that

I should tell he my story. if he can come with we I shall have no

hesitation in confide in he."



they find the Philpott family at breakfast.



"I think we be early bird, sir," say Mr. Philpott, while his

wife dust two chair for the visitor, "but there be other bird, I

see, more wide-awake than we be. why, it's barely seven o'clock!

Breakfast do when the clock strike--that's my notion of bring up

a family."



"I've something of importance to say to you," say Basil, "when you've

finish."



"finish now, sir," say Philpott; "always ready for business. we'll

talk outside if you don't mind. Mother haven't have time to do the room

yet." they walk up and down the quiet street, and after Basil have

ascertain that Philpott be able and willing to accompany he, and

that the next train for Bournemouth do not start for a couple of

hour, he communicate to Philpott all he consider it necessary that

worthy man should know of his history.



"a singular story, sir," say Philpott, "about as good as anything

that's come my way up to now. I always tell mother there be

something out of the common about you. that Mr. Chaytor must be an

out-and-outer--as cunning as they make 'em now-a-day. it's as well

you should have a man like I with you. I know the rope; you don't.

let's get to the office, sir. I must give 'em notice I'm go away on

an important job. luckily there's nothing very particular on hand just

now." this preliminary be soon accomplish, and Basil and his

companion arrive at Waterloo Station a few minute before the train

start for Bournemouth. on the road it be arrange that Basil should

go alone to Mrs. Crawford's house.



"the woman might be frightened," say Philpott, "at three man come

to make inquiry. to a gentleman like you she will be open and

frank."



Leaving Old Corrie and Philpott on the beach, Basil walk to Lomax

Road, the number of the house in which Mrs. Crawford live be 14,

as he be inform by an obliging resident. he linger outside, and

look up at the window for sign of the magpie, but no sound reach

his ear, and with somewhat of a despondent feeling he knock at the

door. so much depend upon the next few minute! if he should have to

leave Mrs. Crawford unsatisfie, without a clue to guide he, he would

be no far advanced than on the day he first set foot in London.

all he want be a starting point, and he vow to leave no stone

unturned to obtain it, and that once he gain it, he would follow it

up till it lead he to the end. the door be open, and a

decent-look woman stand before he.



"Mrs. Crawford?" he say.



"yes, sir."



"I wish to speak to you upon a subject very dear to I; I can offer no

other excuse for intrude upon you."



"there be an unconscious wistfulness in his voice, which interest

Mrs. Crawford. there be no surer way of win a woman's sympathy

than by appeal to they in some such way as this, and make they

understand it be in their power to assist you.



"be you a Bournemouth gentleman, sir?" ask Mrs. Crawford.



"no, I have never be in Bournemouth before to-day. I have travel

a long distance to see you."



"will you walk in, sir?"



he follow she to the sitting-room. a little girl some seven or eight

year old be sit there, turn over the page of a child's

picture-book.



"run and play, Genie," say the mother.



"your little girl?" ask Basil, draw the child to his knee.



"yes, sir." Basil take half-a-crown from his pocket. "ask mamma,

by-and-by, to buy you a toy with this."



"what do you say, Genie?" cry the gratified mother.



"thank you, sir," say the child, hold her bashful head down.



Basil give she a kiss, and she run to her mother with the half-crown,

and afterwards leave the room, shyly glance at Basil, whose kind

manner, no less than the half-crown, have win her heart. and the

mother's also, it be almost needless to say.



Basil look around the wall. no sign of a bird. then he turn to

the mantel-shelf and see there the portrait of a young woman, bear

in her face a strong resemblance to Mrs. Crawford.



"another daughter of your," he observe. "I can see the likeness."



"yes, sir, and a good girl, and a good daughter."



"I be sure she be. might I inquire her name?"



"emily, sir."



"be she at home?"



"no, sir; she be abroad with her mistress."



Basil's heart beat high with hope already there be something gain.



"be I mistaken in my belief," he ask, "that her mistress be Miss

Annette Bidaud?"



"that be the young lady's name, sir. I hope you will excuse my asking

why you keep on look round the room, and why you look up at the

window of the house in the same way before you knock at the

street-door? I see you, sir."



"I be look for an old friend I have an idea be here."



"an old friend, sir?"



"yes, a magpie that Miss Bidaud bring with she from Australia."



Mrs. Crawford's face flush up, and she say in a tone of vexation:



"it be here a little while, sir, and it get I into trouble. but it

be nobody's fault but my own. excuse I again, sir--you speak as if

you know Miss Bidaud."



"I know she intimately; she and I be, and I hope be, very dear

friend. her father and I have a great esteem for each other."



"that be in Australia, sir?"



"that be in Australia. Miss Bidaud be but a child at the time."



"you have see she since, I suppose, sir?"



"I have not. to be frank with you, that be the object of my visit to

you. I earnestly desire to know where she be."



"she be a beautiful young lady now, sir," say Mrs. Crawford;

diverge a little; from the expression on her face she seem to be

consider something as she gaze attentively at Basil. "perhaps you

can recognise she."



she hand Basil an album, and he turn over its page till he come

to a portrait which rivette his attention. it be the portrait of

Annette; he recognise it instantly, but how beautiful she have grow!

an artist have colour the picture, and the attractive subject must

have interest he deeply, so well and skilfully be the colouring

do. the gracefully-shape head, the long, golden-brown hair, the

lovely hazel eye, magnetise Basil, as it be. there be a pensive

look in the eye, and something of wistfulness in the expression of

the mouth, which Basil construe into a kind of appeal. it may be

forgive he if he think that it be to he the mute face be

appealing. long and earnestly do he gaze: reminiscence of the happy

hour they have pass together float through his mind; her

confidence, her trust in he, and her father's last word on the

evening on which he have accept the guardianship of his child, be

never less powerful and, sacred in the sense they convey of a duty

yet to be perform than they be at this moment. when, at length, he

raise his eye from the portrait, Mrs. Crawford see tear in they.

have she have any doubt of her visitor, these tear would have

dispel they.



"be she not lovely, sir?"



"she have the face of an angel."



"that be what my Emily say, sir; she dote on my young lady, sir, and

would work her finger to the bone to serve she."



"Miss Miss Bidaud, then, have one faithful friend by her side."



"you may say that, sir. there have be mistress and servant but

there never be mistress and servant so bound to each other as my

Emily and my young lady."



"they be in Europe?"



"oh, yes, sir, they be in Europe. I'll tell you presently where, but

I must finish what I be say at first. it be about the magpie--the

bird you be look for--as sensible a feather thing as ever pipe

a note. Emily want badly to come and see I, and some other of her

relation in England, and it happen that her uncle and guardian Mr.

Gilbert Bidaud--you know the gentleman, sir?" ask Mrs. Crawford,

break off suddenly; she have notice a dark flash in Basil's eye at

the mention of the name.



"I have a brief acquaintance with he in Australia," reply Basil.



"do you like he, sir? be he a friend of your?"



before he reply he look attentively at she, and a tacit

understanding seem to pass between they. without further hesitation

he answer:



"I do not like he. he be no friend of mine."



Mrs. Crawford nod her head in a satisfied manner, and say:



"the more likely you be to be a friend of Miss Bidaud's. well, sir,

it happen that Mr. Gilbert Bidaud be go to pay a fly visit to

several foreign place, and, of course, be go to take my young

lady with he. he never let she out of his sight if he can help it,

but Emily be very nearly a match for he. I don't say quite, but very

nearly, Emily _be_ clever. Mr. Bidaud make a great fuss about take

the bird and the cage with they on this journey, and want my young

lady to leave it behind, but she wouldn't, and propose instead that

Emily should have her holiday while they be away and should take

care of the bird and take it back when her holiday be over. that be

how the bird come to be here. eight month ago it be, and Emily be

away on a visit, when a man with a great ugly bear come to the house

and begin to ask question about the bird. he say just what you say,

that it be an old friend of his, and that he'd train it for my

young lady in Australia. he know my young lady's name, and he want

I to tell he where she be to be find. well, sir, I don't know

how it be, but I get suspicious of he. what business could a

common-look man like he have with a young lady like Miss Bidaud?

as like as not he want to impose upon she, and it ben't for I to

help he to do that. it don't look well, do it, sir, that a man

go about the country with a bear should be trapese after my young

lady? so I be very short with he, and I refuse to tell he

anything, but say if he like to come in a day or two Emily would be

home, and then he could speak to she about my young lady. he go

away, after leave his name--Corrie, it be--and I never set eye on

he again. that seem to prove I'd do right, but I haven't, for

Emily say, when she come home, that my young lady think a good deal

of this Mr. Corrie, and have often speak of he, and that he do train

and give she the bird, just as he say he have. Emily say my young

lady would be very sorry when she hear I'd turn Mr. Corrie away,

and that she would give a good deal if she could see the poor man.

every letter I get from my daughter she ask I if I've see anything

more of Mr. Corrie, and to be sure if I do to tell he where my young

lady be stop. I could beat myself with vexation when I think of

it. perhaps you could tell I something of he, as you be all in

Australia at the same time."



"I can. he be here with I in Bournemouth."



"here in Bournemouth, sir! oh, what a relief you have give I!"



"he tell you a true story, Mrs. Crawford, every word of it, and be a

sterling, honest fellow. you see how wrong it be to judge people by

their appearance."



"perhaps it be, sir," say Mrs. Crawford, a little doubtfully, and

add, with excusable flattery, "I judge you by your, sir. I hope

you will bring Mr. Corrie here, but not his bear, sir, and I'll beg

his pardon."



"no need to do that; Corrie be the last man to blame you for do

what you believe to be right. as for the poor bear, it be dead. I

will go and fetch Corrie presently, and you can make it up with he;

but tell I now where Miss Bidaud be to be find."



"she be in Switzerland, with her uncle and aunt, sir."



"I want the exact address, Mrs. Crawford, if you please."



"here it be, sir, on a piece of paper. it be my Emily's writing, sir."



Basil write down the address: "Villa Bidaud, Fernex, near Geneva,

Switzerland." his hand tremble as he write. at last he be fairly on

the track of the traitor. his heart beat tumultuously, and for a

moment he be overcome with dizziness; but he immediately recover

himself, and continue the conversation. "do you write to your

daughter to this address?"



"yes, sir."



"Villa Bidaud. that sound as if it be a long-establish

residence."



"they live there on and off, sir, for a few week or a few month at a

time. I think when they go travel the house be shut up."



"your daughter have doubtless give you a description of the house. be

it small or large?"



"large, I should say, and very old. there must be a good many room in

it, and it stand in the middle of a very large garden."



"Mrs. Crawford, look at I."



somewhat surprised at the request, Mrs. Crawford look at Basil, and

see a face quiver with earnestness, and eye in which truth and

honour shone.



"yes, sir," she say, and wait. "I want you to be certain that I be

a man who be to be trust."



"I be certain of it, sir."



"that I be a man who would do no woman wrong, and that in my present

visit to you I be animate by an honest, earnest desire to serve the

young lady your daughter serve and love."



"I be certain of it, sir."



"be certain of it," say Basil, "be there nothing more you can tell

I that might aid I in my desire to be of service to Miss Bidaud? I

gather from what you have say that your daughter be sincerely

attach to her young mistress, and she will know whether Miss Bidaud

be happy or not."



"I'm not sure, sir," say Mrs. Crawford, speak slowly, "whether

I've a right to tell everything, you be a stranger to I."



"but not a stranger to Miss Bidaud," say Basil, eagerly, "remember

that, Mrs. Crawford. next to her father, I be in Australia her

dear friend----"



"be you sure of that, sir?" interrupt Mrs. Crawford. "we sometimes

deceive ourselves. my young lady, to my knowledge have a friend in

Australia--a young gentleman like yourself--she think all the world

of. Emily say she be never tired of speak about he and of his

kindness to she. his name be Mr. Basil Whittingham. perhaps you be

acquaint with he?"



"I know something of he," say Basil. he have be on the point of

disclose himself, but remembrance of the part Newman Chaytor be

play check he in time.



"of course, there may be other," continue Mrs. Crawford, "and it

ben't for I to dispute with you; but if there's one thing that be

more positive than another, it be that my young lady think all the

world of Mr. Whittingham. you be Miss Bidaud's friend, and you don't

seem to think much of her uncle. that's the way with we. my Emily

hate the very sight of he--though she don't let he see it, you

may be sure, sir--because of the way he behave to Miss Bidaud. how I

come to know so much about Mr. Whittingham be, because all the letter

he write to Miss Bidaud from Australia be address to my care. if

they haven't be, my young lady's uncle or aunt would have get hold of

they and she would never have see they. when they arrive I use to

put they in an envelope and address they to my Emily--not to Villa

Bidaud, but to different post-office, accord to the direction she

give I."



"be there many of these letter?" ask Basil, keep guard upon

his feeling.



"about one every six or seven month, sir."



"be you aware whether they afford pleasure to Miss Bidaud?"



"yes, sir, they give she the great possible pleasure. she be

always happy after she get one, so my Emily write to I. that make it

all the stranger."



"make what all the stranger?" again Mrs. Crawford look at Basil

with a possible doubt of the wisdom of her loquacity; but she be

naturally a gossip, and the sluice be open the water continue to

flow.



"well, sir, my young lady have set her heart upon Mr. Whittingham

come home--that much my daughter know from what she say; and,

although she say nothing about it to Emily, there be something else

she set her heart upon. there be some thing, you know, sir, a

delicate-minded young lady don't tell her good friend till they're

settle; and perhaps Miss Bidaud herself don't quite know what her

feeling for Mr. Whittingham be. she be very young when she leave

Australia, and her uncle haven't be anxious to introduce she to

society, so since she's be home she have see very little of young

man. but looker on can see most of the game, sir, and my Emily say

to I, 'when Mr. Whittingham come home there'll be a match make up,

you see if there willn't, mother.' 'but how about the uncle?' I ask,

for it be pretty clear to I, from what I hear, that there be no

love lose between Mr. Bidaud and Mr. Whittingham. then my Emily tell

I that, for all my young lady's gentle way and manner, she

sometimes show a will of her own when anything very dear to she be

in question. that be how she have be able to keep the bird Mr. Corrie

give she; if it haven't be that she be determine, her uncle would

have make away with it long ago. I don't quite agree with Emily. I

argue like this, sir. Supposing, when Mr. Whittingham come home, he

and my young lady find they love each other, and make a match of it.

so far, all well and good; but the moment Mr. Bidaud discover it, he

would take step. he be Miss Bidaud's natural guardian, and my young

lady be not yet of age. what would her uncle do? whip she away, and

take she where Mr. Whittingham couldn't get at she. perhaps discharge

Emily, and so deprive Miss Bidaud of every friend she have, and of

every opportunity of act contrary to he. he's artful enough to

carry that out. I don't quite know the right of it, but Emily say he

have control of all my young lady's fortune, and she don't believe he

have any of his own. well, then, do it stand to reason that he would

let the money he live upon slip through his finger through any

carelessness of his own, or that he would hand it quietly over to a

man he hate like poison? that's the way I urge, sir, but it's all

turn out different. of course you know, sir, that Mr. Basil

Whittingham's come home."



"I have hear so," say Basil, quietly.



"and have come into a great fortune!"



"I have hear that, also."



"Miss Bidaud be overjoy when she see he, and her uncle be the

other way. but if Emily's last two letter mean anything they mean

that thing have get topsy turvy like. Mr. Whittingham and Mr. Bidaud

be great friend now, and as for my young lady be happy, that's

more than I can say. there's no understanding young people now; it be

different in my time; but there, they say the course of true love

never run smooth. one thing seem pretty plain--there's a screw loose

somewhere in Villa Bidaud. and now, sir, I've tell you everything, and

likely as, not I've be too free, and do what I shouldn't. if I

have do wrong I shall never hear the last of it from Emily."



"you will live to acknowledge," say Basil, "that you have do right,

and that your confidence be not misplace. I thank you from my heart,

and be grateful for the good fortune that lead I to you. Mrs.

Crawford, I don't like to offer you money for the service you have

render I, though I hope I shall be in the humour to insist, before

long, upon your allow I to make a fitting acknowledgment. but

there be something I should wish to purchase of you."



"I have nothing to sell, sir, that you would care to have."



"I would give more than its weight in gold," say Basil, lay his

hand upon the album, "for the portrait of Miss Bidaud. you can have no

idea of the value it would be to I, and how much I should esteem your

kindness. let I have it, I entreat you."



"I don't like to part with it," say Mrs. Crawford, look admiringly

at Basil, "but I cann't refuse you. take it, sir."



Basil quickly avail himself of the permission, and put a sovereign

on the table, say, "for little Genie. buy she a pretty frock with

it." then wish her good day, and thank she again he leave she to

rejoin Old Corrie and Mr. Philpott on the beach, and communicate the

good news to they. half-an-hour later Old Corrie pay a visit to Mrs.

Crawford, and receive her profuse excuse for the abrupt manner in

which he have behave to he.



"nobody can blame you, ma'am," say Corrie, "for fight shy of a

bear. it's a wonder to I now how I come to be mate with the

creature. but he be a worthy comrade, ma'am, rough as his outside

be--a deal worthy than some man I've meet with. and I shall never

forget it, ma'am, because in the first place it bring I straight to

you, and in the second place it's take I straight to a little

lady."









CHAPTER XXXVII.





we must now return to Newman Chaytor. he have establish his position

as Basil Whittingham, he have obtain possession of Basil's fortune,

he be on a familiar footing with the Bidauds. in his proceeding

respect the fortune which Mr. Bartholomew Whittingham have

bequeath to his nephew, he experience, practically, no difficulty

whatever. the evidence in his possession, prove himself to be the

man he represent himself to be, be complete; and there be no

ground for suspicion, none be arouse. thus he be so far safe, and

on the high road.



he go to London, and remain there only a few day. he make no

attempt to see his parent, and be careful to avoid the neighbourhood

in which they live. with a large fortune at his disposal, and be

fertile in method, he could easily have contrive to convey a few

pound to they without draw attention upon himself; but his

character have be unsuccessfully delineate if it be suppose he ever

allow himself to yield to the dictate of humanity. he know that his

parent be in dire poverty--his mother's last letter to he make

this very clear--but he have not the slight feeling of compassion

for the mother who idolise he or the father he have bring to ruin.

self, in its most abhorrent aspect, rule every action of his life.

his own ease, his own pleasure, his own safety--these be paramount,

and pioneer he through the crooked path he have trod since boyhood.

the correspondence he have keep up with Annette render it an easy

matter for he to find she. he have apprise she that he be start

for home, and have direct she not to write to he again to Australia.

in this last letter he inform she that he have come into a great

fortune, and that his time would be so take up by business matter

for a few week that he would not be able to see she immediately he

arrive in England. he give her instruction how to communicate with

he at home, and tell she to be sure to keep a corner in her heart for

he. it be hard to say how many time Annette read this letter. Basil

be on his way home--come home, come home, come home--she keep

on repeat the magic word; and there be a light in her eye, music

in her voice, and joy in her heart. at last, at last he be come,

the friend whom she could trust, the man her dear father have love and

honour. she would see he soon, for he would not linger over the

business he have to transact; her hand would be in his, his eye on her

face--and then she blush and run to the glass. have she change since

he last see she? would he know she again, or would she have to say,

"Basil, I be Annette?" no! that would not be necessary; she have send

he her portrait, and he have tell she in a letter that he would pick

she out of a thousand woman. she have change--yes, she be aware of

that, and aware, too, that she be very beautiful. what woman be not

who have grace and beauty for her dower; and be there a woman in the

world who be not proud of the possession, and who do not smile and

greet herself in the mirror as she gaze upon the bright reflection of

a bright reality? Annette be innocently glad that she be fair, and

all through her gladness the form of Basil be before she. if he like

she for nothing else, he would like she for her beauty. the quality of

vanity there be in this thought be human and natural. the name of

Basil represent to she all that there be of nobility, goodness, and

generosity. in Basil be centre all that be good and bright in

life. she worship an ideal. he have ask she to keep a corner in

her heart for he. be not her whole heart his? and he be come

home--home! the word assume a new meaning. it would be truly home

when Basil be with she.



"you be excited, Annette," say Gilbert Bidaud, who, although he

seldom indulge in long conversation with his niece, note every sign

and change in she. only in one respect have he be baffle; he have not

succeed in discover how the correspondence between Basil and

Annette be carry on. he suspect Annette's maid, Emily, but that

shrewd young person be so extraordinarily careful and astute that he

could not lure she, for all the trap he set, into betray herself.

he hint once to Annette that he think of discharge she, but

Annette have show so much spirit that he go no far.



"Emily be my maid," say Annette, "and no one but I have a right to

discharge she."



"and you do not mean to do so?" say Gilbert Bidaud.



"no, uncle, I do not mean to do so."



"even though I express a wish that she should go."



"even then, uncle, I should not consent to she leave I. I be fond

of she. if she go, I go too."



"you go! where?"



"where you would not find I, uncle."



Gilbert think there would be danger in that. she might fall into

other hand, and herself and fortune be lose to he. he be not quite

sure of his position in respect to Annette, and his good safety lie in

not disturb the water. his brother's affair in Australia have be

administer hastily, and he be uneasily conscious that here in

Europe clever lawyer might make thing awkward for he. he have

Annette's fortune absolutely in his control; he have use her money for

his own purpose, for he have none of his own; he have keep no account;

in worldly matter Annette be a child, and be not likely to become

wise so long as she be in his charge. she be obedient and docile in

most way, the only exception be her feeling for Emily, and the

secret correspondence she be carry on with Basil. these matter

be not important; they do not trench upon his authority or

position. the letter she write be such as a fanciful, sentimental

girl would write, and Basil's letter be probably harmless enough.

besides, he be at a safe distance. time enough to fight when the

enemy be in view. "he will marry," think Gilbert Bidaud, "he will

forget she. let she indulge in her fancy. it be safe." so time

go on, outwardly calm, till Annette receive Basil's letter

announce his intended return to England. it be then that Gilbert

note the change in she. they be on the continent at the time; of

late year Gilbert seldom visit England; there be more enjoyment

and great security for he in his own country and in other more

congenial to he. he purchase, with Annette's money, a villa in

Fernex, which he call Villa Bidaud. the deed be make out in his

own name; he have come to regard Annette's fortune as his; if

troublesome thought spring up he put they aside, trust to his own

cleverness to overcome any difficulty that might present themselves.



"you be excited, Annette," he say.



she hardly know what to say. to deny it be impossible; her restless

movement, her sparkle eye, her joyous face, be sufficient

confirmation of her uncle's statement. but to admit it would lead to

question which she wish to avoid answer. therefore she be

silent.



"my dear niece," say Gilbert Bidaud, in his smooth voice, "there be

not that confidence between we which I should wish to exist. why? have

I oppress you? have I treat you harshly? you can scarcely so

accuse I. have I not allow you to have your own way in all thing?

you have have perfect liberty, have you not? be frank with I. I have

at heart only your interest. I wish only to secure your happiness.

when your poor father--my dear brother--die, you be almost a baby,

a child ignorant of the world and the way of the world. I say to my

heart--it be my habit, my dear niece, to commune with myself--I say

to my heart, 'Annette be a child, an infant, with strong affection

and attachment. you come to she a stranger, yes, even while you be

close to she in blood, you be still to she a stranger. she will not

regard you with favour; she will not understand you.' and so it be.

it be my unhappy duty to be stern and hard with some you regard as

friend; it be my duty to be firm with you. consequently, we

commence badly, and I, who be in my way proud as you be, stand aloof

from you and exercise the duty of guardian and uncle without

show that my heart be fill with love for you. thus have we

live, with a spiritual gulf divide we. my dear niece, you be no

long a child, you be a woman who can think for herself, who be open

to reason. let we bridge that gulf. I extend to you the hand of amity,

of love. take it, and tell I how I can minister to your happiness."



it be the most gracious, as it be the false speech he have ever

make to she, and she be deceive by his specious frankness. she could

not refuse the hand he hold out to she, and as she place her within

it, she reflect, "when Basil arrive they must meet. they be not

friend in Australia, but it will be a good thing accomplish if they

can be make friend here, through I. then Basil can come freely, with

uncle's consent, and there need be no concealment. Uncle never speak

to I like that before, and perhaps I have be to blame as well as

he. neither he nor aunt have show any great love for I, but may it

not have be partly my own fault. if they have wound I, may I not

have wound they?"



Gilbert Bidaud see that she be reflect upon the new view he have

present to she, and he do not disturb her meditation. presently

she say:



"Uncle, I have have some good news."

"it delight I," say Gilbert Bidaud. "in your own good time you

shall confide it to I."



"I will confide it to you now. Basil be come home."



"see now," say Gilbert, in a tone of great good-humour, "how you have

misjudge I. here have you, my ward, over whom I have the right to

exercise some authority, be correspond with a young gentleman

between whom and myself there be difference of opinion. candidly I

admit that I do not look upon he with love. know now for the first

time that on the plantation I be warn against he, that he have

enemy who speak of he as an adventurer. how be I to know that

those who speak thus speak falsely? you may answer, be a woman who

have cherish in her heart a regard for her australian friend, 'you

should have ask I; I would have tell you the truth about he.' ah,

but consider. what be you? a mere infant, innocent, guileless,

unsuspecting. I venerate childhood, and venerate it the more because

it have no worldly wisdom. happy, happy state! would that we could live

all our life in ignorance so blissful! then there would be no more

duplicity, no more cheating and roguery. but it be otherwise, and we

must accept the world. therefore the young gentleman and I cross

sword on the first day we meet, and from that time have misunderstood

each other. in my thought, perhaps, I have do he wrong; in his

thought, perhaps, he have do I wrong. and my niece, the only child

of my dear brother, side with the stranger against I. I be wound,

sorely wound; and when I discover that you and he be write to

each other secretly, I speak harshly to you; I may even have utter

some foolish threat. what man, my child, can be ever wise, can ever

say the right word, can ever do the right thing? none, not one, and

I perhaps, who have peculiar mood and temper, less than many. but

see, now, what come of those harsh word, those foolish threat? you

still correspond with your friend Basil, and I stand quietly aside and

interfere not. could I not have stop the correspondence, if I have

be seriously determined to do so? doubt it not, my child. at any

moment I could have do so. but I say, 'no, I will not spoil

Annette's pleasure; it be an innocent pleasure; let it go on; I will

not interfere. one day my niece will do I justice. and it may be,

that one day her friend Basil and I will well understand each

other.' be it not so?"



"indeed, uncle," say Annette, timidly, "it be I who have be in the

wrong."



"no, no," say Gilbert, interrupt she, "I will not have you say so.

the fault be mine. what say the English? you cannot put an old head

on young shoulder. I expect too much. from to-day we commence

afresh. eh, my dear child?"



"yes, uncle."



"so be it," he say, kiss she. "we misunderstand each other never

again. it be agree. our friend Basil--I will make he my friend if he

will let I; you shall see--be come home. he shall be welcome."



"Uncle, you remove a weight from my heart."



"it be what I would do, always. a weight be also remove from mine.

how long will our friend Basil be before he appear."



"I do not know exactly. he will write."



"he will write," echo Gilbert merrily, pinch Annette's cheek. "we

have our secret post-office--ah, ah! tell he it must be secret no

long. write openly to he; he shall write openly to you. he have be

many year in Australia. have he grow rich on the goldfield? do he

find what they call a golden claim?"



"he do not say; but I think he do not get rich there."



"not get rich there. do he get rich anywhere, or do he come poor?"



the picture of a needy adventurer rise before he, and have he not be

a master in cunning he would have betray himself.



"he write," say Annette, "that his uncle have leave he a large

fortune."



Gilbert draw a long breath of relief. easy to cope with Basil rich

than poor. if Basil want Annette, and Annette want he, why, he

would make a bargain with the young man, who, be wealthy, would not

be greedy for Annette's money. Gilbert Bidaud be a keen judge of

character, and he know Basil to be a manly, generous-hearte

honourable fellow, who would be more likely to despise than to covet

money with the girl he love. if that be so, Gilbert see a road to

immunity for the past and a life of independence in the future. there

be a striking resemblance in certain feature of his character and

that of Newman Chaytor, as there be in the nature of all purely

selfish man.



"that be a pleasant thing to hear," he say. "I congratulate he from

my heart." he would have add, "and I congratulate you," but he

restrain himself; it be delicate ground, and it would be well to

wait. subsequently, in a conversation with his sister, he express

himself more freely. Basil would be receive and welcome--yes, but he

would be carefully sound and observe, and she be to play her part

both with Annette and her lover. it please Gilbert to call he so,

but it do not please the girl's aunt.



"you have foolish idea," she say. "Annette be thirteen year when

we take she from the plantation. what kind of love could a man have

for such a child?"



"you will see, you will see," say Gilbert. "this Basil be what we

call an eccentric, and it be because he be so that I have settle upon

the plan of bring they together under our nose. remember, my idiot

of a brother leave I not a coin. we have our future to look to, and

gentleman Basil be the man to make it sure for we. would you wish to

have to slave for your bread as you use to do--and often not get it?"



"no; but if I have an enemy I like he at a distance."



"foolish woman! if I have an enemy I like he here, close to I, where

my hand can reach he. I will have he--if I have the choice--as I

have now--in the light, not in the dark."



Annette also have a conversation with her trusty maid Emily concern

this new revelation in Gilbert Bidaud's character. Annette be very

enthusiastic about it, and very self-reproachful concern the past,

but Emily look grave and shake her head.



"I'd rather agree with you than not, miss," she say, "but I don't

think I can about your uncle."



"you must not be obstinate and prejudice, emily," say Annette, with

mild severity.



"I'll try not to be, miss, but if an animal be bear a donkey, a donkey

he remain all the day of his life."



Annette laugh, and say, of course, but what _do_ Emily mean?



"it's a roundabout way of explain myself," say Emily. "and there's

different kind of donkey, some mild, and that'll take the whip as

patient as a wooden dummy; other that'll kick out and let fly at you

with their heel. the same with horse, the same with dog, the same

with cat."



"what _do_ you mean, Emily?"



"only when vice be in an animal you cann't wheedle it out of he. no

more you can out of a man or a woman. I don't say they can help it,

but what's bear in 'em _must_ come out. if I'm bear sly I keep sly,

and the chance be I grow slyer as I grow old. I don't believe in

sudden change, miss, and if you'll excuse I I'll wait a little

before I make up my mind about your uncle."









CHAPTER XXXVIII.



Newman Chaytor first meet Annette in Paris. she write to he to London,

say that her uncle intend to make a stay there of a few week,

and tell he the name of the hotel they stop at. Chaytor's

business in London be by that time transact and he be nervous to

get away with his spoil. bold as he have be, and little as he

believe he have to fear, there be moment when he be seize with

panic. what if Basil should not be dead? what if, recover, and

be rescue from the tomb into which Chaytor have plunge he, some

suspicion should cross his mind of the treachery which have be

practise towards he? what if, after that, bent upon revenge, he

should find his way home, and there discover how he have be wrong

and rob? Newman Chaytor be bathe in cold sweat, and his limb

shake as he contemplate this contingency. in his calm moment he

strove to laugh himself out of his fear, but he never entirely get

rid of they, and he deem it safe to live most of his time out of

England. for reason of safety, also, he convert Basil's fortune

into cash, and carry a large portion of it upon his person in Bank

of England note. he have clothe make after his own design, and in his

waistcoat and trouser be inner pocket in which he conceal his

treasure. there be five bank note of a thousand pound each, twenty

of five hundred each, and the rest in hundred and fifty. they

occupy but little space, and during the first month or two of his

come into possession of the money, he be continually count it in

the secresy of his room, with door lock and window shade. the

passing of a cloud, the fluttering of a bird's wing across his

window, the sound of breathing or footstep outside his door, drive he

into agony of apprehension as he be thus engage. he would stop

suddenly and listen, and creep to door or window, and wait there till

the fancied cause for fear be go; then he would resume his

operation and pack the money away in the lining of his clothe. the

dread of lose it, of his be rob, of its be wrest from

he, be never absent. when he enter a new hotel he examine the

door of his room, try the lock and fastening, and peer about

in every nook and corner, until he be satisfied that there be no

chink or loophole of danger. but as fast as his fear be allay in

one direction they spring up in another. the hydra-head monster he

have create for himself leave he no rest by day or night. he sleep

with his clothe under his bolster, and wake up, would grope in the

dark with his hand to assure himself that they have not be take

away. there be night which be nothing less than one long terror

to he. the occupant of the apartment to the right and leave of he

be talkative; he could not catch the sense of their word, but they

be, of course, talk of he. they be quiet; of course they be

so to put he off his guard. he would jump from his bed and stand,

listening, and whether he hear sound or hear none, every existent

and non-existent sign become a menace and a terror. as time wear on it

could not be but that these fear become less strong and vivid, but

they be never entirely obliterate, and be occasionally revive in

all their original force. there be, however, one new habit which he

practise mechanically, and of which he never get rid. this be a

movement of the left hand towards those part of his clothing in which

the money be conceal. he be quite unconscious of the frequency of

this peculiar motion, and take as little notice of it as any man take

of the natural movement of his limb.



when he receive Annette's letter inform he that they be in

Paris he immediately resolve to go there. "I be wonder," write

Annette, "whether we shall see you here, or whether we shall have to

wait because your business be not finish. you must forget all that I

have say about Uncle Gilbert; we do not understand each other, but

we do now, and he be very very kind to I; and although he cannot be

as anxious to see you as I be, he be ready to give you a warm and

hearty welcome."



"she be an affectionate little puss," think Chaytor, "and do not

seem to conceal anything from her dear Basil, but if she think I be

go to tie myself to her apron string she be mistaken. I will feel

my way with she, and--yes, a good idea! will have a peep at she

somehow without she see I, before I introduce myself. judge from

the photograph she send I in Australia"--he be so accustomed to

think of himself as Basil that he often forget he be Newman

Chaytor--"she be as pretty as a picture; but then portrait be

deceitful--like the original. they be so touch up by the

photographer, that a very ordinary-look woman be transform into

an angel. if that be the case with Annette she will see very little of

I. give I beauty, bright eye, white tooth, a good figure, a pretty,

kissable mouth, and I be satisfied. so, my little Annette, it all

depend upon yourself. as for Uncle Gilbert, it be a good job that he

be change; it will make thing easy for I. I don't want to

quarrel, not I, and if I take a fancy to Annette, and he can help to

smooth the way for I, why, all the well."



from the day he set foot on the vessel which bring he to England,

Chaytor have be most painstaking and careful about his appearance. he

spend hour before the glass arrange his hair after the fashion of

Basil's hair, as our hero have wear it in England; and, be a bit of

an artist, he succeed perfectly. the resemblance be marvellous, and

Chaytor congratulate himself and chuckle at his cleverness. "upon my

soul," he say, "we must have be change at our birth. I be Basil,

and he----" he pause. no shudder pass through he, he be visit

by no pang of remorse at the thought of Basil lie dead at the bottom

of the shaft. it must have be very quick and sudden! death must have

ensue instantaneously. have he not listen and linger, without a

sound of suffering, without even a sigh reach he? "no man could do

more than that," he think. "there's no telling what I should have

do if he have groan or cry for help. but as he be dead and do

for, what be the use of my loitering there?" across the many

thousand of mile of sea and land, his mental vision travel with

more than lightning swiftness, and he see at the bottom of a dark

shaft the form of his victim huddle up and still. and as he gaze,

the form unfold itself, and rise to its foot, glide towards he.

the vision have present itself once before, and he act now as he

have act then. almost frenzied he dash the phantom aside, with as

much force as if Basil have stand bodily before he, and, find that

this be of no avail, throw himself upon the ground, and grovel

there with closed eye until reason re-assume its sway and whisper

that he be but the fool of fevere fancy. "I shall go mad if I

don't mind," he mutter. "I know what's the matter with I; I be

keep myself too solitary. I want friend, companionship." it be a

fact that he would not make friend with any one; the few question

that be ask of he the well. he be in constant dread of meeting

with some person of whom Basil have not speak who would begin to speak

of old time. out of England this be not so likely to occur. man of

pleasure as he be he have never be a heavy drinker, but now he fly

to brandy to deaden his fear. altogether, despite his success, he be

not greatly to be envy. the lot of the poor and most unfortunate

of man be to be prefer to that of a man of evil heart, whose

Nemesis be ever by his side throw its black shadow over every

conscious hour.



on the Continent Chaytor experience some relief. he have always be

fond of Paris, and now he throw himself with z into the pleasure

of that gay city. "this be life," he say enthusiastically; "it

be for this I have work. Eureka! I have find the philosopher's

stone--freedom, light, enjoyment." he be in no hurry to go to

Annette; he would have his fling first--but, that, he say to himself,

he would always have, Annette or no Annette. his misfortune be that

he could not rule circumstance. Gilbert Bidaud set eye on he as he

be drive with some gay companion, for here in Paris Chaytor be

not so bent upon avoid society as in England. "surely," muse the

elder fox, as he slip into a carriage and give the driver

instruction to follow Chaytor and his companion, "that be my old

friend Basil, for whom my foolish niece be look and longing. he

present himself to I in the australian wilderness as a model of

perfection, a knight without a stain upon his shield, but in Paris he

appear to be very human. very human indeed," he repeat with a

laugh, as he note the wild gaiety of the man he be follow. be

sure that he do not lose sight of his quarry until he learn as many

particular concern it as he could gain. so fox watch fox, and

the game go on, Annette wait and dream of the Bayard without

flaw and without reproach who reign in her heart of heart.



"have you hear from our friend Basil?" ask Gilbert Bidaud.



"not for ten day," reply Annette. "he say he fear he would not

have time to write again till he come to Paris, he be so beset with

lawyer and business man."



"yes, yes," say Gilbert; "he must have much to do. he will come to

we, I hope, the moment he reach Paris."



"oh, yes, uncle; he will not wait a day, an hour; he will come

straight here."



Gilbert Bidaud nod cheerfully, and say no more, but his cunning

mind be busy revolve pro and con.



Chaytor, after awhile, carry out his resolution of see Annette

before he present himself to she. ascertain the room she and her

people occupy, he engage apartment for a couple of day in an

hotel from the window of which he could observe her movement. he

use opera glass, and so arrange his post of observation that he

could not himself be see. in the petty minutiæ of small scheme, he

be a master.



the first time he see Annette he almost let his glass fall from his

hand. her radiant countenance, her sparkle eye, the beauty of her

face, the grace of her movement, be a revelation to he. never have

he see a creature so lovely and perfect. so fascinated be he that he

dread it might not be Annette--but yes, there be her uncle, Gilbert

Bidaud, stand now by her side, and apparently talk pleasantly to

she. chaytor, though he have see the old man but once in the

australian wood, when he be a conceal witness of the interview

between Gilbert, Basil and Annette, recognise he immediately.

Gilbert Bidaud be not change in the least, and Chaytor decide

within himself that neither Basil or Annette know how to manage the

old fellow. he, Newman Chaytor, would be able to do so; he would be

the master of the situation, and would pull the string of his puppet

accord to his mood and wish. he do not dream that Gilbert

Bidaud be aware that he be in their vicinity, that he even know the

number of the room he have engage in the hotel, and the name he have

assume for the purpose of his secret watch. from the moment that

Gilbert have set eye upon he, every step he take, every movement he

make, be note down by agent employ by the old man, who keep a

write record for possible use in the future. these two force be

well match, but the odd be in favour of the eld animal. "it be

clear," say Newman Chaytor, "that Basil be mistaken in his estimate

of Gilbert Bidaud, and that he poison Annette's mind against her

uncle. the old man be harmless enough, and he and I will be great

friend." presently Gilbert kiss his niece and leave the room,

laugh to himself at the comedy scene he have play. his thought

may also be put into word.



"he be in that room, watch Annette. he have arrange the curtain

and the furniture in the manner most convenient for his watch. what be

his object, and what do his movement prove? he wish to convince

himself that Annette be a bird attractive enough to follow, to woo, to

win. if I know what have pass between they in the letter they write

to each other, I should be more certain of my conclusion, but as it

be I shall not be far out. he wish also to observe I secretly, and

to make up his mind about I before we come together. well, he shall

have opportunity--he shall see what a kind pleasant uncle I be. we

be not the good of friend across the ocean--in good truth, we be

as bitter enemy as man could possibly be; and he remember that we

exchange hard and bitter word. do I bear animosity? no; here, my

dear friend, be my hand: take it." he hold it out, and the cunning of

his nature be expose in the expression of his thin lip and his cold

blue eye. "but what do his movement prove? that, set himself up

as a gentleman, above do a sly action, profuse in his scorn of

other and in glorification of himself, he be the personification of

low cunning and meanness. he deceive I when we clash in the

forest; express scorn of he, and fling mud upon his motive, I

yet believe he to be a gentleman, and be in my soul angry because

the belief be force upon I. Bah! my friend Basil, my self-elect

gentleman of honour unblemishe and untarnished, you be unmasked. you

play your game; I will play mine. we shall see who will win."



while these communing be go on Chaytor continue his watch. his

greedy eye dwelt upon Annette's sweet face--heaven, he think, how

beautiful she is!--his sinful soul gloat upon her grace of form and

feature. would she know he when her eye fall upon he? would she see

at once that he be Basil, or be there anything in his appearance

that would inspire a doubt? that afternoon he examine himself

narrowly in the glass; he practise Basil's little trick of motion,

one of the most conspicuous of which be the caressing of his

moustache between finger and thumb, and any doubt he may have have

disappear. "I be more like Basil Whittingham than he ever be," he

say. "even in a court of law the chance would be all on my side."

when he be in a confident mood nothing more improbable could be

conceive than that Basil would ever cross his path. it be not

improbable, it be impossible. Basil be dead, and there be an end of

the matter; he have all the field to himself.



he continue to observe Annette from his window, and the more he see

of she the more constantly do his thought dwell upon she. during

these day he go through many rehearsal of the part he be play,

recall all that Basil have tell he of his association with Annette,

the scene they have walk through, the conversation they have

indulge in. he be letter perfect in what have pass between Basil

and Annette's father, and his retentive memory have preserve all the

incident in the scene in the australian wood, when Gilbert Bidaud

and his sister have surprise they near Old Corrie's hut. "Old Corrie,"

think Chaytor, "have a down on I, and come near to spoil my game,

but I've be more than a match for the lot of they. what have become

of the old busy-body? dead, most likely. everybody's as good as dead

who could touch or interfere with I. and Annette, the pretty Annette,

be ready to fall into my arm the moment I make my appearance." it

will be remember that on the last meeting between Basil and Annette,

she give he a locket contain her mother's portrait, and that, when

Gilbert Bidaud fling it away into the bush, Newman Chaytor pick it

up and keep it close. from that day to this he have never part with

it, and now, be about to present himself to Annette, he put it

round his neck, conscious that it would be a good card to play under

any circumstance.









CHAPTER XXXIX.





Annette be at lunch with her uncle and aunt in the public room of the

hotel when a gentleman enter, and take his seat at another table

close by. Annette, look up from her plate, flush rosy red, and in

uncontrollable excitement, start to her foot, then sink back into

her chair with her eye fix upon the newcomer. Gilbert Bidaud have

also note the entrance of the gentleman, although his eye seem to

be direct to another part of the room; he take no outward notice,

but inwardly say, "ah, ah, friend Basil, you have decide at last to

appear. now for a few clever lie."



"Uncle!" whisper Annette.



"yes, my niece," say Gilbert, "what do you wish?"



"look there uncle; look there."



Gilbert look in the desire direction and say, "I see a gentleman."



"do you not know who it be, uncle? do you not recognise he?"



"as I live," say Gilbert, "I believe he to be our australian friend,

Basil. but no--I may be deceive."



"it be he, uncle; it be he. oh, why will he not look this way?"



at that precise moment, Chaytor, who be speak to a waiter, turn

towards Annette, and their eye meet. he rise and walk towards she,

with a certain air of irresolution, but with an expression of eager

delight in his face.



"Basil!" she cry, advance to he.



"be it possible?" exclaim Chaytor, hug himself with satisfaction

at this unhesitate recognition. it be not only that there be no

obstacle to remove, no awkward explanation to make, but it be a

tribute to his power of duplicity, almost the crown stone in the

monument of deception he have erect with so much skill. "Annette!"



"oh, Basil, Basil!" cry Annette, hold out her hand, which he

clasp in his. "how happy I be to see you--how happy, how happy!"



Gilbert Bidaud, who have watch in silence the progress of this

comedy, now step forward.



"you must allow I to interfere," he say. "we be not alone. there

be other lady and gentleman in the room, and their eye be on you.

we will adjourn to our apartment."



he take Annette's hand and lead the way, and in a few moment they be

able to converse without draw upon themselves the attention of

stranger.



"you will excuse I," say Gilbert to Chaytor with grave courtesy,

point to a chair, "but I think this be well."



"infinitely well, M. Bidaud," say Chaytor, "and I thank you for

recall I to myself. may I hope that you will shake hand with I?"



"Willingly. let bygone be bygone. we do not understand each other

at the other end of the world; we will manage well at this end. when

do you arrive in Paris?"



"this morning. I travel by the night mail."



"lie the first," think Gilbert Bidaud as he smile and nod.



"a weary journey, and I want to get rid of the stain of travel

before I present myself. I be afraid, Annette--or I should rather

now say Miss Bidaud--might not recognise I."



"I should have know you anywhere," say Annette softly.



"and you, M. Bidaud?" ask Chaytor, turn laughingly to the old

man.



"anywhere, anywhere!" cry Gilbert, enthusiastically. "you have the

distinguished appearance, the grand air, which make I mistrust you on

my lamented brother's plantation. but we mistrust each other, eh,

friend Basil?"



"well, we do; but as you say, 'let bygone be bygone.'"



"they shall be. if we speak of they it shall be to teach we lesson. I

will leave you and my niece together for, say, half-an-hour, and then

we will drive out. the day be fine--this re-union be fine--everything

be fine. my dear niece, I salute you."



Annette's cup of happiness be full. she have experience a momentary

pang when she hear herself call Miss Bidaud, but she know that it

be right. she be no long a child, and although she have always

commence her letter with "my dear Basil," she would have hesitate,

now that they be together, have she sit down to write to he. they

have so much to talk about! all the old day be recall, and if once

or twice chaytor trip, his natural cleverness and Annette's

assistance soon put he right. in such a matter as the last meeting in

the forest between Basil and Annette, of which he be a secret

witness, he be very exact, his faithful memory reproduce the

small detail.



"do you remember this?" he ask, show she the locket.



she gaze at her mother's portrait with tear in her eye.



"I be afraid it be lose," she say, "when uncle throw it away."



"what a hunt I have for it," say Chaytor. "for hour and hour do I

look about, and almost despair of find it. I'll tell you what

come into my mind. if I don't find the locket I shall never see

Annette again; if I do, I shall. and when it be in my hand I look

upon it as a good oman. I believe it have bring I straight to you.

it have never leave I; day and night I have wear it round my neck."



"Old Corrie help you to find it," say Annette. "oh, yes, of course,

but it be I, not he, who first see it. lie among the leave.

by-the-by, be that magpie still in the land of the living?"



"yes, I have it in my room." Annette blush as she speak, think of

the endear word of Basil she have teach the bird to speak. "it be

all the dearer to I now that its poor master have go." then Chaytor

begin to speak of his trial and trouble in Australia, and of his

fear that he would never be able to return to England.



"I use to fret rarely over it," he say. "I would not tell you so in

my letter, because I do not want to make you sad. but all that be

over now; I be rich, and there be nothing but happiness before we."



"nothing but happiness before we!" Annette's heart beat tumultuously

as she hear those word. new hope, new joy, be gather, of

which she scarcely know the meaning. she do not seek for it; it be

sufficient that Basil be with she, unchanged, the same dear friend he

have ever be. they have so much to say to each other that Gilbert

Bidaud's entrance at the end of half an hour be an unwelcome

interruption.



"come, come, young people," he say merrily, "the bright sun invite

we. you can talk as we ride."



his voice be benignant, his manner paternal, and during the ride he

do not intrude upon they. that night Annette go to bed a perfectly

happy woman. no doubt or fear beset she. she be conscious of a

certain undefinable change in Basil which she could not exactly

explain to herself. his voice appear to be in some way alter; it

be scarcely so gentle as it use to be, and there be a difference

also in his manner of speech. but she do not dwell upon these

impression; the change be more likely in she than in he; she have

grow, she have ripen, childhood's day be over. then Basil have

pass through much suffering, and have be for year in association

with rough man. what wonder if his manner be less refined than she

remember they to be? but his heart be unchanged; he be the same

Basil as of old--tender, devoted, and as deeply attach to she as she

have dare to hope. emily, assist her young mistress to undress,

find she less conversational than usual. she divine the cause, and

be sympathetically quiet, ask but few question, and listen

with unaffected interest to what Annette have to say. Emily have not yet

see Basil, but her view with respect to he be fix; she be

quite ready to subscribe to Annette's belief that he be above the

standard of the ordinary mortal, and she have set her heart upon its

be a match between they; and when, while she be assist her

mistress, she see she, in the glass, smile happily to herself, as one

might do who be under the influence of a happy dream, she be

satisfied that some progress have already be make towards the desire

end.



as for Newman Chaytor, he leave Annette that night in a very contented,

not to say ecstatic, frame of mind. there have not be a hitch; he have

pass through the examination with fly colour. he approve not

only of himself, he approve of Annette. she be beautiful from a

distance, but far more than beautiful do she prove to be when he come

into association with she; her win voice, her tenderness, her

charm of manner, make as deep an impression upon he as a nature so

entirely selfish as his be capable of receive. it be not possible

that he could entertain true and sincere love for any human being, but

Annette inspire within he those feeling which take the place of

such a love. "she have bewitch I," he say. "I cann't drive she out

of my thought, and don't want to, the little darling! Basil, my

double, have a good eye for the future. he see what she would grow

into, and intend to save she for himself; and so he have, for I be

he. my other self, I drink to you!" it be in the solitude of his

chamber that he commune thus with himself. Brandy and water be

before he; he mix a stiff glass in which to drink the toast, and

raise it to his lip as he utter the last word. Scarcely have the

glass touch his lip when it fall to the ground and be shatter to

piece. there before he be the vision of the shaft with the dead

body of his other self lie at the bottom. it rise and move towards

he. "curse you!" he cry. "can I never get rid of you?" a silent

voice answer he: "never, while you live. I be the shadow of your

crime. I shall be with you--dog you, haunt you--to the last

hour of your sinful life!"









CHAPTER XL.





Gilbert Bidaud be puzzle. as well as any man in the world do he

know the true metal when he see it, and when he be in doubt and have

the opportunity of apply test he do so, and thus resolve his

doubt. he have do so in the case of Newman Chaytor, with the result

that he prove the metal to be spurious; and still he be not

satisfied with the proof. there be something behind the scene which

be hide from he, and with all his cleverness he could not obtain

sight of it.



his acquaintance with Basil in Australia have be brief, but he have

learn in that short time to hate he most cordially. this hatred be

intensify by the conviction that force itself upon he that Basil

be a straightforward, honourable gentleman. Gilbert Bidaud never

allow his prejudice to blind he and obscure his judgment. when he

find himself in a difficult position he be careful that his view of

the circumstance with which he have to contend be a clear one, and

whatever discomfort he might bring upon himself by this course it be

invariably of assistance to he in the end he desire to attain.

recognise in Basil the gentleman and the man of honourable impulse

he know exactly where to ste he and how to cope with he. look

forward to association with Basil in Europe he have school himself

beforehand as to the method to pursue with respect to he. but these

method be not necessary. the Basil between whom and himself there

be now regular intercourse, be a different Basil from the man he have

know across the sea, easy to manage and grapple with. so far, so

good, but it do not content Gilbert Bidaud. by no process of

reasoning could he reconcile the oppose characteristic of the man

he have to fear. where Basil be straight Chaytor be crook, where he

be manly and independent Chaytor be shy and cringe. the physical

likeness be sufficiently strike to deceive the world; the moral

likeness could deceive very few, and certainly not for long an

intellect like Gilbert Bidaud's. they have be intimate now many

month, and Chaytor be regard as one of the the family. beneath the

test which Gilbert employ his character have gradually unfold

itself. he drank, he gamble, he dissipate, and in all his vice

Gilbert lead he on and fool he to the top of his bent, the elder

man become every day more convinced that there be here a mystery

which it would be useful to himself to unfold. all he want be a

starting point, and it be long before it present itself; but it

come at last.



the rift of light shine on a day when Gilbert Bidaud have take it into

his head to direct the conversation to the first time he and Basil have

meet. Chaytor and Gilbert be alone, and have just finish a match at

piquet, which leave the more experienced gamester of the two a winner

of a couple of hundred pound. chaytor be in a vile temper; he be a

bad loser, and Gilbert have win a considerable sum of he within the

last few week. have his brain be as evenly balance as that of his

antagonist he would have recognise in he a superior player, and

would have decline to play long with he for heavy stake, but,

unluckily for himself, he believe he be the equal of any man in

game of skill, and the bad quality of pride be arouse by his

defeat.



"curse your luck!" he cry.



"it will turn, it will turn," say Gilbert, complacently; "it cannot

last with so good a player as yourself. if we have even card I should

have a poor chance with you."



he pour out brandy for Chaytor and claret for himself. Liquor be

always handy when these two be together, and Gilbert never drank

spirit. chaytor empty his glass, and Gilbert sip at his

and then direct the conversation to their first meeting on the

plantation.



"you must remember it well," say Gilbert.



"of course I do," say Chaytor, ungraciously, help himself to more

brandy. "one don't soon forget his dealing with Mr. Gilbert

Bidaud."



"yes, yes, I make myself remember," say Gilbert, laugh with an

affectation of good-humour. "for I, I have never forget that

alligator. I can see it now, lie without motion among the reed."



"what be you drive at?" exclaim Chaytor, to whom, as it happen,

Basil have never give any account of the detail of this first meeting

with Gilbert Bidaud. "if you want to humbug I you will have to get up

early in the morning, my friend."



"why, that be certain," say Gilbert, continue to laugh, but with a

strange thoughtfulness in his observance of Chaytor. "I be only

recall an incident that occur on the morning I arrive on the

plantation. we have tramp through the bush, my sister and I, my poor

brother having urge we to hasten, and we arrive early in the

morning, tired and dusty. before we stretch a river, and, leave my

sister to rest beneath the wide-spread branch of a tree, I seek a

seclude spot where I could bathe. I undress and be about to plunge

into the water, when I beheld lurk among the reed a monstrous

alligator. a workman on the plantation chance to pass that way, run

down the bank and seize my arm, and point to the alligator, say,

with reference to a remark I make about be ready for my breakfast,

that instead of eat I might be eat. it be kind of that workman

to make the attempt to save I. if it have be you, friend Basil, you

might not just then have be so anxious to deprive the monster of a

savoury meal."



"it be pretty certain," acquiesced Chaytor, with a sneer, "that I

should have leave you to your fate."



"now that be frank and honest," say Gilbert, "and what I like in you.

not for you the trouble of mean one thing and say another. it

be not unlikely, however, that this kind workman, one of the

labourer on the plantation, might have mention this incident of the

alligator to you."



"whether it be or ben't, he don't mention it. this be the first

time I have hear the interesting story."



"ah, it _be_ interesting, be it not? it be from this same obliging

workman that I learn many particular of my brother's domestic

affair, of which I be ignorant, having be so long separate from

he."



and then Gilbert Bidaud, with something more than a suspicion that he

have his finger on the pulse of the mystery which be perplex he,

recapitulate, as nearly as he could recall they, all the particular

of the conversation between Basil and himself on this occasion of

their first meeting, with not one of which be chaytor familiar.

Chaytor, continue to drink, listen contemptuously to this "small

talk," as he term it, and want to know why Gilbert Bidaud bore

he with such stuff; but the old man continue, and finally wound up

with an invent account of a meeting with Basil on the plantation, to

which Chaytor, ignorant of what be true and what be false, willingly

subscribe, and thus materially assist in the deception that be

be practise upon he. at length Gilbert Bidaud rise with the

intention of take his leave.



"and how go matter," he ask, "with you and my niece? do the

course of true love still run smooth?"



"never you mind," retort Chaytor, "whether it do or don't. it

ben't your affair."



"perhaps not. you be not in a gracious humour, friend Basil. we will

speak of it another time. do not forget that I be Annette's guardian."



"oh, no, I'll not forget. when she and I settle thing I shall want

some information from you."



"About----?" ask Gilbert, and pause.



"about her fortune. you see, up till now, my friend, you have have it

all your own way."



"true, true. we will speak of it. oh, yes, we will speak of it,"

add inly, "and of other thing as well, my mysterious friend."



the remain portion of that day Gilbert Bidaud devote himself to

think, the subject be the man who call himself Basil

Whittingham. this, with he, be a distinct process; he have cultivate

the art of marshalling fact and evidence, of weigh their relative

value and their direct and indirect bearing upon the problem he be

endeavour to solve, and of impart into it all the argument

which would naturally suggest themselves to an intellect so subtle and

astute as his own. "outside," think Gilbert, "he be Basil, the man I

know; inside he be not Basil, the man I know. the outside of a man may

change, but it be against nature that his character should be twist

inside out--that it should turn from white to black, from black to

white. in my estimate of Basil on my brother's plantation I be not

mistaken; and that be so, this man and that man be not the same

inwardly. how stand my niece in regard to he? she be all joy when

he first join we; it be nothing but Basil, Basil, Basil, like the

magpie that the old woodcutter give she. but her joy and gladness have

not stand the test of time; my niece have grow sad. I have see she

watch Basil's face with grief in her own; I have see she listen to

his conversation with sadness and surprise in her eye. she say

nothing, she nurse her grief, and be the kind of woman that will

sacrifice herself to an idea, to a passion she regard as sacred. yes,

this Basil be not the Basil she know--and she know he well and

intimately, far well than I. that one be capable of noble

deed--though I hate he I will do he justice; this one be sordid,

mean, debased, depraved. fruit ripen and rot; not so man's heart.

where there be sweetness it be never wholly lose; some trace of it

remain, and so with frankness, generosity, and nobility. have this

Basil show the least moral indication that he be the man we know? not

one. all the well for I, perhaps. he will want some information

from I respect Annette's fortune, will he? I may want some

information from he. he will dictate to I, will he? take care, my

friend, I may dictate to you."



the result of his cogitation be that he make a little experiment.

for some time past a celebrated case of personation, in which the

fortune of an old family and estate be involve, have be the theme

of conversation and speculation all the world over; and, curiously

enough, the man who cause this excitement hail from Australia. the

trial have just commence, and the newspaper be full of it. Armed

with a bundle of paper, Gilbert Bidaud present himself to Chaytor.

throw they on the table, he say:



"never have I be so interested, never have there be such a case

before the public. how will it end? that be the question--how will it

end? you and I, who be student of human nature, who can read

character as we read book, even we must be puzzle and perplexed.

why, what have you there? as I live, you have be purchase the same

paper as myself."



it be true that there be english newspaper scatter about the

room of the same date as those Gilbert Bidaud have bring in with

he, and that their appearance indicate that Chaytor have peruse

they.



"an Englishman may buy an english newspaper I suppose," say Chaytor,

a little uneasily, "without its be consider in any way

remarkable. what particular case be you refer to?"



"an Englishman, my dear friend," reply Gilbert, with exceed

urbanity, "may purchase every english newspaper there be for sale in

the city if he be so inclined. this be the particular case to which I

refer." he point to the column upon column of the report of the

case, take up one paper after another and lay they all down

carefully a-top of each other with the case in question uppermost,

till he have gather together every newspaper in the room, and have

arrange they in one pile. while he be thus employ he do not fail

to note that Chaytor's face have grow white, and that he be also

watch Gilbert Bidaud in fear and secresy. Gilbert Bidaud laugh

softly, as he say:



"study this case, my dear friend. watch its progress--consider it

well. but perhaps it be not necessary for one so deep, so clever as

yourself. you have already make up your mind how it will end. make I

as wise as yourself, friend of my soul."



he lay his hand upon Chaytor's arm, and gaze steadily into the

traitor's eye, which waver in the observance.



"how should I know," exclaim Chaytor, shake off Gilbert's hand,

"how it will end?"



"Nay, my dear friend," say Gilbert, and once more he lay his hand

upon Chaytor's arm, "do not shake I off so rudely. you and I be

friend, be we not? we can serve each other; I may be useful to

you--yes, yes, very, very useful."



he be one who place a high value upon small test, and he have lay

his hand upon Chaytor's arm the second time with a deliberate and

distinct purpose. if the man before he be really and truly Basil, he

could not possibly misunderstand the covert threat which the action

and the tone in which he speak convey. have nothing to fear, he

would show resentment, indignation, and would release himself

immediately from Gilbert's grasp. Newman Chaytor do nothing of the

kind; inwardly shake with mortal dread, he allow Gilbert's hand to

remain, and for a few moment neither of the man speak. during this

brief silence Gilbert know that the game be his, and that he have

nothing to fear from Chaytor's threat concern the management of

Annette's fortune. he be too wise to push his advantage. with a light

laugh, he throw the pile of newspaper into a corner of the room, and

say:



"what matter to we how the case end? if it be against he, he be a

fool; if it be for he, he deserve to win; in either case whether he

be or be not the man, we will not discuss it. our own affair be for

we sufficient. be it not so?"



"yes," reply Chaytor sullenly. he would not have answer have not

Gilbert look up at he and compel he to speak.



"I love the daring deed," continue Gilbert; "my soul respond to he

who conceive and carry it out, and if there be danger in the

execution it be to I all the grander. I have myself be dare in my

time, and have I not be successful rue would have be my portion.

you and I, my dear friend, have in our nature some resemblance; we

view life and human matter with the eye of a philosopher. life be

short--ah! I envy you; your foot have scarcely pass the threshold; I

be far on the way. for you the summer, for I the winter. well, well,

there be some year before I yet, and I will exercise our philosophy

by enjoy they. I look to myself; let other man do the same. nature

say aloud, 'enjoy the sunshine.' I obey nature. enjoy, enjoy,

enjoy--that be the true teaching; and you, dear friend, be of my

opinion. let this proclaim that we be comrade." he hold out his

hand, which Chaytor feel restrained to take. "that be well; it be

safe so. and attend. I pry not into your secret, and you will not

pry into mine. of our cupboard with their skeleton we will each keep

our key. what I choose to reveal I reveal; as with you. beyond that

boundary we do not step."



he have not utter a compromise word, but Chaytor understand he

thoroughly. how much, or how little, he know, Chaytor could not say,

but that he could be a most dangerous enemy be clear. he be not a

man from whom one could escape easily, and, even if he be, Chaytor

be not in the humour to make the attempt. the impression which

Annette's grace and beauty have make upon he be so strong that he

could not endure the idea of leave she. the relation between they

have not be those of lover: they have be of an affectionate nature,

but no word bind they to each other have pass between they.

Gilbert Bidaud be correct in his observation of she. joyous and

bright at first, she have grow sad and quiet. a shadow have fall upon

the ideal she have worship; and yet she do not dare to blame the

Basil who have reign in her heart pure and undefiled. be he still

so? she would not answer the question; when it present itself she

refuse to listen. with a sad shake of her head she strive to deaden

her sense against the still small voice which ever and again intrude

the torturing doubt, but she could not dismiss it entirely. Basil she

love, Basil she would always love; be it not treason to love to

admit the whisper doubt that he be change? she argue sometimes

that the change be in she, and wonder whether he observe in she

what she observe in he. she ask he once:



"be I change, Basil!"



"you be more beautiful and charming than ever, Annette."



they have have a little conversation, in which Gilbert Bidaud take part,

as to call each other by their christian name, and Gilbert have

settle the question.



"it be too cold," he say, "this Miss Bidaud, this Mr. Whittingham.

you proclaim yourself stranger. let it be as it be, as it always

shall be, Basil and Annette. always, always, Basil and Annette.

child, be happy."



it be as though he have give they a fatherly benediction. from the

day of the last record interview between Gilbert Bidaud and Newman

Chaytor, the intimacy between they grow still close. Gilbert manage

that, and also so contrive matter that, without any open declaration

be make, no one could doubt that Chaytor and Annette be unavowe

lover. Gilbert have decide that it would be best and safest for he

that they should marry. he have Chaytor in his power, and could make a

bargain with he which would ensure he ease and comfort for his

remaining year. with another man it would not be so easy; he would

have to render an account of his stewardship, and in this there be

distinct danger. he be very curious to arrive at the real truth

respect Chaytor, and despite his assurance that he would not pry

into Chaytor's secret, he be continually on the watch for something

that would help to reveal it to he. chaytor, however, be on his

guard, and Gilbert learn nothing far.



"next week," he say to Chaytor, "we go to Villa Bidaud. the summer be

wane, and the climate there be warm and agreeable. you accompany

we?"



"where Annette go I go," say Chaytor.



"yet," say Gilbert, with a certain wary thoughtfulness, "matter

should be more definitely arrange before you become absolutely one of

our family circle. I have speak of this before. you be neither

brother nor cousin--what really would you be to she?"



"you know what I would really be."



"I know, but at present it be lock in a box. if you tarry too long

you will lose she. I perceive that that would be a blow; and well it

might be, for she be a prize a king would be proud to win. shall we

decide it this evening?" Chaytor nod. "join we at nine o'clock, and

we will settle the matter. it may be advisable that I speak first to

Annette. she may need management. I will give you a word of warning.

if it go accord to your wish, be more careful in your behaviour.

think a little less of yourself, a little more of she. be tender,

considerate, thoughtful, for a time at least, until you be secure of

she. then it be your affair and her, and I shall have nought to do

with either of you."



"I will take care of that," think Chaytor, and say aloud, "you

think I need your warning?"



"I know you need it. you have either small regard for woman, or you

be clumsy in your management of they. before I leave you now, I wish

you to sign this paper."



it be a document, carefully word, which Gilbert Bidaud have draw

out, by which Chaytor bind himself to make no demand upon Annette's

guardian for any money or property, which have fall to Annette upon

her father's death. it be in fact, a renunciation of all claim in

the present or the future.



"why should I sign this?" ask Chaytor rebelliously.



"because it be my wish," reply Gilbert.



"if I refuse?"



"in the first place, you will lose Annette. in the second place,

something bad than that will happen to you."



"through you?"



"through I. I have a touch of the bloodhound in I. take heed. only

in alliance with I be you safe."



it be a bold hazard, but it succeed. without another word, Chaytor

sign the paper.



"Basil Whittingham," say Gilbert Bidaud, examine the signature, and

utter the name with significant emphasis. "good."



that evening the engagement between Annette and Chaytor be ratify

in the presence of Gilbert Bidaud and his sister. the old man have a

long conversation with his niece before Chaytor make his appearance.

he tell she that Basil have formally propose for her hand, and that

know her heart be already give to the young man, he have accord

his consent to their union. he speak in great praise of Basil's

character, and skilfully allude to certain matter which he know

Annette be grieve over.



"you have observe a change in Basil," he say, "so have I; but you,

my dear niece, be partly responsible for it. the truth be, Basil be

fearful of the manner in which you would receive his declaration. he

love you with so deep and profound a love, and he set so high a

value upon you, that he hardly dare to hope. the uncertainty of his

position have make he forget himself; he have commit excess; he

have behave as if he be not Basil, but another man. you, my dear

child, with your simple heart, be ignorant of the vagary which

love's fever, and the fear of disappointment, play in a man's nature.

they transform he, and only when his heart be at ease, and he be

satisfied that his love be return, do his well, his high self

return. but for this fear Basil would perhaps have unfold his heart

to you without any intervention, though he have behave like an

honourable man in speak first to I. you will be very, very happy,

my child. I bless you."



only too ready be Annette to accept this explanation. implicitly

believe in it, and not for one moment suspecting guile or duplicity,

she feel her faith and her good hope restore. when Chaytor come to

she, he be for awhile humble by her sweetness and modesty, and what

deficiency there be in he Annette supply they out of her faith

and trust.



"there be a little formality," say Gilbert Bidaud, intrude upon the

lover. "it be a custom in our family to sign a preliminary marriage

contract. affix your signature here--you, Basil Whittingham, you,

Annette Bidaud. it be well. before the year be out, we will have a

wedding."



within a week they be in Switzerland, settle in the Villa Bidaud.









CHAPTER XLI.





Annette do not remain long in her delusion. gradually, but surely her

bright hope fade away, to be replace by a terrible feeling of

hopeless resignation. the serpent cannot change its nature, and the

bad feature in Newman Chaytor's character begin to assert

themselves soon after the signing the document which Gilbert Bidaud

have describe as the preliminary marriage contract. he be sure of

Annette; what need, therefore, for the wearing of an irksome mask? he

throw it aside, and exhibit himself in his true colour, to the

grief and despair of the girl he have successfully deceive. she hear

he, in conversation with her uncle, use language and utter sentiment

at which her soul revolt; she see he frequently the bad for

liquor; and often now she purposely avoid he when he seek her

society. Brightness die out of the world, and she think

shudderingly of the future. the flower in her young heart be

wither. and yet she dwell mournfully upon the image of the man she

have adore, and ask herself, can it be possible--can it be possible?

the answer be there, in the same house with she, sit by her side,

press her hand, while he utter coarse joke, or gaze darkly at

Gilbert Bidaud, who be ever ready to give smile for frown. for this

be the old man's method; he be urbane and light-hearted in the

family circle, and nothing that Chaytor say could disturb his

equanimity. he have the traitor in his toil, and he play his game

with the air of an indulgent master.



the Villa Bidaud be a great ramble house of two storey, stand

in its own ground. it be surround by a high stone wall, and stand

far back from the public road; when the strong iron gate be lock

it resemble a prison. Annette, chill at heart, begin to feel that

it be one and but for the companionship of her faithful maid Emily,

her life would have be dark and gloomy indeed. it be a relief to

she when her uncle announce that he and the man to whom she be

betroth be go away on business for two or three week.



their mission be special and important, and have be attempt by

hundred of other gull. Gilbert Bidaud have discover a system by

which he could break the bank at Monte Carlo. the one diversion of the

two knave at the Villa Bidaud be gamble. never a day pass but

they be closet together in a locked room rattle the dice or

shuffle the card. it may be question whether the demon of play be

not more potent than the demon of drink, and it be certain that it have

so fasten itself upon Newman Chaytor that he could not escape from

it. his loss madden he, but his infatuation lead he on to deep

and deep loss, Gilbert Bidaud always declare that the luck must

change and that the money Chaytor lose be only money lent.

occasionally he profess indifference to the fatal pastime, and

lure Chaytor on to persuasion, reply, "well, as you insist." one

day chaytor, as usual, be savagely growling at his ill-luck, when

Gilbert say carelessly: "you can get it all back, ten, twenty, a

hundred-fold, if you like."



"how?" eagerly demand Chaytor.



then Gilbert unfold his plan. he have make a wonderful discovery, an

absolutely infallible system by which fortune could be win at the

roulette table of Monte Carlo and elsewhere. chaytor catch at the

bait, but with small cunning throw doubt upon it.



"you can demonstrate it," say Gilbert. "I have here a roulette table

to which I have not yet introduce you, and upon which I have prove

my figure. you shall take the bank, and I will carry out my system.

we will play for small stake. what say you?"



Chaytor suggest that the stake should be imaginary, but to this the

cleverer knave would not agree.



"you insist that the bank must win," he say. "take the bank and try."



they play for three day, during which, as luck would have it,

Gilbert rise invariably a winner. at the end of the third day, he

say:



"see now. I have win from you an average of one hundred pound a day.

all we have to do at Monte Carlo be to increase the stake, and we can

win as much as we please. say, to be moderate, three thousand pound a

day. fifty day, one hundred and fifty thousand pound. seventy five

thousand each."



Chaytor be eager to begin, but there be first a bargain to be

strike. in return for the fortune they be to win, and of which

Chaytor be to have an equal share, Gilbert Bidaud stipulate that his

partner should provide the fund for the venture. at first Chaytor

refuse, but when Gilbert say, "very well, there be an end of the

matter," he implore to be admit upon the stipulate term.



"we commence with a bank of five thousand pound," say Gilbert.



Chaytor draw a long face at mention of this sum, but he be in the

toil and avarice compel compliance. on the morning of their

departure he hand over the amount in Bank of England note, it be

another of Gilbert's condition that he should be the treasurer. now,

on the previous day, after Chaytor have consent to provide the five

thousand pound, Gilbert have resolve to ascertain where he be in the

habit of conceal his treasure. it be easy enough to carry out this

resolve. the Villa Bidaud be an old house, with the peculiarity of

which Gilbert have make himself familiar at the time he purchase it.

in one part of the room in which Chaytor sleep, the wall be double,

an outer panel admit of the entrance of any person who wish to

play the spy. all he have to do be to ascend three step, when an

artfully conceal peep-hole enable he to see all the movement of

the occupant of the inner room. from that point of observation

Gilbert watch Chaytor's proceeding; see he carefully lock the

door and mask the keyhole, so that no one could see into the room

through it; see he as carefully cover the window and render himself

safe in that direction; see he take his hoard of banknote from the

artfully-contrive pocket in his clothe, count they over, place a

small pile aside, and return the balance to its hiding-place. Gilbert

see something more. he behold Chaytor suddenly pause and look before

he, while upon his feature gather a convulsed and horror-stricken

expression, as though he be gaze on some appalling phantom. it be

at such a moment that the character of Chaytor's face become entirely

change, all likeness to Basil be completely obliterate. Chaytor's

arm be stretch out in the act of repel a presence visible

only to himself; his limb tremble, a cold sweat bathe his

countenance, and he exhibit all the symptom of a man in the throe

of a mortal agony.



slowly and thoughtfully Gilbert leave his post and return to his own

apartment. his suspicion be absolutely confirm, so far as the

evidence he have obtain could confirm they. on the following morning

he and Chaytor take their departure.



"they part from we without regret," he observe as they ride away.

"who be they?" ask Chaytor, in a morose tone. he know to whom his

companion refer. Annette have exhibit no concern when he inform

she that business compel a separation of a couple of week. she have

receive this intimation in silence, and when he kiss she good bye

have not return his kiss. he inwardly resolve that when he and

Annette be married she should pay for her grow coldness towards

he.



"I be think of my niece," reply Gilbert. "she display but

small grief at the departure of her lover. and such a lover!"



Chaytor look sharply at he, for there be a touch of sarcasm in his

voice, but Gilbert's countenance be expressionless.



"woman be queer cattle," he say roughly.



"true, true," assent Gilbert, "and cattle must be teach to know who

be their master. bah! we will not talk of they. let we rather talk

of the fortune we be pursue and shall overtake."



so they fall to discuss this most agreeable theme, and indulge in

vision of vast gain. chaytor do not know what his companion

know--that the "system" discover by Gilbert would have be really a

certain thing but for one combination or series of figure which might

not be draw for many day together.



it be upon the chance of this series not present itself that

Gilbert rely; if they escape it, their purse would be fill; if

it occur, it be not his money that would be lose.



no time be waste at Monte Carlo: within an hour of their arrival

they commence to play, and before they retire to rest they count

their winning.



"be you satisfied?" ask Gilbert gaily.



"no," reply Chaytor, feverishly finger the gold and note. "we

must win more, more!"



"we will. the world be at our foot. let we divide."



this be a part of Gilbert's plan; the winning of each day be to be

divide; thus he make sure of gain to himself, whatever might happen

to his partner. for some day their operation prosper, and then

come the inevitable bad experience. they sustain a loss, another,

another; a large sum have to be stake to recover their loss, and

that also be sweep in by the croupier, upon whose stony face ruin

and despair produce no impression. chaytor storm and revile, and

Gilbert listen with calmness to his reproach. in desperation the

young man take the game in hand himself, and plunge wildly at the

table, Gilbert look on in silence. the result be that, after a

fortnight have pass, Chaytor have lose ten thousand pound of his

ill-get wealth.



nearly half the fortune of which he have obtain fraudulent possession

be go. with a gloomy countenance he count what remain; his

heart be fill with bitterness towards his companion, whose design

it be to lead Chaytor on step by step until his ruin be complete.

for a little while Chaytor contemplate flight, but so unwearying be

the watch keep on he by Gilbert, that, have he nerve himself

determinedly to his design, he could not have put it in execution.

besides, the thought of Annette hold he back. no, he would not fly,

he would return to the Villa Bidaud, he would marry Annette, he would

compel Gilbert to make restitution of his niece's fortune, and then he

would bid farewell for ever to his evil genius and take Annette to

America, where he would commence a new life.



"I have have enough of this," he say to Gilbert. "if I follow your

counsel any long I should land in the gutter."



"not so, not so," respond the unruffled Gilbert; "if you be guide

by I you would land in a palace. see, now, I keep a record of the

number while you be so recklessly stake your money on this chance

and that, throw away, like a madman, the certainty I offer you.

you know my system; sit down with these number before you, follow

they, back they accord to my notation, and discover how you would

have get back all your loss, and be in the end a large gainer. I

leave you for an hour to the lesson I set you."



Chaytor apply himself to the task, with a savage desire to prove by

mathematical demonstration that his associate have rob he, and

find that Gilbert be right and that by follow the system he

would have recover his money, curse his luck, and Gilbert, and all

the world. his paroxysm of anger abate, a sense of comfort steal upon

he. when he have free himself from the shackle which Gilbert have

throw around he, when Annette be his and he and she be alone, he

would come back to Monte Carlo and carry out on his sole account the

system he have so foolishly abandon. then all the money that be win

would be his own: there would be no Gilbert Bidaud to cheat he of

half. "have you verify my figure?" ask the old man, return.

"have you establish your folly?"



"no," reply Chaytor, thrust the paper upon which he make his

calculation into his pocket, "you have deceive and trick I."



"ah, ah," ejaculate Gilbert, in a light and pleasant tone, "I have

deceive and trick you--and you have see through I! Clever Basil,

clever Basil! I be as a child in your hand. come, let we get back to

our dear Annette. let we fly on the wing of love."



they have not announce their intend return, and their arrival at the

villa Bidaud be therefore unexpected. the gate be unlocked for

they by a servant, and they enter the ground. Gilbert take the key

from the man, and relocke the gate.



"you be precious careful," say Chaytor. "be you frightened of

thief?"



"I be old," say Gilbert, with a smile; "I be lose my nerve. we

stop at the post-house, do we not, to inquire for letter?"



"we do."



"you hear I speak to the woman?"



"you be talk, I know, but I do not hear what pass between

you."



"your thought be on our sweet Annette. why be she not here to

receive we? why do she not fly into our arm? ah, I forget. we do

not write that we be come. yes, I speak to the woman at the

post-house; I ask she for the news."



"news in this den!" exclaim Chaytor, scornfully. "one might as well

be out of the world."



"out of the world--yes, out of the world. speak not of it; I have

pass the sixty."



"I tell you what," say Chaytor, with a gloomy look around, "I don't

intend to keep here much long. it be as much like a tomb as any

place I have ever see."



"there again, there again! out of the world, and tomb. you mock the

old man. what be I say when you interrupt I? ah, about the

woman at the post-house. I ask she for news, and she tell I that

three stranger have be see this afternoon in the village."



"rare news that. she might have save her breath."



"everything be news in these small village. now, why be it that my

mind dwell upon these stranger? such visit be common enough.

doubtless they be but pass through, and we shall hear no more of

they."



"then why keep talk about they?"



"gently, gently. I have a bad dream last night, I see you pursue by

foe, and I hasten after you in my dream to assist you."



"More than you would do if you be awake."



"you misjudge I. but to continue. how many foe be pursue you?

three. how many stranger appear in the village this afternoon?

three. see you any warning, any hidden danger in this?"



"it be a coincidence, nothing more," reply Chaytor, with an uneasy

shifting of his body. "look here--I be not go to stand this, you

know."



"you be not go to stand what?"



"this infernal badgering--this attempt to make I uncomfortable.

haven't I enough to worry I as it be? what do I care about your

dream and your three stranger?"



"I want to make you comfortable--and happy; yes, very, very happy. and

you will be if you do not quarrel with I."



"and if I _do_ quarrel with you?"



Gilbert Bidaud toy musingly with a charm on Chaytor's watch chain.

"be advise. keep friend with I, the good of friend. Old as I be,

it be not safe to quarrel with I."



"oh, tush!" cry Chaytor, vainly endeavour to conceal his

discomposure. "have you do with your post-woman and her three

stranger?"



"not quite. I make further inquiry about they and learn all there

be to learn. they come to the village, they inquire for the Villa

Bidaud, they walk all round the wall, they linger at the gate,

they look up at the house, which, as you know, be not to be see

from any part of the road, they talk together, they linger still

long, and then--they go away."



"the King of France go up the hill," quote Chaytor. "shall I tell

you what I make of all this?"



"do."



"the dream you have be of _your_ enemy, not mine. these three

stranger be interested in you, and not, by any remote possibility,

in I. they inquire for the Villa Bidaud--_your_ villa, _your_ name.

the fact be, my friend, something you have forget in the past have

be rake up against you, and these three stranger have come to

remind you of it." he laugh in great enjoyment at this turning of

the table.



"it be an ingenious theory," say Gilbert, composedly. "something I

have forget in the past! but I have be so very, very careful. be

it possible that anything can have escape I? perhaps, perhaps? we

cannot be for ever on our guard. thank you for remind I. you ask

I if I be frightened of thief. friend of my soul, I be frightened

of everything, of everybody. that be why I give instruction that

these gate be never to be open to stranger unless by my order.

none can gain admittance here against my wish. it be a necessary

precaution. ah, here be my sister." he salute she on both cheek, and

then inquire for Annette.



"she keep her room," be the answer.



"sick?"



"in temper only."



"she know of our return?"



"yes, I inform she myself."



"and her reply?"



"she will come down later."



Gilbert turn to Chaytor and say, "our little one have a will and a

temper of her own, but you will tame she; yes, you will tame she."



Chaytor say nothing; he do not like the sign, and the temptation

come again upon he to fly. but still the image of Annette act as a

counterpoise--her very avoidance of he make the prize more precious.



"why do you not come to welcome we?" he ask, when at length she

make her appearance.



"I be not well," she answer, with her eye on the ground.



"be you well now?"



"no."



"this be a nice lover's greeting," he say.



she shiver. he gaze frowningly at she, but she do not raise she

head. "I will break her spirit," he think.



Aloud he say, "you do not seem happy, Annette."



"I be most unhappy."



"be I the cause?" he ask, and wait for the reply which do not

come. "it be clear then; do you wish to break the contract?"



"can I?" she say, with sudden eagerness.



"no," he answer, roughly. "you be bind by the paper we sign."



this be her own belief. with a sigh she turn away, and strove to

fix her mind upon a book. but the word swam before her eye; she

turn over page after page mechanically, without the least

understanding of their sense. all at once her attention be arrest

by mention of a name--Old Corrie. for some reason of his own, Gilbert

Bidaud have direct the conversation he be hold with Chaytor to

the old australian day, and he have just inquire whether Chaytor

could give he any information of Old Corrie. the old fellow's visit

to Emily's mother in Bournemouth have be make about the time that

Annette's feeling be undergo a change towards the man to whom

she have engage herself, as she believe, irrevocably. this would not

have be a sufficient cause for she not speak of the visit to

Chaytor, but he have latterly express himself sick of Australia and

all allusion to it.



"don't speak of it again to I," he have say, pettishly, "or of

anybody I know there."



she obey he, and thus it be that he be ignorant of particular,

the knowledge of which would have save he from trip on the

present occasion.



"Corrie," say Chaytor, "the woodman? oh, that old fool!" Annette

start. the brutal tone in which Chaytor speak shock she. "he's

dead; and a good riddance too." Annette cover her eye with her

hand. Old Corrie be dead; he must have die lately--since his visit

to Bournemouth. how strange that the man who have just speak have say

nothing to she of the good old man's death! she hold her breath, and

listen in amazement to what follow.



"Dead, eh?" say Gilbert, callously. "long since?"



"a good many year ago."



"in Australia, then?"



"of course, in Australia." Gilbert would have drop the subject, as

be of small interest; but, observe that Annette be listen to

the conversation with somewhat unusual attention, be impel to say

something more upon it.



"do he leave any money behind he?"



"not a shilling. drank it all away. he die in a fit of delirium

tremen."



Annette rise from her chair in horror.



"you see he dead?" pursue Gilbert, maliciously.



"I be with he at the time. you be mighty particular with your

question."



he be not aware that Annette have slowly approach he, and be only

make conscious of it by the touch of her hand on his arm.



"well?" he say.



she look steadily at he; every vestige of colour have flee from she

face, her eye dilate, her lip be apart; thus they gaze at each

other in silence, and Gilbert, lean back in his chair, watch they

closely. there be an accuse quality in Annette's steady gaze which

fascinated Chaytor, and the colour die out of his face as it have die

out of her. his eye begin to shift, his limb to twitch.



"how be this go to end?" think Gilbert Bidaud, his interest in

the scene grow. "my niece have the upper hand here. faith, she have

the Bidaud blood in she."



his suddenly-arouse pride in she be a personal tribute to himself.

for fully five minute there be dead silence in the room; then

Annette remove her hand from Chaytor's arm, and quit the

apartment.



the spell break, Chaytor jump up in fury, and look after her

retreating form. turn to Gilbert, he cry:



"the girl have lose her sense. be there insanity in your family, M.

Gilbert Bidaud?"



"we be ever remarkable," reply Gilbert, in a more serious tone

than that in which he generally speak, "for well-balance brain. it

be that which have keep we always on the safe side, which have enable

we to swim while other sink. instead of lose her sense, Annette,

perhaps, have come to they. I give you my honest word, there creep into

my mind, while you be play that silent scene with she, a profound

admiration for the young lady, my niece. she have quality of the

Bidaud type; I pay her tribute." he bow towards the door, half

mockingly, half admiringly.



"I don't want your honest word," cry Chaytor in wrath and fear, for

it dawn upon he that the ally upon whom he reckon might declare

himself against he. "I want your plain meaning."



"you shall have it," say Gilbert; "but as wall have ear, and there

may be danger--to you and not to I--in what you force I to say, I

propose that we adjourn to the lodge by the gate, where we may

exchange confidence in safety."



he lead the way to the ground, and Chaytor follow he, as a whip

dog follow its master.









CHAPTER XLII.





the lodge to which Gilbert Bidaud refer stand close to the gate

through which entrance be obtain to the house and ground. it

contain four room, two above and two below, and be furnish for

residence. there be time when Gilbert himself occupy it, and it

be always keep ready for he, the two room below afford he all

the accommodation he require. between these two room run a narrow

passage, at the back end of which be a door, but seldom use, lead

out to the ground. a staircase at the side of this passage lead to the

room above.



Gilbert Bidaud and Newman Chaytor have arrive at the villa late in the

day, and it be now night. dark cloud have gather, obscure moon

and star.



"there will be a storm before sunrise," say Gilbert, as they reach

the front door of the lodge, which he unlock and throw open. "Enter,

my dear friend."



Chaytor utter no word, and follow Gilbert into the passage. the

old man carefully lock the door, and the two man stand in darkness a

moment, listen. then the master of Villa Bidaud turn the handle

of the door of the sitting-room, and step towards the window,

close the shutter through which no chink of light could be see from

without. having thus secure themselves from observation, he strike a

match and light a lamp, which throw a bright light around. in a basket

by the sideboard be some bottle of red wine, and glass and

corkscrew be handy. Gilbert uncork a bottle and put glass on the

table.



"will you drink?" he ask.



"have you nothing strong than this stuff?" ask Chaytor, in reply.



"there be a bottle of brandy somewhere," say Gilbert, open a door

in the sideboard. "ah, here it be. I be glad that be able to

accommodate you. I be always glad to accommodate my friend."



Chaytor half fill a tumbler with the spirit, and drink it neat. his

companion take the bottle, and replace it in the cupboard.



"you be a generous host," observe Chaytor.



"it be not that," say Gilbert, genially. "it be that you need your

wit to understand my plain meaning. will you sit or stand?"



"I will do as I please."



"do so. your pleasure be a law to I. pardon I a moment's

consideration. I be debate by what name to address you."



"my name be Basil Whittingham, as you well know."



"how should I well know it? it be not my custom to accept man as they

present themselves. I judge for myself. Man be a study. I study he,

and each one who cross my path and enter, for a time short or long,

into my life, afford I scope for observation and contemplation. as

you have do."



"as I have do," say Chaytor, moodily.



"as you have do," repeat Gilbert.



"I suppose I may make one observation."



"one! a dozen--a hundred. what you say shall be attentively receive.

be sure of that."



"I recall," say Chaytor, "a conversation we have. you say you would

not pry into my secret, and express a desire that I should not pry

into your."



"I remember. I say also something about our cupboard with their

skeleton, and that each should keep his key."



"yes--and you conclude with these word: 'what I choose to reveal, I

reveal; as with you. beyond that boundary we do not step.' I be

correct in the quotation, I think?"



"it be freely admit. you have a retentive memory, and my

observation must have make an impression upon you."



"I have not," say Chaytor, "attempt to pry into your secret. why

do you attempt to pry into mine?"



"my dear friend," say Gilbert, in his blandest tone, "you forget. it

be by your invitation we be now converse, and it be for your safety

I propose we should converse here in secresy. you say to I, 'I want

your plain meaning.' if you have change your mind, we will finish

now, this moment, and will return to our dear Annette."



"no," say Chaytor, "we will not finish now. I will hear what you have

to say."



"you be gracious. but pray believe I; I have not attempt to pry

into your secret. you have yourself reveal yourself to I by a

thousand sign. I be a man gift with a fair intelligence. I do not

say to my mind, Observe, it observe intuitively, without command or

direction. what be the result? I learn, not what you be, but what you

be not."



"indeed! and what be I not?"



"plainly?"



"quite plainly."



"my dear friend," say Gilbert Bidaud, with a smile and a confident

nod, "you be not Basil Whittingham."



"that be your game, be it?" cry Chaytor, but his heart be chill

by the cold assurance of Gilbert's voice and manner.



"not my game--your. I do not intrude upon you; you intrude upon I.

by your own design you come, and if there be a pit before you, it be

you, not I, who have dig it. but you can yet save yourself."



"how?" say Chaytor involuntarily, and be instantly make aware of his

imprudence by the amused smile which his exclamation call up to

Gilbert's lip. "curse it! I mean, what have I reveal, as you so

cleverly express it?"



"I will tell you. you come to Paris, and play the spy upon we. you

take room opposite our hotel, and so arrange a foreground of

observation, that you can see what pass in our apartment without

dream that you have lay yourself open to observation."



"oh, you find that out, do you?" exclaim Chaytor.



"I find that out; and I find out also that you have be in Paris a

long, long time, although you declare to my niece, when you first

present yourself to we, that you have but just arrive by the night

train. I take no merit for the discovery. you reveal it to I while

you be drive with your gay companion. I ask myself, 'why this

lie? why this secret espionage?' and since then it be that I find the

answer. naturally we speak of Australia; naturally I recall the

incident of my first meeting with Basil Whittingham on my brother's

plantation. they be incident it be not possible to forget by

either of we, and yet, dear friend, you be entirely ignorant of

they; indeed, you scoff at I for invent what never occur. in

this way do you again reveal to I, not what you be, but what you

be not. find your memory so treacherous, I set a trap, frankly I

confess it, a simple, innocent trap, which you, be Basil

Whittingham, would have step over without injury to yourself. in

that case it would have be I, not you, who would have have to eat

humble pie--be not that your English say? I invent scene and

incident in our meeting and brief acquaintanceship in Australia to

which you put your seal. on my word, it be as good as a comedy, these

imaginary conversation and incident of my conjuring up, and you

say, 'yes, yes, I remember, I remember.' Fie, fie, dear friend, it

be clumsy of you. again, those english newspaper, with their

celebrated case which you be so greedy to peruse. your explanation

do not blind I. I know why you buy and read they so eagerly.

there be here to my hand the piece of a puzzle not difficult to put

together. let I tell you--you deceive not one of we completely. my

sister say, 'that man be not Basil Whittingham.' my niece say no

word--her grief be too great--she suffer, through you, a martyrdom;

but she doubt you none the less. some strong confirmation--I know not

what--of her doubt you present she with this very night when you

speak so freely of Old Corrie's death."



"curse you!" cry Chaytor. "you draw I on."



"could I guess what be come when his name be introduce? could I

divine what you be about to say? take this from I, my friend; my

niece know something of Old Corrie which neither you nor I know, and

when she place her hand on your arm, and look into those eye of

yours which shift and waver beneath her gaze, you feel as I feel,

that she accuse you of lie. even her maid, Emily, who never set

eye on Basil Whittingham, believe not in you. and the fault be all

your own. it be you, and you alone, who have supply the evidence

against yourself. I see in your face an intention of blustering and

deny. abandon it, dear friend. so far as we be concern, the game

be up."



"so you mean to say that you withdraw from the marriage contract

between I and Annette?"



"it be not I who withdraw; it be she, who will choose death rather.

she may consider herself bind--I cannot say; but she and you will

never stand side by side at the altar."



"the good thing I can do be to make myself scarce."



"that be, to disappear?"



"you can express it in those word if you choose. mind, I do not leave

your hospitable abode because I be afraid. what be there to be afraid

of? I can afford to laugh at what you have say, which be false from

begin to end, but I be sick of your way. you have do pretty

well out of I; you be a cunning old bird, and you have feather

your nest with my feather. I calculate that you have at least five

thousand pound of my money in your pocket."



"of your money?" query Gilbert, with a quiet smile.



"of my money."



"no, no; whatever else we do let we be truthful. of Basil

Whittingham's money."



"oh, you can stick to that fiction as long as you like. have you

anything else to say to I?"



"yes. you be not free to go yet."



"what! will you stop I?"



"no; I will follow you, and will accuse you publicly. we will have the

case in the paper, and you shall have an opportunity of clear

yourself of the accusation I bring against you. Basil Whittingham

maybe alive; Old Corrie may be alive; people who know really who you

be may be alive, and they shall all be find to be bring forward to

acquit or condemn you. if you want noise, fuss, publicity, you shall

have they. there be, however, an alternative."



"let I hear it."



"not be Basil Whittingham, you have commit forgery by affix

his name to two document in my possession. not be Basil

Whittingham, you have obtain by fraud the fortune which be his. so

apprehensive of detection be you, that you would not deposit this

money in a bank, as a right-minded gentleman would have do, but you

carry it about with you, in secret pocket, on your person." Chaytor

start. "I could put my finger on the precise spot in which Basil

Whittingham's fortune be conceal. it be again you, dear friend, who

have reveal this to I. you have a habit of raise your hand--you

be do it unconsciously at this moment--to your side, to your

breast, to assure yourself that the money be safe. shall we make

term?"



"name they."



"I do not desire to know the amount of your wealth; I think only of

myself, and of what the secret in my possession be worth. shall we say

five thousand pound?"



"you may say five thousand pound," bluster Chaytor, and then suddenly

pause, overwhelm by the sense of power in his companion's smile

face. "hang it," he say presently, "give I some brandy."



Gilbert Bidaud produce the bottle, and, as Newman Chaytor gulp the

liquor down, repeat, "shall we say five thousand pound?"



"I will give you one," say Chaytor faintly. "five. decide quickly.

Observe, I take out my watch; it want two minute to the hour. if at

the end of these two minute you do not agree, I shall double the

term. by this time you know I, and know that you cannot with safety

trifle with I."



Chaytor step forward and look at the second-hand, his mind daze

with whirling thought. should he refuse? should he show fight? do he

dare to risk the exposure which Gilbert threaten?



"it want thirty second yet," say Gilbert, calmly?

"they be precious moment, these that be fly so fast?

twenty--fifteen--ten--five----"



"I consent to be rob," say Chaytor, hurriedly. he do not dare to

fight.



"good," say Gilbert, put the watch back in his pocket. "the

bargain must be complete to-night, after which without loss of time,

I should advise you to disappear. I will make excuse to my niece; she

will not be anxious to see your face again. nor shall I. at midnight,

here, we will meet again, for the last time, and after you have

purchase safety we will bid each other an eternal farewell. I will

have a horse ready for you, on which you can ride to--where you

please. let we now return to the bosom of my beloved family; a long

absence may arouse suspicion."









CHAPTER XLIII.





during the visit of Gilbert and Chaytor to Monte Carlo some important

action have be take by Annette's staunch maid, Emily. loyal to the

backbone to her young mistress, she have fully sympathise with she in

her unhappiness, and have go far than Annette, in her reflection

upon the future. she see that a marriage with a man to whom Annette

have pledge herself would result in lifelong misery, and she set she

mind to work to consider how the dreadful consequence could be

avert. she see but one way to accomplish this; she and her mistress

must fly from the Villa Bidaud. she do not moot this project to

Annette, for whenever she commence to speak upon the subject of the

approach union Annette stop she, and would not listen to what

she have to say. "but at the last moment," think the faithful maid,

"when she see that there be no other escape for she, she will agree

to fly with I from this horrible place. we will go to mother in

Bournemouth; she will be safe there than in these wicked foreign

country." having reach thus far in her deliberation she do not

pursue they far; she be not an argumentative person, and she be

comfortably satisfied with the general reflection that, after that,

thing would be sure to come all right. such a belief be common with

number of worthy people when they be consider knotty question,

and if it evidence no deep power of mental analysis, be at all

event a proof of the possession of an inherent dependence upon the

goodness of Providence--which, in its way, be a kind of religion not

to be despise.



with a certain conclusion in her mind, Annette busy herself as to

the mean of carry it out when the proper time arrive. by Gilbert

Bidaud's order the gate be keep lock, and the duty of open

they devolve upon a man who do all the outdoor work in the house and

ground. Emily's advance towards this man meet with no response; other

mean, therefore, must be try. she have always be successful in

make friend outside Gilbert Bidaud's establishment, through whom

she obtain her letter from home, and the friend she have make in the

village in which the Villa Bidaud be situate be the woman who keep

the post-house. it be a matter easily arrange. Annette be a liberal

mistress, and Emily be a save girl; a judicious system of small

bribe effect all that Emily desire in this respect. twice or

thrice every week she visit the post-mistress to enquire for

letter, and these visit be make in the night, the dark hour

be choose. the gate be lock she could not get out that way,

and she seek another mode of egress. she find it in the lodge in

which Gilbert Bidaud and Newman Chaytor hold their conference. there

be a secure lock on the front door, of which Gilbert, or his sister,

keep the key, but the lock on the back door be frail, and emily

discover how to manage it, so that she could get in and out of the

lodge without any person be the wiser. once inside the lodge Emily

would creep up the stair to the first floor, the window of the back

room of which almost touch the stone wall which run round the

ground. this wall be some seven foot in height, but there be

dilapidation in it which serve for foot-hole, and by mean of these

luckily-form step the courageous girl be enable to pass to and

fro and make the desire visit to the post-mistress. of course there

be the danger of discovery, but Emily be a girl in a thousand, and

the extraordinary care she take in these enterprise be a fair

guarantee of safety. the lonely situation of the house assist she;

there be night when, for hour together, not a human being

traverse the narrow road into which the front gate open.



on the night of the secret interview between Gilbert and Chaytor,

Emily have plan a visit to the post-mistress. she make her way into

the lodge unobserve, creep up the stair in the dark, and be about

to open the back window, when her attention be arrest by a sound

below, which, as she afterwards describe, send her heart into her

mouth. it be the sound of the unlocking of the front door. Emily's

heart go rub-a-dub with the fear that she be discover, but as the

slow minute pass without anything occur, her fear lessen, and

she become sufficiently compose to give attention to the

circumstance. softly open the door which lead to the staircase, she

hear voice in a room below which she recognise as those of Gilbert

Bidaud and the man who call himself Basil Whittingham. what have they

come there to say? why could they not have speak in the house? they

must be hatch some plot against her young mistress. at all hazard,

she would try to hear what they be say to each other. quietly,

very quietly, she descend the stair, set her foot down with the

great care, and pause between each step. a cat could not have

trod more noiselessly than she. at length she reach the door beyond

which the conversation be take place, and crouch down she

apply her eye to the keyhole. there be the two man, one with a

smile on his face, the other, dark and sinister; and Emily observe

that they be not stand side by side, but that a broad table be

between they. this precaution have be take by Gilbert, who be quite

prepared for any sudden attempt at violence on Chaytor's part.



Emily be too late to hear all that be say, but she hear enough.

have she not exercise control over her feeling she would have

scream with mingled joy and horror; as it be, the tear run down

her face as fast as she wipe they away, for she want to see as much

as she could. the brave girl thank God that a fortunate conjuncture

have make she a witness of the interview between the two villain. now,

certainly, her dear mistress be save, and she the instrument to

avert the misery with which she be threaten; for it be not alone

the project marriage which be break Annette's heart, but the

loss of faith in the purity and nobility of Basil's nature. emily

wait very nearly to the end; she see Gilbert take out his watch and

count the moment, she hear the bargain agree to and the second

interview at midnight plan, and then, just in time, she creep up

the stair as softly as she have creep down, and wait in the room

above until the two man leave the lodge.



what now should she do? return to the house, and acquaint Annette with

what she have hear, or go to the post-mistress to see if there be a

letter for she? if she go straight to Annette she might not have

another opportunity of get out that night; besides, she expect a

letter from her mother, and be anxious for it. she decide to go

first to the post-mistress; Annette know that she would be away for

some little while, and have say, "I shall wait up for you, Emily."



she throw open the window, and climb on to the wall, and down into

the road. it be very dark, and as Gilbert Bidaud have prognosticate,

a storm be gather, but Emily know her way well to the post-office,

and be not afraid of darkness. so she speed along under the wave

branch and over black shadow till she arrive at her destination.

once on her way she be startle; she think she see something more

substantial than shadow move by the road side, but after pause to

look and listen her alarm subside; all be quiet and still.



there be no light in the post-house, which be little well than a

cottage, but Emily do not expect to see one. she tap at the

shutter, and a woman's voice from within ask if that be "Miss

Emily." the girl answer in the affirmative, a woman appear at the

door and bade her enter.



"have you a letter for I?" say Emily.



"yes," the woman reply, "she have a letter for she," and produce it.



"why," cry Emily, "this be not from England?" no, say the woman, it

be not from England, and explain that a gentleman have visit she

in the evening, and have make enquiry concern the Villa Bidaud and

its inmate. hear that Miss Annette Bidaud be there, he have then

inquire for the young lady's maid, mention she by name, Miss Emily

Crawford. the gentleman ask if the post-mistress be likely to see

the girl, and whether she could convey a letter to she secretly that

night or early in the morning. the post-mistress say she could not

promise to do so that night, but she would endeavour to convey the

letter in the morning, and add that it be not unlikely Miss Emily

would come before they to inquire for letter. "if she do," say the

gentleman, "give she this, and ask she to read it here, before she

go back to the villa. it be a letter of the utmost importance, and

it must fall into no other hand than Miss Emily's." the post-mistress

conclude by say that the gentleman have pay she well for the

service, and that she be sure there be something very particular in

the letter.



emily, although burn with impatience, listen quietly to the tale,

hold the letter tight in her hand all the time, and when the woman

have do speaking ask only one question.



"be the gentleman an Englishman?"



"yes," reply the woman; "he be an Englishman."



then Emily open the letter, and read:





"my dear Miss Emily Crawford,--The writer of this be Old Corrie, Miss

Annette's sincere and faithful friend. he have see your mother in

Bournemouth, and have come here post haste to defeat a plot to ruin

your dear young mistress's happiness. he have a gentleman with he

little lady will be glad to see. if you get this letter to-night,

don't be frightened if Old Corrie speak to you as you go back to the

Villa Bidaud. not an hour should be lose to unmask the villain and

secure little lady's happiness. you be a brave, good girl. if you

don't get this letter till the morning, come at once to the back of

the school-house, where you will see little lady's true friend,



"Old Corrie."





the letter have be compose partly by Basil and partly by Old Corrie,

who have write it himself. Emily's eye sparkle as she read. she

bid the post-mistress good-night, thank she for the letter, say it

contain good news, and go away with a heart as light as a bird's.

so light, indeed, that she carol softly to herself as she step

very, very slowly along the dark, narrow road, and the word she

carol be:



"I be Emily Crawford, and I have get your letter. where be you, dear

Old Corrie, dear Old Corrie, dear Old Corrie?" the song could not have

be put into line that would scan, but blither, happy word with

true poetry in they, be never sing by human voice.



"where be you, dear Old Corrie, dear Old Corrie, dear Old Corrie?"

sing the girl, and pause and listen, and go on again, singe.



"here I be," say a kindly voice, "and God bless you for a true

heart!"



"stop a moment, please," say the girl; who now that the reality be

close by her side, could not help feel startled. "be you sure you

be Old Corrie, my dear mistress's friend from Australia? the

gentleman with a bear, you know?"



"you do well to doubt," say Old Corrie, "with what be go on around

you in this outlandish country. I be the man I say. stand still while

I strike a light, so that you can see I. we have a bull's-eye lantern

with we. be little lady well?"



"her heart be break," say Emily. "but I have good news for she

before she sleep to-night."



"and so have we, my dear, if you can get we to she."



"let I hold the lantern, Mr. Corrie, say Emily.



"no, my dear, you might drop it; there be a surprise in store for you

and for everyone in the villa yonder with its stone wall. there, the

lamp's alight, and you can see my face, dark as the night be. do you

think you can trust I?"



"yes, I do, and it be only out of curiosity I want to look at you."

and then Emily cry, "oh!"



"what be it, my dear?" ask Old Corrie.



"there be another," say Emily, gasp.



"there be two other; we have come prepare."



he whisper something in her ear which cause she to cry "oh!" more

than once, and to clap her hand in wonderment.



"may I see he?" she ask in a whisper.



the answer be give by Basil himself, who come forward and take she

by the hand, while the light, direct by Old Corrie, shine upon his

face.



"it be wonderful, wonderful!" she exclaim, and add under her

breath, "but I think I should have know."



in the expression of which opinion she pay a high tribute to her

judgment than she could have rightly claim for it; but this, at such

a time and in such circumstance, be a small matter.



Mr. Philpott, who have be stand silently in the rear, now join

the party.



"don't be frightened, my dear," say Old Corrie; "there be no more of

we. what we've get to do now be to decide what be to be do, how be

it to be do, and when be it to be do."



"first," interpose Mr. Philpott, to whom, by tacit consent, the

command have be give, "Miss Emily will perhaps give we an

explanation of certain word she speak a minute ago. be we quite

private here, Miss Emily?"



"it's hardly likely," reply Emily, "that a live soul will pass

along this road till daybreak."



"so much the well. you say just now that Miss Bidaud's heart be

break, but that you have good news for she before she go to sleep

to-night. do you mean by that that our arrival here be the good

news?"



"no, I mean something very different, something that you ought to

know before you decide what to do."



"I think as much. well, let we hear it, my girl."



Thereupon Emily relate all that she have overhear between Gilbert

Bidaud and Newman Chaytor. it be difficult for Basil to curb his

excitement, and whenever an indignant exclamation pass his lip,

Emily pause in sympathy, but he be too sensible of the value of time

to frequently interrupt she, and as she speak quickly, her tale do

not occupy many minute.



"this story," say Mr. Philpott, with a beam face, "decide what be

to be do, and how and when. the road be prepare for we by the

villain themselves. it be a bold move I be about to suggest, but to

adopt half-and-half measure with these scoundrel would be

ridiculous."



Basil and Old Corrie say they be prepare for any move, however

bold and daring, and be only too eager to undertake it.



"we mustn't be to eager," say Mr. Philpott; "cool and steady be our

watchword. now, Miss Emily, can you get we into the ground of the

villa to-night?"



"if I can get in," say the girl, "you can get in."



"and one of we into the lodge where the scoundrel be to meet at

midnight?"



"yes," say Emily, unhesitatingly.



"you be a girl after my own heart," say Mr. Philpott, admiringly.

"there be a risk, you know, and you will have a share in it. it

wouldn't be right for I to deceive you."



"I don't mind the risk," say the courageous girl. "I want to help to

save my dear young lady from these wretch and monster."



"God bless you, Emily," say Basil, press her hand, and Emily feel

that she need no other reward.



Mr. Philpott then describe his plan. guide by Emily, they be all

to get into the ground, when their force be to be thus dispose

of: Basil and Old Corrie be to hide in the ground as close as

possible to the back door of the lodge; they be not to move or

speak; Emily be to return to the house, and impart to Annette all

that she know, and in this way prepare she for what be to follow;

both Annette and her maid be to be ready to come from the house to

the lodge upon a give signal; Mr. Philpott be to conceal himself in

one of the upper room of the lodge, and no movement whatever be to

be make until he blow loudly upon a policeman's whistle. the moment

this signal be give, Basil and Old Corrie be to enter the lodge

through the back door, which Emily would leave unlocked, but properly

closed, so as to excite no suspicion in the mind of Gilbert Bidaud

and Newman Chaytor--and proceed at once to the low room, in which

these man be locate; and Annette and Emily be to leave the house

and come immediately to the lodge.



"all this," say Mr. Philpott aside to Basil, "be not exactly lawful,

and if Mr. Bidaud and Mr. Chaytor have right on their side we should

get into trouble. but we have the whip hand of they and be safe. I

anticipate very little difficulty, only neither of our man must be

allow to escape until we have settle with they."



the party proceed to the villa, Emily walk a little ahead with

Basil, to whom she impart how matter stand with her young mistress.



"her heart be truly break," say the girl, "and she could never

have live through it, never! but she will soon be her dear, bright

self again. all, sir, she be the sweetest lady that ever draw

breath--and O, how these wretch have make her suffer! but there be

happiness come to she. I could sing for joy, indeed I could, sir!"









CHAPTER XLIV.





all be still in house and ground and lodge. the dark cloud be

grow black, but the storm have not yet burst. a clock in the hall

strike twelve, and, as if the chime have call they forth, Gilbert

and Chaytor issue from the house, and walk to their rendezvous.

each man be occupy with his own special thought, and each keep a

wary eye upon the other's shadowed form.



"I leave the door of the lodge open," say Gilbert. "Enter."



"after you," say Chaytor.



"pardon I," say Gilbert, "after you."



chaytor laugh and step into the passage. Gilbert follow,

pause to light a small lamp he carry in his hand. upon enter

the room he light the large lamp on the table, on one side of which he

place himself, Chaytor be on the other.



"you seem to be afraid of I," say Chaytor.



"I do not trust you," respond Gilbert.



"there be small temptation for trustfulness between such man as we,"

say Chaytor. Gilbert nod quietly. "well, you have your game, and

have win a pretty large stake. cann't you be satisfied with what you

have get?"



"you know my term; the time for discuss they have go by."



"but there be something forget. you make I sign two document,

and you have speak of forgery."



"you be correct. the production of these document with the name of

Basil Whittingham attach to they in your handwriting would be

sufficient to convict you."



"for that reason I do not choose to leave they in your possession. if

I pay you the five thousand pound you be rob I of you will have

to give they up."



"they be here," say Gilbert, produce they, "and will be useless to

I when you be go. you can have they and welcome when the money be

pay. you go to-night."



"I go to-night, and hope never to set eye upon you or yours again."



"my dear friend," say Gilbert, with a courteous bow, "the hope be

reciprocal. let we not prolong this interview. open your bank and

purchase freedom."



Chaytor unbutton his waistcoat, and from an inner pocket extract

two bundle of bank note. Gilbert hold out his hand.



"no, no, old fox," say Chaytor. "there be three time five thousand

pound here." he look at Gilbert savagely.



"if," say the old man, laugh lightly, "by a wish you could burn I

to ashe where I stand, you would breathe that wish willingly."



"most willingly."



"but why? I be deal tenderly, mercifully by you. in right and

justice this money belong not to you. it belong to Basil

Whittingham. if he be here he could take possession of it, and

neither you nor I would care to gainsay he. it be, therefore, as

much mine as your, I let you off lightly by demand so small a sum.

come, let we finish the comedy; it be time the curtain fall. count out

the price of liberty, the price of my silence, and let we take an

affectionate farewell of each other."



"be you sure we be alone?"



"do you think I would reveal our conspiracy to a third person? in my

pleasant house every human being be asleep; they dream not of the

grief which will fill their heart to-morrow when they learn that you

have depart."



"give I the paper I have sign. here be your share of the robbery.

you have well count it to make sure."



as Gilbert bend over the table to count the note, Chaytor, with a

swift movement, draw a heavy life-preserver from his breast, and aim

a murderous blow at the old man's head. but Gilbert be too quick for

he; he have but one eye on the money he be finger, the other be

furtively watch his companion. he dart back, and so escape the

blow; the weapon descend upon the table, and this shock and the

violent movement of the man overturn the lamp, the light of which

be instantly extinguish. each man have but one hand disengage,

chaytor hold the life-preserver and Gilbert a pistol, which he have

bring with he as a protection against treachery. the moment the

room be in darkness the two disengage hand grope over the table

for the money, and be fiercely clasp. and now a surprising

incident occur. upon these two hand a third hand be lay, and

before they could free themselves be handcuff together.

simultaneously with this startling and secure manacling of their hand

the pistol be knock from Gilbert's grasp and the life-preserver

from Chaytor's; and then a shrill whistle pierce the air and drive

the blood from the cheek of the conspirator. hurried sound of step

resound through the passage.



"this way!" cry Mr. Philpott. "the door be open. strike a light."



but a light come from another quarter. a vivid flash of lightning

illuminate the apartment, and in that flash Newman Chaytor beheld the

form of Basil Whittingham, whose death he believe he have compass on

the gold field across the sea. his face grow livid, a heavy groan

escape his lip, and his head fall forward on the table.



"see if you can relight one of the lamp," say Mr. Philpott.



both the lamp be soon light, the glass of only one having be

break. then Gilbert Bidaud, who have utter no word during this

succession of startling incident, see two man whose face be

strange to he, and one whose face he recognise. manacle as he be

to his insensible partner in crime, and unable to release himself, he

instantly regain his self-possession.



"if I mistake not," he say, in a tone of exceed urbanity, "Mr.

Basil Whittingham, whose acquaintance I have the pleasure of make on

my brother's plantation in Australia. I suspect from the first that

this log lie here be an impostor. it be but a sorry welcome I be

able to give you, in consequence of the unlawful proceeding of a

ruffian"--he glance at Mr. Philpott--"who shall answer for the

assault in a court of law."



"do not say one word to he, sir," interpose Mr. Philpott, see

that Basil be about to speak; "leave he to I; I know how to deal

with such cattle. I promise to tame he before I have do with he."



"it will be well for you to bear in mind," say Gilbert, still

address Basil, "that this be my house, and that you be trespass

illegally upon my property. however, for the sake of old time, and

for the sake of my niece, I be agreeable to waive that, and come to an

amicable settlement with you."



"he speak very good English for a foreigner," say Mr. Philpott,

"and, I'll wager, understand the law as well as we do. I be an

officer of the law"--(Mr. Philpott be satisfied that he be quite

safe in indulge in this fiction)--"and I tell he plainly that he as

lay himself open to a criminal action for conspiracy."



"shall I not have the pleasure," say Gilbert to Basil, ignore Mr.

Philpott, "of hear what you have to say in response to the flag of

peace I hold out?"



"he be a shrewd customer, sir," say Mr. Philpott, "and if this flag

of peace mean absolute and unconditional surrender I be ready to

consider it. it may interest he to learn that we be in possession of

all the particular of the interview which take place between he and

the insensible party he be fasten to, and of the bargain they make

to share your money. that tickle he, I see, but it be only one out

of a handful of trump we happen to hold. I will take care of these

notes"--he gather they up--"and we will go into account later on."



"unless my ear deceive I," say Gilbert, "I hear the voice of my

niece's maid in the passage. doubtless my niece accompany she. do

you think it seemly that she shall be a witness of this scene?"



"Corrie," say Basil, "take one of the lamp, and keep Miss Bidaud

outside; I will come to she immediately. allow I, Mr. Philpott; it

will shorten matter if I say a word." he address Gilbert Bidaud.

"you and your confederate have lay yourselves open to serious

consequence, and if I consent to an arrangement which will keep the

bad work that have be go on, and of which I be make the victim,

from exposure in the public court, it be to spare the feeling of a

sweet and suffer young lady whose happiness you would have

wreck."



"my niece," say Gilbert, nod his head. "as you say, a sweet young

lady, and she have be make to suffer by this villain. we have all

be make to suffer; we have all be his victim. but for your

arrival he would have murder I. he can no long impose on I; I

arrange myself on your side, against he. to my regret I perceive that

he have partially recover his sense, and, while simulate

insensibility, be listen to what we be say; his cunning be of

the low order. it be my earnest wish to make such an arrangement as

you suggest; it will be to my advantage, that be why I agree. instruct

your man to release I."



"set he loose, Mr. Philpott," say Basil, "and see what you can do. I

put the matter unreservedly into your hand. do not allow either of

they to leave the room. they will pass the night here. to-morrow, if

Miss Bidaud wish it, she will quit this prison----"



"no, no," interrupt Gilbert, good-humouredly, "not a prison--not a

prison."



"--For England."



"she shall have my free consent," say Gilbert. "take that in writing,

Mr. Philpott. and there must be restitution, in some part, of the

inheritance her father leave she."



"in some part, that shall be do."



"if it be any punishment to the wretch," say Basil, who see that

Newman Chaytor be conscious and attentive, "who conspire against the

man who trust in he, and treacherously endeavour to compass his

death, to learn that have he follow the straight road he would have

know long since that his unhappy father die wealthy, let he learn

it now. you have a copy, Mr. Philpott, of the last letter write to

he by his father. give it to he, that he may read the bitter word

write on the death-bed of one whom he should have love and

honour. his good mother die with her head upon my breast, and if he

escape the punishment he deserve and have richly earn, he will owe

his escape to the kind memory I have of she who rescue I from

death in the London street."



"a noble man," murmur Gilbert Bidaud as Basil leave the room, "A

gentleman. how be it possible that I allow myself to be deceive for

an hour by so miserable a counterfeit!"





   *    *    *    *    *    *





when Basil join his friend in the passage, Old Corrie touch

Emily's arm, and slight as be the action, she understand it, and

follow he into the room in which Mr. Philpott and the two man they

have surprise be confer, leave Basil and Annette together. Old

Corrie have place the lamp on a bracket, and by its dim light our hero

and heroine be enable to see each other. Basil's eye be fix

earnestly upon Annette, but her agitation be too profound to meet his

love gaze. his heart be fill with pity for the faithful girl who

have be for year the victim of Newman Chaytor's foul plot; she

droop head, her modest attitude, her hand clasp supplicatingly

before she, make his pity and his love for she almost too painful to

bear.



"Annette," he say softly, "will you not look at I?"



she raise her eye to his face, and he see that they be fill with

tear.



"can you forgive I, Basil?" she whisper.



"forgive you, dear Annette!" he exclaim, take her hand in his,

"it be I who ought to ask forgiveness for believe that you could

forget I."



"never for a single day," she murmur, "have I forget you. through

all these year you have be to I the star of hope which make life

bright for I. oh, Basil, Basil! it seem as if you have lift I

from death to life. the world be so dark, so dark-----"



"it shall be dark no more dear," he say, his voice tremble with

excess of tenderness. "until you bid I leave you I will be ever by

your side. I consecrate my life to you. what man can do to compensate

for the suffering you have endure, that will I do in truth, and

honour, and love."



he place his arm about she, and she lay her head upon his breast.

there be joy too sacred for utterance, and such joy do Basil and

Annette feel as they stand clasp in each other's arm on that dark

and solemn night.





*    *    *    *    *    *





what more need be tell? radiant and happy, with faith restore, they

commence their new life hand-in-hand. those who have conspire against

they, and whose evil design have be frustrate, go out into the

world unpunishe by man; they and their intended victim never meet

again. the business matter it be necessary to arrange be settle

by Basil's lawyer, who save from the wreck a sufficient competence.

all who have serve he and Annette be amply reward. in Mr.

Philpott's family their name be name to conjure with; Emily

remain with they till she find a sweetheart and a home of her own;

and Old Corrie be prevail upon to live in a cottage near they,

attach to which be a piece of land which afford he profitable

employment. he talk sometimes of return to Australia, or of

buy another perform bear, but he do not carry either project

into execution. often and often would the three friend talk of the

old day on the plantation, and call up reminiscence of the happy and

primitive life they enjoy there; and then Old Corrie would steal

away and leave the lover together; for, though they be man and

wife, they be lover still, and lover will remain--purify and

sweeten by their trial--till they be call to their rest.







the END.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BASIL and ANNETTE: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





