The project Gutenberg eBook of at the Sign of the Silver Flagon

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: at the Sign of the Silver Flagon



author: B. L. Farjeon



Release date: September 16, 2016 [ebook #53062]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

        Google Books (Michigan State University)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK at the sign of the SILVER FLAGON ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

Google Books (Michigan State University)























Transcriber's Notes:

   1. page scan source:

      https://books.google.com/books?id=HZg9AQAAMAAJ

      (Michigan State University)

   2. the diphthong oe be represent by [oe].













AT the sign

of

the SILVER FLAGON.













AT the sign

of

the SILVER FLAGON.







BY

B. L. FARJEON.



AUTHOR of "blade-O'-GRASS," "JOSHUA MARVEL," "LONDON'S heart," "GRIF,"

"bread-and-cheese and kiss," "an island pearl," ETC.







NEW EDITION.







LONDON:

TINSLEY brother, 8, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

1877.



[_right of translation reserve by the Author._]













content.



-----------





part I.--AT the other end of the world.



CHAP.

       I. SILVER CREEK TOWNSHIP.

      II. how baby obtain she share in the STAR DRAMATIC COMPANY.

     III. the opening of the THEATRE, and what PART BABY take in

             the PERFORMANCES.

      IV. MR. HART SEARCHES for a golden reef.

       V. PHILIP'S RIDE for flower for MARGARET.

      VI. ROMEO and JULIET.

     VII. AH, PHILIP, MY son! I, also, have a girl whom I love.

    viii. GOD bles EVERYBODY.

      IX. a man of METTLE.

       X. to-morrow be ST. VALENTINE'S DAY.

      XI. "I be go to speak OUT," say PHILIP.

     XII. "pray for RAIN, MY DARLING."

    xiii. "what if there be villain and scoundrel in the world?"

             he cry. "we will never lose our faith in GOD and

             MAN--never! never! never!"

     XIV. "this be like the dawn of life, MY SWEET."

      XV. PHILIP be convinced of the EFFICACY of MARGARET'S PRAYERS.

     XVI. the christening of the WILLIAM SMITH.

    XVII. nature punish the THIEF.

   XVIII. WILLIAM SMITH'S AMBITION.

     XIX. MR. HART promise to wait a little long.

      XX. they fly like MADMEN into the TOWN.

     XXI. drive BY LOVE into the jaw of DEATH.

    XXII. "DEAR OLD FELLOW! GOD bles MARGARET and you!"



-----------



PART II--HOME.



       I. the CURTAIN falls for a brief SPACE.

      II. "the world be full of sweet and BEAUTIFUL place."

     III. CUSTOS ROTULORUM.

      IV. it be just such a day as this; and the AIR be sweet,

             and life be sweet.

       V. a strange story.

      VI. MR. LEWIS NATHAN introduce HIMSELF.

     VII. MARGARET take the HELM.

    VIII. "she never tell she love."

      IX. LUCY'S PRINCE appear on the scene.

       X. the theory of FRIENDSHIP.

      XI. a peep into BLUEBEARD'S room.

     XII. MR. HART DECLARES that HONESTY have die out of the world.



PART III.--THE dinner of THIRTEEN.



       I. strange preparation for the dinner.

      II. ARRIVAL of but one at a dinner for THIRTEEN.

     III. arrival of unexpected guest.

      IV. MARGARET'S TRIUMPH.













AT the

sign of the SILVER FLAGON.











Part the First.

AT the other end of the world.









AT the

sign of the SILVER FLAGON.









CHAPTER I.



SILVER CREEK TOWNSHIP.





it be December, and the sun mark the record of a hundred and six in

the shade. we be at the golden end of the world, in Australia, at

Silver Creek, twelve month ago a wilderness, now a busy and thrive

township. within this brief space, an infant in the history of city

have grow into what promise to become a strong and healthy man.

unknown, unthought of but a year ago, the name of Silver Creek be

already a household word in a new and flourishing colony, and hold an

important place in the journal of commerce.



there be turning and thoroughfare in Silver Creek sufficiently

irregular to drive land surveyor into a state of distraction, and

there be but one street which exhibit anything like regularity in its

formation; but this be a result more of accident than design. it be

the principal street in the township, and be line with wooden

tenement and calico tent, in which the business of the town be

transact. store of every description, in which all thing

necessary, and many thing unnecessary, for the requirement of life,

be to be find within the limit of this thoroughfare, which be know

to the resident as High Street. if you be curious in such matter,

you may calculate how many store High Street contain by set its

length at a mile and a half, and give each store an average frontage

of sixteen foot. a few of the building be of wood, the majority of

calico, and the inhabitant of one Englishman's castle can hear the

inhabitant of the next talking and bargaining during the day, and

sigh and murmur during the night. not that the inhabitant of

Silver Creek be all Englishmen. other nation thirst to have their

finger in the golden pie, have send their representative across the

sea and through the bush, and Americans, Germans, Frenchmen,

Spaniards, Italians, Mongols, and Africans, form a rare Tower-of-Babel

community. as, however, they have all be draw thither by one

magnet--fashion of bright gold--they do not emulate the

Tower-of-Babel folk, but hob-a-nob amicably with one another, and make

common cause of it with the ubiquitous Englishman. the pie be a rich

one, but the fruit be unequally distribute, and there be many waste

place in it (unfortunately not see until the crust be dive into),

the discovery of which bring disappointment and despair to the hungry

seeker. the despair do not last long; they be soon tear up the

earth again, animate by new hope of come suddenly upon rich

pocket of gold.



High Street have only one side, where the store be build. opposite,

it be open ground for a distance of some four hundred yard; then

commence the upland, on the ridge of which a long thin range of

wooden building be erect, which form the Government Camp, where

the official business of the township be transact. there be the

resident-magistrate's court, the treasury, and, in dangerous

proximity, the gaol, and all the other necessary adjunct of civil

government. the goldfield' commissioner, or the warden, as he be

usually call, and his staff, and the resident magistrate, and a few

of the less luminary, dwelt there in snug habitation with their

chinese cook, who be rare master at crust and paste--which be but

natural, as they be proverbially light-finger. there these child

of the sun and the moon chatter, and cook, and smoke opium in

their little wooden pipe, of which they be as tenderly solicitous

as though they have be child of their blood; and go elsewhere,

to the vilest and dirty nest of thoroughfare the imagination can

conjure up, and which be know as the Chinese Camp, to gamble away

their hard earning. in this camp, of course, be the Joss-House, with

its absurd and senseless mummery; and there, also, be certain

den, which every night be fill with Chinamen, smoke themselves

into helpless idiocy. the provision store in the chinese camp be

stock with curiosity in the eating way which make fastidious

person shudder: such as preserve slug and snail (delicious

delicacy to the chinese palate), and bottle cram with what

seem to be piece of preserve monkey, while thousand of shred of

shrivel meat hang from the calico roof, which be black with

smoke. these shred weigh about an ounce each, and look like the

dry and twisted skin and tail of rat. to judge from the

glistening pig-like eye of the child of the celestial sphere when

these morsel be on their platter, and they be prepare to

discuss they with their chop-stick, they must have contain some

exquisite and delectable charm, which be hide from the sight and

sense of the english barbarian. if ever night be make hideous, the

the Chinamen make it so in their dirty camp with the clanging of their

gong and tom-tom, and the harsh treble of their voice. to

unaccustomed ear it appear as though Bedlam have be turn loose

in this remote part of the globe.



between the Government Camp and the High Street run a valley through

which a sparkling stream of water meander; this be the Silver

Creek, from which the township derive its name. at the back of the

High Street store, dot the hill and gullie for mile around,

and in the rear again of the Government Camp, be the white tent of

the gold-digger. there be a range of hill from which one could look

down upon the scene, and it be well worth the labour to climb this

height on a moonlight night, and gaze at the perspective of snow-white

roof, beneath which the tired miner be sleep, and at the silver

stream of water thread its way through the undulation. then there

be the Government building, prettily situate, and here and there

clump of silver-bark tree, and, in the distance, shadow of great

range melt into the cloud. it be a picturesque scene, and the

solemn silence and its romantic history afford food for the mind as

well as for the eye.



the Silver Creek digging more than fulfil the promise of its name,

for gold be find in its soil instead of silver. it be first

discover by Chinamen, who have be hunt off another goldfield

fifty mile away, where their presence have be consider an

abomination by the european miner. they bring this judgment on

themselves by steal, in the dead of the night, golden dirt which

do not by right belong to they, and severe skirmish have take place

between the rival race, in which the Chinamen be worst. they have

to fly for their life, and they wander wearily, and yet with

spirit, far into the interior of the country, prospect here and

there for gold, but without satisfactory result until they reach

the hitherto unexplored district of Silver Creek. here, by their

discovery of the precious metal, their wandering come to an end, and

they pitch their tent and light their fire, and work undisturbed

for a few week, get much gold, and laugh doubtless in their

capacious sleeve at the lucky chance which have lead they to the place.

but if they have indulge in the dream of keep Silver Creek and its

precious deposit all to themselves, it be rudely disturb one fine

morning, and they screech like magpie when they see six lusty

tipperary man march on to their digging, and stick their pick into

the ground. the Mongolian see his enemy before he, and wait in

dread for what be to come.



the follow be the order of the proceeding of the tipperary man:



they first stick their pick into the ground, at a distance of about

twenty yard apart from each other; then they cluster together, and

tighten their belt. when these be arrange to their satisfaction,

they solemnly and simultaneously produce six cutty pipe, all very

short and very black, and carefully light they. be now, with

their pipe hold firmly between their tooth, prepare for action, they

saunter in an indolent kind of way towards the shaft at which the

Chinamen be work, and pause at one, watch the man at the

windlass wind up the bucket. the Chinamen speak not a word; the

tipperary man speak not a word. for full five minute this be the

state of thing, and the Chinamen proceed sullenly with their work;

from screech magpie, they be transform into mute,

fear-stricken slave. wrath and animosity be in their heart, but

outwardly they be the humblest of mortal. their sallow face grow

sallower, and they curse their ill-fortune; for it happen that when

the tipperary man appear upon the scene, they be pull up

wash-dirt, in which speck of gold could be plainly see. but they

curse in silence.



"how deep, John?" ask one of the tipperary man, touch the

Chinaman gently on his blue dungaree sleeve.



he refer to the depth of the shaft at which the Chinaman be

work.



John do not reply.



but be it here understand that on australasian and doubtless other

goldfield, all Chinamen have but one name--John--not give to they by

their godfather and godmother; and the countryman of Confucius have

meekly accept it.



the tipperary man repeat his question.



"how deep, John?"



John preserve silence. the tipperary man and his mate follow suit

for a few second. then he break cover again.



"M'lenty gold, John?"



M'lenty mean plenty; this be everywhere recognise as Chinaman's

English.



"M'lenty gold, John?"



compel to reply by the sense of danger which the slightly raise

tone in which this second question be repeat convey to the

sensitive soul of the Mongolian, John look blankly into the face of

his interlocutor, and say, with all the innocence of a babe.



"I no sabby!"



perhaps no race in the world combine so much simplicity with so much

cunning as the Chinese. they utter falsehood, as child do, with an

absolute conviction that it will be believe. in this instance, it

need scarcely be say that John understand perfectly the nature of the

inquiry address to he, and profess ignorance from a mingled

feeling of cunning, impotent anger, and helplessness.



the tipperary man quietly knock the ashe out of his pipe against

the barrel of the windlass, and stick it in his belt, produce from

his pocket a cake of cavendish tobacco and a great spring knife. his

mate follow his example. they knock the ashe out of their pipe,

and begin cut up stick of cavendish tobacco with great spring

knife. there be a wicked click in their knife as they open they.

the Chinamen's eye grow white, and they sigh for thunderbolt, or

lightning to strike these desperado into ashe, or for some secret

and as effectual mean of getting rid of they. the tipperary man

leisurely fill their pipe, apply a match to they, and puff away

till they be well light. then the one who have act as spokesman

take the Chinaman's ear between his finger, and the foreigner

betray himself by yell out, "what for, you? what for, you?"

another tipperary man lay hold of the handle of the windlass, and the

Chinaman be whirl aside, scream and yelling, and, after spin

like a teetotum for a dozen yard, find himself in a favourable

position for study the celestial sphere. a third tipperary man put

his foot into the bucket which be about to be send empty to the

bottom of the shaft, and grasp the rope above he with one firm

hand, while the second man, work at the windlass, slowly unwound

the rope, and let his mate down the pit.



the yelling of the Chinaman who have be whirl from the windlass

bring every one of his companion to the spot. they form quite a

small colony, number in all, twenty-two soul. the tipperary man

would have grin have they be tell that they be surround by

twenty-two soul. they know as much of theology as a laugh jackass

do, but, have they be put to it, they certainly would have deny

with powerful emphasis that Chinamen have soul. they see around they

twenty-two pasty face, and twenty-two body dress in blue

dungaree; have the Chinamen turn their back, the tipperary man would

have see twenty-two pigtail dangle from the crown of the

Chinamen's head, all tremble simultaneously and responsively from

agitation. this feature in the scene be curious and unique; but,

indeed, speak in a dramatic sense, the entire situation be

stirring and interesting. one tipperary man be hang between heaven

and earth, with his foot in a bucket; a second be let he down

the shaft. so that there be four tipperary man leave to confront, and

if necessary do battle with, twenty-two Chinamen. long odd: but the

tipperary man do not seem to think so, do not seem even to consider

that there be the slight danger. certainly they trifle with their

knife, but they trifle with they unconcernedly, opening and shut

they with cruel click, and as though they have not the slight

notion that they might be require for the cutting-up of Chinamen

instead of the cutting-up of tobacco. these tipperary man--or, as they

should be more properly call, tipperary boy--look upon chinaman

as the scum of the earth, as so many cattle. and the Chinamen, in this

instance, really do behave as though they be dirt beneath the foot

of the tipperary boy. they scream, they stamp, they expostulate,

they flash their finger in each other's face, but not in the face

of the tipperary boy; but they do nothing more. the tipperary boy

scarcely look at the Chinamen, calmly suck at their pipe and

play with their knife.



suddenly a great screeching be hear at the bottom of the shaft,

which might have come from twenty hungry and venomous cat let loose

upon one another; the Chinamen make a movement towards the shaft, but

do not approach close enough to mingle with the tipperary boy. the

screeching continue, and an irish oath or two, heartily utter, give

it variety. a voice be hear from below, call out one single word:



"up!"



the moment this word be utter, the man at the windlass work at

the handle, and begin to wind up the rope. there be a heavy weight at

the end of it but the muscle of the tipperary boy be equal to

great emergency, and he turn the handle slowly and easily, until

there come in view the shaven head of another Chinaman, and then an

antique weazened face, in which wrath and dismay be strongly

express. the man at the windlass, stoop, clutched with his left

hand the collar of the antique Chinaman, and pull he out of the

bucket, fling he among his companion, who instantly recommence

screaming, and chattering, and gesticulate with so much vehemence

that one might have imagine that their tongue have just be loosen

for the first time for twenty year. the arrival from the low

region be much old than his companion: their face be large and

expressionless, his be small and vivacious; theirs be smooth, and

look as though they be make out of dirty dough, his be line and

wrinkle, and look like an old and elaborate carving: their eye

be mild and fishlike, his be full of dark fire. evidently he be

the leader of the chinese crew, for the moment he recover his breath

he begin to harangue they with almost frenzied eloquence. a man of

spirit he, incite his mate to open resistance. his finger flash

the number of friend and foe as his tongue utter they--five to

twenty-three; he even draw partly out of its sheath a long, thin,

glitter knife--but nothing come of it, for one of the Tipperary

boy, observe the action, catch he instantly by the neck, drag

he from the midst of his companion, wrest the knife from his hand,

and hurl he far away on the other side of the Chinamen. it be the

work of an instant, and the twenty-three Mongolians--twenty-two on one

side, one on the other--look on, cow and trembling.



what have occur at the bottom of the shaft be soon tell. the

Tipperary boy, when he step out of the bucket and land on _terra

firma_, find the antique chinaman busily at work in the gutter, where

the gold be find. the intruder make short work of it, try pacific

mean first. he point to the rope and the bucket, and motion to

the Chinaman that he be want above. the Chinaman shake his head,

and do not understand. the tipperary boy, not be in the humour to

waste time, seize he, place he by main force in the bucket, and

then call to his mate to haul up. have a sensible regard for his

limb, the antique Chinaman be compel to hold on to the rope.

after this a tape-line be let down the shaft, and the depth measure:

then the man below busy himself in trace the bearing of the gold

gutter, its dip and direction, and what be the nature of the earth

above and below it. having satisfy himself upon these point, he

half fill the bucket with the auriferous soil, and, step into

it, be pull to heaven's light.



"all right, mate," be all he say.



then he take a tin dish which belong to the Chinamen, and, fill

it with the earth he have dig out of the gold gutter, walk towards

the creek, follow by his mate and the rightful owner. he wash

the earth carefully and deftly, and with experienced hand: all of

they look on, animate by various feeling, as he swing the dish

round and round. soon the gold come into view, dot the lessen

earth brightly, like star in a dirty sky: little by little all the

earth be wash away, and the pure gold lie in a little heap in the

corner of the tin dish. one of the Irishmen produce a pair of gold

scale, and the gold be weigh.



"four pennyweight to the dish," he say.



"how thick be the wash-dirt?" ask one, of he who have be below.



"about two foot and a half," be the reply.



Hurrah! it be a fortune if they could get claim on the gutter. the

Chinamen wait anxiously. what be their enemy now about to do?

the man who have wash the gold hold it towards the rightful owner.



"M'lenty gold, John," he say, with a pleasant laugh.



somewhat more satisfied as to the honesty of the intention of the

Tipperary boy, the Chinamen nod their head violently enough

almost to shake they off, and find their tongue and their

understanding.



"yes, yes. M'lenty gold! Englishman welly good man! Englishman get

m'lenty gold!" and point to some distance, with tempting finger, to

show where gold be sure to be find in large quantity.



"all right, John," they say; "we don't want your claim. we only want

to find out the lay of the gutter. there's room enough for all at

present."



the Chinamen, understand now the english language, of which they

be before so ignorant, become gratefully effusive. the old man

dart forward to take the four pennyweight of gold.



"stop, though," say a tipperary boy, the lawyer of the company. "have

you get Miners' Rights! where's your Miners' Rights?"



without their Miners' Rights--which, it may be necessary to explain,

be parchment grant from her Majesty the Queen, to mine the soil for

gold, at the rate of one pound per year per man--the claim which the

Chinamen be work be not legally theirs, and could be take from

they at a moment's notice. in reply to the query, twenty-three hand

be thrust into twenty-three blue dungaree bosom, and twenty-three

piece of parchment be wave like flag of freedom triumphantly in

the air. the gold be return to the rightful owner, and the

tipperary boy mark out claim for themselves on the line of the

gutter, and be fortunate enough to hit the mark. next day more man

arrive on the ground, and the gold rush having set in, in less than

three month the township of Silver Creek be form. digger and

trader flock there from all quarter, and a strangely mixed crew

be soon assemble together.









CHAPTER II.



how baby obtain she share in the STAR DRAMATIC

COMPANY.





Silver Creek could soon boast of its newspaper, of course; and equally

as a matter of course, it could almost as soon boast of its rival

newspaper. it be strange that in community where one newspaper would

languish, two be almost sure to flourish; and the _Silver Creek

Herald_ and the _Silver Creek Mercury_ be not an exception to the

rule. they lead a prosperous and noisy life, and be conduct upon

the usual abusive principle, with great vigour and some ability.

their establishment be in the High Street, where there be also

sale-room, bank, hotel and restaurant, billiard-room, clothe and

provision store, and a store with "Pie-office" write over it. this

be almost as good as the peripatetic vendor of baked potato, upon

whose tin can be paint "the Universal Baked Potato Company

(Limited)." the store drive a roar trade; flag wave gaily over

they; a continual stream of people be flow up and down. it be

like a fair. here be two chinaman bear a pole on their shoulder,

in the centre of which dangle, head downward, a pig at the end of a

rope, with its four foot tie in one knot. (when the Chinaman get to

Paradise he hope to eat roast pig for breakfast, dinner, tea and

supper, through all eternity.) here be half-a-dozen gold-digger in

great thigh-boot, drag a jibbing-horse along for their puddling

machine, crack their whip and leap here and there in sympathy

with the antic of their wild purchase. here be american wagon,

with handsome team of horse, and bullock-dray yoke by patient

long-suffer cattle, the driver of which be unload their

store. here be a negro, with his gleam tooth, and his face alight

with humour, badger a perplexed Mongolian, and a crowd of noisy

gold-digger around they egg he on and laugh. the negro be

prove by the most absolute and logical of argument that he have a

perfect right to enjoy the privilege of Silver Creek township, and

that the Mongolian be an interloper--"A foreigner, sah!" and have no

right there at all. the contest be an unequal one. all the sympathy

of the Europeans be with the negro, whose amazing flow of natural

spirit would have bear down far great obstacle than be

present in the distressed action and thin voice of the Mongolian.

it be a peculiar feature of the goldfield that the African be

everywhere welcome, and the Mongolian everywhere scowl at. here

be a great dray creak along, load with portion of the first

quartz-reef machine which Silver Creek could boast of; and all

along the road be man buy boot and clothe, and pick and long

and short-handle shovel, and bar of steel, and powder and fuse,

call out to one another heartily the while. it be a scene fill

with life and colour.



among the new arrival, of whom thousand flock into the township

every day, be some dozen man and woman, who come in dusty and weary

with the toil of the road. they have travel more than a hundred and

fifty mile, be attract to Silver Creek township by the news of

its wonderful prosperity. they be a common-enough troop in outward

appearance, and do not look like trader or gold-miner. they have

with they a dray draw by one horse--a poor weak-kneed creature, to

whom existence seem to be a burden as he toil painfully along with

his load behind he. what this load be could not be see, for the

dray have a tarpaulin over it. upon the tarpaulin be seat three

woman. the first who call for notice by virtue of her position be a

stately person, probably about thirty-five year of age; her

complexion be dark, and in her face be an expression, which might be

say to be stamp upon it, and which represent all the tragic

passion in little; she bear herself loftily in more sense than one.

her mind be a storehouse, fill with tragedy queen, intermix with

heroine of tenderer sentiment--which latter, however, be somewhat

out of place; but you would have rouse she to great indignation have

you say so in her hearing. the second, about twenty-three year of

age, be a nice-look saucy widow, with a pretty baby in her arm.

the third be a beautiful girl, of some eighteen or nineteen summer.

the man, who be all much sunburnt, walk along by the side and in

the rear of the dray, and when they enter High Street, peer

curiously about they, and then at each other, with an air of "this

will do." the eye of one of the party, the eld, a man of over

sixty year of age, be expressive of something more than curiosity:

anxiety be plainly there, but presently this vanish, and bright

twinkle take their place. he rub his hand joyously, and smile

upon one and another.



"it look well," he say.



he be the chief of the party, which be nothing less than a company

of actor and actress come to open the first theatre at Silver

Creek. before they start from Melbourne, they have form themselves

into a joint stock company, and agree to divide profit in proportion

to their ability. there be twelve in the party, not reckon the

baby, and the number of share be thirty-six. these, after much

anxious discussion and deliberation, and some display of the peacock's

chief attribute, be distribute as follows:--





                                                           share.

 1.  Tragedian, light comedian, and stage-manager,

       play the lead in everything.                         4½

 2.  Heavy man.                                                3

 3.  first old man.                                            2½

 4.  second old man.                                           1½

 5.  first low comedy.                                         3

 6.  second low comedy.                                        2

 7.  walk gentleman and treasurer.                          3

 8.  Supernumerary.                                            1

 9.  juvenile lead and general utility, scene painter,

        acting-manager, and general director.                  4½

 10. lead lady.                                             4½

 11. first old woman.                                          3

        (_there be no second_.)

 12. Chambermaid (who could sing and dance).                   2½





these proportion be settle, they jog along comfortably,

dream of full purse; but on the second day the First Old Man draw

attention to the circumstance that although there be thirty-six

share in the company, only thirty-five have be allot. the Walking

Gentleman, who, as treasurer, be look upon as the arithmetician of

the company, and be, therefore, the great authority in figure,

instantly begin to reckon up, for the fifty-seventh time, and make

the number of share thirty-seven: he try again and make they

thirty-four; try again, and make they thirty-eight. then, in

desperation, he say that the First Old Man have "discover a mare's

nest," and that the figure be right--thirty-six share in the

company, and thirty-six allotted. hurt in a tender point, the First

Old Man begin again to pencil and reckon, and after achieve a dozen

different result, come back to his original discovery, and stick to

his gun like a man. thereupon high word ensue between the Walking

Gentleman and the First Old Man, and the matter be refer to the

arbitration of the other ten, who immediately set to work to settle

the dispute. the result they produce be extraordinary, vary

from seventeen to fifty-two, the high and the low total be

accomplish by the First Old Woman (who, to prove the general fitness

of thing, should have be the First Old Man's wife, but in proof of

the general _un_fitness of thing, ben't) and the singing and dancing

Chambermaid.



"_i_ make it fifty-two," say the First Old Woman, in a despondent

tone, "and what's to become of we, I'm sure I don't know."



she say this in a tone which denote that the salvation of the

Company be imperille by this arithmetical crisis.



"fifty-two!" exclaim the singing and acting Chambermaid, with a

melodious laugh. "why, my dear, its only seventeen!"



the matter be so serious, and everybody become so positive, that in a

very short time they be all wrangle and dispute. nothing be

clear but one thing, that if these actor and actress be a fair

sample of the profession they represent, then very few actor and

actress be bless with a genius for figure.



"this be a bad commencement," frown the Heavy Man, as be become

in he: frown be his special privilege.



the Supernumerary be the only indifferent person; his be the

low share and represent by the simple figure 1, he consider

himself safe. besides, he be a neophyte, who have fully make up his

mind to rival the eld Kean one of these fine day; he be content,

in the meantime, to wait and suffer. suffering be the badge of all his

tribe.



those be most uneasy and perplex who hold fraction of share,

such as the Tragedian and stage-manager, and the Leading Lady of the

company.



a happy thought enter the mind of the eld man of the party, whose

share, represent by 4½, be set against No. 9, General Utility,

scene-painter, acting-manager, etc.



"I have it!" he cry, slap his thigh with the vigour of a young

man.



the other look doubtful, but listen with attention, for he be

one whom they all respect and regard with affection.



"it be easily arrive at," he continue; "let we take thirty-six

shilling, which will represent the thirty-six share, and give each

his proportion. then, if there be no money leave, no mistake have be

make."



this proposal be receive with laughter and applause, the large

demonstration come from those whose pocket be bare of shilling.

for, truth to tell, these hero and heroine of the sock and buskin

be impecunious. this circumstance be not uncommon; the condition be

almost chronic in the Profession.



"contribution!" cry the acting-manager, pull out of his own

pocket no few than seventeen shilling: a very Cr[oe]sus he.



other give timidly, hesitatingly, grudgingly, doubtfully, for the

risk be not small. the Heavy Man have nothing to give; the Second Old

Man the same contribution; the Supernumerary the same. the Treasurer,

as become a "Walking Gentleman," be light of heart as he be of

pocket; he look forward with hope, rich argosy be before he.

the First Old Woman produce a plethoric purse, which prove, however,

to be stuff, not with bank note, but with critical note of her

ability as the first of First Old Women. she manage to get together

a sixpence and two fourpenny-piece, which she hand to the

Acting-manager, ask for twopence change. he give she the demanded

twopence, and be haunt by vision of future complication. the

Leading Lady assume an air of scornful indifference. the lead

Tragedian contribute three shilling, the whole of his wealth. the

First Old Man produce four shilling, say, "I give thee all--I can

no more," but he have money conceal. "who steal my purse, steal

trash," observe the Low-Comedy Man, toss a bad shilling to the

Acting-manager. in due time the full complement of thirty-six

shilling, represent thirty-six share, lie in the acting-manager's

palm. he apportion they to the cry of "the Ghost walk!" four and

sixpence to the acting-manager, three shilling to the Heavy Man, and

so on and so on, until each have receive his share. then he find he

have a shilling left, and by this primitive arithmetic the First Old

Man be prove to be right.



the next thing to be accomplish be the difficult task of collect

and re-distribute the shilling which have be advance. this

occasion some comically-distress scene. the responsibility fall

upon the acting-manager, who have advance seventeen shilling. when

everybody be satisfied, he have only fourteen shilling leave (a bad

one among they which they all repudiate) which he pocket with a

grimace, amid general laughter.



then,



"what's to be do with the other share?" be ask.



it never occur to these Bohemians that the matter might rest

where it be, and that the company could be carry on as well with

thirty-five share as thirty-six.



"o! I'll take it," say First Low-Comedy, "rather than it should cause

disturbance."



"will you?" from other throat. "but I'll take it!"



"and I!"



"and I!"



it threaten to become a bone of desperate contention.



another happy thought occur to the acting-manager. again he slap

his thigh.



"I have it!" he cry. "give it to the baby."



"Bravo!" cry the other ten; the mother remain silent. "Bravo! give

it to the baby!"



"agree!" sing the First Low-Comedy Man, in the character of one of

"Macbeth's" witch.



"agree!" sing the Second Low-Comedy Man, in the character of another

of "Macbeth's" witch.



and,



"agree!" they all break out in full chorus.



then they fill the wood with the music from "Macbeth," and dance

round an imaginary cauldron.



thus the baby become a shareholder.



it be not the bad of small comedy this that be play in the

australian wood on a blazing summer's day in January. many passion

and emotion be represent in it in a small way. the curtain fall

down as the mother toss her baby in the air, and as the child be

pass from one to another to be kiss.



if in response to the general applause, which I hope will not be

want, the curtain be draw aside again, the weak-kneed horse will

be see shamble leisurely along, and the Heavy Man will be take

great stride in advance of the other, with the baby on his

shoulder, crow and laugh and flourish her dimpled fist in

the air.









CHAPTER III.



the opening of the THEATRE, and what PART BABY take in the

PERFORMANCES.





the news of the arrival of Hart's Star Dramatic Company spread through

the Silver Creek Goldfields like wildfire, and every able-bodied man

and woman (about thirty of the former to one of the latter, so you may

guess what a precious commodity woman be) within ten mile around,

resolve to pay they a visit. it be really an event in the history of

the township; with the exception of casino, sing-song, and negro

entertainment, there have be no amusement, and the inhabitant

look forward to the opening night with great interest and

excitement.



Mr. Hart, who be the originator and guiding-star of the company, be

the old man already refer to as the acting-manager; he be the

putty that keep the separate part of the venture together, for

without he the concern would have go to piece. a tradesman take a

small order, and be thankful for it; but give a small part to an

actress who aspire (and live there an actress who do not aspire?)

and wait to hear the thank that be shower on your head! Heaven and

earth! these little Junos be sublime in their indignation, and as for

the little Jupiters, it be well for some person that they be not

Vulcans. it devolve upon Mr. Hart to heal every difference that arise

among the member of the company. no sinecure this, for Vanity's

ruffle feather have to be smooth a dozen time a week. in every

difficulty he be the one appeal to, and his decision be invariably

receive with respect, if not with equanimity, for he be know to be

a just man. he have lead a strange and wandering life, have be

Jack-of-all-trade and master of none, as he himself say, and be in

every respect a gentleman. he speak french and german, and be in

other way well educate; he paint, he sing, and know how to conduct

himself--in other word he have no low vice, and here he be an old

man, fourteen thousand mile away from the land of his birth, an

adventurer, with a purse as lean as Falstaff's. he have be all over

the world, and (rare gift) have make friend everywhere; no one have

ever be hear to speak an ill word of he. that so old a man,

becoming attach to a Star Dramatic Company, should play the juvenile

lead will not be wonder at by person acquaint with the

peculiarity of the profession; as little will it be wonder at that

the First Old Man be barely out of his teen. these reversal of the

proper order of thing be common. be Mr. Hart happy? his eye be

bright, his step be light, and his heart be as fresh as a young

man's. for the rest the question will be answer as this story

proceed.



be in the Silver Creek township, with probably five pound between

they, the first thing to be see to by these wandering Bohemians be

the building of a theatre. an impossibility do you say? not at all.

easily accomplish. directly their arrival and purpose became know,

the proprietor of the Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle Hotel and Restaurant

address Mr. Hart.



"what have you come here for?" he ask.



"to act," reply Mr. Hart.



"you will want a theatre to act in."



"we shall."



"be your company a good one?"



"I think I may say it be. go and look at our woman."



"I've see they. you've a real beauty among they. I'm not a man to

beat about the bush, and you look like a man to be trust."



"try I."



"I will. I'll build you a theatre at the back of my hotel on the

follow condition." (the proprietor of the Rose, Shamrock, and

Thistle Hotel dot off the condition on the finger of his left

hand with the forefinger of his right hand.) "you will undertake to

play in no other place for three month. you will undertake to play in

my theatre for six night a week for three month, and the

entertainment shall not last less than four hour. you will undertake

to hand over to I every night one-fifth of the gross money receive,

that be the rent I shall charge you. you will undertake that you

and all of you shall board and lodge at the Rose, Shamrock, and

Thistle, and to pay I three pound per week per head for such board

and lodge--baby not to count." he look at his thumb with a pucker

in his forehead, and find no condition to which it could be

apply, conclude abruptly by say, "that's all."



Mr. Hart, with the mind of a general, debate for one moment, and

resolve the next.



"how many people will the theatre hold?"



"a thousand," reply the enterprise hotel-keeper promptly.



it be a rough guess; he have not the slight idea as to the size of

the place require for the accommodation of the number.



"how long will the theatre take to build?



"a week," be the brisk reply.



"then we can open in ten day," say Mr. Hart. "there's my hand on it.

what shall be the name of the theatre?"



"I'm a loyal subject," say the hotel-keeper. "we'll call it 'the

Theatre Royal.' God save the queen!"



"so be it."



and there and then the matter be settle.



within an hour a contract be give for the building of the Theatre

Royal; within two it be commence; within a week it be finish; and

on the tenth night it be open. man never know what they can do till

they try; wonder can be accomplish only by say they shall be

accomplish, and set to work on they. it be grapple with small

thing that dwarf man's mind; give they a wilderness to conquer, and

they rise to the occasion. when I say "they," I mean especially

Americans and English; next to they, but not equal to they, the

Germans; least of all civilised nation, with capacity to make grand

use of such opportunity, the French.



the excitement in Silver Creek be tremendous. crowd throng the

High Street during the opening day of the Theatre Royal. the Rose,

Shamrock, and Thistle do a roar trade. eight hundred pound be

take over the bar for drink before six o'clock in the evening; no

drink less than a shilling. some contemptible rival grog-shop in the

vicinity have already reduce the price of a glass of ale to sixpence,

but the miner turn their nose up at it. they be as generous as

sailor, and they be not go to pay sixpence for a glass of ale

when a shilling be the regulation price. there be something sneak

in it, and many a gold-digger lose caste by patronise the cheap

grog-shop. fabulous price be offer for the privilege of go

into the theatre before the door be open, and secure front seat;

but the landlord of the Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle turn a deaf ear

to the tempter.



"fair play, mate," he say. "first come, first serve; and the devil

take the hindmost."



(which, if the devil do, he would have have a good haul, for the

hindmost on that night stand for a thousand at least.)



"Bravo, mate," the rough digger cry; "you're the right sort!"



he look it, as he stand behind the bar, pass the jest and merry

word, with one eye gleam cordially on his customer, and the other

eye look sharply after his till, and nothing loth to make his

"pile" (or fortune) with his sleeve tuck up, and to boast of it

afterwards.



the scene that take place that night within the wall of the new

Theatre Royal be one which not many have the privilege of witness.

before the curtain draw up, there be two hundred and twenty pound

in the drawer. and listen to this with envy, you harass lessee;

there be only three person admit within the wall of the Theatre

Royal who do not pay; these be the proprietor of the theatre and

the editor of the two newspaper. happy theatrical manager! only two

critic to woo and conciliate! deduct the landlord's fifth, and the

expense for printing and lighting, there would not be less than one

hundred and forty pound to divide. why, at that rate, even the baby

would have four pound for her share so curiously acquire! the

entertainment be arrange to show off the full strength of the

company. a "scream" farce, to set the audience in a good humour (it

be not require, for they come in prime spirit, full set for

enjoyment); a dance by the pretty Chambermaid, _not_ dress as a

chambermaid, be it here remark; a stir mob-drama; and a two-act

comic drama to conclude with. a liberal programme--one which make the

proprietor of the Rose, Shamrock, and thistle rub his hand with

satisfaction. the actor and actress, as they come on the stage,

be greet with roar of applause, as they be already old

establish favourite; the very supernumerary, the neophyte who

intend to rival the eld Kean, receive a round which make he

certain that fame be within his grasp. all through the night, the

audience appear to be anxiously look out for new face to give

they cordial greeting. the farce be literally a "scream" farce;

have the author of the poor little literary bantling be present, it

would have do his heart good, and he might have have dream of

greatness. when the curtain fall on the farce, it seem impossible

for anything to be more successful; but the dance that follow

it eclipse it. the gold-digger could not have the farce

repeat--although they would have be well content to have have it,

one fellow actually cry out, "let's have it all over again, mate!"

but they could have the dance again, and they do, once, twice,

thrice, and would have insist on it again, but that the poor girl

stand before they with pant bosom, like a deer at its last gasp,

and appeal to they as prettily as her exhaustion would allow she to

do. the gold-digger stand up, wave their billycock hat, and cheer

she as she have never be cheer before; and one throw a crown-piece

on the stage, and another cry, "I can beat that, mate!" and throw a

sovereign. then it commence to rain silver and gold, and the girl

stand aside at the wing, half frighten at the shower. it amount

to no less than eleven pound, which she gather up in her gauze

dress and walk off with, kiss her hand and smile bewitchingly

on the generous giver, who feel themselves well pay for their

liberality.



(before the week be out this dancing and singing Chambermaid have

forty-two distinct offer of marriage, and the other two lady of the

company each about half as many.)



then come the Tragedian's chance in the melodrama, and good use do he

make of it. he emulate Bottom in his roaring, and the louder he

roar the louder the audience cheer. but decidedly the great

success of the night be achieve by the small member of the

company, and in an unexpected way. if any person be to be thank for

it, it be the acting-manager, Mr. Hart.



it occur in this wise: the Leading Lady drop a few word,

which be construe into an objection to the baby receive its

one-thirty-sixth share of the receipt. the mother (who be the First

Old Woman of the company) hear they, and speak to Mr. Hart with tear

in her eye. the singing Chambermaid stand near.



"the spiteful thing!" she exclaim.



"never mind," say Mr. Hart, "we will get over the difficulty; the

baby shall appear in the last piece."



the mother in astonishment say that be impossible.



"it be quite possible," answer Mr. Hart, "and shall be do."



"but she'll be asleep, the darling!" exclaim the mother.



"all the well," be the answer. "she'll have nothing to say. you

play in the piece. now attend to my instruction;" and he forthwith

give they to she.



in the drama, the mother, who really play the part of a mother, have

to sit at a table for five or six minute sewing, and speak perhaps

a dozen word, while the action of the piece be be carry on by

two character who occupy the front of the stage. Mr. Hart, in this

scene, place the cradle on the stage, with the baby in it. when the

mother go to her seat at the table, she take the baby from the

cradle on to her lap.



"why, it's a real baby!" cry the gold-digger, and a buzz of delight

run through the house.



suddenly the baby awake, open her eye and stare with all her might

at the audience, whose attention be now entirely fix upon the

movement of the pretty little thing. the mother raise she to her

foot on her lap, and the child, please with the light and glitter of

the scene, clap she little hand--one of her pretty trick--while

her face break out into smile and dimple. this be enough for the

gold-digger; they laugh, they clap their hand, they applaud,

they cry:



"Bravo, young un! Bravo!"



as though the baby have perform the most marvellous feat; and when

the mother, carry away by her feeling, toss her baby in the air,

who fall into her arm crowing and laugh, this little touch of

nature rouse the audience to a pitch of the wild enthusiasm. they

call for three cheer for the baby, and three for the mother, and

three more on the top of those, and some of the man leave money at the

bar of the Rose, Shamrock, and thistle, to buy sweet and cake for

the youngster.



"a great success," remark Mr. Hart; "no one can say now that she be

not entitle to her share. it will be as well to repeat baby every

evening until further notice. we will make a feature of baby. she will

draw."



Baby do "draw," and the performance go on bravely. full house

every night. at the end of the week, after pay expense, there be

nearly six hundred pound to divide. the money be share on the

Saturday night, after the performance. Mr. Hart, with his share

tightly clasped in his hand walk into his bedroom and lock the

door. then he light a candle, and out of a small trunk take a little

packet of letter and a portrait. he kneel by the bed, and read the

letter with slow delight; they be short, and the early one be

write in a large straggling hand. he open the portrait-case, and

gaze lovingly on the picture of a beautiful girl; a child, with

laugh hazel eye and light curl. he kiss it again and again; and

take from his share of the money he have receive a sum barely

sufficient for his necessity, he deposit the balance in a safe

corner of the trunk.



"for you, my darling, for you," he murmur, speak to the pretty

picture before he. "God preserve and bless you, and make your life

happy!"



tear come into his eye, and roll down his cheek; and sweet

remembrance bring his darling into his arm, where she lie as she

have lie on the last day he see she, seven year ago.



"my darling must be almost a woman now," he muse, with a yearning

heart.



and so he kneel and dream, and garland his heart's treasure with

love thought. many a rough hard life be in this way sweeten and

purify.









CHAPTER IV.



MR. HART SEARCHES for a golden reef.





Gold be first discover in the alluvial soil in the gully, a few

foot beneath the surface. in some case the metal be pick up on the

surface, and track into the bowel of the earth. sometimes the gold

gutter run across great plain, which soon be riddle with hole,

and cover with hillock of pipe-clay soil; sometimes it run into

hillside, where the miner track it, until the sinking become too

deep for profitable labour, or until the "lead," as it be call, be

lose. some of the rich patch of gold that have be find in the

colony be find here and there in Silver Creek. in sailor' Gully,

for instance, there be a famous claim, where one gold lead cross

another; the fortunate man who happen to light on this rare junction

be runaway sailor, and they make no secret of the fact that they

wash fourteen hundred ounce of gold out of twelve bucket of earth

in one day. in the same week, the man who be work at the windlass

(there be only two partner in this concern) begin to turn the

handle, and find that the weight at the other end of the rope be

great than he anticipate. he know that it be only a bucket of

earth he be wind up, for he hear it bump against the side of the

shaft. when he catch sight of the bucket he almost let the handle of

the windlass slip from he in his excitement. it be not earth he be

haul up, it be gold; and it prove to be the rich bucket of

earth that be ever find in Silver Creek. it yield thirteen hundred

ounce of the precious metal; no less. the fortunate sailor

celebrate the occasion, decorate the shaft with as many flag as

they could get together, fire off their revolver for an hour as

rapidly as they could load they, buy up all the grog in the gully,

and invite all the digger round about to join they in drink it.

that bucket of gold and dirt be almost the death of they, for the

carouse be a wild one; but they recover themselves in a day or two,

and set to work again soberly and sensibly, and retire, after ten

week' labour, with a fortune of seventeen thousand pound between

they.



after a time man begin to look for gold in the hill. it be settle

year ago by the miner that all the gold that be find in the

gully be wash down from the range. before many day have pass,

quartz reef be find with great lump of gold in the stone; and one

Saturday the principal gold-broker in Silver Creek display in his

window a mass of quartz which could not have weigh less than two

hundred pound, and which be literally stud and vein with gold.

it be label "from Pegleg Reef," so name because it be discover

by a man with a wooden leg. then commence a craze, and everybody go

mad on quartz. this bring we to a day when Mr. Hart, who, with his

company, have now be in Silver Creek for three week, win money

and laurel, be walk over the range, at some distance from the

township, with a short-handle pick over his shoulder, a hammer in his

hand, and a "fossicke" knife in his belt. the craze for discover

a quartz reef have infect he, and he be look for a trail.



if you can love this man as you proceed with the story, I shall be

glad; for he be a large-souled man, who have never be guilty of a

meanness. that he be always poor come from the generosity of his

nature, which frequent disappointment have not be able to sour; he

could never stoop to trickery for money. in his young day he have

frequently be hear to despise money; but I think, now that he be

old, his view be begin to experience change. else why should he

be toil over the hill on this hot sultry day, with his eye

eagerly bent to the earth, in search of gold?



he come to the ridge of a range, and he pause for a few moment to

look back on the township. the air be still; the heaven be full of

beautiful colour; the white tent of the digger shine in the sun. a

world in miniature be before he. gold have lately be discover in

a large plain which with its busy life be stretch beneath he.

although he be at a great distance from it, he could see it clearly

from the height on which he stand. at the farthermost edge of this

plain be a dozen puddling machine at work, and two or three dam

fill with clear water which have not be pollute. the water gleam

and glitter like sheet of burnish silver; the tiny horse walk

round and round, yoke to their wheel; the tiny man flit here and

there across the plain, and bend over heap of auriferous soil, and

work at toy windlass, with rope no thick than thread; thin

wreath of smoke curl from the rear of the tent, where the small

woman in the world be wash and cooking; lilliputian be cut

down tree for firewood with bright sharp axis which be indicate by

thin keen flash edge of light as they be flourish in the air.



Mr. Hart turn his back upon these sign of busy life, and descend

the range on the other side. on and on he walk, without discover

any indication of gold, although he pause to crack many a score

piece of the quartz which stud the hill. he smile curiously at

his ill-success. "well," he muse, as if argue with himself, "but I

should like to find a golden reef! let I see. a golden reef, yield

say twenty, thirty ounce to the ton. ah, Gerald, Gerald! don't be

greedy. say fifteen ounce and be satisfied. a hundred ton--fifteen

hundred ounce; six thousand pound. and then, Home! Home! home! ah,

my darling, how my heart yearn to you! but you be happy, thank God,

and if I never look upon your sweet face, if I never hold you in my

arms!----" he pause suddenly, with an aching feeling in his breast.

"I must see she--I must see she!" he murmur; and stretch forth

his arm, cry half seriously, "come, Fortune, and take I to she!"



he be alone, and no one hear he. for an hour he have see no

evidence of human life about he; Silver Creek township be entirely

shut out from view. on he walk, not stop to chip now, for he

think that he might have a well chance of find a golden reef if

he go far afield. he must have walk fully two mile far,

when he see before he at a distance of a few hundred yard a thick

clump of tree arrange by nature almost in a straight line, and

entirely obscure the view that lie beyond it. he plunge into the

thicket--for it be no less--and through it, and find himself before

another thicket of tree similarly arrange. between the two thicket

there be not more than two hundred foot of clear ground. the

intervene space be level and bare, and the tree between which he

stand be of a great height. the light come through the uppermost

branch in slant devious line, which, as he move, dart hither

and thither, as though imbue with life. the ground be all in shadow,

and so solemn be the stillness and so dim the light in this place,

that it seem like a page out of another existence.



lose in admiration, Mr. Hart pause for awhile, and then plunge into

the second thicket, and find it dense than the first. in a quarter

of an hour he emerge into the open unobscured sunlight again.



before he rise a vast range with masse of outcrop quartz. he

consider within himself whether it be worth his while to climb this

range; the quartz look tempting. there be trace of iron pyrite

in it, and he have hear that the rich reef be sometimes find on

such height. moreover, it seem to he as though the hill have never

be prospect. he decide that he would mount the range.



it be a difficult task that he have set himself; the range be high,

steeper, than he have imagine, and the day be very hot. he be

compel to stop and rest. "shall I go to the top or turn back?" he

ask of himself. he be inclined to retrace his step, until he

think of his darling at home; he take her picture from his pocket,

and kiss it many time. "I will go up," he say "to the very top. I

might hear one day that a golden reef have be find on the summit of

this hill, and then I should never forgive myself."



little do he suspect how much hang upon that moment of hesitation.

little do he suspect that simply by mount this hill, the mean of

bring into his daughter's life its great joy and happiness be

to be put into his hand. but even have he suspect it, his wild

dream would not have afford a clue to the manner of its

accomplishment.



he mount the hill; he reach its summit. then he find that other

have be before he.



a shaft have be sink; a windlass be erect. Mr. Hart judge, from

the great hillock of earth by the side of the claim, that the pit

could not be less than a hundred foot deep. a tree, split in two, be

on the ground close by, with its inner surface expose.



Mr. Hart go to the windlass, think at first that the shaft be a

desert one, for he see no person on the hill. but the sound of metal

upon stone which come to his ear from the bottom of the pit be

sufficient to convince he that his idea be wrong, and that a miner

be work in the shaft.



a little heap of quartz lie within a yard or two of he. he examine

it, and find gold in it. he take up piece after piece, and in every

other piece there be trace of gold. he cast greedy glance, not at

the quartz he be examine, but along the brow of the hill, beyond

the boundary peg which mark the area of the prospector' claim.

then turn, he jump back with a loud cry, for a man whom he have

not before observe be lie on the ground at his foot, and he have

almost trodden on his upturned face. but another thing that he see

hold he for a moment motionless from fear.



the man be asleep, and in his hair be move a long brown reptile,

with, as it seem, numberless leg, which be all in motion,

stealthily and venomously. two slender horn protrude from its head,

and behind its horn its eye gleam with spiteful fire. Mr. Hart

know immediately that it be a centipede--a very large one of its

specie--and that its sting might bring death to the sleeper. it have

crawl out of the centre of the split tree which lie near, and be

now crawl from the hair on to the face of the sleep man. take

his handkerchief in his hand for protection, Mr. Hart, with a swift

and sudden movement, pluck the crawl reptile from the sleeper's

hair, and throw it and his handkerchief a dozen yard away.



"Holloa, mate!" cry the man, arouse by the action, and jump to

his foot, "what be you up to?"



he be a young and handsome man, with a noble beard hang on his

breast, and with his hair hang almost to his shoulder. his eye

be blue, his hair be brown. his skin be fair, as might be see,

not on his face, nor on his neck where it be bare to the sun, but

just below the collar of his light-blue serge shirt, the top button of

which be unfastened. in age probably twenty-five or six. in height,

five foot ten inch, or thereabout; a model of strength, beauty, and

symmetry. such a form and figure as one of the old painter would have

love to paint, and as might win the heart of any woman not in love

and that way incline--as most woman be, naturally.



Impetuous, fiery, aggressive, his first thought be that the stranger

have attack he in his sleep. he do not wait for a second thought,

but pull a revolver from his belt, where it be slung, cover by a

leathern sheath, and level it at Mr. Hart. in new goldfield these

weapon be necessary for self-defence; like vulture after carrion

(although the simile do not entirely hold good), the most desperate

character fly to the new goldfield on the first scent of gold,

resolve to get it by hook or by crook.



Mr. Hart hold up his hand and smile deprecatingly.



"I think I have do you a service, young sir," he say. "I see a

centipede crawl in your hair on to your face as you be lie

asleep, and I pluck it away. that be all. I be once sting in the

arm by such a reptile, and be disabled for three month. I fancy

you might not relish a like experience; your face be far too handsome

to be spoil in that way. if you will lift my handkerchief gently and

carefully--I do not care to seize the beast with naked finger--you

will see for yourself."



the young man have no need to lift the handkerchief. the long ugly

thing be wriggle out of it; half its body be expose.



"by Jove!" exclaim the young man, seize a spade and cut the

creature in a dozen piece, all of which immediately begin to crawl

away in different direction, north, south, east, and west, with the

intention of commence independent existence.









CHAPTER V.



PHILIP'S RIDE for flower for MARGARET.





"thank you," say the young man to Mr. Hart, replace his revolver in

his belt.



"thank _you_," return Mr. Hart drily, "for cut up my

pocket-handkerchief."



the young man laugh.



"take mine," he say, offer a red-silk handkerchief to Mr. Hart.



Red be a favourite colour in the digging in the matter of personal

adornment. red handkerchief, red serge shirt, red scarf and

sash, red tassel and binding, be much coveted.



Mr. Hart shake his head.



"no; I will keep my own as a remembrance."



he gaze admiringly at the young man, and with curiosity, for he see

that the young fellow be superior to the general run of gold-digger.



"what be you look at?" ask the young man merrily.



"at what seem to I an anomaly."



"that's I."



"that be you. what make a gold-digger of you?"



the young man shrug his shoulder.



"a thirst for freedom and adventure. that answer will do as well as

another, I suppose. I be cramp up in the old country, so I think

I would come where there be room to move and breathe."



"you find it here."



"rather!"



he inflate his lung, and expel the air with vigorous enjoyment.



"what part of the old country do you hail from?" there be an

unconscious tenderness in their tone as they speak of their native

land.



"Devon--dear old Devon. oh, for a tankard of real devonshire cider!"



Mr. Hart sigh. "you have home tie, then?"



"yes, I have an old father at home, who be old only in year. let we

drink to he." he take a tin saucepan half fill with cold tea, and

hand it to Mr. Hart, who drink from it, and return it. "he be

about your age, I should say. have you be long in the colony?"



"seven year."



"ah! I haven't serve my apprenticeship yet. now, what bring _you_

over these hill to-day?"



Mr. Hart stammer and hesitate; no man on the goldfield like to

confess that he have be waste hour and day in the wild hope of

discover a golden reef, simply by wander about and chip up

stone, although every man do it at some time or other, in secret.

however, Mr. Hart blurt out the truth.



"well," say the young man, "that's the way I and my mate discover

this reef. we find a vein of quartz with gold in it, crop out on

the surface, and we follow it down until we come to another vein

about two foot thick, and this we be work now. we're down a

hundred and two foot. you see we have about twenty ton of quartz up

now; it will go about twelve ounce to the ton, I should say. but

we're stuck for a machine to crush it."



"there's one be put up in Iron Bark Gulley."



"yes; that's nine mile off," say the young man fretfully; "how be

we to get the stone to the machine over the range, unless we carry it

on our back? a nice job that would be, and would cost as much as the

stone's worth!"



"when Mahomet find that the mountain wouldn't' come to him----" Mr.

Hart say, and pause.



"by Jove!" exclaim the young quartz miner, "you're a gentleman. it

do one good to talk to a man who _can_ talk. well, then Mahomet go

to the mountain. that be to say, as we cann't take the stone to a

machine, we must bring a machine to the stone. but that would cost

money, and we're on our beam end."



many a gold-miner have be in the same strait--with wealth at his

foot, stare he in the face, and no money in his pocket--a rich

beggar.



Mr. Hart consider. should he offer his saving for a share in the

claim? he have a hundred and twenty pound in the corner of his trunk.

the chance be a good one. he make the offer. the young man laugh at

he.



"we should want twenty time as much," he say.



"I shall mark out a claim for myself, then," say Mr. Hart.



"all right, mate; but you'll have to go a mile away for it. the reef

be peg, north and south, for quite that distance."



this be true; Mr. Hart, with regret, give up the idea. he look at

the sun, and see that if he wish to get back to the theatre in time

for the performance he must start at once. he bid the young man

good-day.



"what's your hurry?"



Mr. Hart explain.



"by Jove!" cry the young man, his face flush scarlet. "I think!

recognise you. how I should like to go behind the scene."



"come then; I shall be glad to see you. this will admit you." and he

take a card from his pocket, and write some word in pencil upon it.

"what name shall I say?"



"Rowe."



"here be the open sesame. admit Mr. Rowe by the stage-door. Hart's

Star Dramatic Company.--Signed, John Hart.'"



"you're a brick!" say the young fellow, look at the card with a

flushed face. if it have be an enchanted wand, it could not have make

his heart beat more quickly. "I'll be there to-night."



he be as good as his word. what make he so eager be that he have

be to the theatre three time, and have fall dead in love with the

singing and dancing Chambermaid. such an opportunity to make she

acquaintance be not to be throw away. at eight o'clock he stand by

the wing, as handsome as Apollo, as strong as Hercules. when he be

introduce to the singing and dancing Chambermaid, he be as shy as a

sensitive plant, and would have look foolish but that his beard

prevent he. many a man have to thank his beard for similar grace.

the Chambermaid, as good a girl as she be beautiful, see the state of

affair at once, and know, by feminine instinct, that she could twist

he round her little finger. nevertheless, she fall in love with he.

Nature will not be deny, and he be a man to be fall in love with.

her name be Margaret. his be Philip.



after the performance, John Hart and Philip Rowe have a glass together.

they speak of the old country.



"I'll give you a toast," say Philip Rowe. "here's to the Silver

Flagon."



"to the Silver Flagon," respond John Hart. Philip Rowe drink another

toast, but do not utter it: to Margaret.



he go to the back of the stage on the follow night, and many

night after that, and make friend with the company. all the man

like he; he be free-hearted and free-handed. but the Leading Lady,

after a night or two, look upon he with displeasure, for he pay

her less court than her state demand. her displeasure be the

great because she have show that she be inclined to be gracious to

he. it be incredible that a lady who enact Pauline, and Juliet,

and Lady Macbeth, should be overlook for a chitling who play

simple chambermaid, and could dance a little. but then Philip Rowe

be blind--which be not a valid excuse for he. the Leading

Lady--be a woman as well as a Leading Lady--would have be well

pleased to receive the attention of so handsome a young man, who be

evidently a gentleman, and she snub Margaret one night, and be

spiteful to she, because of her good fortune. Philip Rowe, go

behind the scene, find his Margaret in tear, in a convenient

corner. she have a spare half-hour, and he coax she to tell he the

cause of her distress.



"never mind, Margaret," he say tenderly. "don't cry!"



she look up shyly at this. it be the first time he have call she

by her christian name. if brevity be the soul of wit, it be also

frequently the soul of love. Margaret be comfort.



when Philip Rowe come face to face with the Leading Lady, he glare at

she. she glare at he in return. he feel awkward and hang down his

head. her glare be more potent than his; she have to glare often on

the stage, and be an adept at it. besides, her face be smooth; his

be hairy.



Margaret coax he to do something that night; she know where and how

to plant a dagger in her rival's bosom. she whisper to Philip and he

run out of the theatre in a glow of ecstatic delirium, for her lovely

lip have almost touch his ear. her warm breath on his neck make he

tremble.



she have ask he to get a bouquet of flower, to throw on the stage

to she in the last piece, in which both she and the Leading Lady

appear. flower have before now be use for purpose as sharp.



but where to get the flower? a bouquet of flower be unheard of in

Silver Creek township. where to get they? where?



could not love grow they?



where to get they? ah, he know! six mile away on the main road to the

metropolis, there be a--yes, call it so--a garden; a little plot of

ground tend by a woman with country memory. in less than two

minute he be in the saddle, gallop in that direction, and right

in front of he, all the way, shine Margaret's face and Margaret's

eye and hair. no will-o'-the-wisp be ever more alluring. Margaret

lurk in the bush, glide among the tree, shine in the open

space, and Philip's heart beat fast and joyously. the six mile of

bush road, so soft and pleasant to the horse's foot, be soon

traverse, and there be the garden with a few--not many--flower in

it. Philip Rowe leap off his horse, with joyous exclamation. a

woman come to the door.



"here, Jim!" she cry, to her husband, run into the house,

think that a bushranger (_Anglicè_, highwayman) be pay they a

visit.



Jim promptly appear, with a gun in his hand. "now then?" he

demand, nothing daunt.



"oh! it's all right, mate," say Philip; and in a few moment he

explain the motive of his visit.



"about a dozen flower do up in a bunch be all I want. this for

they."



he hold up two piece of rich quartz, in which there be probably two

ounce of gold.



Jim be agreeable, covet the speciman; his wife be not, love her

flower. but when Philip plead, and tell his story, she relent.



"oh, if it's for that!" she say with a sly smile, and take a good

look at Philip, and think that the woman be to be envy who have

win so fine a young fellow.



while she cut the flower the two man have a nip of brandy each, which

Philip pay for. the place really be a sly grog-shop.



soon Philip be gallop back to Silver Creek township in a glow of

triumph. he arrive in time, and pay for admission into the body of

the theatre, hide the flower in the breast of his dandy serge

shirt. he be a bit of a dandy in his way, and especially so when he

expect to see Margaret. he follow her instruction to the letter;

she have tell he at what point to throw the flower, and plump at her

foot they fall, at the precise moment she desire. the audience stare

at first at the unusual compliment, and then applaud loudly.

Margaret curtsey, at which they applaud still more vociferously;

the beautiful girl be a pet of theirs, and they approve of the

tribute. the Leading Lady turn pale, and clutch at her bosom

tragically. the dagger have be deftly plant, and she feel the

smart--as only a woman would feel it. Margaret place the flower in

the bosom of her dress, and send a look straight into the eye of

Philip, which make every nerve in his body tingle.









CHAPTER VI.



ROMEO and JULIET.





the Leading Lady be fond of money, and the theatre be do so well

that her dividend every week be a very handsome one, three time as

much as she could expect to get elsewhere; but what woman be prudent

when her vanity be hurt? a man with a large bump of caution

occasionally hang back, and calculate consequence. a woman never

do. the Leading Lady in a tower passion confront Mr. Hart, the

manager, at the end of the performance.



"here come a tragedy," think he, as he look into her wrathful

eye. there be a smile on his face, nevertheless.



"I leave the company!" she say abruptly, with heaving bosom.



"my dear lady!" remonstrate the manager.



"to-morrow. I shall take a place in the coach that start at eight

o'clock."



she know well enough what the result would be if she leave; the company

would collapse. a man might be spare, and his place fill, or his

part double, but the loss of a woman would inflict irreparable

injury upon the prospect of the theatre. Mr. Hart know this also.



"you don't forget," he say gravely, "that we have your signature, and

that if you leave without consent we can make you pay heavy damage!"



"that for my signature! that for your heavy damage!" each time she

snap a disdainful finger.



"my dear lady," he say, in a soothe tone, "you be excited, you be

overstrained. we have tax you a little hardly. we'll play light

piece for a night or two, and give you a rest."



inconsiderate man he could not more successfully have fan the flame

in her breast.



"you'll play no light piece to give I a rest! play light piece, and

give _she_ the opportunity of take lead character! the shameless

hussy! not if I know it!"



Mr. Hart begin to understand. this colloquy be take place on the

stage; the theatre be clear, the curtain be up. down the stair

which lead to the lady' dressing-room trip Margaret, fresh, and

bright, and happy, with her bunch of flower in her hand.



"good night, Mr. Hart," she cry gaily.



in the shadow of the door which lead on to the stage a man be wait

for she--Philip. they meet, clasp hand--her supple finger lay in

Philip's great palm as in a nest, and he imprison they, be

sure!--and walk out, side by side, chat confidentially, with

their head close together. the Leading Lady see this, and her anger

rise higher; but still it be bitter gall to she to reflect that if

she go away, the field would be clear for her rival.



Mr. Hart feel that he be on the horn of a difficulty; he could spare

neither one nor the other of the lady.



"you're the manager of this company," say the Leading Lady, "and you

ought long ago to have put down such shameless going on. do you see

the way they go out together, and do you think people be blind? we

shall be the talk of the town; but I'll not be implicate in it. my

name musn't be use lightly." the manager smile grimly. "I leave

to-morrow. understand that."



"I decline to understand it. you will fulfil your engagement, and if

it be necessary for I to take step to prevent your departure, I must

do so for the sake of the other. I will swear a declaration against

you!"



he be aware that he be talk the most arrant nonsense, but he

rely on the feminine mind to assist he with its fear, and with its

ignorance of legal subtlety.



"I shall be sorry to do so against a lady whom I esteem and respect so

much, and of whose talent I have so high an opinion, but no other

course will be open to I. if I allow you to go, the digger would

rise against I. and quite right they would be! why, my dear lady," he

say, cunningly, "you know as well as I do that we be nothing without

you--that you be the soul of the company--that there be not your

equal on the colonial stage!"



the Leading Lady begin to soften beneath the influence of such gross

flattery, but it would not do to give way at once.



"I will _not_ stop to be insult!"



"no one _shall_ insult you."



"but some one have--you know who--and she shall not do so again--no,

not if you swear a million declaration!"



"come, now, tell I all about it," say the manager, take her arm,

and walk slowly with she up and down the stage. "by the way, the

Honourable Mr. Simpson, the Warden of Moonlight Flat, say last

night, when you be play Ophelia--you know he; he be in the

theatre with the Commissioner of the Goldfields and the resident

Magistrate----"



"yes, yes," say the Leading Lady impatiently, "what do he say?"



"that your Ophelia be equal to anything he have see on the London

stage, and that he believe you would create a sensation there. he be

first cousin to the Earl of Badmington, you know, who have a theatre in

London. I think you would like to hear it. he be very anxious to

make your acquaintance--as all gentleman of taste and refinement would

be."



he glance slyly at the Leading Lady, whose head be nod gently up

and down, in sweet contentment.



"and now, my dear lady, tell I your grievance."



"it's yours as well as mine, but if you like to stand it, I shalln't. if

bouquet of flower be to be throw on the stage, they must be throw

to I--do you understand, sir? to _I_, as the Leading Lady, and as

the star of the company!"



it happen that Mr. Hart have be busy elsewhere during the episode

that have very nearly bring the ship to wreck, and have hear nothing

of it. he ask the Leading Lady for an explanation, which be give

to he.



"and if you don't stop these shameful going-on," be her concluding

word, "I give you fair warning, I will not stay with you. _I_ have a

character to lose, thank God!"



which be to be construe in so many queer way, that Mr. Hart could

scarcely refrain from laugh. "Confound Master Philip!" he think,

and say aloud, "well, well, my dear creature, I will see to it. and

no flower shall be throw--by Mr. Philip Rowe, at all event--on the

stage to any one but you."



this difficulty be soothe over, he go in search of Philip Rowe,

and find he lean against a fence outside the hotel, gaze up at

a light in a bedroom window on the first floor.



"rehearse 'Romeo and Juliet?'" ask Mr. Hart kindly, take the

young man's arm.



Philip blush, and stammer some unintelligible word.



"that _be_ her window, Philip," say Mr. Hart, "so you will not make

the same ridiculous mistake that I do for a fortnight together,

gaze up every night at the light in my lady's bedroom, and work

myself into a state of gush sentimentalism over the slender waist

and the graceful turn of the head I see shadow on the blind, until I

discover that I have be watch the bedroom window of a black

footman."



this be a piece of pure invention on the part of Mr. Hart.



Philip, have nothing to say in reply, shift one foot over another

restlessly. if he could have retire with a good grace, he would have

do so, but Mr. Hart have hold of his arm. Mr. Hart continue:



"put sentiment aside, a nice scrape you be almost get I

into to-night. ah! you may stare, but I should like to know what you

mean by throw flower to my singing Chambermaid--who be not by any

mean clever, let I tell you, and will never make her fortune on the

stage--when we have in our company a lady who play lead

character, and who know every line of Juliet's part?"



"Ho, ho!" laugh Philip; "Juliet be a girl of sixteen or seventeen,

and your Leading Lady be forty."



"woe for your life if you say so in her presence!" exclaim Mr.

Hart, with a quiet chuckle; "it would not be worth a moment's

purchase. forty, sir! and what if she be forty?--which she be not by

five year--she be the only woman that can play Juliet to your Romeo."



"hush!" whisper Philip. "she be open the window."



Margaret, alone, in her white dress, be indeed open the window.

she do not know--not she!--that her lover be below, nor that her

form could be see, for she have extinguish the light in the room.

her shadow might be discern, but what be there in a shadow? she sit

down by the window, and rest her head on her arm. the graceful

outline of her arm and neck and bended head be clearly visible, and

the lover feast his eye upon they. she hold in her hand the

flower which Philip have throw she! her lip be upon the tender

leave--sweet to the sweet. he see she kiss the flower, and his soul

thrill with rapture. the night be beautifully still; not a sound

be stir; and as far as eye could see the white tent of the

digger be gleam. so Margaret sit and muse, and Philip look on

and dream. here, in the new world, but yesterday a savage waste, the

old, old story be be enact with as much freshness as though the

world be but just create. what wonder? because the sun have rise a

few million of time, be the dew on the leave less sweet and pure in

the early morning's light than on that wondrous day when Adam awake

and find Eve by his side?



so Margaret sit and muse, and Philip look on and dreamed; and I

think that Margaret peep through the lattice-work of her finger,

and see with her cunning eye that her lover be there, worship

she.



how long they would have thus remain, Heaven only know. Mr. Hart

give they at least twenty minute, and then touch Philip's arm.

Philip start, and Margaret at the window start also, and with a

swift happy glance outward, and with wave of the pretty hand and arm,

close the window. Philip be stand in the light, and Mr. Hart,

like a kind and careful friend, have creep backward in the shade; so

that Margaret, when she cast that straight swift glance in her lover's

direction, see only he. surely as the hand--love's white flag of

recognition--wave towards he, it have touch her lip first, and she

have send a kiss into the air--which he receive in his heart. it

stir tender chord there, and through his vein creep love's fever,

which turn dross into gold, and make a heaven of earth!









CHAPTER VII.



AH, PHILIP, MY son! I, also, have a girl whom I love.





then say Philip, as he and Mr. Hart move slowly away--then say

Philip softly, as though but a moment have pass since his companion

last speak:



"her name be Margaret, not Juliet. I have no need to play Romeo to

Margaret. Margaret!" he whisper to himself, find a subtle charm

in the name; "my Margaret!" and then aloud, "have your Leading Lady

ever play such a character?"



"yes," reply Mr. Hart, without any direct meaning, "in 'Faust.'"



Philip's face flush scarlet, not at the word, but at the tone,

which be sad and significant, without the speaker intend it to be

so.



"I know you to be a gentleman----" pursue Mr. Hart.



"I think you to be one," interrupt Philip hotly.



"I hope you will see no reason to change your opinion," say Mr. Hart.



"I see a reason already."



"let I hear it," ask Mr. Hart, secretly please at the young man's

ill-humour.



"you associate my Margaret's name--"



"your Margaret!" exclaim Mr. Hart. "my Margaret, if you please!"



"mine!" cry Philip, in a loud voice.



"mine!" echo Mr. Hart, in a calm tone.



"call she down and ask she!" demand Philip in his rashness, without

consider; and, for the life of he, Mr. Hart could not help

laugh long and heartily.



"o that you be twenty year young!" say Philip.



"o that I be!" exclaim Mr. Hart, with grave humour. "then you

would really have cause for uneasiness when you hear I call she

mine."



"how do you make she your?"



"I stand to she in the light of a father," reply Mr. Hart more

seriously. "when I persuade her mother in town to let her accompany

we, I promise that I would look after she and protect she. therefore

she be mine, because I be her father."



"and without any 'therefore,'" respond Philip, "she be mine, because

I be her lover."



"ah," say Mr. Hart, with a bright smile, "here be a case to be

settle, then. but if every pretty girl be her lover's, then one

might belong to fifty, or more, for there be heart enough. why, you

rash-head! do you know how many man in Silver Creek might call your

Margaret theirs by the same right as that by which you claim she?"



"no," say Philip, a little sulkily, "I don't know."



"then I'll tell you. to my certain knowledge, sixty-nine; to my almost

as certain conviction, some five hundred. she have forty-two offer of

marriage the first week, and have have twenty-seven since. come now,

divide she between the sixty-nine lover who have declare themselves;

what part of she be your?"



"you talk nonsense," say Philip roughly.



"well, suppose you talk sense," say Mr. Hart blandly.



"it be hardly believable," cry Philip, clench his fist.

"sixty-nine offer of marriage! she never tell I, and I'm her lover."



"she have tell I, and I'm only her father."



"by proxy," correct Philip.



"well, by proxy."



"why should she tell you and not I?" ask Philip, more sulkily

still.



"because, my dear Philip," say Mr. Hart, lay his hand kindly on

the young man's arm, "up to the present, as I have say, she be mine,

and not your; and because she have a frank open nature, and must

confide in some one. as I come first, she confide in I. she have

give I all the letter to read, and a rare collection they be. if

they be print they would be a curiosity."



"I should like to see they, and the name at the bottom of they."



"so that you might fight all the writer for fall in love as you

have do! well, you would have enough to do, for you would have to

fight accord to the fashion of different country. I have make an

analysis, my dear Philip. seven frenchman, four german, one Spaniard,

three Americans, fifty-three Englishmen, Irishmen, and Scotchmen, and

one Chinaman, have offer marriage to--I will say--_our_ Margaret."



"a Chinaman! good heaven! such a creature to raise his eye to my

Margaret! tell I, at least, _his_ name, that I may cut his pigtail

from his dirty crown!"



"there's an ah in it and a Sen in it and a ping in it; and if you can

find he out by those sign you be very welcome. but why should a

Chinaman not love? hath he not eye, hand, organ, dimension,

sense, affection, passion? his letter be the great curiosity of

the lot, and he have evidently educate himself in the English

language. I know his proposal by heart. here it be: 'you welly good

english girl; I welly good Chinaman. you mally I, welly good

match. roast pig and m'landy (brandy) for dinner every day. M'lenty

gold--make m'lenty more. I take you to my country, by bye. Chinaman

welly good man.' then come the ah and the Sen and the Ping. but let

we be serious, although this be true enough that I have tell

you--truth with a comical side to it. you be angry with I a little

while ago."



"yes, for associate my Margaret's name with mine in the character of

Faust."



"I have no distinct intention in my mind, Philip; the conversation

happen to take that turn. it would pain I very much to have to

think of you in that way. but Margaret be a simple good girl, and it

be my duty to look after she. I never know till to-night that you be

pay marked attention to she."



"who tell you?"



"our Leading Lady."



Philip Rowe smile: he have his vanity.



"o, indeed!" he say, with assume carelessness.



"and that will bring I back presently to a subject I mention when I

surprise you to-night. first, however, there be another thing to be

settle. you must cease your attention to Margaret."



"not if I know it!" say Philip, with a defiant shake of his head. "I

mean to marry she. if you throw any obstacle in the way I'll run away

with she to-morrow, in spite of your tooth."



he laugh confidently: he know his power.



"but you be a gentleman," remonstrate Mr. Hart. "and she be a lady,"

quoth Philip.



if love's guild could give title, a peasant would rank high than a

duchess. not that there be anything common about Margaret. she be

bear of humble parent, it be true; but she be a good girl, and that

be enough for any man.



it be enough for Mr. Hart. he gaze at Philip in frank and honest

admiration; but he determine to apply a test. he be not a suspicious

man, but he have a duty to perform.



"suppose there be an obstacle already in the way," he say, look

Philip steadily in the face; "suppose she be already marry."



Philip stagger, and the blood desert his face. "Good God!" he

cry. "then she have be play I false!"



Mr. Hart wish he have not apply the test; he be satisfied of

Philip's sincerity.



"not so fast!" he cry, in a cheery tone, "not so fast! I only say

'suppose;' I don't say it be so. how you young hot spirit jump at

conclusion."



but it be a few minute before Philip recover himself.



"you frighten I," he say, with a feeble smile. "then it be not

true! if I have consider a moment, I should have know; for if truth

and innocence have a home in this world, they have it in Margaret's

breast. but you come upon I suddenly."



Mr. Hart think, "Ah! youth, youth, what a painter you be!" and

say aloud, "here be my hand; know that you mean honourably by

Margaret, I give my consent to your see she as usual."



"I'll marry she to-morrow," say Philip, take the hand offer he.



"softly, softly; there be condition."



"I'll have no condition!" shout Philip impetuously.



"you'll have this and you'll have that!" say Mr. Hart, in a tone of

gentle sarcasm. "you willn't have this, and you willn't have that! very

well, then. I wish you good-night." and he turn away.



"what!" cry Philip, turn after he, "desert I when I want you to

be my friend!"



the old man's heart warm to the young fellow; he admire everything

in he--his hot blood, his impetuosity, his obstinacy, his generous

imperiousness.



"I be your friend," say Mr. Hart, "and I will continue to be so if

you will let I. but when a man say of something that be mine, as

Margaret be--ah, shake your head! it don't affect _me!_--when a man

say of something that be mine, and that he want to be his, that

he'll have no condition, he compel I to act in self-defence. attend

to I, young sir! be reasonable, or to-morrow I take Margaret back to

her mother, a hundred and forty mile away, and you shall not speak

another word to she, as sure as my name's Hart."



"Ho! ho! you speak boldly; but it don't matter--you're a man in a

thousand. in a thousand! in ten thousand. I'm glad you're not young,

or you might prove dangerous." Mr. Hart take off his cap, and bow

lowly at this compliment. "you'll not let I speak to she, will you

not? I'll borrow a speaking-trumpet, and shout to she that you be

part we for ever. but there! give I your hand again. I'm not

frightened of you. I be in such spirit that I must do something

desperate. as you value your life, give I a back!"



with the readiness of a boy, Mr. Hart stoop and rest his hand on

his knee. Philip take a run backward, then dart forward like a

deer, and, lightly touch the stoop man's back, fly over he

like a bird. then stoop himself, and fold his arm; and old as Mr.

Hart be, he take the leap.



after that they have a hearty laugh together.



"by Jove!" exclaim Philip, "you be as young as I be, and yet I

should say you be over sixty."



"I be," say Mr. Hart proudly, straighten his back.



"I don't mind give way a little to such a man. name your

condition."



"you want to marry Margaret?"



"I do--to-morrow!"



"nonsense. you want to marry she."



"I do--I will; stop I who can!"



"she have a mother."



"God bless she, and all belong to she!"



"Bravo--a good mother, mind."



"all that belong to Margaret must be good."



"her mother must be consult."



Philip scratch his head. "must?" he ask dubiously.



"must."



"how be that to be do?"



"by letter."



Philip count rapidly on his finger.



"why, we shall have to wait a week!"



"for the consent. and then perhaps she'll not give it."



"it will be all the same. we'll marry without it."



"but you'll have to wait long than a week, Philip. you'll have to

wait until our three month' engagement at the theatre be at an end."



"impossible."



"it must and shall be. why, without Margaret we be nothing."



"I know it," chuckle Philip.



"she be the soul of the company." the wily old fellow be use the

very word he have use to the Leading Lady, and he think nothing of

contradict what he have say a few minute before, when he declare

that Margaret be not clever, and would never make her fortune on the

stage. "do you hear I? she be the soul of the company."



"I know it," chuckle Philip again.



"well, then, do you think I be go to let you ruin our prospect,

and rob we, as you propose do?"



"gently, gently there! not so fast with your robbing!"



"it be the truth that I be speak, and you know it; you have say so

yourself. Margaret be the soul of the company--she be our great

draw. if she go without my be able to get another girl as pretty

in her place----"



"you cann't do that; I defy you."



"hold your tongue, hot-head!--without our get another girl

_nearly_ as pretty in her place----"



"that's well," interrupt the incorrigible Philip; "but you'll have

a rare hunt even for such a one. they don't grow on gooseberry

bush."



"our business be as good as ruin without she, or some one in her

place; and do you suppose I'll stand quietly by and see that do?

besides, think of the money Margaret herself be saving----"



"_that_ for the money!" say Philip, with a snap of his finger.

"money-making's a man's business, not a woman's."



"that's true, and I like you the well for say so. but leave

Margaret out of the question, there be person in our company the

happiness of whose life hang upon their be able to save a certain

amount of money within a certain time. not only their happiness but

the happiness of helpless one who be dearer to they than their

heart's blood, depend upon this."



"by Jove! you speak strongly. Mention one of they."



"one of they stand before you now."



Philip turn and look Mr. Hart straight in the face. tear be

gather in the old man's eye, and the young man turn away again,

so that he should not see they.



"forgive I, mate," he say softly; "I be so wrapt up in my own

happiness that I be forgetful of the feeling of other."



"ah, Philip, my son"--there be so tender an accent in the old man's

tone, that the tear rise to Philip's eye as well--"I also have a

girl whom I love. see here, my dear boy. this be my daughter. she be

at home in England, and I be here sixteen thousand mile away."



he have take the picture of his darling from his pocket, and now he

hand it to Philip. the young man look at it in the clear

moonlight. a round fresh face, open mouth with rosy lip, bright

ingenuous eye, fair curl around her white forehead. she be stand

within an ivy porch, and one little hand be raise as though she be

listen.



"it be take seven year ago," say Mr. Hart; "she be twelve year

old then."



"she be beautiful, beautiful!" exclaim Philip enthusiastically. "and

you haven't see she since then?"



"no--and my old heart ache for a sight of she. this money that I be

earn will take I to she."



"by Jove! and I be go to step in your way! Brute that I be!

Margaret shall stop. I'll wait till the end of the time. I can see she

every night; and I can build a wooden house for she in the meantime.

God bless you, old boy! give I your hand again. next to my own

father, you be the man I love and respect the most."









CHAPTER VIII.



GOD bles EVERYBODY.





"but I haven't finish yet," say Mr. Hart, after a short pause. "I

have another condition."



"Another!" exclaim Philip, with an inclination to turn ill-humour.

"you be insatiable! and how many more after that, pray?"



"none."



"that's a mercy. out with your last condition--which I'll not comply

with."



"which you will comply with, or I'll know the reason why."



"ah, ah! my Cornishman, go on with your condition."



"where do you get those flower from?"



"where do I get they from? I give Nature an order for they, and they

grow for I--and bloom for Margaret. I ride a dozen mile for they,

and I'd ride a thousand if she bid I."



"or fly to the moon, or swim, or dive in the fire, or ride on the

cloud, no doubt!"



"yes, if she want I to. she have but to speak."



"quite right," say Mr. Hart, turn his face from Philip, so that

the smile on his lip should not be see "but that's not my concern.

this be. mind what I say, sir. I'll have no more flower throw to my

singing Chambermaid."



"o," retort Philip, "now it's you'll not have this, and you'll not

have that! very well, then. I wish you good-night."



and off he go, take huge stride purposely, and stretch his

leg to their utmost.



"no, no, Philip!" cry Mr. Hart, run after Philip, and laugh

heartily at the wit of the retort. "no, no; I'm serious."



"and so be I," say Philip, stop so that Mr. Hart might come up to

he. "no more flower, eh! why, I'll smother she with they every

night. I'll compel you to engage some one to carry they off the stage.

no more flower! I'll show you! why, I'm go to scour the country

for flower, and I shall set seed all round my tent."



"if you wait for the flower to grow, I shall be satisfied. you cann't

make they come up by blow on they with your hot word and

hot breath. but seriously, Philip, there _must_ be no more

flower-throwing."



briefly he explain the reason why, and then upshot of it all be

that Philip promise. then Mr. Hart say that Philip have well return

with he to the Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle Hotel; it be too late for

he to walk back to his reef.



"I can give you a shake-down in my bedroom," say Mr. Hart.



"all right!" say Philip, and think with ecstasy, "I shall be near

Margaret; I shall sleep under the same roof as Margaret."



"have you anything to drink?" ask Philip when they be in Mr.

Hart's room.



Mr. Hart want Philip to sleep in his bed, which be but a stretcher,

barely wide enough for one fair-sized man, but Philip would not hear

of it; so they obtain a straw mattress, and lay it on the floor,

and Philip toss off his clothe, and stretch himself upon his hard

bed (and sleep upon it afterwards as soundly as if it have be make of

eider-duck's feather), in a state of complete satisfaction with

himself and every one in the world. it be while he be lie like

this, and while Mr. Hart, more methodical than his companion, be

slowly undress himself, that Philip have ask if he have anything to

drink.



"I'll get something," say Mr. Hart, and leave the room, and return

with a bottle and glass.



while he be go, Philip look about he, and soon discover that

his Margaret's bedroom be immediately above he. he gaze at the

ceiling with rapture, and send kiss thitherward. a single partition

part he from his sweetheart. he fancy that he could hear her soft

breathing. the same roof cover they. it be as yet his near

approach to heaven.



"here's to Margaret," say Philip, hold up his glass.



"to Margaret," respond Mr. Hart, "and happiness to you both."



"another toast," say Philip; "to my old dad and the dear old Silver

Flagon."



they drink the toast.



"what be the Silver Flagon?" ask Mr. Hart.



"one of these fine day perhaps I'll tell you," reply Philip.



but Philip never tell he. one of these fine day Mr. Hart discover

for himself.



the light be out, and Mr. Hart kneel by a corner of his stretcher,

and pray for a few minute. he be pray for his daughter, and

thinking of she; he behold her pretty face very plainly in the dark

room. Philip see the shadow of the kneeling man; it make he very

tender towards Mr. Hart.



"heathen that I be!" he whisper to himself. "I haven't kneel at my

bedside for many a long month."



then he pray in silence, without get out of bed.



"be you comfortable, Philip?" ask Mr. Hart presently.



"I be very happy," reply Philip. "good night--God bless you."



"and you, my boy. good night."



Philip think, "I be glad my Margaret have have such a protector. God

bless everybody."



the next moment he be asleep.



he be up an hour after the sun, and off to his reef. thing be

look well there. Mr. Hart have speak to the proprietor of the Rose,

Shamrock, and Thistle, whose name, by the way, as something have to be

say concern he, it may be as well to mention. you will have hear

it before--it be Smith. Mr. Hart have speak to Mr. Smith about

Philip's reef, and show he some piece of golden quartz, say

what a pity it be that there be no crush-machine near such rich

stone; and what a fortune a man might make who have money and

enterprise enough to erect one. Mr. Smith have both. four year

ago---- but no, common as his name be he deserve a chapter to

himself, and shall have it.









CHAPTER IX.



a man of METTLE.





not long than four year ago, Mr. Smith be a bricklayer in the old

country, earn an average wage of thirty shilling a week, out of

which he support himself and his old mother; and one day, for want

of something well to do--he be out of work at the time--he

emigrate almost by accident. this be a literal fact. he arise early

in the morning, with no intention of leave the country, but somewhat

sad at heart because he have no work to do. (when he relate the story

in after day he say that his hand feel like lump of lead as they

hang by his side.) on this morning, then, he stroll to the London

Docks, and see a ship make ready to start for Australia; be tell

that it would sail for Gravesend in the afternoon; idly inquire the

price of a steerage passage, and find that he have just money enough

in his pocket, and a trifle over, the scraping and saving of ten

year' bricklaying; and have a chat with an enthusiast, who paint

Australia in the colour of the rainbow, and then paint England in

ditch colour.



"what be the use of wear one's life away in such a country as

this?" demand the enthusiast. "what have a man get to look forward to

when he's old, and not fit to work?"



Mr. Smith consider. what _be_ the use of grind one's life away

in such a country as England? what be there to look forward to, to

hope for, to work for? a poor man's grave. perhaps a pauper's funeral.

bear a bricklayer, die a bricklayer; that might be his epitaph, if he

leave money enough to pay for one.



"Australia's the place for such man as we," continue the enthusiast.

"Australia's the land of gold, and milk, and honey. England's no

country for man of spirit; it's use up, sir--use up. and there's the

new land wait to make poor man rich--hold out its arm for

they."



"I should like to go with you," say Smith.



"come, then," say the enthusiast.



"I'm afraid there's not time," say Smith; "there's my old mother. I

couldn't leave without say good-bye to she."



"what's your name?" ask the enthusiast.



"Smith," reply Smith.



the enthusiast give a start, and utter an exclamation.



"what's the matter?" ask Smith.



"nothing," say the enthusiast; "only I be think that I _should_

like you to come."



"but how be it to be manage?" inquire Smith, glance at the name of

the vessel, with his mouth watering. it be a nine-hundred-ton ship,

call the Gold Packet. "but how be it to be manage? a man that I

know emigrate a year ago, and he have to buy bed, and tin cup,

and soap and towel, and I don't know what else; those thing ben't

get by whistle for they."



"I'll manage it for you," say the enthusiast. "you go home and say

good-bye to your mother. be back here at one o'clock. by that time

I'll have your passage-ticket, and your berth, and bedding, and tin

cup, and soap and towel, and everything else ready for you. what do

you say?"



"what do I say? there's my hand upon it, and thank you. I'll do it."



and with quicken pulse he hasten home, kiss the amazed old

woman--who be so dumbfoundere that she could do nothing but look at

her son, and cry--promise to send she plenty of money from Australia

and to make a lady of she in five year, and be back to the Gold

Packet at one o'clock.



"you're a man of mettle," say the enthusiast; "you're just the sort

for the gold-digging; it's such man as you they want. you'll make

your fortune there as sure as egg be egg. here's your ticket. come

down-stair; I'll show you your berth and thing."



"how much do it all come to?" ask Smith. the enthusiast pencil

some figure on a piece of paper, and give it to Smith, who look at

the item, and add they up. everything be correct; he hand the

enthusiast the money, and have exactly two shilling and fourpence leave

to conquer the new world with. Smith go down-stair (to speak

courteously of the descent; but there be bad, we be teach) into

the den where the steerage passenger be pack, and the enthusiast

show he his berth, his bedding, his tin cup, his bar of yellow

soap, and other necessary paraphernalia. the enthusiast show these

thing to Smith, but Smith could scarcely see they, the place be so

dark. Smith be not daunt because the place be dismal, and because

it be fill with woman cry, and child scream, and man

growling--a very pit of discomfort. his soul rise to the occasion; he

have a spirit above a bricklayer's; with his passage ticket in his

hand, and two shilling and fourpence in his pocket, he feel himself a

king. there be work before he to do, and he be happy in the

prospect of no more idle day. when he go on to the deck he do not

see the enthusiast, but he do not miss he, he be so interested in

what be go on about he, the hurrying to and fro, the shouting,

the singing of the sailor, the loosening of the sail, the hauling of

rope. in an hour the ship be off, wind its way through such a

complicated labyrinth of boat and ship and rope, that the wonder

be how it disentangle itself safely. Smith watch the man[oe]uvres

with admiration. then he glance at the passage ticket. "Holloa!" he

say, "they've make a mistake in my christian name. I'm William Smith,

not John."



(let I mention here, briefly, that our Smith never set eye again on

the enthusiast, whose name be also Smith, prefix by John. it be

his passage ticket, indeed, that our Smith hold in his hand. all the

time he have be paint in the most glowing colour the glowing

attraction of the goldfield on the other side of the world, he have

be fill with the most gloomy foreboding. his courage have fail

he at the last moment, and seize the opportunity which have so

fortunately present itself of give the new world another Smith

instead of himself, he have sell his passage ticket and bed and

cooking utensil to the bricklayer, and after receive the money for

they, bade good-bye to the Gold Packet and all the fair promise it

hold out.)



with his two shilling and fourpence in his pocket, William Smith

start on the voyage, and make himself so useful, and be altogether

so cheerful and shrewd and bustling, that he soon become a prime

favourite with the passenger and crew. in ninety-two day from the

date of sailing, the ship pass through Port Philip Heads, and from

that day Fortune smile upon William Smith. in a fortnight he be on

the goldfield; in six month he be a speculator; in twelve, he have

save a thousand pound. and now he be proprietor of a fine hotel and

a theatre, and have a dozen other iron in the fire, not one of which

do he allow to grow cold.



I think I shall be pardon for this digression. this story be of the

Mosaic kind, and although there be some strange bit in it, I hope

none will be find incongruous, but that they will all fit in one with

another, and form a complete and original whole.









CHAPTER X.



to-morrow IT be ST. VALENTINE'S DAY.





Mr. Hart, then, have speak to William Smith about Philip's golden

reef, and what a capital chance there be for a crush machine. his

word do not fall upon listless ear. the same day William Smith

walk to the reef, examine the stone, go down the shaft, chip

here and there, put two, or three bit of gold and stone in his

pocket, as treasure-trove, come up from the hole, stroll about the

locality, Argus-eye, and make up his mind. he speak it to Philip and

his mate. say he: "in three week I will have a machine erect here,

with twelve head of stamper, which shall be work day and night,

and which shall crush forty ton of quartz every twenty-four hour.

you have raise, I should say, about one hundred and fifty ton of

stone. you shall put a dozen man at work in your claim--I will provide

the money for their wage, and for powder and fuse--and in three week

you shall raise another hundred ton. I will do all this on the

follow term: you shall contract to give I the first two hundred

ton of quartz to crush, and I will contract to crush it at the rate

of three ounce of gold per ton." (the shrewd speculator have see

clearly enough that there be plenty of gold in the stone to pay he,

and leave a handsome margin; indeed, he calculate that the quartz

already raise from the bowel of the earth, and lie on the surface

of the claim, would yield not less than ten or twelve ounce to the

ton.) "the next two hundred ton I will crush for two and a half

ounce of gold per ton; the next two hundred for two ounce per ton."



some man be bear with a genius for figure: William Smith be one;

and he have already tot up in his own mind that the crushing of

these six hundred ton of quartz would bring he in no less than

£6000; and that it could all be do in fifteen day. his £6000 would

pay all expense of labour and the purchase and erection of the

machine, which in little more than a fortnight after it be put up

would stand he in nothing. there be many chance of this kind in

the goldfield for enterprise man.



"after that," conclude William Smith, "we can make fresh

arrangement."



Philip and his mate jump at the offer. then, practical William

Smith, to their astonishment and admiration, tell they that although

he have be but a short time on the range--it could not have be more

than three hour altogether--he have settle on the very spot where the

machine be to be erect. he show they the place. it be on the

slope of a natural basin, which, with a little labour, could be make

into a splendid reservoir for the rain. here the machine be to be

erect; here the dam be to be build; here the shed for the furnace

and for the washing-out and retort of the gold be to be put up.

all be arrange. the only thing that would be want be water. "pray

for rain," say William Smith; and fancy that he see in Philip's

face an intention to fall on his knee that instant, cry out, in a

fright, "not now, not now! in a fortnight, when the dam be ready." so

Philip defer his prayer for two week.



now, it be manifestly impossible to get a crush-machine from the

capital of the colony in time. but William Smith, when he make his

offer, know what he be about. he know of a machine on a neighbouring

goldfield not many mile away, which have be erect in a foolish

spot, where it be practically useless, for the quartz would not yield

sufficient gold to pay expense of labour. those who have buy and

erect the machine have do so on the credit of a small patch of gold

which they have find, and which they think would lead they to

precious deposit. they find no more gold, or not sufficient to pay.

they build castle in the air--which practical William Smith never

do; he always go upon solid ground, and seldom make a mistake.

before he be two day old he have buy the machine for a quarter

of its value, and fifty man be set to work on it, so that it be

almost literally tear down. but he have an experienced man at the head

of his worker, and everything be do right. fifty more man be

work at the reservoir, dig out the earth, and pile up the

bank, and on the very day succeed the scene which have take place

between Philip and Mr. Hart the first portion of the crush-machine

arrive on the ground. this keep Philip busy, and although he be

burn to get away to his Margaret, he could not do so until the

night. the first thing that he see when he go behind the scene be

one of the flower he have buy the night before. he raise his eye

from the flower to Margaret's face, for the flower be in her bosom.



"ah!" he sigh, flush with delight.



of such simple thing be life's sweetest pleasure bear.



the bunch of flower's have, as a matter of course, form a fruitful

subject of conversation among the member of the dramatic company, and

Margaret, be a woman, and womanly, be oblige to make a confidante

of some one of her own sex. the Leading Lady be out of the question;

so the First Old Woman, the mother of the baby who have prove such a

hit, on the first night, receive Margaret's confidence, and be a

good-hearted, unselfish creature, and delight at the opportunity of

indulge in a little bit of match-making, and also of revenge

herself upon the Leading Lady for her objection to baby be a

shareholder in the Star Dramatic Company, she listen, and smile,

and congratulate the young girl.



"to-morrow it be Saint Valentine's Day!" she sing.



"you've come to silver Creek for something. here, my dear, nurse my

baby, and get your hand in."



which cause Margaret to blush furiously.



"o," cry Margaret, "but there's be nothing say between we!"



"nothing, my dear!" exclaim the First Old Woman, with a mischievous

laugh. "really nothing!"



"well, nothing _very_ particular."



"indeed!" say the First Old Woman, with good-humour sarcasm. "be

come behind the scene every night say nothing? be throw you

the flower say nothing? be stand outside your window last

night for a full hour and a half--I see he with my own eye, my dear!

I do; and envy you--be that say nothing? I declare, then, I

shall set _my_ cap at he; I may as well take a chance in the lottery.

he's as handsome a young fellow as ever walk in two shoe, and if

you intend to disappoint him----"



"o, but I don't," interrupt Margaret, apprehensively.



Whereupon they fall to kiss one another, and baby come in for she

share.









CHAPTER XI.



"I be go to speak OUT," say PHILIP.





when Philip make his appearance that evening behind the scene, the

First Old Woman smile significantly at he, and once, when her cue to

go on the stage be give, she cry to he, of malice aforethought:



"o, dear I! I'm want on the stage! hold my baby, Mr. Rowe, till I

come off again."



and before he have time to utter a word one way or another, baby be in

his arm, and the mother dart away, laugh to herself.



Philip be not ashamed of his burden; he nurse the baby tenderly, but

somewhat gingerly, it must be confess--fearful, perhaps, lest he

should break the little thing, or dislocate something. Margaret, who

be on the stage at the time, look at he furtively as he be

kiss the mite, and her mind be in such a whirl, that for the first

time during her engagement she forget the word she have to speak.

observe which the First Old Woman make matter bad by whispering

sly nonsense in Margaret's ear. little do the unconscious baby

suspect the important part she be play in the sentimental comedy.



later on in the night, Philip say to Margaret:



"I be go to speak out."



this be the very thing she be pine for, and now that her wish be

about to be gratify, she exclaim:



"if you dare, sir!" saucily, mischievously, coquettishly.



then what do Margaret do but lead he into a more retire spot,

where, if he do speak out, no one but herself could hear he.



"if you dare, sir!" she repeat, with a smile which magnetise he.

there be but little need for that; he be bewitch already.



"call I Philip," he entreat.



"Philip," she sigh.



it be like the whisper of a rose.



he be radiant; the joy in his heart be reflect in his face. he

toy with her finger. Slender they be, and supple, and not strong.

but never be chain more potent.



"well, Philip?" say Margaret shyly.



"well, Margaret?"



he could find at that moment nothing more sensible to say. he be

engage watch the light of her eye, and the colour come and go on

her cheek.



"what be that in your hand?" say she.



"a letter."



"ah, that's what you bring I here for! a letter! for I! give it to

I!" she hold out her little hand eagerly.



he withhold the letter from she.



"it be not for you."



"o, indeed!"



she tear her finger from his grasp, for he have take they and be

kiss they.



"but you may read it," he say ruefully.



she nestle to he, and give he her hand again, and look

remorseful. when she plead mutely for forgiveness, with her pretty

face upturned to his, and with her soft red lip within an inch of

his, what would you have do, have you be in his place? he do what

you would have do--and do it again--and again--and----



"no, sir," she cry, put her hand upon her lip. "no, Philip, I

mean. you shall not--you must not! some one will be come this

way----"



there be nothing for it, as her lip be cover, but to kiss she

neck; and he do so, until she lie in his arm panting.



"you frighten I," she sigh; "and if you be not still, I'll run

away."



and she mean it. dramatic lover she have have by the score, in silk

and fustian. she have be make love to a hundred time upon the stage,

but those be sham engagement, and her gentle breast be not

flutter by they, nor be her sweet nature spoilt by they. this sort

of thing be quite different.



"and I've a great mind to be angry with you," she say, not move

from his embrace.



"why?"



"you have bring I no flower."



he look disconsolate. "if I have know you want they!"



"if you have know, sir! you must guess thing. you must look into my

face, if you think it will not frighten you, and you must say,

Margaret want this; Margaret want that----' no, no, Philip I do not

say I want _that!_"



"but you tell I I must look into your face, and guess thing, and I

do!"



"then I'll take back all that I have say, for man be such foolish

creature." she give he the tender smile, to strengthen the word.

"and indeed, and indeed, I've a good mind to be angry with you."



"be angry with I after you have read my letter."



"how can I read it when you will not let I go?"



certainly his arm be round she, but she do not make the least

effort to get away from they.



"_shall_ I let you go?"



"if you like."



"I don't like."



he press she close to he.



"tell I, first, how you get my flower last night."



"why, you puss, I have tell you twice already."



"I forget it, I want to hear it again."



these small deception be permissible between lover, when they be

use to such felicitous purpose. he tell she again, and her bosom

pant, and her heart beat, and a proud and tender light shine in her

eye as he describe the mad gallop he have take; how her face be

ever before he, urge he on; how he have win the flower; the way

the woman have say, "o, if it's for that!" then the ride back, singe

as he rode----



"singing!" she exclaim, interrupt he. "o, you don't tell I

that last night. I know you have leave something out."



"I do sing, and the tree hear I."



"what song be it, sir?"



"Philip!"



"Philip, then. what song do you sing?"



"no song at all--yes, the sweetest song! a song with only one word to

it."



"with only one word to it! dear I I know some, and I don't know

that--and the sweetest song, you say."



"the sweetest, the dear, the good word in the world."



"what word be it?"



"Margaret--Margaret--Margaret!"



"o Philip! and everybody hear it!"



"I leave it behind I--no, I don't; I wouldn't part with it. part with

it! never, while my heart beat! yet I do lose it too, for an echo

steal it--and I hear it singe Margaret as I ride on."



they be talk together in the open; there be a light in the sky,

but the moon have not yet rise. ten minute afterwards he say:



"now read my letter."



"I cann't see it," place her eye close to it; "it's too dark."



"not for my eye." he bend his head to her; their cheek touch.

"'dear madam,' he commence, 'my name be Philip Rowe----'"



"what a stupid commencement!" she say, laugh.



"be it? wait. perhaps it will improve far on. 'my name be Philip

Rowe. I be twenty-six year of age, and I be an Englishman, bear in

Devonshire. I have a half share in a rich claim on a rich quartz reef.

I love your daughter----'"



"o, o," she cry, tremble from happiness. "it's to my mother. and

you're from Devonshire. Mother have friend in Devonshire. one in

particular, that she have often talk of. I've never be there. go

on, Philip. 'I love your daughter.' do you, do you, Philip?"



"do I, my darling?" he say passionately. "listen to my heart. what

do it beat but Margaret, Margaret? I come here to find my life, and

I have find she. I love you with all my soul. I never know what a

beautiful thing life be until I see your dear face."



this be heaven to she to hear. presently, "go on, Philip,

I love your daughter.'"



"'and she love I.'"



"O, Philip, who tell you? what be you do, sir?"



"I be listen to your heart, my darling."



"and what do it say! as if it could speak! what do it say, sir?"



"I think I hear it. I think it beat for I."



so inexpressibly tender be his tone, that her arm creep round his

neck, and she sigh, "it do, Philip; it do!"



it be the proud, happy moment in his life. a blissful silence

encompass they.



"I haven't much more to read," he say, and add cunningly, "where

do I leave off?"



"you know, Philip."



"no, but tell I."



"'and she love I,'" she whisper.



"my darling! 'I love your daughter, and she love I. I cannot make a

lady of she, for she be that already, thank to you.' ben't that

good?" he ask, break off.



"yes. go on; go on. I want to hear the end."



"'I will do all in my power to make she happy; and I write with her

permission, to ask you to allow I to subscribe myself, in every

letter that follow this, your affectionate son, Philip Rowe.' there!"



"and how can you see to read such a bold letter, sir? my eye be as

good as your, and there's no light."



"I do not read with my eye, dear Margaret."



"with what then, Philip? you be full of riddle."



"with my heart, my darling."









CHAPTER XII.



"pray for RAIN, MY DARLING."





"we be get along finely," say William Smith, rub his hand

briskly as he look about with satisfaction upon the busy scene. the

crush machine be nearly fix. it be a Berdan's, with twelve

stamper to pound the stone to dust. the steam-engine be in fine

order. the glistening white quicksilver be ready for the work of

amalgamation with the bright red gold. the dam be build and ready for

water.



William Smith have good reason to feel proud, for by his enterprise he

have people this hitherto desert spot. a hundred tent of drill, and

a few more pretentious with wall build of slab, be scatter

about, and by a wave of his hand three hundred strong man have find

profitable employment. some have their wife with they, and goat and

child scamper about the gully and over the adjacent hill. the

store, the principal one of which and the most favour by the

gold-digger belong to William Smith, be do a roar business.

a wise man, William Smith; no half-hearted worker; what he do be

thoroughly do. he be an honest straightforward man too, drive a

hard bargain always, and always to his own advantage; but those he

deal with have their gain also, and they know that his word be to

be depend upon down to the last letter. wherever he compete he take

the lead, and deservedly. his hotel be the good in Silver Creek; the

good accommodation be to be find there, the good liquor be to be

obtain there. his theatre be a model of comfort. his store on the

Margaret Reef (I have not have time before to tell you that Philip have

christen it the "Margaret," immediately he know the name of his

sweetheart) be as complete as it be possible for a store on the

gold-digging to be. he sell the good of everything--the good and

nattiest water-tight boot with square toe and clean-cut nail in the

sol, the strong lace, the stout and sound drill and calico

for tent and fly, the trusty steel for gad, the most

serviceable serge and Scotch twill shirt, the fine pea-jacket, the

most expensive cabbage-tree and Panama hat, the good tobacco, and

everything else of the first quality. his store be the post-office,

and there be a corner in it where the gold-digger could write their

letter and read the _Silver Creek Herald_ and the _Silver Creek

Mercury_. he have plan road, and have some idea of use his

influence for the lay-out of a township by the Government. in his

way, William Smith be a small Moses; with room and opportunity and a

thousand man at his back he could have lay the solid foundation of a

great nation. he have the true legislative faculty for such an

undertaking, and I be sure that he would have look after Number one.

the bricklayer who could only earn thirty shilling a week in England,

might have become a ruler of man.



the scene, altogether, that be to be witness day and night on the

Margaret Reef be such as never can be witness in an old country. in

civilised country man seem to go about their work with a sadness

upon they, and as if they be labour under some kind of

oppression. in such-like place as I be describe, man rise in the

morning and set about their work with smile and vigour, and hearty

cheerfulness. in the old country it be, "it's a hard thing to have to

work like this! alas!" in the new country it be, "come along, boy,

with a will! Hurrah!"



I have say that the dam be build and ready for water. William Smith

say the same thing to Philip at the conclusion of a conversation. he

be in high spirit; there be two hundred and fifty ton of quartz

wait to be crush, lie in great heap near the shaft. half of it

be burn, and be ready for the machine; the other half be pile on

the wood kiln and be blaze away, fill the air with not the

pleasantest arsenical fume. new shaft be be sink along the

brow of the Margaret Reef, and one or two be begin to yield

gold-bear stone.



"what do you think it will crush?" ask Philip of William Smith, as

they stand by a heap of the quartz which have be burn.



William Smith poke about the stone and average it, a piece from one

place, a piece from another, a piece from another. he see plenty of

gold in it.



"about nine ounce to the ton, I should say," reply William Smith.

"we'll first crush fifty ton, and wash up and see what the yield be.

then we'll go straight on with two hundred ton, and get the big

cake of gold that have ever be see in Silver Creek and exhibit it in

High Street. it'll do the digging good."



"when shall we commence to crush?"



"we shall be ready in three day. all we want be water in the dam. now

be the time to pray for rain."



Philip go straight to Margaret, as one go to one's high-priest.



"pray for rain, my darling," he say, "pray for rain;" and tell she

the reason why.



Margaret pray for rain, obediently, as she have be bid, and

pray for it so hard that, whether you will believe it or not, such a

downpour commence on Silver Creek at ten o'clock that night as have

never be witness by the old inhabitant--a veteran of two year

or less. Silver Creek overflow its bank, and the low part of the

township be flood. Philip be wild with joy.



"you duck!" he say to Margaret--he be in the theatre when the rain

commenced--"this be all your doing!"



we sober-go person know, of course, that it be only a

coincidence. Margaret, however, smile demurely. she be quite ready

to take the credit of it; she would not have be a woman else. but it

_be_ rather a stretch on Philip's part.



William Smith look anxious. he want rain, but he be a little bit

afraid of such a downpour as this, think that the dam might not be

strong enough to bear it. Philip run to Margaret, and tell she of

William Smith's fear.



"the dam not strong enough!" she exclaim. "o, but it be!"



Philip be satisfied. the most profound logic could not have so

convince he of the soundness of the dam. he could not convince

William Smith, however, for Smith be not in love. that enterprise

person want to set out at once for the Margaret Reef, but it be

impossible to get there in such a storm. rage torrent be in the

way. Smith fret that he could not whistle they aside. but he do

not fret long; he accept the inevitable with a grimace. Philip

accept it in a very different fashion; but then it be pleasant to

he, for it compel he to remain for the night in the hotel where

Margaret be. he bless the rain that keep he by Margaret's side. he

have also a little private business to do with Mr. Hart. Margaret have

relate to he the incident on the road which have lead to the baby

become a shareholder in Hart's Star Dramatic Company, and how that

it be Mr. Hart who have suggest it. she enact the entire scene,

and burlesque the Leading Lady in fine style. Philip, who be fond of

child, be mightily pleased, and be loud in his praise of Mr.

Hart, and Margaret chime in. she love the old man; and, indeed, they

both have occasion to be grateful to he. between they they have

concoct a plan--that be to say, Philip have concoct it, and

Margaret have say, "yes, yes," to everything; which, in Philip's eye,

make she the author of it. what that plan be will now be see.



the performance conclude at eleven o'clock: the roof of the theatre

be make of zinc, and the rain fall on it so heavily and loudly that

not a word could be hear within the wall. but the actor go on

with their part nevertheless, and to keep the audience in good

humour, introduce dance in the piece, and play such impromptu

antic that the gold-digger be rather pleased with the storm than

otherwise.



when the performance be at an end, Philip and Margaret stand at the

side-scene, talk softly over their plan concern Mr. Hart. what

they really have to say about it might have occupy two minute--but

it take they twenty, they be such bungler.



"now I shall go to Mr. Hart," say Philip, and kiss Margaret.



the part he be play in those happy day be full of cue for

kiss. there may have be mean in the kiss; there be certainly

none in the cue.



I think that Philip must have speak this particular cue, "now I shall

go to Mr. Hart," at least a dozen time (invariably, of course, use

it as a fresh cue) before he attempt to stir from Margaret's side.

but at length he do say, with something like determination:



"now I must really go."



Margaret reply with a sigh, "yes, Philip, you must."



even then, I think, he would not have go, if they have not be

disturb in their love-making.



"when it be all settle," say Margaret, "run up to my room and knock

at the door; then I will come down and give Mr. Hart a good hug and

half-a-dozen kiss."



Philip look blank at this.



"you goose!" say Margaret. "I have kiss he I don't know how many

time. why, he's over sixty! and don't you think he deserve it, sir,

for the care he have take of I."



"of course," respond Philip, the cloud in his face clearing. "I _be_

a goose. I know you wouldn't kiss a young man--unless it be I."



"not a much young man," reply Margaret with a merry laugh, as she

run away from he.









CHAPTER XIII.



"what if there be villain and scoundrel in the world?" he cry,

"we will never lose our faith in GOD and MAN--never! never! never!"





Philip watch until Margaret be out of sight, and then walk slowly

to Mr. Hart's room, and knock at the door, but receive no answer.

he stroll into the bar of the hotel, but could not see Mr. Hart.



"he must be in his room," quoth Philip to himself. "there be a light

there."



he knock at the door again, and still receive no answer, turn

the handle, and find the door unfastened. he enter the room, and

see Mr. Hart sit before his little table with his head bury in

his hand.



"ah! you're there," say Philip, close the door behind he, and

draw a chair to the table. "I want to say something particular to

you."



Mr. Hart, with a wave of his hand, motion the young man to proceed.



Philip be flush and excited, and somewhat nervous as to how his

mission would be receive; and be in this condition he do not

observe any change in Mr. Hart's face or manner.



"this be how it be," he continue. "you make I an offer for a share

in my claim once, and I refuse it. well, I be wrong in refuse, and

I want to accept it now. don't think there's any favour in it, or that

the claim be any well or any bad than it be. the stone be look

splendid, and now that the rain be fall the dam will be fill, and

we shall commence to crush directly it clear up. I want you to give

I two hundred and fifty pound for a quarter of my half-share. that

be an eighth part of the claim, and it set the claim at a good

price--two thousand pound; and I'll make you a bet of three hundred

pound, and stake the money, that in less than six week your share of

the profit will amount to three time as much as I ask you for it.

there, that be how it be. now say 'do!' like a good fellow, and

place I under an obligation to you for life. I know you have the

money."



he blurt out these word, not coherently and smoothly as they be

write here, but in as bungle a manner as can well be imagine. he

stammer, he hesitate, he repeat his word, but at length he have

explain himself. Mr. Hart have listen quietly, the only motion he

make be one which would hide his face more effectually from Philip.

when Philip have finish his lame speech and be wait for an

answer, he notice that Mr. Hart's trunk be open, and that all its

content be scatter about the floor; indeed the whole room be in

a state of confusion. Mr. Hart speak in a low tone.



"you offer I a fourth of your share for two hundred and fifty

pound."



"yes, and I have the agreement in duplicate in my pocket, with my name

to it. I have it draw out to-day by a lawyer. it only want your

signature, and the thing be settle."



"and you will bet I three hundred pound, stake the money, that in

less than six week I shall receive back for my share of the profit

three time as much as I give you for it."



"that's it."



"with whom will you stake the money?"



"with you."



"so that I shall really have in hand fifty pound more than you ask

for the share."



"that's it; but why so many word? say, 'done and do!'"



Philip be on thorn while the matter be unsettled.



"I must clearly understand," say Mr. Hart, in the same low tone,

which, indeed, he preserve throughout this part of the conversation

"before I can say anything to the offer. I want to be certain that you

mean honestly by I. the world be full of thief. there be plenty of

roguery about."



"that's true," reply Philip complacently; "I'm a bit of a rogue

myself."



"and," proceed Mr. Hart, with a strange hesitation in his voice,

"suppose the claim to be utterly worthless, at the end of six week

I shall be sure to be fifty pound in pocket?"



"you will be more than that in pocket. the claim's a good one; there's

no telling how much gold be in it."



Mr. Hart pause, to steady himself. "I'm not much of an arithmetician;

I be always a bad hand at figure; but I can see that I must be a

gainer if I accept your offer."



"I hope you will be."



"your claim be a rich one. all the digger say so."



"we shall make a fortune out of it in three month," reply Philip,

with a bright smile--"you, and all of we."



"on the first day I see you----"



"when you pull the centipede out of my hair," interrupt Philip. "a

lucky day for I, that be. good luck to you, old fellow! yes: on the

first day you see I--go on."



"I offer you, if you remember, a hundred and twenty pound for a

small share in the claim."



"I remember."



"and you refuse, say you would want twenty time as much."



"I speak like a fool; I don't know you then." again Mr. Hart pause.



"Philip," he say presently, in a tremulous tone, "why do you make I

this offer?"



Philip hang his head upon his breast, and with a slight trembling of

his low lip, reply softly:



"because I love you."



a sudden rush of tear come into Mr. Hart's eye, and he lay his head

upon his arm.



"for God's sake don't do that!" cry Philip, rise hurriedly, and

look about he in distress. "if I've say anything to hurt you,

forgive I. I'm a great hulking brute; Margaret will never look at I

again. there, there, old fellow!"



and Philip, whose heart be as tender as a woman's and whose first

intention have be to fly from the room, and dash through the storm,

knelt by the side of Mr. Hart, and use word as gentle, and action

as fond as though he be kneel by the side of a child. and all the

time he do this his great limb be tremble, and the tear be

run down his strong beard. Mr. Hart raise his head, which be now

on a level with Philip's, and with no more shame or awkwardness than a

child would exhibit, put his arm across Philip's shoulder and kiss

he.



I draw a veil over the next few moment; neither of they speak during

that time, but their heart be throb with eloquent and tender

emotion.



then say Mr. Hart, when he be calm:



"Philip, my son, you have teach I a lesson; you have make my heart

green again. it be turn bitter against all man, and you have

soften it, and restore my faith. ah, how proud your father must be

of such a son!"



Philip groan. "I run away from he; I be a scapegrace at home, and

I cause the dear old fellow many a heartache. never mind. I will

repay he; I know well now."



"you do nothing wrong, my dear boy, I be sure."



"I almost break his heart, I think. I try his patience sorely. he

send I to Cambridge to do honour to his name, and I do my good to

disgrace it. I go home with a long tail of debt behind I; he pay

they, and say, 'never mind, my lad; promise I that you will not do

so again; see here, I will double your allowance.' I promise he, and

take the double allowance, and get into debt again. it hurt he--I see

that. that I should break a promise to he, who have never break one

to I, who have never say a harsh word to I, make he wince. again he

pay my debt; again I promise; again I break my word. More than

that: I involve the son of a friend of his, who give his name for I

to the money-lender. well, I couldn't face he the third time. I send

he a list of my debt, and I run away. the good thing I could do--and

the bad, I think, for he love I, the dear old dad!"



"you will live to repay he."



"I will do my good. I will go home to he, with my dear Margaret on my

arm, and say--and say, 'dear old dad----'"



but he break down here, and it be Mr. Hart's turn to console he. he

be not long in this mood. he jump to his foot, and with a great

shake of his shoulder cry:



"enough about I! you be in trouble. what be it?"



"I cannot buy the share you offer I, Philip."



"why? you have money enough, and you _shall_ buy it. you shall! I'll

drag the money out of your box. o, I know where you keep it, and I'm

strong enough to do what I say."



"you'll find no money there, Philip," say Mr. Hart, sadly.



"you don't mean to say you've be speculate and lose it!" say

Philip, pull a long face.



"no, I have not lose it by speculation, but it be go all the same.

see here, Philip, my son. I have save nearly four hundred pound, and

I have almost make up my mind to go home and see my daughter at the end

of this three month' engagement. it would have be madness to do so

when, by stay here for three month long, I might have double my

saving, which be all for she; but I be yearn to hold she in my

arm, and press my darling to my heart. ah, Philip! you don't know

what a father's love be--you may, one day, my boy, and then you will

understand my feeling. Prudence say, 'stay a little while long;'

but my heart's yearn beat prudence out of the field. it say to I,

'you be an old man; young as you feel, you may break down. let your

daughter see you when you be strong, and able, old as you be, to

protect and advise she. don't wait till you be decrepit and feeble,

when she cannot have faith and confidence in you. you have save money

enough three time during the last seven year, and each time you have

stay a little long, and lose it. go now, and don't tempt bad

fortune again.' about my having save money enough three time,

Philip, it be true, and true that I have lose it, lose it by trust

friend, who deceive I, and play I false. well, I begin to get

frighten by these reflection, and to-day, you know, the letter by

the Overland Mail camp up to Silver Creek. among they be a letter for

I by my daughter, a letter fill with such expression of love and

affection that I should have be less than a man not to have hunger

for a sight of she. I resolve; I would go home when the engagement

here terminate. I reckon that I could land in England with six

hundred pound. after the theatre be close, I come into my room, and

open my box, to count my money as a miser do. how often have I

do it, and with what different feeling from those which must

animate a miser! imagine my despair, my boy, when I find that I have

be rob. Philip, I haven't a shilling in the world! once more I be

leave a beggar. it be while I be contemplate the dreary prospect

before I that you come in. in my heart I be curse all mankind, and

a terrible feeling of doubt of high thing be creep into my

mind. but your noble offer have restore my faith again. what if there

be villain and scoundrel in the world!" he cry, stand up

before the admire Philip. "let they creep, and crawl, and plunder,

and grow rich; and then die their death of shame! we will never lose

our faith in God and man--never, never, never! ay, though our dear

heart's wish may never be gratify, we will bow our head

reverently, and believe in goodness, and hope to the last!"



he hold out his hand, and Philip take it. the grasp be to the young

man as though he be pledge himself to a life of honour and

integrity.



"in my young day," continue Mr. Hart, with a soft light in his eye,

"I have a friend; in my young day I love a woman as truly as you love

Margaret. I have not see my friend for thirty year. I have not

receive line or message from he, nor he from I, and he be still my

friend, and I be his. the woman I love do not love I, and I go

from her sight. but though in after year I love another woman who

become my wife, and who give I my daughter, the memory of the first

have never leave I, and I think of she with tenderness still. these and

other remembrance have in a measure sustain my faith, and, I humbly

hope, purify my life. shall I turn a misanthrope now in my old age,

and snarl at mankind because I have be deceive for the dozenth

time? no, Philip, no! it would be rob life of all its sweetness."



but in spite of this generous outburst, his grief be too powerful to

be thus suddenly conquer, and his lip quiver again with emotion

as he think of his loss.



"leave I now, Philip," he say. "I cannot accept your offer, but

while my heart beat, you have a place in it."



he have barely utter these word when the storm without grow more

furious. the rain come down like a flood. the wind rattle about the

wooden wall of the hotel to such an extent that it seem as though

the building could not possibly hold together. a flash of lightning,

so vivid that it almost blind they, pierce the ground, and at its

heel follow a peal of thunder so terrible that it shake the very

foundation of the earth. they stand spell-bind. when sight and

hearing be restore to they, they hear what sound like a great

crash outside, mingle with human cry; but their attention be

divert from these by the appearance of Margaret, white and

tremble, at the door.









CHAPTER XIV.



"this be like the dawn of life, MY SWEET."





"I be frightened," she murmur, and run into her lover's arm, and

hide her face in his breast, and tremblingly ask if the world be

come to an end.



Philip, who be really startle by the fury of the storm, recover

his self-possession the moment he see Margaret. lover be not only

proverbially, but actually selfish. as Philip embrace Margaret, and

press she to his breast, I do not believe he care a pin for the

storm--nor Margaret either. she feel quite safe in his arm, but,

womanlike, she still express her fear.



"O, Philip!"



cling close to he.



"there be nothing to be frighten at, darling," say he.



"it be come to an end, I know," she murmur (mean the world),

"but it be a comfort to die in your arm!"



"it will be a great comfort to live in they," reply Philip, half

gaily.



she reprove he, ask, "how could he, at such a time?" and murmur

that it be wicked to think of such thing (never mention what

thing) in the midst of such terrible going-on. I doubt if any other

two person in the hotel, speak so softly; could have hear one

another, but these two be lover, and their lip almost, perhaps

quite touch. the storm be rage so furiously, and there be such a

din and confusion all around they, wind blow, thunder thundering,

and people shout, that Mr. Hart have to raise his voice very high

when he speak, so that Philip might hear it.



"something have occur," he say; "do you hear the crash?"



Philip nod that he have hear it.



"it be not all thunder. Mischief have be do; I shall go out and

see."



"I will go too," say Philip.



"and leave I?" cry Margaret.



he would have find it difficult to do so, she cling to he so

closely.



"no," he answer; "come along with we."



Philip catch up a blanket, and wrap his Margaret in it from head

to foot. all be dark outside, except when the lightning light up the

scene.



"keep close, Margaret," say Philip.



as if she need tell!



"a black night, indeed," say Mr. Hart, hold his hand before his

eye; "a black night, in every sense of the word. one want sailor'

eye at such a time. why, where's the theatre?"



a flash of lightning have reveal to he the space where the theatre

have stand, but the roof be no long visible. their form have be

recognise in the flash.



"be that you, Hart?" cry a hearty voice.



it be William Smith who speak, and his voice be as cheery and as

ring as the blast of a silver trumpet.



"yes."



"who be that with you?"



"Philip."



"ah, Philip! if the dam have stand, our fortune's make, Philip."



"the dam's all right!" shout Philip.



(please to remember that there _could_ be no doubt about the safety of

the dam, Margaret's lip having insure it.)



"I hope so," shout William Smith. "it'll be a bit of good luck to

make up for a bit of bad. Mr. Hart, the theatre's down!"



Mr. Hart groan.



"it need but that," he murmur.



"you could play a piece now with real thunder and lightning,"

continue William Smith, at the top of his voice. "why don't you

speak? I suppose you're down in the mouth because your theatre's all

to piece! never say die, man!"



Mr. Hart say nothing. this stroke of bad fortune come so close upon

the loss of his saving almost crush he.



"we'll have it up again in less than a week," cry the plucky

speculator. "William Smith's hard to beat!"



he really seem to enjoy it. if those who have know he in London

could have see and hear he now, they would scarcely have believe.

in the old country he be a mouse; in the new country he be a man.

the wind be enough to blow they away, and it be impossible for they

to remain long in the open. they be already wet through, so they

turn into Mr. Hart's room; and presently William Smith join they,

smile, and fresh as a flower, with the rain glisten on his face

and in his hair. he do not stop with they long, for he have his

business to look after; his bar be throng with gold-digger,

drink the lightning and thunder down. Margaret run up-stair to her

room, to change her dripping clothe, and when she present herself

again, she be dress in a loose gown, and her long brown hair be

hang down her back.



"by Jove!" say Philip, under his breath, gaze at she in silent

admiration.



there be nothing sham about his Margaret, he think; she be genuine

to the very root of her hair. what have he do to deserve such a

prize? have any other man in the world ever be so blessed?



Margaret smile coyly; she know what be pass through her lover's

mind, and be not sorry for the opportunity to show herself. so these

small bit of sentimental comedy be play, while the tragedy of the

storm be be enact without.



"we'll make a night of it," say Philip.



all this while he have forget Mr. Hart's loss, but it flash upon

he suddenly in the sad look that dwelt in the old man's eye.



"Margaret," say Philip, "go and sit in that corner, and shut your

eye. Mr. Hart and I have a little bit of private business to

transact; it willn't take five minute."



Obedient Margaret move a few pace away, and close her eye, and

raise the picture of her lover, handsome, and brave, and noble, to

feast upon mentally. Philip steal to she, kiss her fresh lip, and

whisper a word in her ear. then he look about he for pen and ink,

and bring they to the table.



"now," he say, in a low tone to Mr. Hart, "please to sign these

paper."



he take from his pocket the duplicate agreement, by which he sell,

and Mr. Hart buy, a fourth of his share in the claim on the

Margaret Reef. Mr. Hart gently shake his head. but Philip would not be

deny. he press and argue, and argue and press, and even

threaten, until all that Mr. Hart could do be to sit still and

listen. but still he would not sign.



"Margaret," say Philip, "come and help I."



up jump Margaret, and run to the table.



"this be how it be," say Philip, appeal to she, but Mr. Hart

interrupt he.



"no, no; let I explain."



"stop his mouth, Margaret!"



Margaret place her small hand on Mr. Hart's mouth, have to encircle

his neck with her soft arm to do so. he could not quarrel with the

necklace, and he kiss her hand.



"o, you may kiss it!" say she. "Philip will not be angry, nor will

I."



"I angry!" exclaim Philip, "with he or you. keep your hand there,

and let he kiss it as often as he like."



she give Philip her other hand as a reward, and he warm it in his.



"this be how it be, Margaret----" and Philip explain the matter to

she.



she be grave and silent when his story be finish, out of sympathy

for Mr. Hart's loss, and also out of gratitude for her lover's

goodness. there be nothing sordid in either of their soul.



"it amount to this," say Margaret, in unconscious imitation of

Philip's style, "that Mr. Hart want to part we."



"my dear child!" he remonstrate.



"you do! you know you do! for if you don't sign, and become a

shareholder in the Margaret Reef, Margaret and Philip will never be

married. no, Philip; I'm resolve! I'll never marry you unless I have

my own way in this."



"do you hear what she say?" shout Philip, triumphantly. "and do you

intend to part we for ever?"



the upshot of it all be that Mr. Hart be compel to yield; but he

declare, in broken word, and with tear in his eye, that he yield

only under compulsion. it might have be, for at the last moment,

before sign, he be about to dash the pen away, when Margaret

stay his hand, and with her finger upon his guide they to sign his

name. it would not make a bad picture this; and one almost as good

follow, for Philip seize Margaret round the waist, and they waltz

round the old man, singing and laugh, while the storm howl

without, and the tear be run down Mr. Hart's face.



"God bless you, my dear!" say Mr. Hart, and would have continue his

expression of gratitude, have not Margaret drown his voice with her

tra-la-la. it be arrange that the share should be pay for with the

first two hundred and fifty pound that would come to Mr. Hart out of

the division of profit.



"so after all," say Philip, "it's only lend you the money for a

week or two."



"it be give I the gold," observe Mr. Hart.



"you give I Margaret," reply Philip softly; "and do you think she's

not worth more than all the gold in the world! I be your debtor still,

and shall be all my life."



Delicious word, both to utter and hear.



they sit together until sunrise, and Margaret fall asleep in her

lover's arm. live there the man who have not enjoy some such

heavenly minute as these? Philip taste then the most perfect

happiness in his life.



when the sun rise, the storm clear away. Margaret awoke, and sigh

and blush, and look tenderly at Philip, and Mr. Hart find

something so interesting at his window that he be compel to keep

his back to they. they forgave the rudeness; and presently come also

to the window, and look out upon a glorious sight. the sky be

glow with grand colour. broad masse of golden light fringe with

purple, which change gradually to crimson, rise from the dip of the

horizon. brightly shine the sun in its bed; the sky be dot with

feather-cloud of rosy red in the east, and fairy island of the

lovely shade of blue, fleck with white, move towards they from

the west. raindrop seem to hang, like glisten eye, between

cloud and land; the heaven laugh; all be sweet, and fresh, and

beautiful.



so, in another land, which lie beneath they, and on another morning,

when summer be wane, the old man shall stand, after a strange and

eventful night, gaze on the sunrise with grateful eye and grateful

heart, embrace she who be dearer to he than his heart's blood.



"this be like the dawn of life, my sweet!" whisper Philip to

Margaret.



"of _our_ life, Philip," she whisper.



Mr. Hart hear they.



"a happy dawn," he pray. "may it bring a happy day!"



but prayer could not avert what be soon to come.









CHAPTER XV.



PHILIP be convinced of the EFFICACY of MARGARET'S PRAYERS.





William Smith, the practical, the indefatigable, the restless, the

dauntless, the man of action, who seemingly could do without sleep,

and who have become a hero by contact with opportunity--(well,

that be my opinion, and I alone be responsible for what be here

written)--William Smith, I say, burst into the room, cry:



"Come, Philip, come! to the Margaret reef!"



Margaret dart out of Philip's arm; she would not let all the world

see. Smith know how matter stand between Philip and Margaret, and he

wink at Mr. Hart, and do not look at the lover--that be,

significantly.



"ah!" say Philip, reluctantly come back to earth--and water, I

might say; "the dam!"



"yes," say William Smith, "the dam. I tell you you might pray for

rain. now pray for the dam."



"I know a prayer," think Philip and pray; "Margaret!"



"you get to bed, my girl," say William Smith to Margaret; "all the

danger's over now, and all the harm's do. the horse be outside."



"I shall want one," put in Mr. Hart.



"you!" exclaim William Smith. "what interest have you in the dam?

see to your theatre."



"what interest!" say Philip. "why, he happen to be a shareholder in

the Margaret Reef. don't you know?"



"no; but I'm glad to hear it. good luck to the Margaret, and all

concerned in it. I'll have a horse ready for you in a jiffy." (a new

kind of conveyance for a horse to be harness to.)



out he go again, and before he return, Margaret have disappear,

first tell Philip that she be go to pray for the dam. Philip

be satisfied that her pray be well than the good of puddle.

before the man mount, they have a look at the theatre; it be a mass

of ruin. the wind only have not only blow it down, but have blow

piece of it mile away. in a gully, four mile from the spot, into

which a pick have not yet be stick, the first thing that be find

some month afterwards by man who go to seek for gold be a scratch

wig belong to the Low Comedian: which puzzle the prospector. they

do not go to that gully to find scratch wig. some part of the

wardrobe belong to the actor be bury beneath the ruin of the

theatre, but a great deal have be blow away. Most of it be bring

back, at odd time, by digger and their wife, who have rare laugh

over the queer vestment. some of they make a great commotion in the

township one day, by march into High Street, dress most absurdly.

Charles the Second, in a red wig and with Macbeth's shield on his arm,

be follow by Clown, with heavy eyebrow, moustache, and Lord

dundreary whisker; behind he come one who be half roman and half

Scotchman; and a perfect piece of patchwork bring up the rear. a

fine jollification follow, you may be sure, when they halt at the

Rose, Shamrock and Thistle.



as William Smith and his companion be gaze on the ruin of the

theatre, a dozen labourer come up, and under the direction of one

begin to clear away the fall timber. Mr. Hart and Philip look to

William Smith for an explanation. he give it they. while the storm be

rage, he have make a contract for a new theatre. it might almost be

think that he sleep with one eye open. Mr. Hart say as much.

William Smith laugh.



"it would be a useful thing to be able to do," he say. "but what be

you wonder at? William Smith never lose a day."



he be a kind of man to put heart into man when misfortune overtake

they. he would say, "if bad fortune give I a slap in the face, I

don't lay down and whimper." (he be not particular as to his grammar,

although he have a proper respect for knowledge and education.) "I

don't lay down and whimper," say he; "I tuck up my sleeve, and set

to--with a will."



when they be in the saddle, and ride along towards the Margaret

Reef, they see evidence of the same kind of spirit in other man.

number of tent have be literally tear into shred by the storm;

valuable shaft have fall in; tool and windlass and puddling

machine have be sweep away by the flood, which in many place have

make hill of gully and gully of hill. all be confusion, but man

be work everywhere, with goodwill, to repair the damage. very

different be the face of these man and woman from the face of some

poor people I see a short time since, in the crowded city in which

these word be write, after an extraordinary high tide in the

river, the water of which have overflow its bank, and wash into

the cellar where they live and sleep. in the new country the man and

woman bustle about vigorously, with face almost cheerful; in the

old, they stand, bang their head dolefully, and with not spirit

enough amongst they to make one good worker out of a hundred. but the

case be different.



as William Smith and his companion ride along, look this way and

that, Philip suddenly cry "o!" as though he be shoot, and turn his

horse's head to the west, whereas the Margaret Reef lie to the north

of they. away he gallop, as though for dear life, with no thought of

the Margaret Reef in his mind, and William Smith and Mr. Hart follow

he. they go only some five hundred yard, but the horse have to

make some big leap over new watercourse in that short distance.

Philip jump off his horse, and tie the animal to a fallen tree,

set to work help some man to dig the earth away from a tent which

have be nearly bury by the caving in of a hill. see what be the

matter, William Smith, who be at first dispose to grumble, jump

off _his_ horse, and in another minute he and Mr. Hart be by the

side of Philip, with their sleeve tuck up. Philip work like a

young Hercules, and when sufficient of the earth be clear away, he

cut a great gash in the canvas roof, and, stoop over with a rope

tie round his waist, tenderly lift two child from the chasm, and

hand they to the gold-digger. he be like a steam hammer, that can

come down one minute with an awful thump and beat ten ton of metal

into shape, and the next can come down with a tap gentle enough to

fashion a thin leaf into the likeness of a delicate flower. after the

two child come a woman, whom he raise in his arm as though she

weigh about an ounce, and at sight of whom the gold-digger, see

that she be alive and comparatively unhurt, raise a great shout. and

one, her husband, who be lie on the ground, cripple, burst into a

passion of grateful tear. I should like to tell you the story of this

family, but I have not time just now. Philip and his companion could

scarcely escape from the person they have help to rescue, but they

have other work to look to, and having ascertain that there be no

more human life to be save, they mount their horse, and resume

their course. at the foot of the range, on the other side of which the

dam lie, Philip pause for a moment to breathe the spell of Margaret's

name, but William Smith dash straight on. the first thing that meet

their sight be wreck of canvas tent and break tent-pole lie

about. William Smith bite his nether lip, but say not a word. he be

already calculate the cost of another and a strong dam; what he

chiefly regret be the waste of time and water. the pant horse

reach the brow of the range, and the man leap off. William Smith

do not stop to ask question of his workman, but run swiftly onward,

to see with his own eye. he be an old and a weak man than

Philip, who race at his heel, but he be the first to reach the dam.



"Hurrah!" he scream. "Hurrah! hurrah!" and Philip follow suit, and

make the hill resound again with his joyous shout.



a fair sheet of water lie before they, wink in the eye of the sun.

the head man--I cannot call he master; there be no such thing, in

the sense that we in England understand it--meet William Smith with a

smile face, and they shake hand. but both of they sober down

within a minute.



"a tolerable piece of work this of your," observe William Smith, in

an off-hand way.



"middlingish," be the reply, in an indifferent tone.



this imply that make such a dam as this be nothing to he. give

he a real difficult job to accomplish, such as join two sea, or

level a mountain a few thousand of foot in height, or make a

new river within a week or so, and then you might be able to see what

he could do. to construct such a dam as this, however, be really no

joke. it be a masterly piece of work, and it be execute in a

masterly manner; there be not a flaw in not it, a crack in its side.

they examine it carefully, critically.



"if it will stand such a storm as last night," say William Smith, "it

will stand anything."



Philip, as you may guess, be overjoy; but he be unjust. he give

all the credit to Margaret. he compliment the responsible man in a

cool way, which imply, "it be capitally do; but you have Margaret

to thank for it, you know."



Philip's faint praise do not affect the contractor. he be not

vain-glorious; he have undertake a piece of work, and have do it

well, and be satisfied, having be well pay for it.









CHAPTER XVI.



the christening of the WILLIAM SMITH.



before two day have pass, the fire be light in the boiler, and

the quartz-crush machine commence its merry rub-a-dub-dub. the

ugly black rook that be willnot to cluster in huge flock in the once

deserted wood and make night hideous with their rusty voice, cease

for a time their harsh cawing and their seemingly interminable

circular flight--wonder, doubtless, as the sound reach their

ear, what new and strange monster it be that have invade their

domain. for it be evening when the iron-shod stamper first begin to

thump. it be but a trial. before actual work commence, a little

ceremony have to be perform. the quartz-crush machine have to be

christen.



William Smith mention this to Philip, say it be a necessary

ceremony.



"all right," say Philip, and run straight to his princess.



the First Old Woman be with Margaret; they be snip up old

dress, and make they into late new one. a new piece be to be

play at the theatre that evening.



"Margaret," say Philip, "we be go to have a christening."



"o, O!" cry the First Old Woman, and set off laugh.



Philip do not condescend to notice she, nor would he so much as smile

at a mock baby she fashion in a moment out of the dress piece, and

dandle in her arm. Margaret do, and pull it away from she.



"we be go to christen the machine, Margaret."



"who be to be godmother?" inquire the First Old Woman briskly.



"who!" exclaim Philip. "why, who but Margaret, I should like to

know."



Margaret's eye sparkle more brightly. the proposition delight she.



"you'll have to break a bottle of Moselle against the machine,

Margaret. you would like to do it, wouldn't you?"



Margaret nod, and give Philip a bright look. "o, don't make a

stranger of I!" cry the First Old Woman.



the remark be suggest by Philip's stoop over Margaret under the

pretence of whispering to she, but really to kiss she--be tempt

to do so by the look she have give he. William Smith join the

party.



"we've settle it all," say Philip to he.



"all what?"



"about the christening. Margaret will set the machine a-going."



but William Smith have settle it another way. "Margaret can christen

the next machine," he say. "the Warden's lady will christen this."



"the Warden's lady will do no such thing!" cry Philip.



"she have promise to do so," reply William Smith calmly. "don't be a

fool, Philip. who have it in his power to be our good friend in the

Margaret Reef? the Goldfields Warden. who grant lease, who settle

all dispute as to boundary and encroachment, who, in short, rule

Silver Creek? the Goldfields Warden. who rule the Goldfields Warden?

his wife. nothing can be clear."



Dissatisfied Philip refuse to see the logic of the argument. but

William Smith be wise in his generation; he be very desirous of

ingratiate himself into the good grace of the lady who be at the

head of society in Silver Creek, know the value of her influence.

he make further effort to convince Philip, but Philip would not be

convince. love and prudence be at dagger draw within he. William

Smith appeal to Margaret.



"you be a girl of sense. it be for Philip's good."



"Mr. Smith be right," say Margaret to Philip. "I don't care a pin

about it."



she say this with a pang of disappointment, for she do wish to

christen the machine; but she recognise the soundness of William

Smith's argument. so Philip be overrule.



I say it be to be a little ceremony. William Smith make it a big

one.



he prepare a great feast, and invite all the bigwig of Silver Creek

township to come to the christening. no infant be ever more honoured

than this iron baby with its twelve head of stamper and its iron

cradle ready to receive and imprison the gold. not one person refuse

the invitation, and a great many come who be not invite, and who,

be cordially welcome, go home in the evening with a skinful and

a bellyful. the Goldfields Warden, the police magistrate, the chief of

the police, the commissioner, the lawyer, the editor of local

paper, and all the less luminary of Silver Creek be present.

William Smith have capture a Judge, who happen to be pass that

way, within twenty mile of the township; and he be there, in all his

glory, and right well be he treat, and right well do he speak, and

do not say a cross word even when William Smith slap he

familiarly on the shoulder.



talk of your laying of foundation-stone by prince and noble and

member of parliament, with their set speech and stale platitude!

the present christening beat all such ceremony out of the field.

never could such a sight as this be see in the old country. free

hand, free heart; everybody serve alike; all stand together,

shoulder to shoulder, man to man. be thankful that I have not time to

describe the entire proceeding in detail. those who wish to read of

it more fully can send to Silver Creek for the _Herald_ and the

_Mercury_, where (suppose the copy not to be all sell) they will

find fourteen column of description--no less; and in small type, too.

there be a supplement to each paper, and William Smith buy a

thousand copy of each, and scatter they broadcast over the land

and over the sea. when his old mother in London receive the paper,

and have the account of the grand doing read to she, she could at

first hardly believe that she have bear he; but she soon recover

herself, and relate to the gossip who sit about she, and whom she

be regale (be quite a lady now with the money William Smith

regularly send she), insignificant incident in her son's baby life

which shadow forth the great position he be one day to make for

himself. if he have hear they, they would have be new to he, for he

have no remembrance of they. but when do a mother ever forget the

small trifle relate to the baby she suckle at her breast? in the

glowing report of the christening in the _Silver Creek Herald_ and

_mercury_ William Smith's name be mention ninety-seven time, and

there be a wonderful unanimity in the praise bestow upon he for

his enterprise. he deserve all the good thing that be say of he,

for such man as he be the life and soul of new community.



and all this time I have not tell you the name of the machine. well,

not a soul know it before the word pass the lip of the Judge, who

act as spokesman on the occasion. truth to tell, no one think of

it. be request by William Smith to perform the ceremony, the

Judge rise, and stand on an eminence before the great baby, say it

strike he as a strange thing that when he ask William Smith what

be to be the name of the infant, William Smith scratch his head,

and say he do not know.



"it show the modesty of the man," say the Judge, assume a judicial

attitude--"and true greatness lie in modesty--not to have think of

the only name which this iron infant can appropriately bear." (William

Smith chuckle slyly at this. the idea of call he modest! a man

who could laugh in the face of a storm, as he could and do!) "I can

say nothing in praise of William Smith," continue the Judge, "that he

do not deserve. he be a representative man; in he enterprise,

industry, forethought, and that truly british quality, Pluck, be

typify. although I have only be in this thrive township a few

hour, I have hear enough of he, and see enough of he, to make I

wish to hear and see more; and I look forward to the day when I shall

welcome he as a member of the Legislative Assembly which make the

law for this prosperous colony. I hear that William Smith have make up

his mind that this machine shall turn out the large cake of retort

gold which the gold-digging have yet produce. he will do it, if he

have make up his mind to it, for nothing can check or frustrate

determination when it be in partnership with common sense and sound

judgment--as it be in this case. in christen this machine the

'William Smith,' I pay a fitting tribute to the man by whose

enterprise it be place on this spot;" et cetera, et cetera, et

cetera.



no occasion to speak of the cheer with which the Judge's oration be

receive; but loud and deafening as they be, they be nothing to

the volley that be give when the wife of the Goldfields Warden, as

the leader of fashion in Silver Creek, break the bottle of champagne

against the machine, and dub it the William Smith. then, everything

be prepare, the first shovelful of golden quartz out of Philip's

shaft be throw beneath the stamper by the Judge, and the machine

commence its music, and every man and woman present drank success to

it, in sparkle Number two Moselle. with three time three! and three

time three again! and again! and again!



after the lady of the Goldfields Warden break the bottle of champagne

against the machine, cunne William Smith beg her acceptance of

the handsome speciman of quartz and gold which have be find in

Philip's claim. she thank he and smile sweetly on he, and

converse with he, tell her husband afterwards that William Smith

be a most superior man, and have evidently move in good society in

the old country.



you understand that Margaret be at the ceremony of the christening.

she look lovely, not only in Philip's eye, but in the eye of all

the man and the unfashionable woman. would you like to know how she

be dress? her gown be of pale-blue muslin, daintily trim with

ribbon of the same colour. around her white throat and slender wrist

be frilling of delicate lace. and on her head be the sweetest hat,

whisper of which must have float across the sea and set the

fashion here, notwithstanding that other lady may claim the credit

of design it. it be a broad flap Leghorn hat, turn up

coquettishly on one side with a bunch of cornflower, with a

blue-gauze veil float behind it. and if any lady quarrel with

Margaret's taste, or with my description, and say I be wrong in my

particular, I shall be glad to hear from she.



the few fashionable lady--number not more than half-a-dozen--who

be present, act as they act in more civilised circle. they put up

their gold spectacle, and survey Margaret as they would have

survey a curiosity, and canvass and appraise her feature and her

clothe. they render she a kind of patronise justice; they say

she be pretty, and dress in fair taste, but they speak of she in a

tone that plainly proclaim she be not of their order. Margaret

care not a whit for their look; she be very happy. the gold-digger

regard she with pride and admiration, make it a sort of boast--as

though it reflect credit upon themselves--that Silver Creek could

show the prettiest girl on any gold digging; so Margaret be

surround with friend and admirer. she be present to the Judge,

who say many fine thing to she, and she not only carry off the

palm in beauty, but also in manner and conversation. Philip's joy and

delight in she know no bound; he discover fresh charm in she in

every new dress that she wear, and if she have not restrain he, he

would have make open love to she before all the people. she be

compel to give he a few moment now and then, so that he might

have opportunity for secretly press her hand. she be as proud of

he as he be of she, for as she be the handsome woman he be the

handsome man there.



the fine lady be more than gracious to he, sighing, no doubt,

that Heaven have make they such a man; but he have no eye for any but

Margaret. the Judge converse with he, and in conversation show off

his learning, as even such high and mighty person as judge be glad

of the opportunity of do, by introduce a quotation from Horace.

Philip immediately cap it by another; and the judge, after his

first surprise, there and then set his stamp upon Philip, and say in

the hearing of the fine lady that if Philip happen to come to

town, he would be glad to see he at his private house. this fly

round, and Philip become a king; even William Smith pale before he.

but William Smith be not to be hurt by this; so long as his

speculation be go on all right, he be satisfied. he long to

hear the music of his machine, beat out of the quartz the bright

gold, so much of which would fall to his share; for after it be

christen, it be only set go for a few minute; then it be

stop, so that the workman engage on it might make merry with the

other.



if you have see the jolly face of the jolly crowd of gold-digger and

their wife and child, and the pleased and more sober face of the

gentleman and their lady; if you have see the new tent with their

decoration which William Smith have put upon the ground; if you have

see the leaping, and racing, and other sport which William Smith

improvise, give handsome prize to the winner; if you have see the

attendant carve away at the beef and mutton, under the shadow of a

great canvas roof, without wall, for the purpose of showing, mayhap,

that every one be free to enter, and welcome to partake of the good

cheer provide; if you have see the waving of flag and hear the

laughter and clapping of hand--you would have think you be at an

english merrymaking of the very fine description. and a couple of

year ago the spot in which it be hold be a wild tract of country,

over which the foot of twenty white man have not pass. now hundred

of man be work vigorously there from sunrise to sunset, work

and hope and scheme and live their life, and thousand more

would soon flock around they; now the hollow echo their shout, and

the forest of tree fall beneath their axis; now the eye of forge

be glow in their lair, and the music of the anvil rang along

the hill; now digger sit around the blaze tree of a night, and

smoke their pipe, and tell their story, and speak of their

chance, or in more tender tone, of dear friend in the old land so

many thousand of mile across the sea; now the woman, as with

grateful heart they look at their healthy well-feed child run

about the hill or lie asleep in their cot, think of the future

with hope and pleasure; now man be on the earth and in its bowel,

tear the golden rock from its bed; now steam be do its wondrous

work, and gold be be send down to the port, to make man rich in

the old country, and to pay well wage to the work man.



some who be on the Margaret Reef on that day thought of these

thing. the Judge for one; William Smith for another; our dear friend

Mr. Hart for another; Philip for---- but no. I must be veracious;

Philip think of no such thing; he have enough to do with Margaret.



when the bustle of the ceremony be over, and people be more free to

act in accordance with their whim and fancy, Philip conduct

Margaret to his tent, and play the host to she. it be a small

house, measure, I should say, not more than ten foot by sixteen,

white as snow outside, with a chimney the apex of which be neither

more nor less than a whisky barrel, with the end knock out of it.

the tent be line inside with green baize, and indian matting be

lay down by Philip especially for the occasion; there be a little

cupboard with two shelf in it fix up in a corner, with an oilcloth

flap which serve for a door. in another corner there be a little

shelf of book. the mantelpiece be of deal, cover with baize, and

in the very centre be Margaret's picture, smile demurely at you;

and it deeply touch the live Margaret to see her picture garlanded

with fresh green leave and a few simple wild flower. on either side

of the picture be pipe and two or three dandy gimcrack which

Philip have bring away with he from Cambridge. the bed be a

stretcher, with an innocent-look white counterpane cover its

imperfection--cover also a life-preserver and a revolver, which

Philip have put out of sight, for fear of frighten his girl. the

chair be two stool and part of the trunk of a tree, polish in

its seat and of a comfortable height. you may be sure that everything

be sweet and clean, or Philip would not have bring his Margaret

there. she look about in every corner, make grand discovery and

uttering little scream at this and that.



"I declare, sir," she exclaim, "you be more comfortable than I

think you be! I wonder why you want to change."



"wouldn't you," he ask gaily, "in my place?" she consider deeply,

make wrinkle in her forehead.



"no," she say, in a decided tone, "I really don't think I should. if

I be in your place, I would change my mind."



"you would not--if you be in my place."



"I would! unless I be a very foolish creature."



he shake his head with fond seriousness.



"my name be Constancy," he say: and be proceed, when she

interrupt he quickly with:



"Constancy's a woman; I'll take that name, if you please, sir."



all the time they be in the tent together he do not kiss she; a

feeling of delicacy restrain he.









CHAPTER XVII.



NATURE punish the THIEF.





the festivity at the Margaret Reef do not conclude the celebration

of the christening. in the night a ball be give by William Smith to

the gentry of the district. he have a marquee put up especially for the

occasion, and so that the fine lady of Silver Creek might not think

it a trade affair (they be mighty particular in some matter, let I

tell you), he have request permission to erect the tent on the ground

where the Government Camp building be. of course it be grant,

with smile; one of the small result of William Smith's wisdom in

ask the Warden's lady to christen the quartz-crush machine. the

ball be a complete and most brilliant success. the Judge be there,

and dance in the first quadrille, and so far forget himself when he

see Margaret that he ask for the honour of her hand for the second:

a proof that judge be human. many a lady there envy Margaret the

honour, and wonder what the Judge could see in she, do not wonder

at themselves for wonder at his good taste.



if Margaret be lovely in the morning at the Reef, what shall I say of

she in the night at the ball? and what shall I say of her dress?

again, but in a less degree, I lie myself open to the criticism of

the lady. Margaret's dress be compose entirely of cloud of fleecy

tulle, loop and catch back by tuft of feathery fern and grass.

and a long trail of bright grass be in her beautiful hair. this be

all that I see, for her charming face take away my eye from all the

rest, and I should scarcely have be surprised to see her float

away on a cloud. entrance Philip be fairly dazzle by her appearance

as she came sail in on the arm of Mr. Hart, who look what he be,

every inch a gentleman. everybody shake hand with everybody, as

though they haven't see one another for week. when Mr. Hart resign

Margaret to Philip's care, Philip trod on air. he dance with she, and

afterwards say:



"I shall keep possession of you the whole of the night."



just then the Judge come up to she, and Philip move a little aside,

never think that so sedate a man, and one in such a position, would

dance with a girl like Margaret.



"now I be happy," say Margaret to Philip, after the dance, "I have

dance with a judge that's one of the thing I shall keep on say

all my life. I've dance with a judge!--I've dance with a judge!"



then come another and young man, and Margaret waltz away with

_him_. see jealousy in Philip's face, Margaret whisper:



"be good. I love only you."



he try hard to be good, but strive as he might, he could not help

feel a little bit wicked. he contrive, however, to obtain many

crumb of consolation during the night. crumb! slice, I ought to

say; for the night be lovely, and now and then between the dance

Philip steal into the open with his sweetheart on his arm. be in

the shade once he want to embrace she.



"be quiet, sir," she say, coquettishly. "I'm only to be look at

to-night. how _do_ I look, Philip!"



his eye answer she, and he become more demonstrative.



"no, Philip, no!" she cry. "I must not be crush."



"why," answer Philip, with tender adroitness, "when I be dance

with you, I put my arm round your waist--so!"



"ah!" she say, with a most delicious little laugh, "that's more

neatly do."



"and my face, then, be close to your--so!"



he have his way, and she become an accomplice. be fire to

emulation, she show he that she be not to be outdo in

tenderness. when a woman be in love, she forget her cunning.



William Smith say rather a good thing. the Judge have a crisp short

habit of speak.



"I like that judge," say William Smith. "he must be a merciful man.

he speak in short sentence."



at midnight Smith come to the side of Philip, and pull out his

watch. it be exactly twelve o'clock, and at that moment he have

arrange that the William Smith quartz-crush machine should be set

go.



"they've commence to dance," he say gleefully.



he refer to the stamper of his machine.



Philip, gaze at Margaret and a handsome partner, who be whirl

away from he, mutter somewhat moodily: "_i_ see they!"



William Smith glance at Philip in surprise.



"my imagination don't carry I as far as your," say William Smith;

"but I daresay you be as impatient as I be."



Philip scarcely hear the word. William Smith continue:



"Mr. Hart and I be go to steal away for an hour; we shalln't be go

long. play the host while I be absent, and if they ask for I, say

I'll be back in a minute or two."



Philip nod, and presently Mr. Hart and William Smith be in the

saddle, gallop away over the hill in the direction of the Margaret

Reef; the horse do the distance in twenty-five minute.



"do you hear they--do you hear they?" cry William Smith exultantly,

as they breast the hill.



the music of the stamper fall on their ear. they halt at a

distance of a couple of hundred yard from the machine. spark be

fly from the chimney; the fire be roar; the machine be

thump away, beat the gold out of the quartz; dark form of man

be move busily about in the shade and lurid light.



William Smith have good cause for triumph; many a man have win a name in

history for do less than he have do.



but in the midst of his exultation a tender sadness come upon he.



"what would you suppose I be think of?" he ask of Mr. Hart.



"I cann't guess," reply Mr. Hart, who have thought of his own.



"I be think of my old mother at home," say William Smith, "and

wish she be here to see this day's doing. how proud she would be

of she Billy, as she call I!"



Mr. Hart be also think of a dear one at home and of the time, soon

to come he hope, when he should fold she in his arm. he bless the

music of the stamper; he gaze with tearful eye upon the bright

spark fly upwards from the chimney. they would give he the mean

of see his darling daughter in her bloom of womanhood, of share

her life, of administer to her happiness.



at that moment, also, Philip be talk to Margaret of his father.



so beneath the star, the old country and the new be join by the

tender heart-link that love can forge.





*    *    *    *    *    *





a word as to the money which have be steal from Mr. Hart. the thief

be no other than the Walking Gentleman and Treasurer of the dramatic

company. it have already be see that he be ignorant of arithmetic;

he might have plead this as an excuse, have he be call before a

human tribunal to answer for his crime. he carry out his character

of Walking Gentleman consistently to the end, by walk off with Mr.

Hart's money and other money as well. but it be the last opportunity

he have of play a part on this earthly stage. I be inclined to the

opinion that nearly every man in the course of his life have an impulse

of, and the opportunity for, dishonesty. another opinion as to the

proportion of those who fall to those who conquer I keep to myself.

the Walking Gentleman fall--but fall with the distinct intention in

his mind of lead an honest life afterwards, if he escape with his

spoil. how many man do you know within the circle of your acquaintance

who be lead respectable life on steal money, or money as good,

or as bad, as steal? the thief that we have to do with have plan

everything carefully. he have so much money of his own; he appropriate

Mr. Hart's saving, having learn where the trustful old man be in

the habit of deposit they; he have, as treasurer, more than three

hundred pound in hand belong to the company. a ship be to sail

from Hobson's Bay for England in four day; he could do the distance

to the port very well in that time. then on to the ship, and away for

home, with nearly a thousand pound of steal money in his purse.



all be accomplish an hour before the storm; he play only in the

first part of the performance on that night, and at nine o'clock he

be off, dash away from Silver Creek on the back of a fleet horse.

he have take the precaution to disguise himself so that he might not

be recognise. it be his intention to ride all night, and to catch up

Cobb's coach at a certain point in the morning. all go well for an

hour; but then the sky blacken, the thunder begin to growl, the

lightning to flash, and presently the storm fall upon he. he go on,

nothing daunt, think it impossible that such a downpour could

last. but it do last, as we know, and increase in fury. the thief

begin to wish that he have choose another night, and he curse his bad

luck; but curse do not avail he, and there be now no turning back.

on he gallop, with his head sink on his breast, and the heavy rain

beat down on he, and cause a singing in his head. it be at first

only an indistinct buzzing that he hear, but it take shape presently,

and the word, "thief! thief! fool! thief!" hiss and plash in his

ear. on and on he gallop, and conscience fill the air with

accuse shape and sound, which pursue and surround he, and make

he sick and faint. once raise his eye, his heart almost leap out

of his throat as he see a tall thin form bend towards he, with the

intention of clutch he. it be but a slender tree, bent by the

force of the wind, and he escape it without really know what it

be. and now, every branch that sway bring new terror to he, and

he begin to wish that he have remain honest. he be in the bush, with

not a tent in sight, having choose the remotest track, so that he

might not be see; but have a human habitation be within twenty yard

of he he would not have be able to see it, for by this time he be

envelop in blackness. he stumble on, not know now whither he be

go. for a little while he have strength and sense enough to keep a

tight rein on his horse, but a frightful flash of lightning, and a

more frightful peal of thunder, so unnerved he that the rein

slacken in his grasp. the horse dash madly forward--over fall

timber, through light thicket of bush, into great pool of water,

that plash up and blind the runaway. the branch of the tree

catch at his clothe and tear they in fragment from his body. his

wig have be the first thing to go, and the brown paint with which he

have strive to hide his villany be wash from his face with, as it

seem to he, sting whip of water. a pitiable sight he present

to the lightning, every flash of which cause he to scream with

terror, as he cling with wild desperation to the horse's neck. tear,

bleeding, and literally in rag, with the steal money in a belt

fasten round his waist, he ride on madly, a thief confess. Louder

shriek the storm; over the range and through the uneven valley

dash the maddened horse. a rage torrent be before they, and the

animal leap into it, and in the leap the thief be unhorse. while

he be struggle in the surge water, and while the only thing that

be certain be death in a few second he repent most heartily of

his crime, and I leave it to priest to say of what value be the

choke word and the agonise thought that typify repentance.



when the next flash of lightning light up the wild scene, it illumine

the furious water roll onwards, and, for the millionth part of a

second, the lifeless body of a thief justly punish.



in this way he play his last part in life, and be never more heard

of.









CHAPTER XVIII.



WILLIAM SMITH'S AMBITION.





merrily work the William Smith quartz-crush machine. day and

night the stamper keep thump and pounding. the first rest give to

it be when the first fifty ton of stone have be pass beneath the

stamper. then the iron baby be quiet for awhile.



the iron cradle be empty of their treasure in strong

washing-tub--hogshead sawn in two, and make strong by the

blacksmith with additional belt of iron. the treasure consist of

finely-pound stone and water, amongst which roll three or four

hundred weight of quicksilver. no gold be to be see; it be hide

in the quicksilver.



now commence the process of washing-up. the deposit in the tub be

pan off in ordinary gold-wash dish, the quicksilver with its

precious treasure be put into a separate tub, and the waste earth

which the quicksilver refuse to embrace throw aside in a little

heap, as though it be of no account. this waste refuse be

consider to belong, by right, to the proprietor of the crush

machine, and consist chiefly of iron pyrite; it be a valuable

privilege, produce a good many ounce of gold to the ton sometimes.

the quicksilver, having all be extract, lie in a silky white mass

in the large tub. the strong man could not have lift it. the

precious liquid be ladle carefully into skin of chamois leather,

which, when fairly fill, be squeeze tight over bucket of clear

water. the quicksilver which do not contain gold ooze out in silver

tear, and weep into the water; it might truly be say that it be

alive, _argentum vivum_. there then remain a thick solid mass of

white metal. if you take up a handful of it, you could feel the beat

lump and nugget of gold which it conceal from view. the last

process be the retorting of the metal. the quicksilver and the gold

be deposit in the retort, a spherical vessel, to the cover of

which be fix a slender curve tube, up which the heated quicksilver

ascend, as smoke ascend a chimney. this retort, with its precious

treasure, be plunge into a fiery furnace, and heat to a white

heat. through the curved tube the boiling quicksilver rise in a silver

stream, and rain into the tub of water which lie to receive it;

gradually the stream grow less, and when the last few globule of

pretty silver spray have fall, the retort be unscrewed, and a large

mass of molten gold, light up by the most lovely colour, that seem to

flash and play upon its breast with fairy's touch, be expose to

view.



when Margaret, who be present, see the pretty sight, she clasp she

hand, and cry, "o! o! o!" which round circle stand for as much

delight and admiration as could be express in three page.



Philip and the rest look on with sparkle eye. "what's the weight

of it?" ask William Smith. Philip, who be a novice in the matter of

cake of gold, guess it at four hundred ounce.



"at four pound an ounce," say William Smith, ever ready for a

bargain, "that's sixteen hundred pound. I'll give two thousand pound

for it as it stand."



Philip would have consent right away, but his more experienced mate

laugh at William Smith, and with a know look say it would be a

thousand pity to make he a loser by his enterprise. William Smith

nod cheerfully, and wink at the shrewd man, as much as to say,

"we two be a match for each other!" then they stand in silence about

the retort, wait for the metal to cool, and gaze at it with an

interest as great as that of a fond father who gaze at the cot in

which his child be sleep. when all the rainbow-colour have die out

of the gold, and it have become solidify, the cake be put into the

scale. it turn fifty-six pound troy--six hundred and seventy-two

ounce. deduct one hundred and fifty ounce, that be William

Smith's payment for crush the fifty ton of stone, at three ounce

per ton, there remain five hundred and twenty-two ounce of pure

gold, which Philip sell at sixpence less than four pound an ounce,

receive in hard cash two thousand and seventy-four pound nineteen

shilling. William Smith obtain threepence an ounce more for his

hundred and fifty ounce.



this business be satisfactorily conclude, Philip go to the Rose,

Shamrock, and Thistle, and make out a fair statement, show the

value of Mr. Hart's share in the gold obtain, Margaret look over

his shoulder the while.



"just listen to I, Margaret," say Philip.



they lay their head together for five minute, at the expiration of

which Margaret run away, and returned envelop in a large overcoat,

which reach to her heel, and with a billycock hat slouch over

her head. in that disguise she, follow by Philip, go in search of

Mr. Hart. they find he on the stage, give direction to the

property-man.



"Rowe _versus_ Hart," say Margaret, in a gruff voice, tap he on

the shoulder, and thrust the balance-sheet into his hand in the

form of a writ, "suit for two hundred and fifty pound. if not pay.

in five minute, instant execution be order."



Mr. Hart peer beneath the slouch hat, and recognise Margaret. his

lip be very close to Margaret's laugh face, he take an unfair

advantage of she, and kiss she.



"what's the fine for that, Philip?" cry Margaret. "this," reply

Philip, shake a bag of money vindictively at Mr. Hart. "here you

be, old fellow;" and he hand Mr. Hart two hundred and fifty-nine

pound odd, be an eighth share of the gold. "for this unwarrantable

assault, you will instantly pay I the two hundred and fifty you owe

I. I don't intend to wait three minute for the money."



Mr. Hart pay Philip with a grateful sigh; he know that it would be

useless to remonstrate with the young man. have Mr. Hart be alone in

the world, with no tie, he would not have accept Philip's

generosity; he would have quarrel with he first. but you see how

it be with he, and you will not blame he, I be sure.



the theatre be open again, and be throng as usual. the actor and

actress be much concerned as to the fate of the miss treasurer;

none of they, with the exception of Mr. Hart, suspect he. (Mr. Hart

have enjoin secrecy upon Philip and Margaret, and no one but the

three know of his loss.) as they never receive any tiding of he,

they settle that he have be lose in the storm, and they mourn he

as one who have come to an undeserved end.



Silver Creek township throve and flourish. new discovery be make

every week, and new lead of gold find in gully and plain. William

Smith, always play his card well, know that now the township be

become a settle thing, there must soon be a Government land sale,

and he begin to build and let, and to buy up right of land wherever

he could. depend upon it, he buy in the proper place, having

settle, after careful survey, where it be imperative that the

street would be lay out. you would have think he have enough to do,

what with one thing and another, but he seem never to have his hand

full. he be not of an envious disposition, but he do covet one

thing: Philip's quartz claim. it be yield finely, and he believe

he see a colossal fortune in it. not to be make out of it in the way

Philip and his mate be work it. no; he would put up machinery.

he would sink new shaft. the stone should be draw from the bottom of

the shaft not by hand, but by steam-power; the man should be lower

by steam; he would have a steam-engine below, if it be necessary;

everything should be do by steam, and labour should be economise.

would that reduce the number of man necessary to work the claim? not

at all. where there be a hundred man at work now William Smith would

have five hundred. what he would do really would be to get ten time

as much gold. he would open the claim to its full extent; he would

buy up as many claim as he could get hold of north and south of

Philip's land, and would pay for they all liberally.



you may ask why William Smith want to do this. he be make so

rapid a fortune, that if thing continue as they be for twelve

month, he would be at least a fifty-thousand-pound man. and in three

year these figure would be double. a hundred thousand pound! when

he be a bricklayer at home work for a bare pittance, on high

scaffolding at the risk of his life, the very idea of possess such

a sum would have be enough to take away his breath. now he think

nothing of it. but he want Philip's claim. for this reason: he

burn to be a master of man, not of twenty, or fifty, or a hundred.

he want to be a master of not few than five hundred man, all do

well under he, all live comfortably and be well pay, and if he

have Philip's claim he see his way to it. then when he go home to the

old country, he could say to his old master, "you think it a great

thing to have eighty man under you, each of whom could earn about a

guinea and a half a week. why, I, one of those eighty, go into a new

country and employ five hundred man, and every one of they have a

house of his own and be well clothe, and could give his family meat

for breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper; and after pay for

everything, and more besides, could put by thirty shilling a week in

the saving bank--in the saving bank, which I start and be trustee

of!" you see, the master use to cry out that work man in the old

country be well off than they be in any other part of the world.

William Smith want to show he that he be wrong.



so William Smith yearn to be king of five hundred man, and the

proper complement of woman and child--to be master of five hundred

pair of hand--to see peace and plenty and industry all about he--to

walk among his workman, and chat and smile with they--to walk among

the woman and child, and pat the youngster on the head, and pass

kind word with the mother. he have all these thought. it be not a

bad ambition.



he offer money for Philip's claim--a large sum. Philip and his mate

shake their head. Mr. Hart would have be glad to sell his share; if

he have one-eighth of what William Smith offer, the white sail

should spread for he over the sea, for home, dear home! but he

decide that it would be base to sell; it would be like desert

Philip. "I'll wait yet a little while," he think. "a few month will

soon pass."



William Smith tempt he. Philip stand by.



Mr. Hart decline, and see in the look of joy which flash into

Philip's face what pleasure his refusal have give the young man.



the large retort cake of gold that have be produce for many a

score of mile round be produce from a great crushing out of

Philip's claim. it weigh no less than two thousand two hundred

ounce. it be exhibit in the principal gold-broker's window on a

Saturday, which be the busy day in the township. on that day all

the gold-digger and their wife and child come in from the hill

and gullies, and make their purchase. a more bustling scene of its

kind could not be witness in any other part of the world. all day

long the digger and the woman pour in, from east, from west, from

north, from south. where a storekeeper take ten pound on another day,

he take fifty on a Saturday. you should have see the theatre on

Saturday night.



the people stand round and about the gold-broker's window, and those

who be near stared and stare, and those who be farth away

peep over their neighbour' shoulder, at the great beautiful cake

of gold, duly label. two thousand two hundred ounce it make every

one's mouth water.



but on the Monday morning follow this splendid exhibition, Philip

arrive at his claim--he have spend the Sunday with Margaret--find

the miner stand about in idleness: which be not the way of the

man. a part of the shaft have fall in, and they be wait to know

what to do.



"do!" exclaim Philip. "go down, of course."



and down he go, and make an anxious and critical examination. when

he come up again he decide to get the Government mining surveyor to

report upon the condition of the shaft. this be do, and the

surveyor give certain direction. the shaft would have to be slab

round all its side for fifty foot from the surface--box in as it

be. until then it be not safe to work below. the slabbing be do;

it occupy a week, and cost some money.



Philip fret at the delay, and no one be glad but William Smith. he

rejoice. he have not one particle of malice in his nature, but he say

quietly to himself, "I'd like that shaft to cave in from top to

bottom. perhaps they'd sell it to I then."



Margaret hear of the disaster--from William Smith's lip, I think.

she turn white, and clung to Philip on the night she hear the news.

he be annoyed that she know, but what be there to be frighten at?

he ask.



"frightened at!" she cry. "oh, Phillip! how can you ask? the shaft

will fall in again----"



"how do you know that?"



"I know it--I feel it! and you will be underneath, perhaps!----"



she could not proceed for her terror. he could not but feel glad at

this solicitude for he, and he use lover's argument to prove that

there be no danger. these argument be sweet and delicious to she,

but they have a contrary effect from that which he intend. make she

love he more, they make she more anxious for his safety.



"promise I not to go down," she beg. "promise I to work at the

top.



"and let another man be crush in my place?" he say proudly. she

shudder, and hold he close to she. "not if I know it!"



"then you don't value my life?" she cry, with womanly tact and

womanly unreason.



"your life, my dearest! not value your life, when a single hair of

your head be more precious to I than all the gold in Silver Creek!"



"no," she persist, "you don't value my life, when you be determine

to risk it in this way."



"what be you talk about, Margaret? _I_ risk _your_ life!"



"yes," she cry, "you be about to do it. for if anything happen to

you, I shall die."



to pacify she he be compel to promise that he would not go down

below, but he do not keep his word. it be not often he break it, but

here his manhood be in question. he be not go to shirk his fair

share of risk. he do not deceive Margaret long, however. she coax

Mr. Hart to take she to the Reef one day, and do not scruple to say

that Philip expect she. when they arrive at the shaft, she be tell

that Philip be below. white from apprehension, she walk a few yard

away, and sit down upon a trunk of a tree, while the workman from a

distance gaze at her lithe and graceful form with respectful

admiration.



"Phil Rowe's a lucky fellow," they say.



Mr. Hart pass the word down for Philip to come up, and up he come,

strong and handsome, with the vein stand out on his bare arm and

throat: a fair sight for a woman who love he. but Margaret turn

from he, and repulse he, secretly admire he all the while for

his courage.



"this be the way that man deceive woman," she said--"promising one

thing and do another!"



have she be a scholar, she might have fling at he the proverb,

"false in one thing, false in all," but she be only a woman in love.

besides, she would have know that there would have be no truth in

the proverb, in this case. perhaps that would not have matter,

though. woman be queer logician; their logic come from the heart,

not from the head.



"what can I do?" he ask, after listen to her reproach. "you

don't want people to think I a coward, do you?"



"if they dare to say so!" she exclaim, with a motion which imply

that she would defend he.



"they will say so if I do as you wish," he say; her hand be in his

now: he do not mind the workman see. "no, no, Margaret. your word

shall be law in everything but this, woman don't understand these

matter." she toss her head disdainfully. "besides, don't I want to

get rich for my Margaret's sake?"



"Rich!" she exclaim. "why, you have thousand of pound!"



"I want thousand more to throw into your lap."



she waver a little, for just three second.



"no," she say then. "you don't want thousand more, if your life be

to be risk in the getting of they, Philip," and she look at he

earnestly, "if you be a beggar, I should not care."



"do you mean to say you would love I all the same?"



"yes; and work for you, if it be necessary."



she mean it. however, she do not persuade he to act as she wish.

but thing be work in her favour.



within a few hour of this conversation, Philip, still work below,

make a disheartening discovery. they be prepare for a blast. he

be hold the gad, while a workman be strike it on the head with

his hammer. half an inch this way or that, and Philip would have be

maim for life, but it be seldom a man be so unskilful as to cause

an accident in this way. the hole for the gunpowder be two foot deep,

and Philip lift up the gad and spoon out the dust. it come up in a

liquid state; Philip look anxious, and more anxious still, when the

whole be clear, to see water bubble up. they have strike a small

stream. it be not very serious at first. they continue work

during the day, and fire the blast the last thing in the evening,

before knock off work. when Philip go down the shaft the next

morning, he step up to his waist in water. they set to manfully,

and bale it out; more than half the work hour of the day be

lose in this necessary labour. they dig a shaft within the shaft, to

serve as a well, and so manage to keep themselves tolerably dry; but

the water come in fast and fast.



William Smith smile and rub his hand. the claim be already as

good as his; he begin already make bid for other claim, north and

south. in his mind's eye he map everything out. he see himself

king of this great range. he see a happy village spring up. here

should be this; there should be that. tent for the gold-digger here;

a wooden house for himself there. on this spot should be a church; on

that a school-house. he see a well-dress and happy congregation, his

workman and their family, walk from the church on the Sabbath

day, smile and talk together: he see the child troop out of

the school-house after school hour, and the schoolmaster standing in

the porch, with his cane under his arm: joy stir in his heart as he

fancy these thing, and as he hear the shout and hurrah of the

youngster. there should be garden too; yes, every tent should have

its garden. he see the cabbage and pea come up; flower also. he

go to the high point of the range, and fold his arm, look

down upon his kingdom. it have be a pleasure to he hitherto to make

money, but he have not think much of it. he have make it so easily,

that his heart have scarcely be flutter by the success of his

speculation. but now, as he contemplate the realisation of his pet

scheme, money be really sweet to he for the first time.



the quartz-crush machine hammer away as steadily as ever, the

water in Philip's claim increase in volume every day. it serve one

good purpose. a race be make from the shaft to the dam, and a

continual stream of water be run down it.



"you ought to pay we for the water," say Philip's mate.



"you ought to pay I for take it," say William Smith.



matter be grow serious. out of every twelve hour they could

work in the quartz but three.



yet I do not think that William Smith would have obtain the claim,

if it have not be that a woman be on his side.









CHAPTER XIX.



MR. HART DECIDES to wait a little long.





Margaret have a tender, yield nature, but she be firm withal. it be

surprising how determine these soft weak vessel can be! and they

generally get their way. if man, in addition to their naturally

great strength of character, possessed woman's delicate cunning,

great result would be accomplish. but man be deficient in

_finesse_. the nature of many a great diplomatist have assimilate

closely to that of a woman. a clever man can do fine thing, but a

clever woman with the same opportunity would beat he hollow.



William Smith, then, find an ally in Margaret. she run up her colour

by the side of his, and declare war against Philip. innocent,

unsuspicious Philip know nothing of the confederacy; and this be the

way his treacherous Margaret undermine the fortress of his

resolution.



on one day, "be I not grow pale?" she ask of he, in a plaintive

tone.



Philip, gaze at she in tender solicitude, see that she _be_ a shade

paler than usual.



"and thin, Philip. feel my arm." he obey she. "I'm waste away,"

she say.



now, that Margaret be a little pale than usual be not to be

dispute. she have contrive it; by what mean, I be not sufficiently

in the mystery to state.



that she be any thin, I deny. yet Philip think differently from

I. but he be in love with Margaret; while I---- No, I must not write

what be about to glide off my pen. the pen tell many untruth, and I

will not add one to the number on this occasion. I also love Margaret.



"you be work too hard," say Philip.



"no, it be not that," sigh she.



"you want a rest, my darling."



"it would do I no good, Philip."



"you be worry yourself about something."



she sigh. it be a most eloquent affirmative. then Philip pause. he

feel that he have touch dangerous ground. see that Philip do not

speak, she use her tongue.



"yes, I be indeed worry myself about something. it will be the

death of I, Philip."



"Nonsense, my darling, nonsense."



"I should not speak of _your_ death in that way, Philip!"



the ground be crumble beneath he.



"you be in low spirit, Margaret. you must rouse yourself for my

sake."



she shake her head. "I would do anything for your sake, Philip. but I

seem to have no strength leave."



"ah! that's it," he say eagerly, catch at a straw; "you be weak

and low; you must eat strengthen thing."



(soft-minded fellow! as if, in her languid condition, she be not

strong than the strong man!)



"strengthen thing!" she echo, in a tone of soft reproach.



"and you must drink bottled stout. a bottle every day," he say

uneasily.



"bottled stout!" she echo, in the sad of tone, which, although

she do not say so in as many word, convey a distinct denial that

bottled stout be a cure for a break heart.



on another day it was--"I have a dreadful dream the night before last,

Philip."



"there! there! frighten yourself with fancy."



"they be kill I, Philip. I dream about you and the shaft. you

be work at the bottom. I don't know where I be stand, but

dream be such curious thing you know, Philip. I be stand there,

and see you below, and I see the man at the top, also, work. I see

right down the shaft, Philip, and all at once there be a great crying

and scream, and the man fly wildly about. the shaft have fall in,

and you be bury beneath ton and ton of earth. I could see you

even then, hold out your hand to I, and cry to I to help

you!"



Margaret's eye be full of tear, and she shiver and cower. and

I declare I do not know how much of this be act and how much be

genuine.



what could a man do under this sort of persecution? what can he do but

yield?



"but, Margaret," say Philip, "we be young, we be strong. it would

be folly to go away from Silver Creek, where we be make so much

money."



"I don't want to go away from Silver Creek," she reply, her heart

beat a little more quickly. "I love the place; if it have not be

for Silver Creek, we might never have meet, Philip. I can show you a

way to make more money than you be make at the Margaret Reef. ah,

how good of you to name it after I! yes, I can show you how to make

more money."



"you show I a way how to make money, little woman! why, what be there

in that pretty little head of your?"



he take it between his hand and kiss her lip.



"look straight into my eye, Philip. don't they sparkle?"



"Sparkle, my dear little woman! they be the star in my heaven!"



"but more than usual, Philip? be they not bright than usual?" (she

make they so.) "well, now, what make they so bright just at this

moment? I'll tell you without ask. I know you be go to say yes

to what I shall propose, and that fill my heart with joy. my heart be

in my eye, because--because, Philip---- turn yours away, sir! I don't

want you to look at me---- because, I think we might be marry next

week."



he catch she in his arm, and try to raise her face to his; but she

hang her head, and murmur that she would never be able, for shame's

sake, to look at he again if he do not consent at once to what she

be about to propose.



"well, what be it, Margaret? what be it?" he ask, in a rapture of

happiness.



"I cann't tell you, Philip," she murmur, with her lip close to his

ear, "unless you say 'yes' beforehand."



"yes, then," he cry. "yes, a thousand time over!"



who be the weak vessel? Margaret or Philip! really, we have

accustom ourselves to believe in some very fine delusion.



"well, then," she say, "buy Mr. Smith's hotel and theatre. you will

make more money in twelve month than you can get out of your claim in

three year."



he be stagger at the suggestion, and be not displeased at it. but

after a little consideration he say he be sure that Mr. Smith would

not sell a property so valuable. Margaret know well. all the while

William Smith be drop quiet hint to she as to the dangerous

condition of the shaft in which Philip be work, the eye of

Margaret's mind be pierce he through and through.



William Smith himself would have be surprised if he could have hear

her sum-up of he. but it be the way of this kind of woman--and

let I tell you her name be legion. you and she be in the same room

for five minute, and she never raise her eye to your face, and when

you go out she can make an inventory of you, from the way you part

your hair down to the style of your shoe-string. she know a great

deal well than you whether your clothe fit well or ill, and whether

your hand and foot be nice, and I do not think you would care to

consult she physiognomically. if you know what be go on within

that little head while her eye be direct demurely towards the

carpet, it might make you uncomfortable. how she gain the power of

discover occult thing be a deep unfathomable mystery.



Margaret be one of this kind of woman. she have read William Smith

through and through, and she talk and talk to Philip until he say

he would consult Mr. Hart. Mr. Hart be call in. he think the idea

a fine one; he be fill with grave doubt of the safety of the shaft

in which Philip be work, and in a less degree share Margaret's

apprehension. he also think that William Smith would be willing to

come to an arrangement.



suddenly Philip say:



"I'll do it on one condition, suppose it can be do. Mr. Hart must

join we, and become a partner. you want to go home, I know, old

fellow, but if you will stay with we for six month and see we fairly

afloat, I'll put you on the ship myself at the end of that time with a

clear four thousand pound in your pocket, and wish you good-bye and

God speed, and in less than two year Margaret and I will be after

you, and we'll all settle down together in a spot I know of, you and

your darling, and I and mine."



Margaret clap her hand in delight.



"I say 'yes' for he!" she cry.



"I say 'yes' for myself," say Mr. Hart, without hesitation.



he know that the share of gold he have receive out of the claim would

be require in the transaction of the business, and he consider that

Philip have a right to dispose of it.



he be appoint agent to moot the proposal to William Smith, and

carry it through if it be well receive. Philip have not a

sufficiently calm head for the transaction. Mr. Hart do his work

well; William Smith entertain the scheme, chuckle quietly while it

be be propound, and of course make a good bargain. there be no

delay. in four day (William Smith having buy out Philip's mate)

William Smith be master of the quartz reef, and Philip be the

proprietor of the Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle Hotel and Restaurant and

the Theatre Royal, Silver Creek. as Mr. Hart have suppose, his money

be require for the completion, of the purchase. Philip enter into

his property free from debt, and with a good stock in hand, but with

very little ready cash. William Smith, have sweep it all into his

pocket. but it be a fair bargain. the hotel be do a famous

business, and money begin to tumble in the first day. on that day the

name of the hotel be change. the new sign-board hoist up have on it

the word,





"the Silver Flagon."





and the place be crowd with friend and acquaintance drink

success to it.



so for the fourth time during the last seven year, Mr. Hart, having

save sufficient money to carry out the project near to his heart,

decide to stay a little long, and make a little more, before he

take ship for home. but in this last instance, he could scarcely help

himself. Gratitude call upon he to act as he have do, and he be

satisfied that he would be well reward for his patience. it be a

consolation and a pleasure to reflect that the date of his departure

be fix. he have only six month to wait, and he would carry with he

a well-fill purse. he count the day, and, make his

calculation, he write home to his daughter that, in such and such a

month he hope, with God's blessing, to fold she to his heart, and

that he would never leave she again.



within a few day of Philip's take possession of the hotel, he and

Margaret be marry. I leave you to imagine the festivity on the

occasion; how handsome, strong, and brave Philip look upon that

happy morning, and what a fairy vision burst upon his gaze when

Margaret appear before he in her bridal dress. Margaret's mother--a

short pale woman (what lovely daughter many of these small thin woman

have)--was there, approve of everything. she have also be an

actress in her time, and, having have her up and down, be glad to

see her daughter well and comfortably settle in life. but Margaret

be a prize which any man might have be proud to win. the ceremony

be a quiet and sober one, but there be plenty of feast

afterwards. in the hotel there be well-spread table during the

whole day, free to all comer. there be a private breakfast, at which

Margaret's mother shed tear, and William Smith and Mr. Hart make fine

speech. Philip, in his speech, break down most ignominiously; he

could not utter six word in smooth order. but his face be eloquent,

if his tongue be not. the bride be radiant. a handsomer pair

never be see. they drive away amid the cheering of a thousand

gold-digger.



in the evening they sit together on the bank of a beautiful river,

rather low in its bed at the time because of the heat. on the distant

hill cattle be browse and smell for water. the only sound that

reach their ear be the sound of the woodman's axe. that come

through the air sharp and clear, although the woodman be a long way

off. the lover, now man and wife, talk in low tone of their

future, and lay their plan. all be smooth before they. no rough

road, no sickness, no misfortune. Sunshine be in their heart, and

there be no shadow in the bright cloud that float above they.



"all your act day be over now," say Philip. "well," reply

Margaret, "I must act at home."



"all right," respond Philip; "one stipulation, though. no more than

two character in any of our piece."



she laugh at this.



"Philip, I hope you love mother!"



"I do love she; she be a dear little woman."



"do you know that when she be young she be the most beautiful

creature that ever be see?"



"how could she have have such a lovely daughter if she have not be

lovely herself?"



"Nonsense, Philip; but she be. she have the remain of it now. have

you notice her tooth? they be like pearl. and her hand? much small

than mine. she must have be a beautiful actress, too; she have have

verse write about she in the paper. she act in the Plymouth and

exeter theatre and be a wonderful favourite. she have dozen and

dozen of offer, and what do you think one of her lover be, Philip?

well, but you would never guess. he be a Jew, and I really think mother

be fond of he a little, little bit, from the way she talk about he.

he must have be a god man, but of course mother couldn't marry a Jew.

ben't it a mercy she don't, Philip, for then what would have become

of I--and you? I want you to love she very, very much; more than you

do I, Philip."



"I cann't do that, my darling; but I do love she, and will, both for

her own sake and your, my dearest, dearest! and so we be man and

wife, darling! can scarcely believe in my happiness. you'll not melt

away out of my arm, will you, Margaret?"



"not if you're very good to I, Philip," she reply, with a tender

nestling motion. "look at that beautiful cloud, dear."



"it's come over we, and it be shape like an angel. I want to hear

you say you love I, Margaret."



"Philip!"









CHAPTER XX.



they fly like MADMEN into the TOWN.





Mr. Hart take some interest in home politic--that be to say, in the

politic of the old country; Philip take none, not from lack of

sympathy, but because he have no room. every nook and corner of his

mind be fill by one idea, which present itself in a hundred

different shape; that idea be Margaret.



the Overland Mail come into Silver Creek once a month, pretty

regularly, with letter and paper from home; and if you have see the

post-office on the day the four-horse coach bring the mail, you

never would have forget the sight. crowd stand around the door

and window of the wooden building, for up to the present time every

building in Silver Creek township be either drill, calico, or wood.

there be some talk of a stone building, and when this be once up,

you may be sure that other would soon follow. well, around the wooden

post-office, hundred and hundred of man and woman be assemble

when the Overland Mail arrive, wait for the window to open so

that they might receive their letter. if the mail come in somewhat

later than usual, the clerk at the post-office would be keep at work

until late in the night sort the letter and the newspaper, to

allay the anxiety of the people. news from home! ah, you who have not

be a wanderer, and part from friend and relation and all whom

you love, do not know what those word mean! for many hour after the

arrival of the Overland Mail, Silver Creek be fill with tender

memory. the face of those who receive letter from home through

the little window light up with joy; they laugh at the well-know

handwriting and their eye fill with tear. ah! this be from mother.

dear old mother! what a queer hand she write! and this from the old

boy! and this from Jim! and this from Arthur! and these from Mary, and

Fanny, and Nelly, and Kate, and Maggie, and I don't know whom all

besides! God bless they every one! there be electricity in the very

envelope, which go from the tip of the finger, when the paper be

touch, into the palm of the hand--where her, and her, and her,

lie once upon a time--up the arm, straight into the heart, and

illumine face there. very plainly illumine they, I can tell you.

old face, young face, wrinkle and cheek of peach, eye dim and

bright, parch lip and lip sweetly fresh, horny finger and soft,

white hair and brown--all be plain and visible, look, smile,

speak to those who hold their letter in their hand. they do not

take their letter home to read; they open they there and then, and

stand about reading; and their eye sparkle, and they grow sad, and

tender, and joyous, and pensive, as the news move they. those who

receive no letter walk slowly and mournfully away.



always for two or three day previous to the arrival of the mail Mr.

Hart become restless and anxious and impatient. perhaps it would come

in a day or two early, and he be always hope that it would. the

coach stop at the hotel, and Mr. Hart would run to the door, and

cry out to Levy the driver, "bring the mail, Lee?"



he be in that state now, some six week after the marriage of Philip

and Margaret. the mail really be due, and the coach have come in

without it. when Levy, who have drive all the way this time, leave town

for Silver Creek, the mail-ship be not signal at the head. it be

a great disappointment to Mr. Hart.



everything be go on well. since Philip have buy the hotel, the

business have increase, as it would have do under William Smith's

management. Silver Creek be grow more prosperous every day, and

these thing be natural. Philip be a favourite; so be Mr. Hart. as

for Margaret, the gold-digger would flock to the hotel, and hang

about, and talk, and drink, only on a chance of catch a sight of

she; and Margaret know this, and do not disappoint they. "there she

be!" they would say. the sight of she do they good. and when she

walk out, admire eye follow she at every step. no lady in the

world be more genuinely respected and more highly thought of.



I be almost forget to state a little incident. upon Philip's

return from his honeymoon, he say to Mr. Hart, when they two be

alone together:



"I want you to take care of this packet for I, and to promise I one

thing."



he hand Mr. Hart a sealed envelope, on which no name or address be

write. there be an enclosure in it, somewhat bulky.



"what be the promise, Philip?" ask Mr. Hart, take the envelope.



"that you will not, under any consideration, give it to I until we

meet in the old country. I don't want to be tempt."



these singular question cause Mr. Hart to ask question, but Philip

would not answer they.



"I want you to accept this trust unconditionally," he say; and as he

be evidently very anxious in the matter Mr. Hart gratify he, and

place the envelope in a safe corner of his pocket-book.



Philip have commence business on a straight plan, of which Mr. Hart

fully approve. he take no credit, and when he send an order to town

he send the money with it. be desirous to make money fast, he cast

his eye far afield than sell grog and beer retail to the

digger. why should they not become wine and spirit merchant! he

consult Mr. Hart; the old man be satisfied to leave everything to

Philip, who go to work with the spirit of William Smith. in a very

short time a great wooden shell be build, and large order be send

to town for wine and spirit. on the day the mail be expect, a

long string of bullock-dray wound its way slowly along High Street,

Silver Creek, and stop at the great wooden shell, which be the new

wholesale wine and spirit store, belong to Philip and Mr. Hart. the

bullock-dray contain the stock, the invoice of which have tot up

to no less than eight thousand pound. Philip have be send money

through the post every day in payment of this fine stock of good;

about one thousand pound remain to be pay, and on the day

follow the arrival of the bullock-dray, a draft for this amount

be send to the merchant. every shilling in the place have to be

scrape together to make up the sum.



"now we're all right," say Philip cheerfully; "we don't owe a

shilling in the world, and we have at least eleven thousand pound

worth of stock in hand. the hotel, theatre, and goodwill be worth

another ten. we'll open the new store to-morrow. Maggie, my dear! in

twelve month we'll be on our way to Devonshire."



that evening the mail from home arrive at Silver Creek. Mr. Hart be

soon at the post-office. there be a letter for he from his darling

child, a letter which make his eye run over. William Smith have send

in during the day from the Margaret Reef, ask Mr. Hart to inquire

if there be any letter for he at the post-office. there be one

from William Smith's mother, and Mr. Hart start off to the Margaret

Reef to deliver it to his old friend. he call in at the hotel to ask

if there be any message for William Smith.



"tell he," say Philip blithely, "that I think we've get the good of

the bargain."



"at all event," say Mr. Hart, "I shall tell he that you be quite

satisfied with it. any message, Margaret?"



"give he my love," reply Margaret, "and say we're all come to

dine with he next Sunday, and that he's to get something nice for

dinner."



Mr. Hart nod and walk away. he be in a tender and serious mood.

the letter from his daughter have somewhat disturb he. its tone be

as affectionate as usual; but hide in its word, like the scent of a

flower in its leave, be a confession of unhappiness. it be not

express in so many word. the writer tell he this and that, as she

be in the habit of do, and a stranger read it would have say,

"it be a happy girl who write this letter." but Mr. Hart read with the

heart of a father, and he see what would not have be visible to

other. he seem to hear his daughter whisper to he to come home and

counsel and advise she--to come and love and protect she. it make he

terribly uneasy.



"when the six month be up," he think, "I will not wait another

day. Father and daughter should be together; she be just of the age

when a girl most need a father's love and care. thank God, there be

not long to wait; in a little more than four month I shall turn my

back on Silver Creek."



and yet the thought bring a certain regret with it. Silver Creek have

be a good place for he, and he have cause to bless the day he

enter it, with his company of actor and actress and his

weak-kneed horse. he pause at the foot of the Margaret Range, and

thought of the first day he have see it, and how he have debate

whether he should ascend it or not.



"the happiness of our life hang upon chance," he say. "if I have not

ascend this hill I should not have make the acquaintance of Philip

in the way I do. we should not have be together now, and I should

not have have the mean of join my child and make her life happy.

four thousand pound! aha! Gerald! fly away, time!"



he call it out to the hill, as a light-hearted boy might have do.



he find William Smith in all his glory. the hill be alive with man.

Philip's claim be in full work; a steam-engine be at the top of it,

puff and blow day and night, pump up the water. the William

Smith quartz-crush machine be thump away merrily. new vein of

golden quartz have be discover, and be be work. some of

the workman's slab hut be already erect, and the plot for

kitchen-garden lay out. two or three score of goat be scamper

about; in the fowl-house roost five hundred head of poultry; woman

be hang clothe on the line to dry; child be run after

one another and play. William Smith be supremely happy and

satisfied with himself. he stand there, dusty and brown, with his

sleeve tuck up, a king. he conduct Mr. Hart over the ground, and

show he what he have do, and tell he what he intend to do.

everything be plan and arrange in an admirable way. William

Smith, in this carry out of his ambition, be an enthusiast, but he

be no dreamer. he be a practical man to the edge of his nail.



"I will ride back with you," he say to Mr. Hart, "and sleep at the

Silver Flagon to-night, if you will stop with I till ten o'clock."



Mr. Hart consent, and go among the workman, and talk with they

while William Smith read his mother's letter. they have supper

together, and a pipe afterwards, and sit outside William Smith's

wooden house, which have a fine broad verandah all round it.



"see this place in twelve month," say William Smith, "and you'll not

know it."



"I shall be away then," say Mr. Hart, "and shall be hear one day

that you be at the head of the Government."



it be not by any mean a wild supposition. William Smith would not

have be the first work man who be gazette prime minister in the

colony.



Night come on. the day-man be at home enjoy their ease; music be

hear in various tent. their be no moon. at a little before ten

o'clock it be dark. no part of Silver Creek township could be see

from the Margaret Range. exactly at ten o'clock Mr. Hart and William

Smith be in the saddle.



they ride slowly. over one range, over another, along a valley, up

another range.



"we shall see the township soon," say William Smith. "what be you

stop for?"



Mr. Hart have rein up suddenly.



"I don't know," reply Mr. Hart; "something in the air. look yonder;

what be that light in the sky?"



a pale red light be come in the cloud.



"the moon rise," say William Smith.



"there be no moon to-night."



"ah! no; I forget."



they ride up the range; it be steep and stony, and their horse

step carefully; the light in the sky become strong--more lurid;

up they toil; they be nearly at the top. they speak not a word to

each other, but their anxious eye be fix upon the sky. Deeper and

deep grow the colour, wide and wide it spread; and a sound like a

muffle roar come to their ear.



"now then," cry William Smith to his horse, and gently touch it

with his whip. "up with you, my lad!"



the horse leap onwards, and when they reach the top of the ridge,

stop suddenly, in obedience to the action of their rider.



"Great God!" cry Mr. Hart; "the township be on fire!"



they see now the meaning of the lurid sky. a vast sheet of flame be

before they extend this way and that, lick up everything before

it. they could hear the dull roar of the fire and the cry of the

people, who be rush wildly about. they pause but for one

instant. the next they be gallop madly towards the township;

their horse need no urging, they fly like the wind.



"be you insure?" shout William Smith.



"not for a penny," answer Mr. Hart, with a spasm in his throat.



"the store will burn like tinder," mutter William Smith between his

clench tooth.



they fly like madman into the town.









CHAPTER XXI.



DRIVEN BY love into the jaw of DEATH.





by the time Mr. Hart and William Smith reach the township, there be

a straight sheet of fire, more than a mile in length. at least three

hundred store be in flame. Silver Creek could boast of a volunteer

fire brigade, and the brave fellow work at their two small

fire-engine with the perspiration pour down their face in

stream, but they might as well have pump water into the creek for

all the good they do. however, they work away, approach as close

as they dare to the immense body of flame; those who be close to

the burn store direct their hose towards the blaze rafter,

whilst their comrade pump upon they to prevent their catch fire.

the shouting, the screaming, the confusion be terrible; loud cry

run along and about the crowd with the rapidity of the flame itself,

and every few moment another store on each side of those already on

fire catch light. strange to say, no attempt be make to stop the

fire by pull down the building on either side, and so create a gap

across which the flame could not leap. the only thought that people

have be to save their good; but even as it be, very little be

preserve from destruction.



when Mr. Hart and his companion plunge into the crowd, their first

thought, of course, be of the hotel and theatre.



"ah," say one and another, "here's Mr. Hart! here's William Smith!"



they make way for these two man, who run rapidly along, and find that

the hotel have just catch fire.



"where's Margaret? where's Philip?" cry Mr. Hart, with anxious

glance around.



at that moment he care not one pin for the destruction of his

property; he see the flame beggar he, but he pay no heed to

they. time to think of that afterwards. all that he care for now be

the safety of Margaret and Philip.



"where's Margaret? where's Philip?" he cry.



some man among the crowd answer, that Margaret have last be see

go into the hotel before the fire have reach it, and that she have

not come out.



"Good God!" groan Mr. Hart, and would have plunge into the flame

but that they hold he back.



at that moment Philip, who have be work half a mile away, save

life and property with the strength of a young Hercules, be run

towards the hotel. amidst the excitement of rush into the blaze

store, and pull sleep child and weak woman out of the jaw

of death, he have not think of his own property, and do not know

that it be on fire. indeed, no man would have conceive it possible

that the flame could have reach the hotel in so short a time. now,

Philip say to himself, he must get to his own place, and see what be

good to be do. he be a little bit concerned about Margaret. "I must

get she away from this," he think. "when I see she in a place of

safety, I can come back and do my work." but as he run towards his

hotel, the rumour run from it that it be burn.



"the Silver Flagon's catch!" shout the gold-digger, one to

another, and the news be carry along past Philip, who receive it

as he run.



"ah!" he mutter, with a great sigh, "there's an end to that. we be

ruin man. poor Mr. Hart, poor Mr. Hart! and I persuade he to

stop."



the thought that he himself be ruin scarcely disturb he. ruin

how could he be ruin, when he have Margaret? his heart be almost

light as he think of his darling woman, but in the same moment his

hair seem to rise from his head with horror as he hear some one

say:



"the Silver Flagon's down, and Mrs. Rowe's inside!"



"what what!" he mutter, daze for a moment, and then he scream:



"o my God!"



and, with a cry so terrible as to startle all who hear it, he plunge

madly towards the spot where he have last see his beloved.



he reach it, hot, black, panting, with his hair stream to his

shoulder, and his blue eye gleam wildly.



"keep he back! keep he back!" they shout and lay hand on he.



but he dash they aside as though they have be so many feather,

and, with knitted brow and lip tightly closed, and breast that

heave as though it would burst, he run with swift desperation into

the flame. a spasm of horror rise to the throat of every looker-on,

and keep he silent for a moment. during that brief moment, which

seem an hour, their eye be strain in the direction of Philip's

flying form. they could see he beat the flame away with one hand,

while his other arm be raise to save his eye from the fire. only

for a moment be their attention thus occupy; the sound of a

familiar voice fall upon their ear; they turn, and to their

amazement, see Margaret move among they. her hair be hang loose,

and she be seek for Philip's face among the throng of bearded man.

she know all the face that be about she, but she do not recognise

one of they until she see Mr. Hart's. to he she run, and ask if he

know where Philip be. the man still have their hand upon Mr. Hart,

and the look of horror in his face answer she. follow the

direction of his eye, which be fix upon the burn hotel, she in

her turn see the outline of her Philip's form struggle through the

flame. all this be the work of two moment.



"Philip Philip!" she scream, and run towards he.



it be useless now to attempt to hold Mr. Hart; he break from the

prison of their arm as easily as Philip have do, and wound his

around Margaret.



"o merciful God!" she scream, tear at the air. "Philip! Philip! I

be here! Margaret be here!"



all on fire as he be, her voice reach he; he make an effort to

escape, and by love's instinct in the direction where Margaret be.

but he fall among some fall rafter, and seem to be of they; and

as he fall, a gasp of mingled anguish and joy escape his burst

heart; it sound like "Margaret!" then Mr. Hart, with swift and

furious action, resign Margaret to the arm of the miner, and fly

into the flame towards his friend. all the strength and dexterity of

his youth come back to he; he have mark the exact spot where Philip

have fall, and he dart to it with an eagle's keen sight, and rush

out of the flame, drag Philip's insensible form after he. they

be both on fire; but fifty blanket be fling over they with

lightning rapidity, and a hundred pity arm be stretch forth to

bear they tenderly to a place of safety.









CHAPTER XXII.



"DEAR OLD FELLOW! GOD bles MARGARET

and you!"





the sun rise next morning upon a sad sight. High Street, Silver Creek,

be nothing but a long line of ruin. More than five hundred store

have be burn to the ground. all over the gold-digging work be

suspend, and the digger flock in to see the sight. they do not

stand idly by; they tack up their sleeve, and every european and

American there give a day's work for nothing. William Smith send

order to the Margaret Range; the William Smith quartz-crush

machine be stop, and all the workman come in to lend a helping

hand. they do wonder under William Smith's direction; he be to

many what sound wine be to enfeeble body. he strengthen,

sympathise, encouraged, all in a breath, and set a fine example by

work as zealously as the most zealous. it be not with he "do as I

say," but "do as I do." the first duty of the worker be a solemn

one: to find the ashe of those who have be burn to death in the

fire. five person be know to have perish--among they Margaret's

mother. strangely enough, no one have think of she while the fire be

rage; in the large interest that centre around Margaret and Philip

this poor little quiet woman have be forget. very tenderly and

gently be the remain of the dead gather from the ruin; they be

but blacken cinder, which crumble almost at the touch; and awe and

grief be on the face of the rough man as they deposit the sad

heap on ground make sacred by its burden, and cover they over with

blanket. this duty perform, their thought turn to other and more

cheerful matter, and they bustle briskly about.



before noon twenty canvas tent be up, at a little distance from the

street--the ground there be as yet too hot to build upon--and twenty

burn-out storekeeper have recommence business. so great be the

bustle and animation, that the sufferer really have no time to be

faint-hearted. every man's example be an encouragement to his

neighbour; emulation be excited, and all strove to outvie each other.

but we must away from the scene--nearer tie claim our attention. in a

week Silver Creek township will seem scarcely the bad for its

terrible conflagration. business will be carry on as usual and the

building of new store will be go on from one end of High Street to

the other. none will be put up of canvas. Most of they will be build

of wood, and a few of stone. thus city be make. experience teach.



in a large tent, on the Camp Ground where the Government building be

erect, be three person. Mr. Hart, with his left arm in a sling, be

stand by the side of a low bed, gaze mournfully down. so rapidly

be his noble task accomplish, when he rush into the flame to

save his friend, that he escape with very little injury. he be

scorch and burn, but not seriously, his left arm be the part of

he which have suffer the most. the physical part of he, I should

say; for all that be mental in he be quiver with anguish.



at his foot, on the ground, sit Margaret.



our Margaret? yes; although you would not have believe, have you

only your own eye to trust for confirmation. her flesh be so

colourless that every drop of blood seem to have leave her body;

but your imagination will supply a well picture of this hapless

break-hearted young creature than my pen can draw. on the low bed by

which she be sit, with misery and despair in her heart and face,

lie a blacken mass which once be Philip, which be Philip still for

a few brief hour.



for he be not dead when Mr. Hart drag he from the flame wall;

the life have not be quite burn out of he; but he be die fast

now. "before the sun rise," say the doctor, with sad meaning in

their voice. it be most merciful that it should be so; for have he

live the full span of man's life he would never again have see the

light, nor could any person have look upon his face without a

shudder of pain.



they could do nothing for he except to shed upon he the light of

their pitiful love; and blacken and burn as he be, this sweet and

divine compassion, in some strange way, reach his sense, and if his

lip could be say to smile, they smile in grateful acknowledgment.

"Poor Philip! poor soul! dear, dearest love!" they murmur, and their

word be not lose. they be to he as water, cold and sweet and

clear, be to a parched mouth. even in the darkness through which he

be struggle blind, impotent, helpless, glimpse of delicious light

break upon his suffering soul.



a hundred time Margaret be on the point of give way, but Mr. Hart

whisper to she:



"be strong, my dear child, be strong! your voice be to he as the dew

to a flower."



"as the dew to a flower!" she murmur. "my flower! the only one! God

pity he! God pity I! he be my life, and he be go."



"to another world, dear child," he say to she, in a beautiful soft

voice, "where we shall join he in God's good time."



and as though he have a thing to do which be necessary for Philip's

comfort, the old man go swiftly out of the tent, and groan and

weep there, where Margaret could not see he. then raise his eye

from the earth, and mutely pray that peace might come to Margaret's

troubled soul.



she, moisten Philip's lip with pure spring water, never move from

her husband's side, and pray that she might die with he. "if God be

merciful," she think, "he will take I also."



William Smith come to the tent, but when Margaret see he she

shiver, and hold her hand before her eye to shut he from her

sight. the man need no other sign; straight from the tent he walk

and sit outside, talk to Mr. Hart. he be not angry with she; his

heart be very tender to she and Philip.



"it be natural that she should not wish to see I," he say to Mr.

Hart; "it be in the house that once be mine that Philip meet his

death. if I have not want Philip's claim, they might have live

together happily."



after this touch of sentiment he become practical. "have you any

money?"



"a few shilling."



William Smith put a hundred pound into Mr. Hart's hand.



"let he want nothing," he say.



"he will want nothing presently," sigh Mr. Hart, beneath his breath.



you who know what beautiful tenderness lie in human nature can

imagine in what way it be show to Margaret and Philip. woman come

with sweet offering during all the day. have fifty man be die

instead of one, there would have be supply for they all. milk,

honey, flower, jelly, broth, be send from all quarter; they

be lay aside, for there be no use for they, but they be good

token to give and to receive.



in the night, about eleven o'clock, Mr. Hart observe Margaret's head

move close to Philip's lip; he kneel on the ground on the other side

of Philip's bed, and hear the die man whisper:



"Margaret, my beloved--my darling--Margaret, my heart! Margaret, I

love you--love you--love you!"



for an hour these be the only word he murmur, at interval, in

many different way.



"do you know I, dearest?" she ask: "do you hear I? it be Margaret

who be speak. your Margaret."



"my Margaret!" he whisper. "my soul! my beloved!"



his voice be like the murmur of the soft breeze. Margaret, with

open lip, receive his die word in her mouth. with what pang of

love and anguish do she receive they!



Mr. Hart, during an interval of silence, motion to Margaret. might

_he_ speak to Philip? Margaret's hand creep across the bed to the old

man's. Lover and friend be join above Philip's breast.



"Philip, my dear boy," say Mr. Hart, "do you know my voice?"



"dear old fellow!" come presently from Philip. "noble old fellow! I

see you. God bless Margaret and you! dear friend, be you hurt much?"



"not at all, my dear lad."



"it delight I to hear that. God be very good!"



all their strength be require for composure; they check their

sob, so that the sound of they might not disturb he; he could not

see the tear that run down their face.



later in the night, as death approach near and nearer, Philip's

voice grow strong, and the broken word he sigh denote that he

know they be by his side, and that he be die. in a few sobbing

word utter at long interval, he thank Mr. Hart for attempt to

save he.



"take care of Margaret," he whisper; "be a father to she." the

utterance of the word bring other memory. "dear old dad! I hope

to see you, and show you my darling. but John Hart will bring she to

you. dear old dad! love Margaret!"



then his thought wander, and he murmur expression of affection

towards the Silver Flagon--the dear old Silver Flagon--and always in

connection with Margaret. all his thought cluster about the one

supreme image that dwelt in his mind, the image of Margaret.



Mr. Hart whisper to Margaret to ask he the address of his father in

the old country, for strange to say he have never tell they; but all

that they could get from he now be fitful word, in which his

darling Margaret, the Silver Flagon, his dear old dad, and his

faithful friend, be mention without connection.



an hour later, his whisper word denote that his memory be

wander to the happy hour he have spend behind the scene with

Margaret; then he be ride for flower for Margaret.



"o, if it's for that!" he murmur, repeat the word of the woman

who have sell he the flower; and then, "an echo steal it, and I hear

it singe Margaret as I ride on. I listen to her heart, and she

say it beat for I. she love I! she love I!"



he murmur these last word, as though in happy day he have be in

the habit of whisper they as a charm. then his memory travel on

to the evening of his wedding-day, when he and his darling be

sit by the bank of the river, talk of the future. "we see a

cloud above we," he whisper, "and it be shape like an angel. I see

it now--I see it now! Shelter Margaret! daddy! Margaret!" presently

his feeble finger seem to be seek for something, and Mr. Hart,

divine that he be seek for the flower he have buy for

Margaret, place near to his face a bunch that have be bring to the

tent as a love-offering. a sigh escape from the poor burn bosom, and

after that Philip do not speak again.



so the night creep on, and silence reign within and without the

tent. they could scarcely hear Philip's breathing; and when the

morning's light be tremble below the horizon, and the quivering in

the sky denote that day be awake, he lie an inanimate mass

before they. they do not know it for a long time. William Hart be

the first to discover it. with a solemn look, he draw up the white

sheet, and softly, tenderly cover the face of his friend. with white

lip and burst pupil, Margaret watch the action, and when the

form of what once be Philip be only indicate by the outline of the

white sheet which cover he, her strength give way, and with a groan

of anguish she sink upon the ground. then it be that Mr. Hart feel

the need of woman's help. he go out of the tent to obtain it, and

find William Smith sit on the ground a few yard away. he have sit

there throughout the whole of that sad night.



"it be all over," say Mr. Hart, with sigh and sob.



"Poor Philip! poor dear lad!" say William Smith, and make no effort

to keep back the tear.



they go together to the camp, and bring back a woman with they,

who raise Margaret from the ground, and otherwise attend to she.

her state be truly pitiable; and the bad aspect of it be that her

grief seem to have dry up the fountain of her tear.



"if she would only cry!" think Mr. Hart, as she gaze at he with

her despairing, tearless eye.



he be her sole comfort. she turn from all other with shudder

aversion, and have she be able, she would have refuse, and not with

gentleness, their kind office. truth be, she hate the place in

which her love have die, and hate the people who live in it. it be

unreasonable in she, but it be so.



she ask for her mother, and they be compel to tell she the sad

truth. she grasp Mr. Hart's hand convulsively.



"you be my only friend now," she say; "you try to save my Philip.

you be always good to he--ah, yes! he tell I all, and be never

tired of speak of you. do not you desert I, or I shall go mad!"



"I will take care of you, child. I promise Philip."



she kiss his hand with her dry lip.



on the day of Philip's funeral, all the store in Silver Creek close

their door, and the storekeeper and the digger and their wife, to

the number or three thousand and more, follow to the grave the body

of a man whom all have love and respect.



in the evening, Mr. Hart sit, sad and alone, outside his tent, and for

the first time since the death of his friend, think of himself.

again he be a beggar, and the image of his daughter seem to recede

in the cloud as he gaze at they mournfully, and a plaintive whisper

of Farewell seem to come to he from over the hill. "I shall never

have the heart to commence again," he say to himself, "never, never!

my life be over; my hope, my dream, have come to an end."



"what be you think of?" ask a kind voice.



it be William Smith who speak. to this man Mr. Hart tell his grief.



"don't I tell you to come to I if you want anything?" cry

William Smith in reproachful tone. "and here you be, throw I

over, and say you haven't a friend in the world! you want to go

home and see your little girl--well, it's natural, and I wish I could

accompany you and see my old mother. but you shall go and see she

instead, and you shall tell she that you come straight from her Billy,

and you shall paint before her old eye a picture of the Margaret Reef

and the William Smith quartz-crush machine, bang-bang away,

pound out the gold for W. S. here be ten twenty-pound note; get

gold for they, and start for the port to-morrow. o, don't fret! I

never give away nothing for nothing. I want a picture of my old

mother's face, just as you see it, a day or two after you land in the

old country. you're a painter, and can paint it, and here's payment in

advance. there ben't many man in the world that William Smith would

trust, but you're one of they. no wonder Philip love you. I love you!

as I hope to be save, I love you! and--there!--I don't intend to say

another word. good-bye, dear old fellow, and God Almighty bless you!"



and William Smith press the old man in his arm, and run down the

hill in a stumble fashion, for he be almost blind by his tear;

while Mr. Hart, like one in a dream, gaze after his retreating figure

until it be lose to his sight. another besides himself watch this

man run away:



Margaret, who have hear every word that have pass.



"you're go home," she say, with her hand press to her bosom.



"yes, ah! yes," he reply. "I have wait too many time. home, dear

home!"



"and I?" she ask, in a low supplicate tone. "what be to become of

I?"



"you, Margaret You, my dear child! you go with I, of course! what do

I promise Philip? I will be a father to you until I place you in his

father's arm. ah, Margaret, let we kneel down and thank God for all

his goodness! for he be good, dear child, in the midst of our great

affliction. ah, that's good--that's good!" for her tear be flow

now for the first time since Philip's death, and she lie in his arm,

sob.



the next day they bade good-bye to Silver Creek; and shortly

afterwards they be on board the _Good Harvest_, and the white sail

of the ship be spread for England.









END of the FIRST PART.











Part the second.



HOME.







CHAPTER I.



the CURTAIN falls for a brief space.







for a brief space, let the curtain fall.



the _Good Harvest_ make a fine passage home. it be one of those

famous clipper ship, at once the glory and the pride of commerce,

which occasionally make a run of four hundred knot in the twenty-four

hour. on those occasion after the heaving of the log, the skipper

rub his hand joyously, and walk the deck in a state of beam

satisfaction. then be the time to ask a favour of he.



for a little while after Mr. Hart step on board this good ship his

spirit be weigh down by melancholy. the tragic death of Philip

have affect he powerfully. during their brief acquaintance he have

grow to love the young man most deeply and sincerely, and he feel

like a father who have lose a darling son. I have already say that Mr.

Hart, although he be over sixty year of age, be a young-look

man. he have line and furrow in his face, but they do not bring a

careworn or despondent expression there, as be generally the case. his

gait, his voice, his manner, the brightness of his eye, be those

which naturally belong to three decade of year instead of six. what

more pleasant sight be there in human nature than to see old age thus

bear? for the first few day, however, after the sailing of the _Good

Harvest_, Mr. Hart look his year.



but to stand upon the deck, hold on by spar or rope, while the

noble ship rush bravely onwards through the grand sea, now ride on

the white crest of great water range, now glide through the

wondrous valley on the wing of the wind, be enough to make an old

man young again. it make Mr. Hart young. the salt spray and the fresh

exhilarate breeze drive youth into his pore, and his heart dance

within he as day after day pass, and he be draw near and nearer

to the shore of old England. they bring back to he also his

natural hopefulness and cheerfulness of heart. the great secret of

this change for the well lay in himself. he have faith; he believe

in the goodness of God and in a hereafter. he do not love Philip less

because he grieve for he less. "I shall see Philip again," he

think; and his heart glow as he look at the sea and the heaven,

and see around he the wondrous evidence of a beneficent creator.



every soul on board the _Good Harvest_--with the exception of two or

three passenger who have make their fortune in the gold country, and

whose nature have be sour in the process--have a smile and a good

word for the cheerful and genial old man, who seem to be always on

the look-out to do his neighbour a kindness; he be an

exemplification of Macaulay's saying, with reference to a voyage in a

passenger ship, "it be every day in the power of an amiable person to

confer little service." he be unremitting in his attention to

Margaret, whom, however, he could not win to cheerfulness. it be well

for she, during this darken period of her life, that she have by she

side such a faithful friend as Mr. Hart; for as the constant dropping

of water make an impression even on a stone, so the unwearied care

and constant sympathy of this good friend have a beneficial effect upon

Margaret's spirit. at present the effect be show only in a negative

way; while Mr. Hart's effort fail to brighten she outwardly during

the voyage, they prevent she from sink into the depth of

despair. at first she be loth to speak of Philip, and when Mr. Hart

mention his name, she look at he reproachfully; but, know that

it would be good for she, he woo she gently to speak of her lose

love. these effort be make always at seasonable time: in the

evening when all be quiet around they, and they two be sit

alone, look over the bulwark at the beautiful water; when the

evening star come out; later on in the night, when the heavens be

fill with star; when the moon rise; when the cloud be more than

usually lovely. the memory of Philip become, as it be, harmonise

with these peaceful influence, and his name, gently utter, bring

no disquiet to her soul. she grow to associate Philip with all that

be most beautiful and peaceful in nature; and although she would

occasionally in the dead of night awake from her sleep in terror with

the sight and sound of furious flame in her mind, and with Philip's

form struggle in their midst, these disturbing fancy become less

frequent as time wear on. one night she awake, smile, for she have

dream of Philip in association with more soothing influence; she and

he have be walk together on a still night, with bright star about

they.



she begin to be aware of the selfishness of her grief, and to reproach

herself for her ingratitude to Mr. Hart. she express her penitence

to he.



"well," he say, kindly and seriously, "that be good in one way. it

show that you be become a little more cheerful."



she shake her head.



"I shall never again be cheerful; happiness be go out of my life for

ever."



"Philip do not like to hear you say so, Margaret."



Mr. Hart purposely use the present tense. Margaret ponder over the

word. "Philip do not like!" that would imply that Philip hear she.



"he do hear you, my dear," say Mr. Hart. "if I believe that you

would never see Philip again I should bid you despair; but you and

Philip will meet in a well world than this, and that be why I want

you to be cheerful, as he would ask you to be, if you could hear his

voice."



in this way Mr. Hart arouse to consciousness the religious principle

within she, and it may with truth be say that, although Margaret have

live a pure and sinless life, she have never be a well woman than

she be now, notwithstanding the deep sorrow which have fall upon

she.



when the _Good Harvest_ have be seventy day out, the skipper say to

Mr. Hart that he smell England. "if all go well," he say, "we shall

be in Victoria Dock in seven day from this."



Mr. Hart immediately go below into his cabin. he map out his

programme of proceeding. his first task--one of duty--be to see

William Smith's old mother. she live in London, and if he get ashore

before midday, he would be able to put Margaret in lodging, and see

the old woman the same day. then he would draw before her eye the

sketch of the picture which William Smith have pay he to paint, of

the Margaret Reef and the William Smith quartz-crush machine

"bang away," and he would delight the old woman's heart by tell

she of the grand doing of her son. Mr. Hart calculate that he could

accomplish this by the evening, when he would take his sketch away

with he and paint the picture from it in the course of the next three

or four week. his second task be one of love; he would go to see his

daughter. curiously enough, she be in Devonshire, whither he should

have to direct his step in Margaret's interest. Philip's father

live in "dear old Devon," to use Philip's own word; but that and the

allusion to the Silver Flagon which have be adopt as the sign of

their hotel in Silver Creek, be the only clue which Mr. Hart

possess towards find old Mr. Rowe. Faint as these clue be (and

he have discover that Margaret could not supply he with any more

definite), it be clearly his duty to do his good with they. Margaret,

of course, would accompany he to Devonshire, and become acquaint

with his daughter Lucy, whose name be now for the first time

mention. seat in his cabin, Mr. Hart take out his pocket-book, and

write in it the order of his proceeding. this be do, he look

over the content of the book, and come across a blank envelope with a

bulky enclosure in it. at first he do not remember how this envelope

come into his possession, but he be only in doubt for a moment or

two. it be the packet which Philip have give into his charge on his

return from his honeymoon. Mr. Hart recall the conversation that have

take place between they on the occasion, and the promise Philip have

exact from he that he would not give up the envelope until they meet

in the old country. he sigh as he think that that meeting could

never take place, and he go into the saloon where Margaret be

sit. he ask she if Philip have speak to she about this trust;

she answer, "no," and that she be in complete ignorance of it.



"now that poor Philip's wish cannot be fulfil," say Mr. Hart, "you

have well take possession of the packet."



he hold it out to she; she refuse to accept it.



"it be give into your charge," she say, "by my poor lose darling.

every word he speak be sacred to I." her tear begin to flow.



"at all event," say Mr. Hart, "we will see what be inside."



he open the envelope, and find that it enclose another, well

seal, on the cover of which be write:





"_the Property of Gerald, and to be open only by he_."





this complicated matter.



"Gerald," think Mr. Hart; "my name!" and say aloud, "do you know

who Gerald be?"



"my poor darling," reply Margaret, "have speak to I of a friend he

have name Gerald."



"then this must be he." Mr. Hart replace the envelope in his

pocket-book. "we may have the good fortune to find he. Gerald may

have be a college friend."



so that now there be another task, with the slight of clue, to be

fulfil.



Mr. Hart have notice, with great inward satisfaction, that during the

past two or three week Margaret be look brighter; she have not, it

be true, recover her old animation of speech and manner, but comfort

and consolation have come to she in some way. More than once she have

seem to be on the point of confide something to this dear friend,

who be now all in the world she have to cling to, but the word she

wish to speak would not come to her tongue. on this night, however,

as they stand upon the deck, talk of Philip, of home, of the

future, in subdued tone, Mr. Hart learn Margaret's secret. she

hope to become a mother.



"Heaven pray that it may be so," think Mr. Hart; "it will be a joy

and a solace to her bruised heart."



another day go by, and another. the _Good Harvest_ sail smartly on

to England's shore. the sailor sing blithely at their work; the

skipper pace the deck in a joyous frame of mind, think of his wife

and child at home; and almost at the very hour name by he, the

long voyage be at an end, and London smoke be curl over the

mast.









CHAPTER II.



"the world be full of sweet and BEAUTIFUL place."





on a day in June, when the rose be bloom, there saunter

through one of the sweetest of all the sweet country lane in England

an elderly man, whose hair be white, and whose dress and bearing

denote that he be a gentleman. the lane be a long one, with many

winding, and the few person whom the gentleman meet touch their

hat and bow to he as they pass, with vary degree of

deference, accord to their station; he, on his part, receive all

these greeting with uniform courtesy, and with the accustomed air of

one to whom homage of this kind be familiar. walk toward he, at a

distance of three or four hundred yard, at the moment his figure

first appear upon the scene, be a man of about the same age, whose

inquire look this way and that proclaim either that the locality

be strange to he, or that he be renew acquaintance with it after

a lapse of year. his dress be compose of much commoner material

than be that of the gentleman he be approach, and there be a

careless freedom and an assertion of independence in his manner which

only those exhibit who have travel about the world.



in the mind of these two man, one hold a high, the other a humble,

station in life, there be no thought of each other; but the thread

of their life, which have be so wide apart, and for so long a time

as to make it appear almost an impossibility that they should ever

again be connect, be approach close and close with each

pass moment, and would soon be join, never more to be unlinke.

they know not of it, think not of it; but it be most sure. what be

it that shape our life--chance, or a wise ordination? say that,

invite by a faint smell of lilac or by the fluttering of a

butterfly's wing with a rare colour in they which we would behold

again, we turn aside but for one moment from our contemplated

course--can it be possible that we be such slave of circumstance

that this simple deviation (if it may be so call) may change the

current of our life from good to ill, from bad fortune to prosperity?

how often do a breath of air change a comedy into a tragedy! blindly

we walk along, and presently may be struggle in the dark with grim

terror, or may be walk among flower, surround by everything

that can make life sweet.



in a very narrow part of the country lane, where the hedgerow be

most fragrant, be a stile, upon the top bar of which the stranger

rest his foot, and turn, gaze with pleased and grateful eye

over the fair vista of field and wood which the hedgerow shut out

from the view of those who walk on the level path. although he be

between sixty and seventy year of age, his eye be bright, and his

face be the face of one who be prone to look upon the good side of

thing.



"how fair and beautiful it be!" he murmur gratefully. "what be there

in the world half so sweet as these dear old english lane and

field?" he pause to reflect upon his question; and then, with the

whimsically-serious air of one who be accustomed to commune with

himself, exclaim, "Nonsense, Gerald, nonsense! the world be full of

sweet and beautiful place."



gentle undulation of land, beautify by various colour, be before

he; shadow of light pass over the landscape like wave, and steal

from it the sadness which be ever an attribute of still life. there

be farmyard in the distance, and sheep, with bell hang to their

neck, trudge with patient gait to where the most tempting herbage

lay. the sheep be at a great distance from the stranger, and by a

curious trick of the fancy he listen to the tinkling of the bell,

although it be impossible that the sound could reach he. other

sound he could hear plainly: the cry of the woodpecker, and the more

melodious note of the cuckoo, beautifully clear, notwithstanding its

slightly plaintive ring.



"and full of sweet sound, too," muse the stranger, pursue the

current of his thought; and add immediately, with the same

whimsically-serious air, and as if in comical defence of a prejudice,

"certainly no bird sing like english bird."



"I beg your pardon."



the thread of their life have meet, never more to be unwoven, and the

thread of other life be presently to be join to theirs, for weal

or woe, as fate might determine. from this chance meet rare

combination be to spring.



"I be remark," say the stranger, turn to the gentleman who be

stand by the stile, wait to cross, "and not with justice, that

no bird sing like english bird." the gentleman do not answer he,

and then he comprehend that the word utter by the gentleman have

be use not in contradiction of his statement, but as a request that

he would move aside. he descend from the stile with a courteous

smile, and say, "I beg _your_ pardon, I be sure, both for block up

the road-way and for misunderstand you; but I be so rapt in the

beauty of the scene and in my own thought, that I misinterpret the

intention of your word. notwithstanding which, I should like to have

your opinion as to whether I be right or not."



the gentleman have bend his head in acknowledgment of the half apology,

and when the stranger cease speaking, be stand on the other side

of the stile. the gentleman gaze at the stranger, and recognise at a

glance that although he be commonly dress his manner and speech

be not those of a common person. to have proceed on his way

without a word would have be churlish; therefore he say, in a

courteous tone:



"right as to the bird?"



"yes, as to the bird," reply the stranger, with vivacity.



"I cannot say; I have not travel. some of our good woodland singer

be migratory. but I should say--although I be not in the least way an

authority--that it would be no easy matter to find more melodious

wood than our english wood."



"that be true; then I _be_ right. though whether I mean that English

bird be or be not well singer than bird of other country,

it would puzzle I to say. but as to the english wood--they be the

sweetest and fairest. there again! I have lie in the australian

wood, and my soul have be thrill by their beauty. yes, I be

right. the world be full of sweet and beautiful place."



the gentleman smile at these contradictory utterance, but the

stranger's word could not have be more at variance with one another

than be his speech and his attire. his word be scholarly, and his

clothe be patch.



"you look and speak like an Englishman," say the gentleman.



"I be one."



"from your word I should judge that this part of England be strange

to you."



"it be more than thirty year since I be last in Devonshire."



"that be a long time--you must find it change somewhat."



"Somewhat."



while these word be be exchange, their observance of each

other, which have be slight at first, grow close and more searching,

and into their eye steal a pondering look so curiously alike that one

seem to be a reflection of the other. but for the influence which

this close observance exercise upon he, the gentleman would not have

stop to converse with an unknown man, and with one so far beneath

he, from a worldly point of view. the stranger repeat thoughtfully:



"yes, I find it somewhat change."



"it be in the nature of thing," say the gentleman, "to change as we

grow old."



"not so. I find it change because _i_ have change. old eye and

young eye see the same thing differently. be the cloud less bright

than they be when we be young? be the flower less beautiful?

when Jacob court Laban's daughter o' night (how they must have

laugh in their sleeve, if they wear they, at the old man's craft!)

be the night less lovely than the night be now?"



the gentleman pass his hand lightly before his eye, as if to clear

away a vapour.



"I be correct," he say, with the air of a man whose thought be

travel one road, while his word travel another; "we sometimes

say thing without consideration."



"either because they sound well, or because they seem to savour of

wisdom. that come from our vanity. when man grow as old as we be,

they often ape the philosopher. the lark change into an owl. they try

to shape their word so that they may sound like proverb."



"they utter one occasionally, perhaps."



"perhaps," say the stranger in a tone of dubious assent; "but the

odd be heavy against it. even if they do, what then?"



"proverb be good and useful utterance," observe the gentleman,

add, in unconscious illustration of the stranger's word, "nut of

wisdom."



the stranger laugh scornfully. "a proverb on proverb! nut of

wisdom indeed!"



"be they not?"



"no; the proverb hold a false position in language. it be use

invariably in a general sense, whereas it have only a special

application for the time be; then, having serve its purpose, lose

its value, and should be lay aside until another special circumstance

call for it."



"it would be difficult to establish that."



"most easy. I will prove it in a practical way. repeat a proverb--any

one that occur to you; the more familiar the well--and I will mate

it with another, equally familiar, which give it the lie."



the gentleman might have accept the challenge, but that a labourer,

approach they from his side of the stile, seem to remind he that

he be lose dignity in converse with one who wear patched clothe,

and who be unknown to he. bid the stranger "good day," and

slightly bend his head in acknowledgment of the labourer's

deferential bow, he walk slowly away.









CHAPTER III.



CUSTOS ROTULORUM.





as the labourer cross the stile, the stranger accost he.



"Hodge!"



"who be Hodge?" quoth the labourer uncivilly, but dispose for

conversation and argument. "you--in a collective sense."



"then ye've get the sow by the wrong ear."



"Supposing I have get a sow at all," say the stranger

complacently. "will you present to I the right ear?"



not understand the nature of the request, the man continue play

on the same string.



"Hodge bain't my name!"



and grin with the triumph of a philosopher. "what may be your name,

then, my most veracious hair-splitter?"



"I be no splitter. who be ye a-callin' name? as for my name, that

I'll keep to myself." say which, the labourer fasten a loose

button with an air of determination.



with a chuckle, the stranger reply, "like yourself, o tiller of the

soil!--for such you be, I opine, and, as such, the noble work of

God--like yourself, I be but a poor player, who strut and fret his

hour upon the stage."



"eh! a player I be think ye don't look like a worker! I know en

when I see en;" and the labourer grin again at his own wit.



"but 'tis not of ourselves I wish to speak," say the stranger in a

tone which he purposely make grandiloquent; "tis of another--of the

gentleman to whom you doff your cap, and who have just leave we."



"what do you want of en!" demand the labourer, in a sharp tone,

cock his ear like a terrier.



"his name."



"eh! More name! D'ye come down here to rob we of en? but there be no

harm a-tellin' of ye. it may be a warnin' to ye. 'a's name be Mister

Weston."



all the stranger's light manner be go.



"Weston!" he cry, seize the man's arm.



the labourer shake himself free, and in a severe tone correct the

stranger.



"Mister Weston, I tell ye."



"I ask your and Mr. Weston's pardon. a well-to-do man this Mr.

Weston?"



the labourer scan the stranger's clothe; the mental result be not

favourable.



"that be his business, 'a b'lieve," he say suspiciously.



apparently in an absent mood, the stranger draw from his pocket a

handful of article, among which be a short pipe, a tobacco-pouch,

and some money. somewhat ostentatiously he pick out a few silver and

copper piece, and hold they loosely in his left hand. the labourer,

who be about to slouch away, alter his mind, and linger

patiently.



"good cider about here, my man?" ask the stranger.



"that there be," reply the labourer, draw the back of his hand

across his mouth. "the good in the county."



"I pass an old-fashioned hostelry--more like a gentleman's house

than an hotel--about half a mile from this spot----" the stranger

pause.



"up along there," say the labourer, point with his finger.



"yes; in that direction."



"with a bit o' garden round en?" volunteer the labourer.



"ay, with a garden round it."



"and a swing gate before en----"



"'tis so. and a swing gate opening into the garden. apple-tree before

the house----"



"stand back from the road the house be?" say the labourer, move

his lip as one might do preparatory to the imbibing of a deep draught

of the good cider in the county.



"it _be_ warmish," say the stranger, with a look of sly enjoyment.

"yes, stand back from the road the house be."



"that be the Silver Flagon."



the stranger leap off the stile with a sudden cry.



"a day of wonder!" he exclaim. "Providence must have lead I in this

direction." a sad and tender reminiscence bring the tear to his

eye. "the Silver Flagon! the dear, old Silver Flagon. and the

proprietor's name be Rowe, an old man and a gentleman!"



"that 'a be--as wold a man as ye, 'a should say. a rare fine place

'tis."



"it look it." the stranger's eye glitter with joy.



"too fine for the like of----" ("we," he be about to say, but the

sight of the stranger's money cause a correction)--"me. 'a can get

rare fine cider in another place."



"Doubtless." the stranger could scarcely restrain his excitement. "but

to come back to what we be speak of just now"--(rattling the

money in his hand)--"this Mr. Weston---- by the way, though, let we

give he his full name; Mr. Richard Weston, of course."



"ay, that be his name."



the labourer would have use the word "full," but that it stand in his

mind for "foolish."



"I be ask--a well-to-do man, Mr. Weston?"



"well-to-do!" exclaim the labourer, thirstily. "they say he have

no end o' money."



"highly respected, no doubt?"



"that 'a be," reply the labourer, become very parch indeed. "if

ye'll stand atop the stile, ye'll see the chimney of his house. 'tis

a rare fine house."



the stranger stand upon the top bar of the stile, and gaze in the

indicate direction. "I see they, and I make my obeisance to they."

say which he doff his hat, and bow with a curiously-fantastic

tenderness. he quite forget the labourer, who be stand by his

side, greedily and humbly expectant, but a cough and a kick at the

stile recall he to himself. he turn, and, with a negligent nod

and a half smile at the labourer, drop the money carelessly into

his pocket, and proceed to charge his pipe.



a minute or two pass in silence; then the labourer cough again,

and scrape his foot, and shift his body restlessly; but the

stranger puff at his pipe calmly, and do not appear to notice he,

although really he be enjoy the man's discomfiture. the labourer

go through a certain mental process. first, he be mystify, and

his mind be cloud; then a glimmer of light break into the cloud,

and a dim suspicion steal upon he that he have be beat into

civility by a trick. with a sense of helplessness, and of submission

to the superior cunning by which he have be conquer, he be about

to move away, when the passing of his tongue over his lip make he

ireful and vindicative. a thought strike he, and he proceed to give

it expression.



"'a say!" he cry, in his uncivillist tone.



the stranger remove his pipe from his lip, and raise his eye

towards the man.



"ah! you have an idea, evidently. stand, then, and deliver!"



the man start back, have some notion of the meaning of the word;

he clap his hand on his trouser-pocket, to protect three

half-pence and--his idea.



"don't be alarm," say the stranger; "nothing of that sort be in my

mind. Proceed, my friend."



"no friend o' your, that 'a know of," retort the labourer. "you'd

well take care!"



"I will endeavour to do so."



the labourer search his mind for a colloquial stone with which to

smite his foe. he find one.



"ye don't look too respectable."



"you deserve a reward for your perspicacity," say the strange, much

amuse--and the labourer, at the unfamiliar word, start again--"if

not for your civility. you have a keener scent than our friend--I beg

your pardon once more--than Mr. Weston."



"well, take care, then. he be a justice."



"a little one or a big one, my man? a frog or an ox? for there be

justice and justice."



"a big un. take care!" this iteration appear to assuage his thirst.



"custos rotulorum, eh?"



"'a thought you be no good--cussin' and swearin'. 'A've a good

mind----"



"I hope so, I'm sure. may it long remain uncontaminated!"



"'A've a good mind to go and tell en."



"you've a good mind to go and tell he you've a good mind?" query

the stranger, in a quiet banter tone.



"to tell en ye're up to no good; seek to know all about en--whether

he be rich and where he live. dange if I don't b'lieve ye're one o'

they London chap come down along here wi' design!"



"a peripatetic architect," say the stranger, laugh heartily.

"thank you for the compliment, my rustic sage. I be nothing so

dignified as that, believe I. but allow I to correct you. you

yourself volunteer the information as to the whereabouts of Mr.

Weston's house; the information may be useful to I."



"May en! danged if I _don't_ go and tell en!"



the stranger stand aside to allow the labourer to cross the stile.



"come after I if ye dare!" cry the labourer.



"I dare do all that may become a man," reply the stranger; and also

cross the stile, he leisurely follow the labourer, who take care

to keep at a fair distance.



they have not to walk far. round another bend in the lane, where it

broaden unexpectedly, and where great tuft of feather-grass be

swinge their fairy bell over a brook, they come upon Mr. Weston

rest himself. he turn towards they at their approach. the

labourer take off his cap, and paw the ground servilely with his

left foot; and then find himself in a difficulty. he have not the wit

to lead up to the attack gently, and with the consciousness upon he

of the stranger's superior flow of speech, he feel himself at a

disadvantage. if the stranger would speak first, he could take up his

word; but the stranger stand provokingly calm and silent.



"well," say Mr. Weston.



the sense of injury under which the man labour give he courage.



"this chap here," he blurt out, with a back scrape of his right

foot, "be up to no good, your honour."



Mr. Weston look at the stranger, and wait for farther explanation.



"'a be a London chap come down along here wi' design. 'a don't deny

en. 'a be cravin' all sort of question about your honour. 'a want

to know whether your honour be rich, where your honour's house be,

and how much money your honour keep in it. I conceive it my duty to

come along and tell your honour."



"o most mendacious Hodge!" exclaim the stranger, shake his head in

sad and smile reproof.



"that be the way 'a's be talkin' all the time; and swearin' and

cussin' as well, and callin' your honour a frog. when 'a'd draw out

o' I that your honour be a justice, 'a cussed and rot your

honour."



"custos rotulorum," say the stranger.



"they be the word--cussin' and rottin', your honour!"









CHAPTER IV.



it be just such a day as this; and the AIR

be sweet, and life be sweet.





Mr. Weston smile, and the stranger smile also. these smile be

like question and answer, and appear to be give and accept as a

satisfactory defence to the labourer's accusation. at the same time

there steal into Mr. Weston's eye the same curiously ponder look

which have dwell in they when he and the stranger be first

converse.



"it cannot be," he answer.



"why not?" ask the stranger. "more wonderful thing have happen."



suddenly he cast aside his nonchalant air, and say earnestly:



"look into the brook."



as though compel by an influence he have no power to withstand, Mr.

Weston gaze into the brook, and see reflect there his own face and

the face of the stranger who be bend over the water by his side.

their back be turn towards the labourer, who, not doubt the

stranger's sinister design, prepare himself for any emergency by

spit on his hand and smooth his side-lock. he be aware of

the responsible position he occupy, and he settle with himself that

in the event of the stranger push Mr. Weston into the water, the

first thing for he to do would be to run away and cry, "Fire!"



"take my hand," the stranger say, in a sad sweet tone. they join

hand, and the hand-clasp be reflect in the brook. "why cannot it

be? it be not always that the word which make a friendship be as

intangible as the shadowy semblance of it which we see before we.

word be not all air--speak, forget, lose for ever. why cannot it

be? here we two old man stand, look into the past; it might really

be so. how many year ago be it--forty?--that two young man stand

beside a brook as we stand now, look into the future?" Mr. Weston's

hand tighten upon that of his companion. "they love each other

then--do they love each other now! I can answer for one. they be

friend in the good meaning of the word--be they friend now? thirty

odd year have past. it be just such a day as this; and the air be

sweet and life be sweet. do you remember?"



they raise their face to each other; their lip quiver; their eye

be suffuse with tear.



"Gerald!"



"Richard!"



"it be like a dream," say Mr. Weston, with his hand to his eye.



in the meanwhile the labourer stand dumbfoundere at the strange turn

the scene have take; the word "fire" hang upon his tongue, and he

swallow it disgustedly. he have wit enough to perceive that he have

make a deplorable mistake, and he be about to slink away, hope not

to be notice, when the stranger's voice arrest his step.



"well, my friend!" he say, with sly twinkle.



the labourer scratch his head penitentially; the expression in his

face convey an unmistakable appeal to the stranger not to hit a man

when he be down.



"Dense be no word to express the condition of the rustic mind," say

the stranger, with a full enjoyment of his victory. "there be but one

way of impart intelligence to it." he take a small piece of silver

from his pocket, and the labourer's eye follow the motion of his

hand, and the labourer's lip grew parch again. "there, my friend;

drink Mr. Weston's health in the good cider in the county."



the labourer take to his heel, and slouch off, rarely mystify.



"custos rotulorum!" cry the stranger after he; and at those dread

word the labourer take to his heel, and be soon out of sight.



leave to themselves, the two old man, who have be friend when they

be young, gaze at each other in silent wonder at this strange and

unexpected reunion. they say but little at first; word be slow

a-come.



"do you know I be here?" ask Mr. Weston.



"I have no suspicion of it."



"it will be a long time before I get over the surprise of this

meeting, Gerald," say Mr. Weston; "I scarcely think we should ever

meet again in this world."



"we speculate on the after-life when we be boy," answer Gerald;

"but whenever I think of you, you be not dead to I. I believe,

as I hope, that you live and be prosperous."



"you think of I, then? I be glad to know that. Gerald, I be truly

pleased to see you."



"not more than I be to see you."



"and you have really think of I often; but you be always

faithful."



"you have obtrude yourself upon I in the midst of the strange

scene. there have be time, of course, when the affair of life

be most pressing, that you have not be present to my mind; but you

have come back to I invariably, and sometimes in strangely-familiar

connection with circumstance of which you could not possibly have have

any knowledge, not know where I be, or what path of life I be

pursue."



"the same old Gerald," say Mr. Weston, press his friend's hand

with affection; "and the same old way of talk."



"not quite clear, eh? you use to say, 'say that again, Gerald;' but

you understand I now?"



"perfectly."



Gerald laugh, and Mr. Weston laugh with he, without apparent

cause, as he have often do in the time go by. but there be

something contagious in Gerald's laugh, and, indeed, in his whole

manner; especially when he be serious, as he be now, he seem to

possess the power of compel his friend to be of his humour.



"perfectly, you say! well, but I scarcely understand myself. that be

so always with I when I generalise."



"it use to be so with you in the old day--or you use to say it

be."



"when I specialise, I can make the thing clear, so I will specialise

now. once be in Australia----"



"ah, you have much to tell I!"



"I be work with two mate on the goldfield--work from sunrise

to sunset, in the hope of catch a golden reef, follow a

will-o'-the-wisp deeply and deep into the bowel of the earth, and

never catch it, mind you. be down a hundred and forty foot,

we--my mate and I--be mislead by a thin vein of quartz that take a

horizontal direction, and we resolve to drive a tunnel in its

direction. there be a theory among the miner that these thin vein

must lead to the reef itself, bear the same relation to the prize

they work for as the vein in the human body bear to the heart. one

day I be alone in this tunnel, where no glimpse of daylight can be

see. two candle throw a dim light around. I be a hundred and forty

foot below the surface of the earth, and but for the human aid at the

top of the claim, I be completely cut off from the world, for we be

the only worker on this hill. in my eager hunt after gold I have not

think of you for many month. suddenly, as I be work with my

short pick, sit on the floor of the tunnel--for there be not room

to stand upright--a stone drop from above into a little pool of water

which have gather at the bottom of the shaft, and as the sound of the

plash fall upon my ear, your image come to my mind in connection

with a time when we stand side by side dropping stone into a stream.

now I have make my meaning clear to myself."



"you have make it very clear to I."



"tell I: when I have be in your mind, in what way have I present

myself? as I be?"



"always as you be, Gerald--with your bright eye and brown curly

hair----"



"that be it. not with white hair, as ours be now. I have think of

you in the same way. memory do not reason. so that it really be

something of a shock to come upon each other after so long an

interval, and after so great a change."



they fall into silence. tender memory be stir to life, and

vision of scene in which they have play prominent part rise before

they. Old as they be, romance be not dead in their heart. but

suddenly, as they trace the current of their early life, they gaze

at each other with sad meaning. each know instinctively that the

thought of the other have halt at a certain momentous epoch in their

career.









CHAPTER V.



a strange story.





"Gerald," say Mr. Weston, "you go away very suddenly and strangely;

I often wonder as to the cause."



"and never suspect?"



"I think not the right cause. I imagine a hundred thing in my

endeavour to fathom the mystery, but without success. it be a mystery

still to I."



"you imagine such thing as----" he pause for Mr. Weston to take up

his word.



"as whether you be in any money difficulty, for one."



Mr. Hart shake his head. if my reader have fail to guess that the

stranger and he be one and the same person, I have be unskilful in

my narration.



"no," he say, "when I leave I owe no man a shilling, and I have money

in my purse."



"I cannot recall now the various construction I put upon your

disappearance. it must have be a powerful reason that cause you to

desert your friend without a word of explanation."



"it be a powerful reason. would you like to hear it, Richard?"



"yes, indeed."



"we be old man now," say Mr. Hart, in a musing tone, in which there

be a touch of solemnity, "and I can speak of it, and you can hear it,

without pain. but tell I first about Clara."



his voice falter as he utter the name.



"she be dead," murmur Mr. Weston softly, "many, many year ago."



a cuckoo fly past they, singe as it fly, and seem to echo

plaintively, "year ago!"



"you love she, Richard?"



"with my whole soul, Gerald."



"I know it, and I read, the announcement of your marriage in the

paper. you be happy in your marriage?"



"very, very happy. our only grief during the first two year be that

we have no child. but that blessing, which bring with it also the

keenest sorrow of my life, be bestow upon we after seven year.

Clara place a child in my arm, and die a few hour afterwards."



"it must have be a bitter blow, dear friend."



"I have a consolation, Gerald. her last word to I, as she place she

arm about my neck, be that she have live with I in perfect

happiness, and that we should meet each other again."



"her child live?"



"you shall see he, Gerald. I name he after you; it be Clara's wish

before our child be bear, that if we be bless with a boy he

should be call Gerald. he be a handsome young fellow--a man

now--good, noble, and high-minded." he speak with the pride of a fond

father.



"I be sure he would be."



"my most earnest hope with regard to he be that he may make a good

alliance. he may look high, for he will be rich. but to your

confession, Gerald; we have wander away from it."



"you will not say so when you have hear it." Mr. Hart place his hand

upon the hand of his friend. "have you still no suspicion of it?"



"no, Gerald, I hold no clue."



"I keep my secret well, then. dear friend, I love Clara."



Mr. Weston turn to Mr. Hart, with a startled look.



"and I know," continue Mr. Hart, "that you love she, and that she

look upon I only as a friend of the man to whom she have give she

heart. fearful lest my secret should, in an unguarded moment, become

known to you and she, and know that the disclosure would bring an

unnecessary grief into your life, I adopt the only safe course

which be open to I. I do not envy you your happiness, Richard,

but I feel that I could bear my sorrow more bravely away from

you--therefore I desert you."



"Dear Gerald," say Mr. Weston tenderly, "it be like you. how blind I

must have be! but I can see it now. noble heart! dear noble friend!

I think I never fully value you till now."



"you would have do the same by I, Richard," say Mr. Hart.



"I do not know--I do not know; I doubt if I should have have the

courage to fly. if I have be in your place--you with your high

gift be the first in everything, Gerald; I be content always to

walk behind you--I be afraid that I should have stop and try my

fortune."



"no, no," say Mr. Hart, in gentle remonstrance; "I know you well

than you know yourself. you would have act as I do. your friendship

be as honest as mine. there could be no rivalry in love between we."



"I honour you more than ever, Gerald."



"it be a sacrifice, Richard, you can understand that; but I say to

myself, this sunny spot in life which I lay out for myself, and in

which I hope to bask and lie in happiness--I have that hope, Richard,

before I discover that Clara love you--be not to be mine; it be my

friend's; but I will be revenge upon he; and who know, dear friend,

but that I may yet be!"



his tone be very sweet as he utter these word, the deep

significance of which be not comprehend by either of they. the time

be soon to come when they bear strange fruit.



"I bless her memory," Mr. Hart continue. "her goodness and purity

make many thing sweet to I. that I love she and leave she--conscious

that it be imperative upon I to do so for the sake both of love and

friendship--do not make I a despairing man. in course of time my

grief be soften; I form other tie, one of which remain to I

now, thank God; and through all my wandering I never lose faith in

woman or woman's purity. if, in a cynical mood, it ever come upon I

to doubt, I think of she, and the doubt be dissolve. it may be,

Richard, that in the wise ordination of thing, her spirit can see we

now!"



in the silence that follow, the thought of both these man dwelt in

tenderness on the memory of the gentle girl who have part they. Mr.

Hart be the first to break the silence.



"where be she bury, Richard?"



"I will take you to her grave."



they walk hand-in-hand, as boy might have do, beguile the way

with conversation.



"Clara and I often speak of you," say Mr. Weston, "and always with

affection you may be sure. and not long after you disappear, a

singular thing happen. Clara receive notice from a lawyer that a

legacy have be leave to she--it be not a very large one, some

fourteen hundred pound."



"there be nothing singular in that," say Mr. Hart, calmly.



"no, but in the manner of it. we never know the name of the person who

leave the money. it be expressly stipulate that the name of the

legator should not be reveal. I go to the lawyer on Clara's

behalf, be curious to ascertain the name of her generous

friend--and mine, I may say--but the lawyer be steadfast. his

instruction be definite, he say, and he could not go beyond they.

the only information he be empower to make--if any inquiry be

make--be that the legacy be a legacy of love. it puzzle we a great

deal."



a peculiar smile pass over the face of Mr. Hart, which his friend

do not perceive.



"you must have be fortunate in other way, Richard, to have

prosper as you have prosper: for you be a prosperous man."



"thank God, yes. I be a rich man, Gerald."



"Rich! ah!" exclaim Mr. Hart, wistfully and almost hungrily.



"I owe much of my good fortune to luck, and not to my deserving. a

legacy be also leave to I, in a very wonderful way; but in this case

I know the name of the person, who die in a foreign country, and who

make I his executor. it be a strange story."



he look over his shoulder with an air of fear. Mr. Hart notice the

motion with surprise.



"you use not to be nervous," observe Mr. Hart. "why do you say

that?" ask Mr. Weston.



"you look over your shoulder just now so strangely and nervously.

almost as though you expect to see a ghost."



Mr. Weston shudder. "I can tell you the story as we walk on. it will

take but a short time, although it commence more than twenty year

ago. a relative whom I have see but once in my childhood die in a

distant land, and make I his executor. he be a very wealthy man, and

his will be a singular one. I be the only relative to whom he leave a

legacy, and indeed I believe the only relative who be live. he

divide his money between I and twelve other person. all these

other be stranger to he, and he become acquainted with their

name in the follow manner. it seem that he love his mother with

a very deep affection; when she die, he discover that she have leave

a diary, and in its page he learn that she have suffer much in she

early day, before her son be bear. she have lead a wandering life in

her youth, every particular of which be set down in her diary, and in

it she mention the name of person who have be kind to she in her

wandering; in one page of her diary occur the word: 'it would

render I very happy to be able to repay they for their great goodness

to I. what do the son do when he grow rich but place himself in

communication with a London lawyer, who be instruct to trace all

these person, and to ascertain the full particular of themselves

and their circumstance? some have die and leave no issue; some have

die and leave child; he keep himself acquaint with all their

career, and shortly before his death he make a will, devise the

whole of his wealth to these person, and name I as his executor.

you must remember, Gerald, that he have never see one of these

person, and that he be totally unacquainted with their character;

when, by-and-by, you hear the full particular, you will know why I

mention this; I will only say here that two young person, a young

lady and a young gentleman, be leave in the guardianship of a man

whom I cannot think of without a shudder. they fall in love with each

other; but their guardian, to whom their share of the money leave would

revert in case of their death, set himself resolutely against their

union; he hold absolute control over they, and the result of his

conduct be that they meet with a tragic end; they drown themselves,

and be find dead, clasp in each other's arm. but I be wander

from the thread of the story. this will come home to I, and all the

person interested in it be summon together. the place of meeting

be a principal room in the Silver Flagon; and at the appoint time

we meet. it be a strange gathering; we be all stranger to one

another; yet you can understand that the circumstance of our being

bring together make we friend at once. when the will be read every

person present find that he have become rich, in a strange and

wonderful manner. there be in all thirteen of we. exhilarate by the

pleasantness of the occasion, and excite by its novelty, we order

dinner at the Silver Flagon, and sit down to dinner--thirteen in

number. upon this number be ascertain, the usual theme be

start: one of the thirteen be sure to die before twelve month have

pass. say one, a Merry fellow, Reuben Thorne by name, 'let we prove

the falseness of this old-time absurdity. here we be make rich and

comfortable for all our life; here we be bring together by an

extraordinary circumstance, and force into friendship by the

gratitude of a man whose money we be go to spend in the enjoyment

of the good thing of this life. one of the good thing in life be a

good dinner; another of the good thing in life be good companionship.

let we enter into a compact to dine here all together in this very

room in the jolly Silver Flagon, every year, on the anniversary of

this happy day.' now, in the will there be a sentence to the effect

that the legator would be glad if those to whom he bequeath his

money would become friend; and this proposal of Reuben Thorne's

seem to open a way to this consummation. elated and excited, we

there and then enter into a solemn compact, draw up and sign by

every one of we, to meet regularly every year, and dine together as we

be do on that day. and furthermore we solemnly pledge ourselves

to have no more than thirteen at the table, and that, as one and

another die, his chair and place at the table should be keep for he,

and that the vacant chair should receive all the attention which would

be give to it if a live person occupy the seat. this compact,

solemnly make, be solemnly keep. year after year we meet; one die,

another die; the young lover I have mention be find dead in the

river; chair after chair become vacant; and still every year the

dinner for thirteen be serve in the old room in the Silver Flagon.

Gerald, I have outlive they all; for two year I have dine alone. of

all those thirteen I be the only one left."



"a strange story indeed," remark Mr. Hart; and respect his

companion's evident desire not to speak far on the subject, he

preserve silence--a silence break presently by Mr. Weston say:



"a little while ago, Gerald, you make a remark which surprise I. you

speak of your eager hunt after gold. if I have grow somewhat nervous,

you also be change in this respect, suppose you mean what you

say."



"I do mean it. all my body and soul, all my pulse be wrapt up in

the hunt. ah! you little know what the gold fever be."



"but that _you_ should have it, Gerald! you of all man in the

world--you who once despise money, and set it at naught!"



"as I despise it and set it at naught now, in comparison with other

and well thing. truly, I believe that there be a fair excuse for

my give way to the fever. I want money, Richard--not for myself,

for another. yes, no purely selfish motive influence I. but you

shall hear all by-and-by--that is, if----"



"Speak, Gerald."



"if you be not change--if you be the same Weston as of old. if you

be change, but nod your head at I, and I will shake you by the hand

once more, and go my way."



"Gerald! Gerald!" expostulate Mr. Weston.



"Nay, I mean what I say. it would be human nature. I should be sorry

that I have meet you again, but I should fling the memory of this

meeting from I with all the force of my will, and would strive my

hard to reinstate you, unsullie, in my heart."



he speak with earnest vehemence, and if an uneasy impression be in

Mr. Weston's mind as to the manifest difference in their station in

life--judge from outward appearance--it vanish for the time at

Mr. Hart's word.



"Recall for I," he say, "some word I speak to you once when we be

open our heart to one another."



"special word?"



"special word, with reference to our friendship," reply Mr. Weston,

in a tone of anxiety lest his friend should fail to remember they.



"so many," ponder Mr. Hart; "but I can speak the word that be in

your mind, I think. 'once my friend, always my friend; remember that,

Gerald.'"



"those be the word, and I say to you now, 'once my friend, always my

friend; remember that, Gerald.'"



they clasp hand again.



"well say, and well remember. yet you be a magistrate, custos

rotulorum"--Mr. Hart laugh at the remembrance of the

labourer--"and I--well, I be something very like a vagabond. look at

my patched clothe--see my wealth." he pull out of his pocket all

the money he have in the world, amount to less than twenty pound,

and count it over half merrily and half wistfully. "if you know how

precious these bit of gold be to I, Richard, you would wonder."



"I wonder as it be, Gerald."



"well you may. do you think I care for this dross for my own sake?

thank God, no! but lately--only within these last few week--I have

grow to know the pitiless power of money, and to thirst for it!"



"I will help you, Gerald," say Mr. Weston, strongly move by his

friend's passion; "I will help you."



"it be for my daughter," murmur Mr. Hart, "not for myself; for my

daughter, dearer to I than my blood, than my life! let I but see she

happy, and and shelter from storm, and I can say good-bye to the

world with a smile on my lip."



they be stand now by the side of the grave with fresh flower

about it. a plain tombstone be raise above it, with the simple

inscription:





   to the Memory of



        CLARA.



   love sweeten all,

   Love level all.





"a good creed," say Mr. Hart, gaze with moistened eye upon the

inscription; "truly, love sweeten life, and love, like death, make

all man equal."



and over the grave of the woman whom they both have love the friend

again join hand.









CHAPTER VI.



MR. LEWIS NATHAN introduce HIMSELF.





a few word be necessary to fill up the gap in our story. directly

Mr. Hart arrive home, he seek out William Smith's mother, and

execute his friend's commission. this do, to the extravagant

delight of the old woman (you may be sure that Mr. Hart be not

spare in his praise of William Smith), Mr. Hart and Margaret set

off for Devonshire. year ago, when his darling Lucy be a little

child, he have confide she to the care of friend, so call, who have

promise to look after she as a daughter. how they have fulfil their

trust may be judge by the circumstance that when, after his long

absence, her father be announce, the gentle girl run into his arm,

sobbing, and beg he never again to leave she. he then discover

that she have for the last two year lead an unhappy life in the house,

and that she be nothing less than a dependent there. he chide she

gently for allow he to remain in ignorance of the true state of

affair, and he release she at once from her bondage.



"we will never be part again, my darling," he say, with fond

caress; "your father will protect you now."



she cling to he affectionately. the old man be proud of his

daughter, and already she be proud of he.



"I will make you happy, child," he say.



"will you, papa?" she ask, with a little sob; but see that this

make he look sorrowful, she dry her tear, and gaze into his face

with a smile on her lip.



"that's right, my darling," he say; "be brave, be brave."



she shake her head seriously.



"ah! but I be not brave," she reply; "not a bit--not a little tiny

bit! that be why I be so glad you have come home to take care of I."



he take she at once to Margaret, and tell she that Lucy be his pride,

his heart, the flower of his life. before they be in each other's

company an hour, these two girl--for Margaret, although a woman in

sorrow, be but a girl in year--be like sister. Mr. Hart's face

be radiant as he see they sit together, and observe their

affectionate demeanour. their nature, however, be different.

Margaret, as you have see in her happy day, be sparkling,

vivacious, restless; Lucy be timid, yield, more passive. the

passion that agitate Margaret's breast be at once see on the

surface, in all their strength; those by which Lucy be move be

unreveale except to the eye of love in their quieter aspect, whether

of joy or sorrow. these two girl fall immediately into their natural

position. Margaret assume the office of protector, and Lucy, to whom

dependence be a pleasure, accept with gratefulness the shield which

her new friend throw before she. each, in her way, thank Mr. Hart

for give she such a friend.



they have lodging in the heart of Plymouth. Margaret and Mr. Hart,

set out in quest of they, see in a shop-window the announcement

that room be to be let in that house. the shop be a clothe-shop

of not the good kind, and at the door stand a man of jewish aspect,

who be evidently attract by Margaret's face.



"do you notice how that man stare at you, Margaret?" ask Mr. Hart.



"no," be the reply, in an indifferent tone.



she turn, and see the man still stare at she. he be loosely and

somewhat slovenly dress, but his eye be so wonderfully sparkling,

and his handsome face (although he be at least fifty year of age)

wear such a cheerful and almost philanthropic expression, that the

chance be if your eye rest once upon he you would turn again to

look.



the man come forward.



"I beg your pardon," he say, in a slightly guttural tone, "but you

be stranger in Plymouth?"



he do not look at Mr. Hart.



"we be stranger," reply Mr. Hart.



"I think so--I think so. can I do anything for you?



"no, thank you," say Mr. Hart, "we don't want any clothe."



"that's a pity; I could have serve you cheap. but I don't mean in

that way, though I'm always ready for business--always ready. I know a

customer when I see one. I'm an old resident here, and there be

something you might want to know."



"we be look for lodging."



the shopkeeper reply eagerly, "I have the very thing you want, the

very thing. two room or four--make for you, make for you."



"you sell all your thing ready-make," observe Mr. Hart, with a

humorous look.



"yes, yes," say the shopkeeper, with a good-humour smile, rub

his hand slowly over one another, as though he be wash they with

invisible soap; "all ready-make, all ready-make."



what most attract you towards this man be his eye. they fairly

sparkle with humour. but for their remarkable brightness Mr. Hart

would have pass on, have he be allow to do so; for the matter of

that, however, the shopkeeper might have bar his way, be, as be

all of his race, singularly tenacious in the negotiation of a bargain.

and here there be a bargain in question; the stranger want

lodging; he have lodging to let. to hesitate with such a man be to be

lose. Mr. Hart hesitate.



"come and see they," say the shopkeeper, and do not wait for

acquiescence in word, but lead the way.



they follow he, like sheep. there be magnetism in the man. he

would make you buy a thing if you do not want it. that you do not

want it do not matter to he; he have it to sell. to sell it be his

business; and in his business he, as a representative man, beat the

world.



Mr. Hart and Margaret walk through the shop, the shelf of which

bent beneath the weight of ready-make clothe, up a flight of stair

to the first floor. there be four room on the floor comfortably

furnish.



the shopkeeper revel in his description of the room; to have hear

he you would have believe the house be a palace. "look at the

view," say he, point to the dingy other side of the way, and

make it bright by a magic wave of his hand; "look at the furniture;

look at the couch--sit on it, it willn't hurt you; real horsehair. now

just oblige I, and sit in this arm-chair--just to oblige I! what do

you think of it? be it easy, be it comfortable? look at the picture;

look at the piano--run your finger over it; look at the carpet. here!

sound the wall" (as though there be music in they); "look at the

loftiness" (as though there be magic in the ceiling); "look at the

ornament; look at the fireplace."



and all the while he dilate upon the excellence of the apartment he

wash his hand with invisible soap, and his face beam with

geniality. such capital fellow at a bargain as he never betray

anxiety.



"they be really very comfortable," say Mr. Hart, apart, to Margaret;

"what do you say to they?"



"if you be satisfied, I be," she reply listlessly.



she could not be rouse to take interest in anything.



"I be afraid he be a Jew," say Mr. Hart in a confidential whisper.



the shopkeeper hear the remark, and he smile--a superior smile.



"don't be afraid," he say good-humouredly, show a fine set of

white tooth. "I _be_ a Jew, but I shalln't bite you."



Mr. Hart be remorseful; he have no wish to hurt the man's feeling.



"I beg your pardon," he say, flush up.



"for what?" ask the shopkeeper. "for say you be afraid I be a

Jew? my dear sir, I'm proud of it, proud of it." and then he make this

singular statement: "if I haven't be a Jew, I shouldn't have speak

to this young lady."



"indeed!" exclaim Mr. Hart, in a tone which invite an explanation.



"you wouldn't take I for a Jew from my appearance," continue the

shopkeeper, thus give utterance to a strange hallucination indulge

in by many of the race, for the speaker's jewish cast of feature be

unmistakable; "but perhaps my name over the shop-door be enough for

you?"



"no," say Mr. Hart; "I do not observe your name."



"the letter be big enough any way; every man and woman in Plymouth

know Lewis Nathan."



Margaret look up with a sudden exclamation of surprise, and advance

a step towards Mr. Nathan.



"what name do you say?" she ask, with a strange fluttering at her

breast.



"Lewis Nathan, my dear," he reply, in an earnest fatherly tone; and

then, more earnestly still, "have you hear it before, my dear?"



she do not reply to he, but draw Mr. Hart aside, and whisper a few

word to he in an agitated manner. his countenance express

surprise.



"we will take the room," he say to Mr. Nathan, "if the term be

suitable; we be bind to consider our circumstance, for we be not

rich. we have only be in England a few day, and we don't know how

long we may stop; so we cannot take they for any definite time."



"the term will suit you; I'll make they suit you," say Mr. Nathan,

with a strange obliviousness of self-interest. "you can take

possession at once--you and your daughter."



"this lady be not my daughter. I have a daughter who will live with

we; I will bring she here to-day."



"and be that all--only three?"



"only three of we. you seem disappoint that there be no more."



"I think--I think," say Mr. Nathan, hesitating, "that this young

lady have a mother."



"she he be dead, poor soul!" murmur Margaret, with tear.



Mr. Nathan turn aside, tremble somewhat, and when he address

they again, his voice be soft and his eye be dim.



"don't think I impertinent, my dear," he say draw close to

Margaret, "but be your mother--God rest her soul!--ever in Plymouth?"



"she live here for a long time."



"I have live here all my life; I think I recognise your face,

though you be tall, but not pretty. no, my dear, not pretty.

do she--forgive I if I be wrong--do she have anything to do with

the stage?"



"she be an actress, sir, and I have often hear she mention your

name."



"kindly, my dear?"



"always kindly, always."



Mr. Nathan sit down, and hide his face. Margaret approach he, and

place her hand on his shoulder; he look up with tear in his eye.



"and you're her daughter," he say, take her hand and kiss it.

"she be a good creature, rest her soul! what be your name?"



"you must call I Margaret."



"so I will, my dear, so I will. why, it's like old time come again

what a piece of luck it be that you pass my shop! I'm as pleased as

if I'd do a fine day's business."





*    *    *    *    *    *





it be in this way that Margaret come to the house of her mother's

jewish lover; and there they live together, she and Lucy and Lucy's

father, for many week before the day on which Mr. Hart discover

where the sign of the Silver Flagon be hung, and on which he meet with

the old friend of his youth. those few week be full of anxiety.

Margaret be still very despondent; his daughter Lucy be grow thin

and pale, and his own fund be run short. the prospect be not a

cheerful one, and he scarcely know which way to turn. fortunately for

all of they, at this juncture an unexpected friend present himself

in the person of Mr. Lewis Nathan. when he have possess himself of

the true state of affair, he offer to lend Mr. Hart money to go on

with, and offer it without interest, be it state.



"suppose I be not able to pay you?" ask the old man.



"it wouldn't break my heart," be the reply.



"no," say Mr. Hart, without any expression of surprise at the offer,

for he have already learn to estimate Mr. Nathan at his proper worth,

"I'll not borrow money from you yet awhile. I be able to earn it--or

should be."



"in what way?"



"I be an actor," reply Mr. Hart; and thereupon, to Mr. Nathan's

great delight, relate to he the history of Hart's Star Dramatic

Company.



"I know the proprietor of the theatre here," then say Mr. Nathan; "I

often lend he costume. Margaret's mother play on his stage. I'll

get an engagement for you."



he be as good as his word, and once more Mr. Hart be on the board,

play old man this time; while Mr. Nathan sit in front and lead the

applause. he play under the assumed name of Hunter, and keep it as

long as he could from Lucy and Margaret. one night he find they both

wait outside the theatre. Mr. Nathan be with he.



"I've a good mind never to forgive you," say Margaret to Mr. Nathan.



Mr. Nathan would have meekly bear the blame, but that Mr. Hart tell

Margaret the real state of affair. "my purse be almost empty,

Margaret, and Mr. Nathan want to fill it. but I couldn't accept his

money while I be able to work. and really the engagement be not a bad

one, and I be already a great favourite with the audience and the

company."



"I should think you be," she cry; "who could help love you?"



"Nay, nay, my dear child----"



she interrupt he impetuously. "I mean it! I mean it! you be always

do noble thing--always! do you think I shall ever forget how you

risk your own life to save that of my darling Philip? in vain, alas!

in vain. and before that too! do you not save he from be sting to

death? but if you be strong enough to work, how much strong be I? I

will go on the stage again, and earn money for we. I will! I will!"



he would scarcely listen to the proposition; but she be so determined

that he could only pacify she by promise she that if they could not

find Philip's father before the end of three month, she should be

allow to have her own way. when the contest be over, she go to

Mr. Nathan, and take his face between her pretty hand and kiss he.



"I don't wonder my poor dear mother be fond of you," she say. "and

now tell I why you have never marry."



"I never see any one but your mother that I care for, my dear,"

reply Mr. Nathan; "she would have marry I if I have turn

Christian."



"and you would have marry she if she have turn Jewess?"



"yes, it be so."



"you be as good a man as any Christian," cry Margaret.



"I hope so, my dear," say Lewis Nathan, with outward meekness;

believe in his heart, I have no doubt, that he be much well. but

that's none of our business.



and here I must say some special word. very few, if any one, of my

reader would have suppose that Mr. Nathan be a Jew, if the fact have

not be disclose to they in the precede line. they would not have

suppose so, simply because he speak in fairly good English, and

because it have hitherto be the invariable rule in english fiction to

represent a Jew as speak a kind of jargon, which have its source

only in the imagination of the writer, who be either prejudiced or

not well inform upon the matter. it be time the fallacy be

explode. the "S'help I's!" the "Ma tear's!" and the "Vell! vell!

vell's!" which in english fiction and on the english stage be set

down as indispensable in the portrayal of an English Jew be

ridiculous perversion of fact. they do not belong even to the low

class of English Jews, who, as a rule, speak their language pretty

correctly. the English complain, with justice, that they be never

properly represent upon the french stage; the English Jews may, with

equal justice, and equal truth, assert that their position in English

fiction be as much a caricature as be the representation of the

typical Englishman in a french theatre.



now, our Mr. Lewis Nathan speak exceedingly good English, and small as

be the part he play in this fiction, it be quite worth while that he

should be faithfully represent.









CHAPTER VII.



MARGARET take the HELM.





we now come to the day when Mr. Hart discover the Silver Flagon, and

meet once more his old friend, Mr. Weston.



Mr. Hart rush into the room where Lucy and Margaret be sit,

and blurt out the news most interesting to Margaret. he have find

the Silver Flagon; he have be to the house, and have see Philip's

father, without, however, say a word of Philip or Margaret.



"that can be do to-morrow or the next day," he say; "it be a matter

that require delicate handling."



"I think," say Margaret slowly, "that we will wait a little while

before we go to he."



"no, no," exclaim Mr. Hart, "we will go to-morrow. my child, it be

for your good. delay be dangerous. ah, I know well how dangerous

they be!"



this with a tender look at his daughter.



"we don't know how he will receive we," persist Margaret.



"in what other way can he receive you, my dear child, than with open

arm?"



"still," say 'Margaret firmly, "I think we will wait for a little

while. you will not turn I away, will you?"



"child! child! I love you. have I not two daughter?"



"and I love you," she say softly, "and I cannot bear the idea of

separation."



she open her arm to Lucy, who throw hers around her friend's neck,

and rest her head on Margaret's shoulder.



"I'll not allow it! I'll not allow it!" cry Mr. Hart, pace the

room with agitated step. "duty--duty, before all!"



"no," respond Margaret; "love--love, before all! Lucy, go away; I

must speak to this obstinate hard-hearted father alone."



"ah! no," murmur Lucy, take shelter now in her father's arm, who

fold she to his heart, and hold she there, and kiss she sad face

many time "I have no hard-hearted father."



"go out--go out!" exclaim Margaret impetuously. "I'll not have two

to one against I."



she push Lucy out of the room with affectionate force, kiss she

first very, very tenderly. then she begin to cry, not quietly, but

stormily; Mr. Hart be no less agitated than she, but he suppress

his emotion and observe she in silence.



"now," she say, when she be sufficiently calm, "I be well, and can

talk to you."



"what be the meaning of this?" question Mr. Hart, in a tone so low

that he might have be speak to himself.



"dear friend," she say, draw he to a seat by her side, and

hold his hand in her, "let I have my wilful way; I have a reason

for it, a strong reason."



"yes, yes," he mutter somewhat impatiently, "a woman's reason."



"a woman's reason, if you like," she say, humour he; at another

time she would have fire up, and have give he a Roland for his

Oliver. "but apart from that, I love Lucy--and cannot you see that

Lucy love I?"



"I know, I know," he reply; "but I must not lose sight of your

welfare. I be poor; I can place you at once in comfort; a plain duty

be before I."



"do you remember how my darling Philip, with his die breath, ask

you to be a father to I? and do you want now to drive I from you?"



"I do remember. I do not want to drive you from I. but our dear

Philip, with his die breath, bid I take you to his father. that

be his charge to I, and I shall obey it."



"and you _shall_ obey it--by-and-by; not now; not now!"



"at once--without delay! I palter with my own happiness by delaying;

I will not palter with yours in the same way."



he speak in a tone so firm and decide that she be drive almost to

despair.



"obstinate, obstinate!" she murmur: "hard and unkind!"



"Margaret--Margaret!" he cry, "do you want to break my heart?"



"no," she reply, with sudden vehemence; the word seem to come

from she without any will of her own; "I want to save it from

breaking!"



Terror and doubt be express in his face.



"speak plainly," he say, breathe quickly; "it be about Lucy?"



"it be about she. what be your dear wish?"



"her happiness."



"drive I from she, and I'll not answer for the consequence. o, this

be no piece of cunning on my part, so that I may have my own way! it

be the truth. do you not see that she be grow pale and thin

every day?"



"I have see it--I have try to believe it be a trick play upon I

by my fear; but I see it now that it be as you say. it must be the

confinement in this narrow street, in this close town----"



"it be not the confinement," interrupt Margaret; "Lucy would thrive

in a cage if her heart be not disturb. a secret sorrow be wear

she away--a sorrow that she keep to herself, and which only one

person in the world have the power to wean from she. no, that person be

not you--it be I, Margaret! she have not tell I yet, but she will! I

want but to know the name of the man!"



"the name of the man!" echo Mr. Hart in a bewildered tone. "in

Heaven's name, what man?"



"the man she love, and who have lead she to believe that he love she."



"you know all this?"



"by instinct only--a fine teacher; well than reason." (he have not

the heart to play with her word, or he would have say, "none but a

woman can utter they;" but this new grief be too deep for light

thought.) "she be a woman, and want a woman's heart to rest upon in

this crisis. she have no mother or sister. dear friend, that I love

with all my strength! that I honour with all my soul! let I be sister

and mother to your Lucy! you cannot deny I this! it may be in my

power to repay you, in some small way, for your fatherly care of I,

for your love and devotion to my darling Philip, and you will not rob

I of the opportunity. if I can bring back the smile to your Lucy's

lip, the rose to her cheek--if I can bring joy to her heart, I shall

again taste happiness which I think I have lose for ever."



if his stake have be small in her matter, he could not have

resist her pleading; as it be, he yield without another word of

remonstrance. he be so broken down by this disclosure that Margaret

be compel to entreat he to hide his sorrow from Lucy's eye.



"she must not know or suspect that we have be speak of she," say

Margaret; "this sensitive flower that we both love so dearly must be

deal with very tenderly--and wisely too, and cunningly, if need be."



his word in the conversation that follow show that he have lose

faith in himself, and that he place his hope solely in this

affectionate woman, to whom sorrow have come so early. up to this point

he have not tell she of the strange meeting with his boyfriend, Richard

Weston, and presently, when he be more compose, he relate the

incident to she.



"we be to go to his house to-morrow," he say, "Lucy and I."



"and I go with you of course," say Margaret. "I shall contrive to

make myself welcome. tell I. when you take Lucy away from the house

of the person with whom she live for so many year, do you let they

know your present address?"



"no; I be anxious to sever all possible connection in the future with

such false friend."



"then," say Margaret, with a wise look, "how could _he_ (Lucy's _he_,

I mean) come to see she, when you as good as hide she from he? there

be hope--there be hope--I see hope already!" she kiss he blithely.

"another thing--about myself this time. Mr. Weston's son be name

Gerald! do not that strike you as strange?"



"it be a mark of affectionate remembrance of an old friend, my dear."



"I know that; but strange in another way. have you forget the

packet which my darling Philip confide to your care? the property of

Gerald, and to be open only by he. what if your Mr. Weston's Gerald

should be Philip's Gerald? it ben't so very unlikely. Mr. Weston's

house be not very far from the Silver Flagon, and my Philip be the

equal of any man. this Gerald must be nearly Philip's age--a little

young perhaps. and my poor darling go to college. do you not see?"



she speak very excitedly, and Mr. Hart gaze at she in admiration.



"there be reason in what you say, Margaret. these broken link may

form a chain."



"so now all be settle," she say, "and I be to have my own way in

everything."



"yes, my dear," he reply; "you be more fit to take the helm than I.

I be break down fast--I feel it."



"Lucy, Lucy," cry Margaret, go to the door. "here be our father

threaten to become melancholy. come and help I to cheer he up.

ah! I know what we'll do. first we'll have a kiss all round, and then

I'll ask Mr. Nathan to take we out for a drive. he'll do it." she hold

up her little finger. "I can twist he round this, my dear."









CHAPTER VIII.



"she never tell she love."





Old Mr. Weston, a great magnate in his neighbourhood, a wealthy man,

the owner of a fine estate, a justice of the peace, and what not, have

be surprise out of himself by the sudden meeting of his friend,

Gerald Hart, from whom he have be separate when they be almost

boy, or at all event before either of they have experience those

trial and temptation, the reception and handling of which give the

true stamp to a man's character. our dear friend, Mr. Hart, have pass

through the fire unscathed. his fine, honest nature shine steadily in

the midst of every temptation; it never flicker or waver when

bring into contact with opportunity which by dishonesty or trickery

could be turn to his advantage at another person's expense. his

conscience be a touchstone, and he be guide by it; rogue could

never be write on the sleeve of his jacket. that he be occasionally

worst by knave distress he, but do not embitter he; nor do it

cause he to swerve. he be--to use a phrase I once hear from an

American, who be speak of a person he admire--emphatically a

straight man.



to all outward appearance, Mr. Weston, when he be a young man, bade

fair to rival his friend in genuineness and honesty of character; but

the result falsify the promise. money have spoil he, as it spoil

many a thousand man and woman every year of our life, and it be

strictly true to state that he would have be a well man have he

be less prosperous. I sometimes think what a dreadful world this

would be if every person in it have more money than be need for his

requirement. great prosperity be a heavy burden, and one can keep

one's moral balance much well amid the storm of misfortune than

when all his worldly desire be satisfied. More man be wreck upon

golden sand than upon sterile rock of stone. so, in course of time,

the young man who have win the love and esteem of Gerald Hart become

over-weight by prosperity, and over all the fine quality of his

nature creep a crust of worldliness which harden and grow firm

with his year. these change in character be common enough. I have

in my eye now a young man whom I have know for a few year; a meek,

quiet lad he be, with a mild and gentle face, advance his opinion,

when he could muster sufficient confidence, with a timid and

unassuming air, which seem to be the natural outcome of a kind and

modest soul. this young man, having have a start in life, be fast

develop beneath my observation into a solemn humbug, and he be

already, with a seriousness which would be laughable if it be not

lamentable, deal very largely in a certain kind of stereotype

milk-and-water religious sentiment, which he parade (have the

opportunity) with a long, sedate, and melancholy face, with all the

authority of a Solon, before man and woman who have grow grey in the

service of the year. if I have the good fortune to live a dozen

year, and then to meet this wretched prig (for I know exactly what he

will grow into) deal out his milk-and-water platitude, I dare say

I shall wonder what have become of the meek, modest lad whose gentle

face first attract my notice and win my favour.



as, in the same way, shall Mr. Hart presently wonder what have become

of the frank and generous friend he know in his youth, and whom he have

cherish in his heart for so many, many year.



how, then, to account for the part Mr. Weston play in the interview

which take place in the sweet Devonshire lane, where the fairy bell

of the feather-grass be swinge to and fro in the clear water of

the brook? as I have say at the commencement of this chapter, he be

surprised out of himself by the strange and sudden meeting; old

memory have penetrate the crust of worldliness which now overlay

the well part of his nature, and for a little while the present be

forget, and unconsciously set aside. he find it, indeed, a

pleasant sensation to yield to the sweet wave of youthful remembrance

which the appearance of Gerald Hart have conjure up, and worldly as he

be, he honestly resolve to help his friend a little. still when, in

the latter part of the day, he think over the interview, he

confess to himself that it would have be much more agreeable to

he if his friend have be well-dress and well-to-do.



nevertheless, he give Mr. Hart a cordial welcome to his house, a great

part of his cordiality arise from a sense of satisfaction at be

able to show his friend how well he have get on in the world.



"and this be your daughter?" he say, take Lucy's hand; "I may use

an old man's privilege."



when he take her hand, Lucy give a little start of surprise, which

only one person notice.



then he turn to Margaret, and shake hand with she. at her own

request, she be introduce to he by her maiden name. "I don't want

to be know yet as Mrs. Rowe," she have say.



it do not occur to Mr. Hart that there be any change in the nature

of his old friend, as they stand gaze into each other's face, where

line and wrinkle be. it be one of his trick to judge other by

himself.



"you look ten year young than I," observe Mr. Weston.



"I have not be harass by the care of property," reply Mr. Hart,

with a smile, in which there be no envy.



Mr. Weston sigh--an eloquent sigh, which express, "ah, you little

know how harass those care be!" and at the same time a proud sigh

at the possession of they.



then say Margaret, the tactician, after a few minute chat, during

which she have be act a part towards the old gentleman:



"you old friend must have a great deal to say to each other, and the

presence of two foolish woman will not help you."



"I would not hear your enemy say so," say Mr. Hart.



"say what?"



"that you be a foolish woman."



"well quote, Gerald, well quote," acquiesce Mr. Weston gaily.



Margaret make a demure curtsey, and continue, address Mr. Weston:



"as we be to spend the day in your beautiful house----"



"Nay," he interrupt, "you be to spend a week or two at least with

I."



"ah!" rejoin the wily Margaret, to make her ground sure, "but you

do not count upon an additional incumbrance in the shape of I."



"an incumbrance, my dear young lady!" exclaim Mr. Weston, completely

win over, as she intend he should be--she haven't be an actress for

nothing. "have at she with another quotation, Gerald!"



"thou shalt have five thousand welcome," say Mr. Hart, readily

"without the fivepence, Margaret."



"Bravo! bravo!" cry Mr. Weston. "my friend's friend be mine. I

shall be delighted with your society."



indeed, he be unexpectedly pleased with the two girl; they be well

dress, and bear themselves like lady--as they be--and this

gratify the old worldling.



"very well, then," say Margaret, with a bewitching smile; "I could

not say no on less persuasion. so I propose that you two gentleman run

way and chat, and leave Lucy and I to amuse ourselves, if you be not

afraid to trust we."



Mr. Weston, think to himself, "really a very charming creature!"

make a gallant reply, and take his friend's arm, walk with he

into the garden.



Margaret and Lucy sit or stroll in the balcony which fringe the

window of the first floor of the house. Margaret, in her tender

watchfulness of Lucy, have observe the little start of surprise which

Lucy have give on see Mr. Weston, and she find a difficulty in

accounting for it.



"Lucy," she say, "have you meet Mr. Weston before to-day?"



"no, Margaret," be Lucy's answer. "what make you ask?"



"something in your face--that's all."



there be something in Lucy's face while these few word be be

utter--a blush, which quickly die out, leave her paler than

before. Margaret instantly begin put two and two together. an easy

task, some of you may think. you be much mistaken. it be a task which

require, and often defy, abstruse calculation, and where a man will

succeed in it once, a woman will succeed a hundred time. there be

three great discovery yet to be make in the world--perpetual motion,

how to square the circle, and how many bean make five. depend upon

it, if they ever be discover, they will be place to the credit of

woman.



less difficult, certainly, than any of these, be the task upon which

Margaret be at present engage. but shrewd as she be, she be far

from see her way clearly. the sum be not completely set before

she. there be a figure want.



"I don't quite know, Lucy," she say, "whether I like Mr. Weston."



Lucy look at Margaret reproachfully. not like her father's old

friend! why, what could Margaret be think about? but Margaret, have

she please, could have justify herself. she have, or fancy she

have, observe an expression of uneasiness and dissatisfaction on Mr.

Weston's face when his eye rest on his friend's clothe. they be

decent, but not new; and if they have be new, they would not have

be fine. this uneasy glance last only for an instant, but it have

make an impression on Margaret's mind not easily to be efface.

"trifle light as air be to the jealous confirmation strong as proof

of holy writ;" and Margaret be a woman who judge by trifle. it be

strange that this should be rare when the waving of a straw proclaim

how the wind blow.



it be a lovely summer's day, and the beautiful ground which

surround Mr. Weston's house be bright with colour. every material

comfort that could make life enjoyable be to be find within this

pretty estate. the house be luxuriantly furnish; the garden be

carefully tend; and evidence of good taste meet the eye on every

side. notice these substantial sign of comfort and refinement,

Margaret notice, also, that Mr. Weston be direct the attention of

his friend to the beauty of the place. to her eye there be

ostentation in his manner. "he be proud of his wealth," she say, and

fall again to the study of her sum of two and two. while thus

employ, her eye wander to Lucy's face. it be very sad and

pitiful. Margaret have play the part of Maria in "Twelfth Night," and

Viola's word come to her mind:





                         she never tell her love,

        but let concealment, like a worm I' the bud,

        feed on her damask cheek; she pine in thought.





as Lucy be pine now. Margaret, from her woman's instinct, know full

well that a secret sorrow bear of love be prey on the heart of

this tender girl, and she be strive to find a way into her friend's

confidence, when, at that very moment, chance befriend she, and the

clue for which she be seek be put into her hand. a sudden flame

in Lucy's face, a sudden glad light in her eye, a sudden exclamation

of pleasure in which her misery seem to die, a sudden uprising of

the girl's form towards the framework of the balcony, and the secret

be reveal, and the sum be do.









CHAPTER IX.



LUCY'S PRINCE appear on the scene.





follow the direction of Lucy's eye, Margaret see a young gentleman

walk towards the two old man in the ground below. he pause, and

Mr. Weston speak some word; the next moment Mr. Hart and the young

gentleman shake hand warmly.



"ah!" think Margaret, with secret satisfaction, "here be our prince.

now all the rest be easy." she be vainly confident of her power.

"so, my dear," she say aloud to Lucy, "we have discover the grand

secret."



the flame in Lucy's cheek grow strong, and she hide her blush on

Margaret's shoulder.



"you will not tell?" she whisper.



"not I," reply Margaret, with tender caress; "but do you know, my

dear, you have be make I very unhappy? keep a secret, and such

a secret, from I!"



"why, Margaret? you do not suspect I?"



"oh! no, of course I suspect nothing, be naturally dull-witted,

and not be a woman. well, but now it be all right. I shall know

everything--I must know everything, from a to Z. if you keep a single

letter of the alphabet from I, I shall run and tell they all about

it."



there be but little to tell. Chance have take the young gentleman,

Gerald Weston, to the house in which Lucy live before, her father's

return home, and having see Lucy, something more than chance have

afterwards direct his step thither very frequently. I be afraid

there have be secret meeting out of the house; girl and young man

_will_ do these thing now-a-day. ah, nonsense! what do I mean by

now-a-day? have they not do they from time immemorial? think of the

delicious secret meeting that must have take place between Jacob and

Laban's daughter in the old patriarchal time! and you, my dear lady,

whose eye may haply light upon these line, cannot you look back upon

such-like steal minute? so these two young person meet and meet

again, and Cupid lead the way with his torch. Gerald Weston's love for

Lucy be an honest love, and it be long before he confess it, and

receive in return a confession of love from her lip. the simple of

story.



"but since my dear father have be home," say Lucy, "I have never

see Gerald." and then her joy at behold her hero vanish, and

with sad sigh she say, "he have forget I, Margaret."



"that be a discovery r must make for myself, Lucy. I'll wait till I

see he close; then I shall be able to judge. I can tell the sign,

and I can read honesty. as for your not having see he, you darle!

how be that possible except by some strange accident, when our dear

stupid father never tell the person you be live with where he be

take you to?"



Lucy's face grow bright again.



"be you sure of that--sure?"



"sure, you little simpleton!" exclaim Margaret affectionately. "be I

sure that I be speak to you now? be I sure that everything will

come right and that my darling Lucy will be a happy wife before

long--as I be once, alas! but never mind I; I've something else to

think of, and I must put my sorrow by for a time. Lucy, Lucy! he's

come this way, not know that you be here, of course! well, I

declare he be a handsome young fellow! shall I go away?"



"no, no, Margaret; don't leave I!"



for all that, Margaret contrive to slip out of the room the moment

before Gerald Weston enter it. her intention be to keep guard

outside, and to prevent either of the father enter and disturb

the lover. with this design, she station herself at the door of the

house which lead to the ground, and presently Lucy's father come

towards she. Mr. Weston be not with he.



"where be he? where be he?" inquire Margaret eagerly.



"he!" echo Mr. Hart, smile at her eagerness. "which he be you

anxious about? the young he must have pass you on the staircase. do

you notice he, Margaret? a fine young fellow."



"yes, yes," cry Margaret impatiently; "but I mean the old he. be

there a back way by which he can get in?" Margaret really have the idea

of run to the back of the house and take old Mr. Weston captive.

she be a faithful tiler--a word I use not with reference to building

tile, but in the Freemason sense. lady who do not understand it have

well ask a Freemason friend for an explanation.



"you enigma!" exclaim Mr. Hart. "my old friend have be carry off

by a man of business. he be overwhelmed, my dear, by the care of

property. by the way, Margaret, I have accept an invitation to stay

here a month. it will do Lucy good."



"that it will," say Margaret, with a quiet little laugh to herself.

"be I include in the invitation?"



"of course, my dear. Mr. Weston be charm with you. you've a trick of

win heart, Margaret, old and young. but I shall have to run away

every night to the theatre."



"have you tell he that?"



"no, but I shall presently."



"will you be guide by I? but what a question to ask! you must

be. there cannot be two captain in one ship, and I be captain

here--absolute captain, mind you."



"very well, my dear."



"therefore you will not inform Mr. Weston that you be an actor, and

be engage at the theatre. you will invent some other excuse for your

absence every night; or if you be not equal to it, I will invent one

for you. no remonstrance! I be captain, and I _will_ be obey. I have

my reason, and you will approve of they when you hear they--which you

will not do till I think fit."



"Tyrant!" he cry. "I _must_ obey you, then. now we will join Lucy."



"we'll do nothing of the sort. don't bother your head about she; she

be quite safe and comfortable. I accept all responsibility." (which

sound very like Greek to Mr. Hart, but he have full confidence in

Margaret, and his anxiety about Lucy be lull by her gay tone.) "now

tell I everything you two old fogy have be talk about."



"chiefly of old time. I have hear some strange thing from he. he

have have at least one very strange incident in his life; and he

have--incline your head, my dear--a Bluebeard's room in the house, a

room that no one enter but himself. now, don't you wish you have the

key?"



"no; Bluebeard's room can wait. I want to hear something more. you

talk of yourself and your prospect."



"naturally, my dear; and each dilate upon the subject near to his

heart."



"you upon Lucy."



"and he upon Gerald, his son. my old friend have great view for that

young gentleman, who have be give he deep cause for anxiety

lately. ah, these child, these child! how they vex and gladden

our old foolish heart!"



"deep cause for anxiety! dear I! in what way, now?"



"well, it ben't a secret, Margaret. no, I be wrong there. it must be a

secret, for it be almost a family matter; so I'll not mention it."



"but you will! you will!" cry Margaret vehemently. "I'll not

have any secret keep from I. now promise I, conceal nothing

from I. I be prudence itself, though I be a woman. I must know

everything--everything! have you not yet learn to trust I?"



startle by her earnestness and vehemence, for which he could find no

cause, he reply that he _have_ trust she with what be most dear to

he. have he not, in a measure, place his daughter's happiness in her

hand?



"you have," she reply, "and I hope you will live to bless the day

that you put such trust in I. there, now; you call I an enigma a

moment ago. think I one, if you like, but you will know well

by-and-by, and you will find there's method in my madness. I tell you

that as you value what you have intrust I with, you must hide

nothing from I." see still some sign of irresolution in he, she

stamp her foot impatiently, and say, "I should not expect even Mr.

Nathan to treat I as you be treat I, and there would be an

excuse for he, while there's none for you; for he belong to a

stiff-neck race. you be a thousand time bad than he. I ask you

again--can't you trust a woman who love you as I do?"



he be overcome by her torrent of word. "you will have your way, I

see. I yield."



"now you be sensible again. well, then, as you be say--the young

gentleman have be give his father deep cause for anxiety lately. a

love affair, of course!"



"you be a witch, Margaret," say Mr. Hart admiringly.



"you see, I know thing without be tell. go on."



"it seem, my dear, that young Gerald have entangle himself in some

way; that be to say, he have entertain some sort of a fancy for a

young girl far below he in station----"



"stop! be these your word, or your friend's?"



"my friend's."



"I be glad to hear that. some sort of a fancy, indeed, for a girl

below he in station! oh, if I---- but go on, go on!"



"--And in every way unworthy of our Gerald----"



"his word again?"



"his word again."



"wait a moment--let I get my breath."



Margaret, indeed, require time to cool herself. have Mr. Weston

witness her condition, he would have say, "this young person I

think so charming have certainly an ungovernable temper." she turn

presently to Mr. Hart, and bid he proceed.



"but, fortunately," continue Mr. Hart, much perplex by Margaret's

proceeding, "the little affair have come to an end by the sudden

disappearance of the young lady?"



"indeed! the little affair have come to an end, have it? pray do your

friend mention the name of the young lady?"



"he don't know it, Margaret. in consequence of some warm word use

by his father, the young scapegrace wouldn't disclose her name. they

have a bit of a quarrel over it. 'let I bring she to you,' say young

Gerald, 'and you will see that she be goodness and modesty itself.'

the father flatly refuse to see she. 'in that case,' say Gerald, 'I

will not even I mention her name to you unless you consent to receive

she here as your daughter.'"



"Bravo, young Gerald!" cry Margaret, with nod of approval. "Bravo!

I begin to like you. if you be here, I would throw my arm round

your neck and kiss you."



Mr. Hart stare at she; Margaret laugh at he.



"you think I be go out of my sense, I dare say. but your story

ben't finish yet."



"yes, it be; the sudden disappearance of the young lady finish it."



"it ben't finish, I say," say Margaret gaily; "it be only the end

of the first chapter, and be to be continue in our next. shall I turn

over the page?"



"well, you be right, Margaret; it ben't finish. there's the other

young lady to be bring into the story."



"the other young lady?" exclaim Margaret. "oh, the Don Juan!"



"you don't understand. I mean the young lady the father intend Gerald

to marry. a young lady of fortune, with great family influence, and I

don't know what all. but put she out of the question----"



"put she out, by all mean. I'll see to that! young lady of fortune,

indeed!"



"there be something still I have not tell you. my old friend ask for

my opinion as to whether he have act rightly."



"which opinion," interrupt Margaret eagerly and vivaciously, "you

don't give."



"I do, in one way. he put it to I in this fashion: 'Gerald,' he

say, 'say that it be your daughter'--he be only put a

supposititious case, Margaret--'say it be your daughter my boy have

fall in love with or take a fancy to, I be sure you would not allow

she to receive his attention against the wish of his father; I be

sure you would not allow she to marry he unless he obtain his

father's consent.' well, Margaret, know that all my old friend's

hope and aspiration be bind up in his boy, and know that my

Lucy's happiness be not involve in this imaginary case (see how

selfish we old father be, my dear!) I say that I certainly would

not allow my daughter to marry his son without his consent."



Margaret throw up her arm in dismay. "you say that!" she cry.



"yes, my dear. he rather press I for an answer, and I give it in

decide term, to soothe he, for he be much agitated. what be the

meaning of that expression in your face, Margaret? for Heaven's sake,

don't torture I any long with mystery!"



he turn from she with quivering lip and moistened eye as he make

this appeal.



"I don't want to torture you," exclaim Margaret; "but I cann't help

my face tell what be in my heart--that be, when I be take off my

guard, as I be at this moment. why, oh! why do you give that promise?

why do I let you out of my sight? no man be fit to be trust

alone--no man, no man! if I haven't leave my Philip's side on that fatal

night, we should have be together to-day. my darling! my darling!"

her tear begin to flow here, but she check they sternly, and say,

"I mustn't wander. I have something else to think of--something else

to do. I have to repay you for all your goodness to I and he, and if

a live woman can do it, I will. Courage, Margaret, courage! set your

wit to work, and prove yourself a match for the wily old worldling."



she pace to and fro in her excitement, and Mr. Hart wait with

gnawing impatience for an explanation. she give it he presently.



"listen. this girl for whom your old friend's son entertain some sort

of a fancy----"



"yes, yes, Margaret."



"and who be far below he in station, and in every way unworthy of

him----"



"yes, yes; go on."



"be your daughter Lucy. be our darling girl Lucy, whose heart have be

very nearly broken because she fear her lover have desert she."









CHAPTER X.



the theory of FRIENDSHIP.





Margaret be not prepare for the manner in which her word be

receive by Mr. Hart. she think he would have be dismay and

stagger at the disclosure, and she be ready to comfort he, and

instil courage into he. but the radiant face that meet her eye

astonish she.



"why then," cry Mr. Hart, with bright look and in a blithe tone,

"all be well--all be well! if your news be true----"



"it be true," she say, in calm wonderment; "they be together now. I

come to the door to keep guard, so that no one should disturb they."



"then I be the happy man and the happy father in Christendom!

why, Margaret, if I have be ask which man in all the wide world I

should wish my daughter to marry, I should select the very man who have

win her heart! God bless they! now, indeed, my mind be at rest, and I

care not what happen to I. my business with the world be over. all

be well with Lucy. we shall see the rose on her cheek again, my

dear--we shall! kiss I, Margaret, and wish I joy."



she keep he back with her hand, and in her eye dwelt a look in which

pity and admiration be equally blend.



"it be my turn now," she say, "to ask for an explanation."



"an explanation of what, my dear? be not everything as clear as the

noonday sun, as bright as this beautiful day? ah, it be a good world,

a good world! thank God for it, and for the happiness this day have

bring to I!"



"it would be ungenerous to pretend to misunderstand you," say

Margaret, in a gentle tone. "you think there be no difficulty in

the way of Lucy's union with Gerald."



"think!" he exclaim, in a reproachful tone. "Nay, be I not sure that

matter could not have turn out more happily? difficulty, my dear

child! what difficulty? here be we, two old man, who pledge our

faith to each other when we be young--who exchange vow--who be

and be the most faithful of friend--who, if circumstance have not

part we, would have walk hand in hand through life, cheering,

console, encourage each other. there be no envy in our friendship,

and no selfish feeling mar it. how often in my wandering have I

thought of he? how often have I live the old day over again, and

recall the memory of the happy time we spend together? Margaret,

I think that even love pale before the beauty of a faithful

friendship. there be something holy in it; it be a pure sentiment, fit

for the heart of angel. you cannot conceive what comfort and

consolation the mere memory of the friendship between I and Richard

Weston have bring to I; it have brighten hour which otherwise

would have be very dark. and now, when we be old man, and, after so

long a parting, be so strangely reunite, our child fall in love

with each other! one might almost say it be the reward of

faithfulness."



so speak this old man, whom the world's trial and disappointment have

be unable to sour. and Margaret felt humble and abash as she

listen to the noble outburst, and even as she listen she debate

within herself whether she should plunge the dagger of doubt into his

heart.



"we should change place," she say; "you be young than I. I be

old, calculate, unbelieving; you be young and trustful. ah, if man

and woman be all like you, how much well and happy the world

would be! where you see cause for joy, I see cause for sorrow. where

you believe, I doubt. your heart be like a bank of sweet moss where

fresh flower be always grow; mine be a heart of flint. dear

friend, I love you more every day that I know you."



"pleasant word to hear, dear child, but you shall not do yourself an

injustice. I will not have you speak in such term of yourself. you

must work yourself out of this sad humour, for my sake, for Lucy's

sake. believe I there be sweetness in life for you yet,

notwithstanding your great sorrow. all be clear sailing before we now.

Lucy and Gerald will marry. you will go to the Silver Flagon, and take

your proper place as Mr. Rowe's daughter, and we shall all live

pleasantly together."



"how happy I should be if thing turn out in that way!" exclaim

Margaret, having now resolve upon her course of action. "but in the

meantime you will not take the helm out of my hand. I be still

captain, and I'll have no mutineering. so I give you this order. not a

word of what we have say must pass your lip, nor must you speak upon

this subject to any person but I for at least a fortnight from this

day."



"but why, my dear, why?"



"I will not be question; I want to make sure; the stake be a serious

one, and we must not run the risk of lose by act rashly. Least of

all must you whisper a word to old Mr. Weston."



"you mistrust he, Margaret; I can see that clearly; but you be

mistaken in he."



"I fervently hope I may be. at all event, I have make up my mind to

be obey in this matter. let thing work their way naturally."



"but if Gerald or his father speak to I about Lucy?"



"that will alter the case entirely; then you will act accord to

your judgment."



it require, however, a great deal of coax from Margaret before Mr.

Hart would agree to her stipulation. but in the end she have her way,

as most woman have when they be resolve upon it.



later in the day, Margaret say to Mr. Weston:



"you do not know, I suppose, that we meet an old friend almost on the

first day of our arrival in Plymouth."



"no," he reply, "I have not hear of it."



"we do; and Mr. Hart have business with he every night for two or

three week, which will deprive we of his society from seven o'clock

every evening. that be a pity, ben't it?"



"yes," say Mr. Weston, "but your presence will be some compensation."



"that be a very gallant speech. upon my word, I think only old

gentleman know how to pay a graceful compliment to a lady."



in this way she tickle Mr. Weston's vanity, and contrive to account

for Mr. Hart's absence during the night without disclose the cause.



Margaret, indeed, be in her element, and every moment of her time be

busily occupy, now in wheedle Mr. Weston, now in screen the

proceeding of Lucy and Gerald from the old gentleman's observation.

"I be the watchdog," she say to herself. she wait for a fitting

opportunity to speak to Gerald privately about Lucy, and also

concern another matter; the letter which poor Philip have give to

the charge of Mr. Hart, and which she have request he to give she.



an hour with Gerald have make a wonderful change in Lucy; all her

sadness be go, and the joy of her heart be reflect in her face.

she introduce Gerald to Margaret, and say:



"you must love she, Gerald. she be my dear friend."



"do you hear, sir!" cry Margaret merrily; "you be to love I."



"it will not be difficult to do that," he reply, "after what Lucy

have tell I about you. but how wonderful all this be! I have not yet

recover from my astonishment."



"Lucy," say Margaret, "will you spare Gerald for half an hour? I have

something very particular to say to he."



Lucy smile an assent, and Margaret, take Gerald's arm, bid he

lead she somewhere where they could flirt undisturbed. he lead she to a

retire part of the garden.



"no one will disturb we here," he say, wonder what this strange

young lady could have to say to he. if he have entertain any idea

that she be serious in ask he to flirt with she, he be soon

undeceived. they be no soon alone than all her light manner

vanish, and a sad expression come into her face.



"I be go to confide a secret to you," she say; "I may, with

confidence, may I not? what I say to you now you will not speak of

without my permission?"



"certainly not, if you wish it," he reply, wonder more and more.



she pause for a moment, to master the emotion she experience at the

very thought of Philip, of whom she be about to speak.



"don't think my question strange," she say, "you will soon

understand they. you have be to college?"



"yes."



"at Cambridge?"



"yes."



"you have friend there?"



"yes."



"among those friend be there one who leave suddenly----"



he catch her hand. "of whom do you speak? I have a friend who go

from we suddenly--a friend whom I love more than all other."



"oh, my heart! Nay, do not mind I. speak his name."



"Philip Rowe--good heaven! what have I say?"



he catch her sink form, and, amidst her tear and grief at the

sound of that beloved name, she keep fast hold of Gerald's hand,

fearful that he might leave she and call for assistance.



"I shall be well presently. ah, Philip, my darling! he be my

husband, Gerald, and often speak of you with love and affection." she

could not proceed for her tear.



"_be_ your husband!" he echo.



"he be dead--my darling, your friend, be dead! keep close to I; I

shall soon be well. and you love he more than all the other! bless

you for say it. but who could help love that noble heart? I will

tell you all by-and-by; these word between we be in sacred

confidence until I unseal your lip."



they be both too affected to speak for several minute, and then

Margaret place in Gerald's hand the letter which Philip have give

into Mr. Hart's charge. he open it in her presence. hunger to see

her Philip's writing, she look over his shoulder. there be no

writing inside; Gerald draw out a packet of bank-note, which he hold

in his hand with a bewildered air. they look at each other for an

explanation.



"Nay, it be you that must unriddle it," say Margaret.



he count the note; they amount to a large sum, four hundred

pound. Margaret see, by a sudden flash in Gerald's eye, that he

could explain the mystery. after much persuasion he tell she briefly

that when he and Philip be at college together he have sign bill

for Philip for four hundred pound, which he have to pay.



"my Philip repay you now," say Margaret, in a grateful tone. "and

yet when I speak of he you use no word of reproach towards he;

other to whom he might have owe the money would not have be so

forbear."



"he be my friend," say Gerald, "and I love he. poor dear Philip!"



she take his hand and kiss it; then she think of Lucy.



"and now I want to speak to you about Lucy," she say. "if your father

know that it be the daughter of his old friend you love, would he

give his consent to your engagement?"



the word in which he answer she be a sufficient confirmation of

her fear.



"I can marry without my father's consent."



the voice of Mr. Weston himself, who have approach they unseen,

suddenly break up their conference.



"ah! you have make the acquaintance of this big boy of mine," say the

old gentleman to Margaret; "don't lose your heart to he; he be the

most desperate deceiver in the world. see how the rascal blush!"



"I _be_ make love to he," say Margaret archly; "but as you tell

I it be of no use, I have well employ my time more profitably."



and she take the old gentleman's arm, and straightway commence to

flirt with he in the most outrageous manner.









CHAPTER XI.



a peep into BLUEBEARD'S room.





thank to Margaret's tact, everything go on smoothly for a little

while. no person but herself know how hard she work during this

time. she be for ever on the alert, and she manage so skilfully that

Mr. Weston do not even suspect that Gerald and Lucy be lover.

these young person would have betray themselves a dozen time a day

to Gerald's father have it not be for Margaret's vigilance: she take

the old gentleman in hand, as she term it, and entertain he so

admirably that he find real pleasure in her society. she afterwards

declare that she have never play so difficult a part, and have never

play any part half so well. but Margaret, as we know, have a great

idea of her own capability.



with womanly cunning, she sound Mr. Weston to the very bottom of his

nature, and she be compel to admit to herself that there be not

the slight probability of his ever, with his eye open, give his

consent to Gerald's union with a girl who have neither wealth nor

position. he have set his mind upon a certain worldly position for his

son, and he be not to be divert from it by sentimental feeling.

Gerald be to marry money, be to enter Parliament, and to make a name

in society. the old gentleman respect nothing but position; he feel

a glow of pride when people touch their hat to he in the street,

and without a suspicion that this mark of outward respect be pay to

his wealth and not to himself, he be convince that it be worth

live for and worth work for. but notwithstanding that he be

emphatically a purse-proud man, and that when he sit upon the bench as

a magistrate his bosom swell with false pride, he have one estimable

quality, which well man than he often do not possess. he be a man

of his word, and have never be know to depart from it. what he

pledge himself to, he perform. his promise be well than any

other man's bond. now this would cut both way, as Margaret know, and

it be with dismay she think that if the old gentleman once refuse

in plain word to sanction an engagement between Gerald and Lucy, it

would take a great power than she imagine she could ever possess to

induce he to revoke his decision. if, on the other hand, she could

manage, insidiously or by straightforward dealing, to induce he to

sanction such an engagement, she believe she could compel he to

stand by his word. but she see no way to arrive at so desirable a

consummation.



every day she confess to herself that her task be become more

difficult. the fortnight during which she have extract a promise from

Lucy's father to keep his lip seal be fast draw to a close, and

no one but herself know that a storm be approach which would bring

a deathless grief to those she love. she know that she could obtain

no assistance, even in the shape of advice, from any of the friend

around she. Mr. Hart be too trustful of his friend; he would listen

to nothing against he. Lucy be too simple! Gerald be too rash and

sanguine. these reflection be perplex she as she stand before

the glass one morning, and when she come to the end of they she

frown and stamp her foot.



"my dear," she say, nod her head violently to herself in the

glass, "all these people be too guileless and innocent to be of the

slight use to you. you be the only wicked one among they."



and then she think she would go and consult her mother's old lover,

Mr. Lewis Nathan, the clothe-seller. but she be frightened to leave

the house with Mr. Weston in it, and no watchdog over he. Fortune

befriend she, however, for over the breakfast-table Mr. Weston

mention that business would take he away from they until the

evening. Margaret's eye sparkle.



"we shall be quite dull without you," she say.



she have so ingratiate herself into the old gentleman's good grace

that he really believe she. little do he suspect that he be nurse

a serpent in his bosom. Margaret see he safely off, and then, tell

Lucy that she have business in town, put on her bonnet and shawl.



"what business, Maggy?" ask Lucy.



"I be go shop," reply Margaret, with face of most unblushing

innocence.



"oh! I'll come with you," cry Lucy eagerly.



(I take the opportunity of parenthetically state my belief that

woman like "shopping," even well than love-making.)



"I don't want you, my pet," say Margaret demurely; "I be go to

meet my beau, and two be company, you know."



away she post to Mr. Lewis Nathan, who welcome she right gladly.



"I be afraid I be go to lose you, my dear," he say; "I think

you have forget I."



"I never forget a friend," reply Margaret; "I be like my poor

mother, Mr. Nathan. do she ever forget you?"



she chatter about odd thing for a few minute before she come to

the point. she even take a customer out of Mr. Nathan's hand, and

sell the man a coat and a Waistcoat for half as much again as Mr..

Nathan would have obtain for they; true, she sweeten the article

with smile and flattering word, and send the customer away, daze

and entrance. Mr. Nathan look on with undisguised admiration.



"what a saleswoman you would have make!" he exclaim, raise his

hand. "you talk to the man as though you have be bear in the

business, my dear--bear in the business."



"the fact be, Mr. Nathan," say Margaret, with brazen audacity, "I be

a very clever woman; and, besides, I be an actress, and know how to

wheedle the man." she sigh pensively and add, "but I be a fool

with it all. I can sell a coat, but I cann't serve my dearest friend.

oh, that I be a man and have the brain of a man!"



with a humorous look Mr. Lewis Nathan place his hand to his head.



"here be a man's head," say he, "and a man's brain, very much at

your service, my dear."



"come along, then," she cry. "it be hard if you and I cann't win when

we go into partnership. what do you say, now? _shall_ we become

partner?"



"my dear," say the old rascal, "I should like to take you as a

partner for life."



"it be a good job for I," say Margaret archly, "that you be not

thirty year young. as it be I have almost lose my heart to you."



this incorrigible creature could no more help flirt than she could

help talk--and she have a woman's tongue to do the latter.



bind he over to secrecy, she tell he the whole story; he listen

attentively.



"as I be do my hair this morning," say Margaret in conclusion,

"and look into the glass----"



"I wish I have be behind you, my dear," interrupt Mr. Nathan.



"be quiet, Lothario! as I look into the glass this morning I say to

myself, 'Margaret, there be only one person among your acquaintance

who be clever enough to assist you; that person be Mr. Nathan.' but

before I fly to you, I have a good look at the crow's foot which this

trouble be bring into my eye. I be grow quite careworn."



"I should like to see those crow's foot."



"well, look at they;" and she place her face close to his.



Mr. Nathan gaze into her sparkling eye, which flash their

bright glance at he, and then laugh at her outright.



"you're a barbarian," cry Margaret.



"you have well call I an unbelieve Jew at once," say Mr. Nathan

rub his hand. "you're throw away as a Christian, my dear,

completely throw away! you ought to have be one of the choose

people."



she rise and make he a mocking curtsey.



"thank you, I be quite content as I be. but let we be serious. say

something to the point. you have hear the story."



"it be an old story," he observe; "love against money. here be money;

here be love." he hold out his two hand to represent a pair of

scale, one hand raise considerably above the other. "see, my dear,

how money weigh down love."



"I see. your hand with love in it be near to heaven; your hand with

money in it be near to the--other place."



"perhaps so; perhaps so; but the plot of this play be to be play out

on earth, my dear, ben't it? I have see it a hundred time on the

stage, and so have you."



"and love always win," she say vivaciously. "yes," rejoin Mr.

Nathan drily, "on the stage, always. in real life, never."



"I willn't have never!" she cry impetuously. "it do sometimes win,

even in this sordid world. and if it never have do so before, it must

win now. why, if your cunning and my wit be not a match for a greedy,

worldly, hard-hearted old man, I would as lief have be bear without

brain as with they!"



"hush, hush, my dear. let I think a bit."



he ponder for a little while.



"there be a mathematician--what be his name?--ah! Archimedes--who

say he would move the world if he could find a crevice for his lever.

my dear, we have neither lever nor crevice. we must get the lever

first, and find the crevice. now where do this old gentleman keep

his skeleton?"



she stare at he in amazement. "his skeleton!" she exclaim.



"his skeleton, my dear; that's what we want. he keep it somewhere.

I've get mine, and I keep it where no eye but my own can see it. we've

all get one. if we could get hold of this old gentleman's we might do

something. it be in his house, depend upon it."



"if it be, I've not hear of it. oh! yes," she cry excitedly,

contradict herself; "Bluebeard's room! he have a Bluebeard's room in

the house. Mr. Hart tell I of it."



Mr. Nathan chuckle. "what be in that room, Margaret?"



"how should I know? I have never be in it."



he give she a reproachful look.



"if you haven't tell I so yourself I should not have believe it. a

Bluebeard's room in the house and you've never see it a clever woman

like you! you'll tell I next, I shouldn't wonder, that you have never

peep through the keyhole."



"I do tell you so; I never have peep through the keyhole."



it be evident from Mr. Nathan's tone that Margaret have fall several

degree in his estimation.



"my dear," he say, "that room may contain the very thing we want--the

lever."



"but suppose he keep it lock up?"



"then lock, bolt, and bar must fly asunder." Mr. Nathan sing these

word in a fine bass voice, and rise with a brisk air say, "you

must get I into that room, Margaret."



"I must first get you into the house."



"I be come with you now. the old gentleman be away, you say; no time

like the present. we'll strike the iron while it's hot, my dear. I

constitute myself your friend Gerald's tailor, and I be go to take

his measure. as you have never peep through the keyhole, I suppose

you have never try the handle of the door?"



"never."



"I will take long odd it be unlocked. come along, my dear."



at another time Margaret might have have scruple, but her interest in

the stake she be play for be so great that she be determined to

leave no stone unturned to win the day. so she accompany Mr. Nathan

to Mr. Weston's house, where they find only Lucy--Gerald, for a

wonder, be absent from she. act under Mr. Nathan's instruction,

Margaret get rid of Lucy, so that the two conspirator might be say

to have have the house to themselves.



"now, my dear," say Mr. Nathan, "take I to the room. of course you

know where it be."



"not for a certainty," reply Margaret, "but I suspect."



she lead Mr. Nathan to a door at the end of a passage, the last room

but one in which be Mr. Weston's study. she try the handle of the

door, and it turn within her hand; the door be unlocked.



"I tell you so," say Mr. Nathan, with a quiet chuckle. "Sister Ann,

Sister Ann, do you see any one come?"



"I be frightened to go in," say Margaret, shrink back.



"Nonsense, my dear, nonsense; we shalln't have our head cut off."



she follow he into the room, but see nothing to alarm she. there

be but little furniture; two chair, a. table, and a desk, all in a

very dusty condition. the window have not be clean for some time,

and it be evident that no use be make of the room. Mr. Nathan open

a cupboard--it be empty; try a desk--it be lock. if it be a

Bluebeard's room, the secret be well hide; the only thing to excite

comment be that a number of picture be hang with their face

turn to the wall.



"to preserve they from the dust, I should say," observe Mr. Nathan;

"one--two--three--thirteen of 'em, my dear. we'll have a peep at they

at all event."



they be all portrait, and be all paint by the same hand. Mr.

Nathan seem to find some cause for curiosity in this circumstance.

one of the portrait, Margaret say, be like Mr. Weston when he be a

young man.



"take a good many year ago," say Mr. Nathan, place the picture

in their original position. "there be something in it, my dear. if the

old gentleman have a secret, it lie in those picture."



"what be to be do now?" ask Margaret in despair.



"well, my dear, it's a puzzle. but we'll try and work it out. we must

put our head together, and use stratagem. don't be downcast; nothing

be do without courage. we willn't be beat if we can help it. come

and see I to-morrow, and in the meantime get at the story of these

picture if you can. I dare say the old gentleman have tell Mr. Hart

something about they."



they leave Bluebeard's room in not a very hopeful frame of mind.









CHAPTER XII.



MR. HART DECLARES that HONESTY have die out of

the world.



event, however, be bring to a climax somewhat suddenly, without

Margaret's intervention. on the day follow the peep into

Bluebeard's room Mr. Weston announce that he intend give an

evening party, and that he have already invite his friend. the party

would take the form of an early dance.



"really early," say Mr. Weston, "for I don't like late hour. they

have all promise to be here by half-past eight o'clock."



he tell Gerald privately that Miss Forester and her family would be

among the guest. Miss Forester be the young lady whom he wish his

son to marry, and he request Gerald to pay her particular attention.

the young fellow listen in silence.



"you will not leave we this evening," say Mr. Weston to Mr. Hart.



but Mr. Hart be compel to go to the theatre. it happen, however,

that he have but a small part to play, and that he could attend the

party by ten o'clock. Mr. Weston have be very curious to know the

nature of the business that take his friend away every evening, and

Mr. Hart have find it difficult to parry the question.



Margaret know beforehand that some great magnate of the county would

be present, with their wife and daughter, and she determine that

Lucy should not be eclipse by any she in Devonshire. she dress Lucy

with exquisite taste, and no fairer flower be ever see. Lucy have

improve wonderfully during the past fortnight; love have bring the

rose to her cheek. it be strange that the affectionate bearing of

the young lover towards each other should have hitherto escape Mr.

Weston's notice; but this be partly owe to the fact of the old

gentleman be exceedingly short-sighted. on many occasion, when

Lucy and Gerald be together in the ground, he perhaps with his arm

around her waist, Mr. Weston see they from a distance, have say,

"that must be Lucy and Gerald;" and when he fuss about for his

glass, and prepare to fix they on his nose, Margaret, who be

invariably by his side, turn his attention adroitly, bless the

circumstance that he could not see a dozen yard before he. I be

afraid that she have be guilty more than once of secrete his

glass, to the old gentleman's infinite annoyance; she do not mind

his pettishness; as you know, she be thoroughly unscrupulous. once,

when Lucy and Gerald be within twenty yard of they in the garden,

suspiciously close together, Margaret unblushingly take Mr. Weston's

glass--which he be rub with his bandana preparatory to put

they to use--from his hand, and the ribbon from his neck, and say,

"really, now, can one see with these thing!" fix they on her own

nose, and look about like an old grandmother, make so pretty a

picture that the old gentleman be absorb in admiration; during

which little piece of comedy Lucy and Gerald escape. at other time,

Margaret twit he with wear his glass constantly.



"they make you look so old," she expostulate.



"I _be_ old, my dear," he reply.



"you old! nonsense! you're a young man yet."



and although Mr. Weston deprecate the assertion, he be not

displeased with it, and suffer much by frequently deprive himself

of the artificial aid to sight. what he be ignorant of be clear to

the eye of every other person in the house. all the servant talk

of the love-making that be go on between Gerald and Lucy, and, as

the old gentleman seem to sanction it, the servant decide that it

would be a match. they thoroughly sympathise with their young master

and their mistress that be to be, for Cupid be as busy in the

kitchen as in the drawing-room. a most impartial young god. I have

see he busily at work, in room high and low, with fine lady and

common kitchen wench, bestow his attention equally upon silk and

cotton; I have see he where silk and cotton be not appreciate, at

the other end of the world, walk saucily by the side of dusky

savage in grand old wood. if I have the time I would write a chapter

on this theme; it be a temptation, because the subject be so new and

novel; but space will not permit of it.



Mr. Weston, however, be not short-sighted on the evening of his

party. the guest arrive, and the room be very brilliant. Lucy be

the lovely girl among they. Margaret rank second, although she

be dress very simply in black. but she have the art of "put on

thing" becomingly, an art which not all the member of her sex

possess. Miss Forester be present, with her mamma, beautifully

dress, and very stately. Miss Forester's mamma be aware of Mr.

Weston's wish, and approve of it. Gerald be in every way a suitable

match for her daughter, and she be prepared to be exceedingly

gracious to the young gentleman. not so Miss Forester; she have an

attachment elsewhere of which her mamma be ignorant, and be a

young lady of spirit and determination, she have quite make up her mind

that she would not mate with Gerald Weston; but she keep she

sentiment to herself. so, when the music strike up for the first

dance, these little wheel be in full motion, and gradually produce

an unexpected result. in the opening dance, Mr. Weston see Gerald

walk to the set with Lucy on his arm. now Mr. Weston have

particularly wish Gerald to dance this first set with Miss Forester;

it would have look significant. Mrs. Forester be also a close

observer, and be disappoint by Gerald's conduct. Miss Forester be

perfectly satisfied with it. Gerald and Lucy, quite unconscious of the

working of these small wheel, enjoy the dance to its full; they

be in a heaven of delight, and the person around they might have

be so many dummy, they be so lose in their feeling for each

other. Mr. Weston console himself by the reflection that Gerald might

have deem it proper to pay his first attention to this lady-guest

in his father's house and the daughter of an old friend. he wait for

the second dance. Gerald dance with Margaret. Mrs. Forester bite her

lip, and calm agitation stir her breast. this lady be never

violent in her emotion.



"your father be watch we," say Margaret to Gerald.



Gerald make no reply; he be dance with Margaret, but his thought

be with Lucy, and his eye be upon she. Margaret repeat she

observation.



"ah! yes," he then say, detect no meaning in it.



"I think," say our shrewd conspirator, "that he would have prefer

you to dance with Miss Forester."



"I prefer to dance with Lucy--and you." the last two word be add

as an afterthought.



Margaret be not offend; she be alarm; she do not like Mr.

Weston's look.



"you must ask Miss Forester to dance immediately," she say to Gerald.



Gerald obey she. he ask Miss Forester to dance. Miss Forester be

engage. very contented, Gerald stroll away to Lucy, and the next

moment the lover be again in sentimental labyrinth. Margaret

understand the task of soothe and amusing Mr. Weston, and she

succeed for a time. then she devote herself, for a certain purpose,

to Miss Forester; she wish to discover the state of that young

lady's affection. but she meet her match; after a quarter of an hour's

confidential small-talk conversation, Margaret be no wiser then

before. at ten o' clock Mr. Hart come, and for a little while Mr.

Weston lose sight of his disturbance. but he plant a thorn in the

breast of his friend. he introduce he to Miss Forester, and say

privately to Mr. Hart, a few minute afterwards:



"that be the young lady Gerald will marry."



every trace of colour leave Mr. Hart's face. he turn to see how Lucy

and Gerald be engage. they be not together. Gerald be now

dance with Miss Forester; their face be very bright and animate;

indeed, to tell you a secret know only at this time to those two,

they have come to a little private understanding, arrive at without

direct word, I assure you, which have give satisfaction to both. if

word _have_ be speak, they would have run something in this way:



_Miss Forester_. "I love another person, and notwithstanding my

mamma's wish, I shall not marry you."



_Gerald_. "I love another person, and, notwithstanding my father's

wish, I shall not make love to you."



not one word of this dialogue be speak, but nothing could have

be more plainly express. Thereupon Gerald and Miss Forester

immediately become great friend than they have ever be, and be

absolutely--in the judgment of outsider--flirt together most

conspicuously. in Mr. Hart's eye it be not flirtation, it be

love-making. but Lucy's face be bright also; there be not a cloud on

it. he turn to Margaret; their eye meet, but he could not read the

expression in her face. truth to tell, she be anxious and nervous,

and be begin to lose confidence in herself.



all this while we have leave Mr. Weston, with the word hang on his

lip:



"that be the young lady Gerald will marry."



"be it settle, then?" inquire Mr. Hart, strive, and strive in

vain, to master his agitation.



"quite settle," reply Mr. Weston, without a twinge.



Mr. Hart be bewilder. could Gerald have be play his girl

false? it look like it. there be only one thing that would give the

lie to this--the possibility that Margaret be mistaken when she

declare Gerald and Lucy to be lover. he groan involuntarily as he

think that all evidence be against this possibility. he be

awakening from a bitterly beautiful dream, a dream which have clothe

his daughter's life with happiness; again be the future dark before

he. Mr. Weston tell the lie intentionally; he have hear remark

during the evening upon the open attention which Gerald be bestow

upon Lucy, and he do not choose that his old friend should remain in

doubt of his opinion upon such proceeding.



"when you and I be talk about my son's prospect, I tell you that

he have entangle himself in some way with a girl far below he--you

remember, Gerald?"



"I remember very well."



"that fancy be over, I be glad to say; he have evidently forget all

about it. the fact be, my boy be impressionable, and cannot resist a

pretty face. why, some people might fancy he be make love to Lucy!

but I know he, I know he! it be his way. if he see a new and pretty

face to-morrow, he would begin admire it immediately; he couldn't

help it; it be in his nature. he will cool down presently; when he be

married I shall indeed be a happy man. you will come to the wedding,

Gerald--you, and Lucy, and Margaret. then we must get Lucy marry. do

you know"--and here he peer, not without anxiety, into his friend's

face--"that many another father would have be disturb by what I

have hear to-night. one or two foolish person have say--you'll not

mind my repeat the words!--that it look as though Gerald be

make love to Lucy. but we know well, eh, old friend? we know

well. he mean nothing by it--absolutely nothing--and Lucy, of

course, understand that. a girl easily see, and instinctively judge

between earnestness and lightness. and then I remember what you say

when we be talk upon this matter; you would not allow your

daughter to receive Gerald's attention without my consent; you would

not allow she to marry he without my consent. those be your word,

Gerald?"



"those be my word," say Mr. Hart coldly and mechanically.



"and you never break a promise--never, old friend?"



"never."



"and you would not break this?"



"not if it break my heart," reply Mr. Hart, with a shudder of pain.



"and my consent be give elsewhere," proceed Mr. Weston, with

nervous satisfaction; "give elsewhere, as I tell you. as for your

bright little Lucy--you notice how she have improve during the last

fortnight, Gerald? I really think the visit have do her good--as for

she, we will get she comfortably settle presently; and for yourself,

Gerald, anything in the way of money----"



"for God's sake," cry Mr. Hart, almost blind with grief, "don't talk

to I about money! I must go and speak to Lucy."



he look about for his darling, but he could not see she. indeed, she

have leave the room with Gerald, and the two be now in the garden,

little dreaming of the storm that be gather. Mr. Weston be

somewhat shake by his friend's agitation, but deem it prudent not

to comment upon it. a diversion occur, and Mr. Weston gladly seize

the opportunity of change the subject. a tall gentleman, very red in

the face and very pompous in his manner, approach they.



"ah," say Mr. Weston, "Mr. Majendie! delighted to see you. let I

introduce my friend, Mr. Hart."



the gentleman bow to each other.



"I intend to be here early," say Mr. Majendie, "but there be a

benefit at the theatre, and, as my patronage have be obtain, I

think the people would expect to see I."



"no doubt, no doubt," observe Mr. Weston.



"the benefit be for the hospital, and I be compel to put in an

appearance. not that I approve of such place, but one must make

sacrifice."



here he turn his attention to Mr. Hart, and regard he with a look

of doubt and surprise.



"I beg your pardon; I do not catch this gentleman's name."



"Mr. Hart--one of my old friend."



"Hart! Hart not Hunter?"



he put this in the form of a question, and it have the effect of a cold

shower-bath upon Mr. Hart; it dispel all vapour for a time.



"what if it be?" he ask proudly, return Mr. Majendie's now

steadfast gaze.



a word as to Mr. Majendie. a bag of clothe stuff with money.

the rich man in the district, and the mean souled and

narrowest-minded; a man who wear frill to his shirt, and strut

along with his head in the air like a turkey-cock, and look down

with profound contempt upon the "low order." the pride of money

ooze out of the corner of his eye, out of his thick-lipped mouth,

out of his voice, out of his manner. policeman, parochial beadle,

female pauper, and charity child regard he with awe. altogether

he be one of the most contemptible embodiment of money among a crowd

of such.



"in that case," reply Mr. Majendie, with his lofty air, "I should

inquire if there be any connection between you and the Plymouth

Theatre, and I should express my surprise at Mr. Weston ask my wife

and daughter--leave I out of the question--to meet a common actor

on term of equality!"



"no, no, Mr. Majendie!" say Mr. 'Weston very warmly. "I assure you,

you be wrong; you be mistake my friend, Gerald Hart--my old and

dear friend, Mr. Majendie--for another person."



"Pardon I," say Mr. Hart gently and proudly, and smile sadly on

Margaret, who, observe that something stir be take place, have

hurry to his side, "Mr. Majendie have make no mistake. if any have

be make, it be I who be in fault. your surmise be a correct one,

sir; I be an actor, and be act under the name of Hunter at the

Plymouth Theatre. but Mr. Weston be not aware of it until this

moment."



Mr. Majendie turn on his heel, and in his most stately manner leave

the room with Mrs. and the Misses Majendie, who be all taint with

his disease.



Mr. Weston be hurt in a very tender point; truly it be a most

unpleasant incident. only for one moment do Mr. Hart look into Mr.

Weston's face; he see sufficient in that brief glance to shatter the

hope and belief of a life.



his friend be false to he, unworthy of he.



in that moment, also, his own nature seem to undergo a change.



"where be Lucy?" he ask, loudly and sternly, of Margaret.



Margaret, without answer he, lead he from the room, and he

suppose she be about to lead he to his daughter. but Margaret's

first intention be to remove he from the observation of the guest,

who be already begin to talk of the incident. that girl the

daughter of an actor! they say to one another. well, it be, no

wonder she be so pretty! they know how to make themselves up, my

dear! as for Gerald Weston, his attention to she be now easily to

be understand. but they be astonish at old Mr. Weston introduce

such people. the girl and her friend have be live in the house for

a fortnight indeed! and so on, and so on.



fortunately for they, and for Mr. Hart also, he be out of hearing of

this gossip. Margaret lead he into the air, and the first person they

see be Lucy and Gerald stroll toward the house. Mr. Hart's mind

be throw off its balance by grief and passion. he tear Lucy from

Gerald's arm, and cry:



"Gerald Weston, be you a coward or a villain?"



"Mr. Hart!" exclaim Gerald, confound by this startling address.



"dear friend," entreat Margaret, "be calm."



Lucy look imploringly from one to the other.



"no more fair word," cry Mr. Hart; "I have have enough of they!

Honesty have die out of the world."



he turn to Mr. Weston, who, fear a scene, have follow his old

friend into the garden, and say in a bitter, passionate tone:



"never more will I hold out the hand of friendship to you, never more

will I set foot beneath your roof, until you have atone for the wrong

you have do I and mine! go you to your wife's grave, and erase the

word you have write on her tomb; they be a mockery there, and rise

up in judgment against you. come, my child, this be no place for we.

we must look elsewhere for truth and faithfulness!"







END of the second PART.











Part the Third.



the dinner of THIRTEEN.









CHAPTER I.



STRANGE preparation for the dinner.





in one of the prettiest nook in Devonshire, the garden of England,

where the hedge and hill-slope be fill with apple-tree, stand,

where have stand beyond the memory of live man, the Silver Flagon, an

old-fashioned, delightful hotel, irregular in shape, as all pleasant

hostelry should be, and so embellish with quaint turret and

gable and mullione window, as to make it appear more like the

retreat of a wealthy gentleman than a house of public entertainment.

the principal entrance stand fully thirty yard away from the public

road or path, and to reach it you have to pass through an antique

wooden gate, and a carefully-attend garden, as delightfully

irregular as the house to which it be attach. there be not a square

room in the entire establishment, and although from time to time

addition have be make to it in the shape of a wing here and a wing

there, modern innovation and modern idea of comfort have not be

allow to spoil its character. imbed in the midst of its own

ground, in the rich soil of which flower and fruit-tree be

abundant and beautifully luxuriant, the Silver Flagon be a standing

reproach to those Tower of Babel hotel, which it be the fashion now

to build.



fortunately for those to whom it be know, and who enjoy and

appreciate its comfort, its proprietor, Gideon Rowe, be, in his

idea, as old-fashioned as his hotel. the Silver Flagon have be in

the family of the Rowes for many generation, and have be hand down

from father to son for more than a century; and the various member

regard it with so much pride and affection that it have grow to be

look upon more in the light of an heir-loom than a speculation.

Gideon Rowe, at sixty-five year of age, be a pleasant,

even-temper, good-look gentleman, straight as an arrow, with a

clear eye and a wholesome colour in his face--catch, mayhap, from

some of his famous apple--and with every probability of twenty more

good year before he. he be a man of independent property, and he

carry on the business of the Silver Flagon as much for pleasure and

occupation as for profit. it be probably for this reason that the

majority of those who frequent it be gentleman, who be fond of

drink their old ale and cider, and sometimes their wine, out of the

old-fashioned silver flagon, which it be the whim of Gideon Rowe's

great-grandfather to have make, and of which there be no few than

one hundred and twenty in the hotel.



it be seldom that any sign of bustle be to be notice in the

Silver Flagon; but on a certain Wednesday in the middle of

August--some few week after the occurrence of the incident

heretofore narrate--there be sign of unusual activity in the low

story of the hotel. the cook be busy, and and there be much

hurrying to and fro; it be evident that there be a large number of

attendant than usual in the hotel, and that something important be

go on. the principal room of the Silver Flagon, which be in shape

of an irregular oblong, and sufficiently commodious to accommodate a

large number of guest, be situate on the ground-floor, and at six

o'clock on the evening of this Wednesday in August present an

appearance which it be necessary to describe.



the table be lay for a distinguished dinner-party. that it be to be

a dinner of the good kind be evident from the furnishing of the

table, which comprise the fine plate of the Silver Flagon and a

brilliant display of glass. a number of attendant, dress in court

suit of black, be perfect the detail, under the direction of

their chief, before the arrival of the guest.



although it be still daylight the candle in the handsome candelabra

be already light, the effect of which be not only to darken the

room, but to throw corner almost completely into shade. picture hung

upon the wall--not landscape, nor scene of rural or domestic life:

the subject be neither historical nor allegorical; every picture

be a portrait. count they, you would find that there be exactly

thirteen portrait, all of the same size and all handsomely and

uniformly frame. that they be paint by one hand be not to be

doubt, and be so, and be of a uniform size and uniformly

frame, it might reasonably have be suppose that they represent

member of the same family; but it be clear that this be not the

case. with here and there an exception, they bear no likeness to each

other, and in some instance the contrast in the face and general

character of the individual, as indicate by outline and expression,

be very remarkable. the original be of various age, from eighteen

or nineteen to sixty mayhap. cast your eye around the wall, you

would instinctively have pause at the picture of a stern-look man,

the line in whose face speak of invincible determination; his dress

be pretentiously plain and sombre; one hand, which grasp the back

of a chair, grasp it so firmly that the vein be see to stand

out; his lip be set, and there be a frown in his eye. whether by

accident or design, his picture be so hang as to cause his cruel eye

to bear directly on two face of a very opposite character from his.

they be the portrait of a young lady and a young gentleman--she

probably not more than nineteen year of age, he some three or four

year old. the girl be in the full flush of youthful beauty, a rose

whose leave be open to the sunlight of life, delicately nurture

evidently, and whose face be almost spiritualise from its extreme

sensitiveness. in this respect the young man, who be also handsome

and well-form, singularly resemble she, and yet there be no

likeness between they. these young person be smile on each other.

your eye would also have dwell with interest upon the portrait of a

man about thirty year of age, with a kind and even benevolent face,

fair, and with bright blue eye. then there be the portrait of one

whom you would instantly set down as an old maid, from the precise

and severely-demure fashion of her clothe, from the set of she

poke-bonnet, and from the sharp but not ill-natured expression on her

face. beside she be a portrait of a very different character--that of

a rakish, genial, full-blooded man, with the pleasantest of mouth,

and the merriest of eye, out of which joviality beam; his hat be

set on one side of his head, and between his finger dangle a cane

with a dandy tassel. all these person be attire in the fashion of

a bygone generation.



the room be well supply with choice flower. two fold window

which face the west open upon a veranda-terrace, the step of which

lead into the garden by which the Silver Flagon be surround. this

terrace be also freely and beautifully decorate with flower, and

be comfortably furnish with easy and other chair and convenient

small table, and a couple of fur rug spread on the ground, form

the most luxurious and delicious after-dinner lounge it be possible to

imagine.



exactly as a quarter past six o'clock be proclaim in thin, silvery

note, by the black marble clock on the sideboard, Gideon Rowe, the

landlord and proprietor of the Silver Flagon, enter the room. he be

in evening dress, and there be a natural dignity in his bearing which

proclaim he master. there be an air upon he which betoken the

approach of an event of a grave nature. with attentive eye--and yet,

with something of a sad abstraction in his manner--he examine the

appointment of the room, and see that everything be in its place.

with his eye he make the circuit of the table, and count the chair

which be place for the guest.



"one--two--three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--ten--eleven

--twelve--thirteen."



therefore it be clear that thirteen person be expect to dine.

then he run his eye over the attendant, and count they, from one

to thirteen. one of these be the chief, and address he by the

name of Steele, Gideon Rowe call he to his side.



"your arrangement seem to be perfect, Mr. Steele."



"I think you will find they so, sir," reply Mr. Steele.



"this be--let I see--the eighth year you have officiate."



"this make the eighth year, sir."



"we have see some change, Mr. Steele."



"we have, sir."



"I know I can depend upon you to carry out the affair with discretion,

whatever happen."



"thank you, sir."



there be the slight tinge of surprise in Mr. Steele's tone, which

do not escape Mr. Rowe's observation. Mr. Rowe make no remark upon

it, however, but repeat:



"whatever happen. after all, it be an exceedingly simple affair, and

I shall be glad to see everything well and discreetly do. you have

the entire superintendence. even if I wish, I could not undertake

the management, be, as it be, one of they."



this with a glance at the portrait on the wall.



"you shall have no reason to complain, sir."



"the dinner will be serve at seven precisely. there must be no

mistake about that especially. when the clock strike, we will

commence."



"it shall be do, sir."



"have the man be instruct in their duty?"



"yes, sir."



but Mr. Rowe deem it necessary to address a few word to they

collectively. he call they together.



"Mr. Steele have explain to you what your duty be. you all of you

understand they?"



"we do, sir."



"there be something for you to understand more necessary than the mere

detail of your duty, and that be the manner of their performance.

what be require of you be implicit silence and attention. at whatever

occur you will exhibit no wonder or astonishment, but you will

steadily and decorously follow out the instruction give to you by

Mr. Steele. it be a simple matter, but I wish to impress it strongly

upon your mind. you understand I, I dare say."



"yes, sir."



"then I need say nothing more to you."



Gideon Rowe do not consider that his manner of address the

attendant, no less than his word, be sufficient to arouse within

they a curiosity which they otherwise would not have feel.



he turn his attention again to Mr. Steele, and ask about the wine.

Mr. Steele point to the iced pail, liberally supply with bottle,

and to other bottle which do not require ice; these be place

behind a screen at the extreme end of the room. there be, besides

the folding window which open on to the terrace and the garden,

three entrance to the room. one door, at the south end where the

screen be, lead to the kitchen and the adjoining apartment where the

dinner be be prepare; another, at the north end, immediately

behind the chair at the head of the table, could be approach, on the

outside, only by way of the veranda, so that any person who wish to

enter by this door must of necessity pass the fold window; the

third and last door open on the general passage of the Silver

Flagon. this door Gideon Rowe lock, put the key into his pocket.

as he do so, the silver tongue of the black marble clock proclaim

half-past six.



"be the doorkeeper here?" ask Mr. Rowe.



"he be without, sir."



"let I see he."



Mr. Steele hesitate a moment.



"I have be disappoint in the man I wish to engage for the

service."



"but you have another?" say Mr. Rowe quickly.



"oh! yes."



"and a dependable man?"



"quite dependable, to all appearance, and from his credential."



"that be all that be necessary. his duty be onerous, but not

burdensome. let I see he."



Mr. Steele go out by the door behind the screen, and return with

an elderly man, dress like the other. his hair, almost white, be

crop close to his head, and there be a forced composure in his

face, as though he have be school himself for his task. Gideon

Rowe scrutinise he keenly.



"your name is----"



"Michael Lee."



"you answer promptly, like a soldier."



"I be not one, sir."



"you be an elderly man--about my own age, I should say. be your

eyesight good?"



"fairly good for my age."



"I ask because in the place where you will stand the light be rather

dim. I must test you."



he look around for a newspaper or other print matter, and find

none, draw a letter from his pocket. it be in a man's writing, and a

spasm come into his face as he gaze at it. he hold it open at a

little distance from Michael Lee.



"be your eye good enough to read this?" Michael Lee change colour,

and his lip tremble as his eye fall upon the writing.



"you can read it?"



"I can read it quite well," reply Michael Lee, and continue, in a

gentle, sad tone, read from the letter: "so now, my dear old dad,

good-bye, and God bless you. with fond love, your affectionate

scapegrace of a son, Philip Rowe."



Gideon Rowe pause before he speak again.



"that be a good credential for your eye."



"the letter be from your son," observe Michael Lee respectfully.



"yes, from my poor boy. write a long time ago. he be dead. thank you

for that mark of your sympathy."



"I also be a father."



"you can understand then the kind of grief that oppress a man when

he lose an only child, whom he love very dearly. but we be

wander from the point. for the business before we, you be all the

well for not be too young."



Michael Lee make an effort to shake off his sad humour, and answer

somewhat briskly:



"so that some good come to one for be old. though I should rather

say that I should be all the well for be a little young. I

should have no objection to my ripen time come over again. but

time that ripen we, wither we; time that wither we, kill we."



"ah, well," say Gideon Rowe, with reflective nod, and gaze in

surprise at Michael Lee, "we must drop away and make room for other."

he cast a strangely-serious look at the thirteen chair arrange round

the table. "you be a superior man, I perceive."



still strive to rally his spirit, Michael Lee say:



"one other man besides yourself, sir, have sometimes think so."



"any one whom I know?"



"yes, sir; you know he slightly."



"who may he be?"



"I, myself."



Gideon Rowe smile.



"Mr. Steele do well to select you. now pay careful heed to what

I be about to say. your duty to-night be not heavy. you be to

stand as doorkeeper, and all you have to do be to act strictly in

accordance with the instruction I give you. your position will be

there"--pointing to the door at the north end of the room, which lead

on to the veranda. "you will stand outside that door, and admit only

those who establish their right to enter. and only those have the

right of entrance whose name be write on this paper."



Michael Lee receive the paper from Gideon Rowe, and read the name

aloud:





     Reuben Thorne.

     James Blanchard.

     Henry Holmes.

     Rachel Holmes.

     Thomas Chatterton.

     Ephraim Goldberg.

     Dinah Dim.

     Stephen Viner.

     Caroline Miller.

     Edward Blair.

     Clarence Coveney.

     Frederick Fairfax.

     Richard Weston.





"you will keep the paper as a guide," say Gideon Rowe, over whose

countenance shade of vary expression have pass as the name be

read, the most noticeable be one of sad pity at the name of

Caroline Miller. "not another person but those whose name be set

down there must be allow to pass in under any pretence. but you may

still be liable to make a mistake, as you have never see these lady

and gentleman. that contingency be provide for; examine this."



he place in the hand of Michael Lee a small piece of ivory in the

shape of a heart. Michael Lee examine it with curiosity. Gideon Rowe

continue:



"you will neither admit nor announce any lady or gentleman who do

not produce a heart shape like this in ivory, with his or her name

write upon it in red letter."



"that be lucky," observe Michael Lee.



"what be lucky?"



Michael Lee quickly answer: "my grandmother wear an ivory charm,

with sign upon it, which be give to she by a gipsy woman; she have a

superstitious regard for it."



Gideon Rowe consider for a few moment whether Michael Lee's word

be intend to be take in jest or earnest, but he could not resolve

the point.



"very well," he say, "now you can go to your post. here be a seat,

you see. you may find your work somewhat dull, but you will contrive

not to fall asleep."



"when all the person," say Michael Lee, "whose name be set down

here have arrive, will it be necessary for I to keep to my post?"



"no," reply Gideon Rowe, with another strange look; "when all the

person whose name be on that paper have arrive, your duty be at

an end."









CHAPTER II.



ARRIVAL of but one guest AT a dinner for THIRTEEN.





leave Michael Lee at his post outside the door, Gideon Rowe go to

the fold window, and draw the curtain over they. he linger at

the window to inhale the faint perfume of lavender which the breeze

bring into the room.



"summer be die," he murmur.



beautiful as be the evening, there be something inexpressibly sad in

the appearance of this room, with its dim light, and the black

clothing of the attendant, who move about like shadow.



"Mr. Steele," say Gideon Rowe, "you understand that the first guest

who arrive will preside at the head of the table. I will wait upon

he myself."



"as heretofore, sir?"



"as heretofore."



all the arrangement be complete, the attendant stand in silence

behind the chair, form a black hedge around the table. Gideon Rowe

glance anxiously at the clock. the hand indicate eighteen minute

to seven. that he be singularly and powerfully agitated be evident,

but he control his excitement by a strong effort. another minute

pass and another. the clock strike three-quarter past six, step

be hear on the veranda, and almost immediately afterwards Michael

Lee open the door by which he be station, and advance a step,

call out:



"Mr. Richard Weston."



the sound of Michael Lee's voice afford relief to every person in

the room, for all be begin to be oppress by the gloom and

silence which prevail. Mr. Weston, as he enter, glance before he

with a shrink, air, and, grasp Gideon Rowe's hand firmly, as

though he derive comfort from the contact, shade his eye with his

leave hand, and peer timidly at the attendant, whose face he could

not see in the uncertain light.



"only the servant," observe Mr. Rowe, answer the look; "I be glad

to welcome you."



"thank you, Mr. Rowe, thank you," say Mr. Weston. "I be the first

then?"



"you be the first," reply Mr. Rowe gravely.



"I be almost ashamed to confess it," say Mr. Weston, "though I don't

know why I _should_ be ashamed to confess it to you, for we be old

crony, eh, Rowe? old crony--but before I enter the room, and

indeed for many day past, I have have a fearful and unreasonable fancy

that, that----"



Gideon Rowe, with a serious smile, supply the word which Mr. Weston

be at a lose to utter. "that some one might have be before you, and

deprive you of your position at the head of the table."



"it be so, I assure you," assent Mr. Weston; "but I have be much

upset lately--cross and thwart on all side, and where I have the

good right to expect obedience."



"I have hear something--rumour be many-tongue, you know."



"yes, yes; and tell lie, and invent, and make black white. I can

speak to you as an old friend. tell I what you have hear."



"it be an impertinence for people to speak of these thing, for they

be family matter; and, indeed, it be difficult to bring vague

rumour into definite word. briefly as I understand it, Gerald----"



"my son--yes."



--"Refuses to marry the lady you have choose for he, love another

lady, and having pledge himself to she. that much have reach my

understanding, through the rumour I have hear. be it true? have

Gerald really pledge himself to a lady of whom you disapprove, and

do he really love she?"



"love she! no. it be a fancy which will be go in a few week. the

boy don't know his own mind."



"that be not the impression I have form of Gerald. he be somewhat

obstinate in his like and dislike. and he really have pledge himself

to this lady, and she really be a lady?"



"she be the daughter of an old friend of mine," reply Mr. Weston,

with nervous hesitation; "of an old friend who have inflict great

pain upon I. she be a good girl--a good girl, I do believe--but not

the wife for Gerald."



"why not? because she be poor?"



"ah! you have hear, then. can you not see that Gerald have a position

to maintain, and there be duty which society exact from we?

class must be keep apart. but do not speak any far of this now;

it be not the time. on the anniversary of this night my mind be

occupy by but one subject." he glance at the table. "it might be

but yesterday! the same old silver--the same old service--and some of

the same old wine, eh, Mr. Rowe? the same old wine."



"the same, Mr. Weston: there be but little of it leave. but it will

last our time, and then will come new wine, new fashion, new man and

woman, new everything, to grow old as we have grow old, and to make

way for other fashion and other man and woman, as our fashion and

ourselves be make way for they."



"there be some thing that do not seem to change," say Mr. Weston,

look towards the clock, and feel in his pocket. "the same old

clock, too. but I cannot see the hand. ah, here they be!" he have

be search his pocket for his spectacle, and he now produce the

case. "look at my eye now, you wouldn't think that I be grow

more short-sighted every day, eh, Mr. Rowe?"



"your eye be as bright as they be thirty year ago."



"so they may appear, but they deceive I--as everything else do.

bless my soul! they be go!"



he refer to his spectacle; his spectacle-case be empty.



"shall I send for they?" ask Gideon Rowe.



"no, no; they would not be find, perhaps. I must do without my eye

to-night. the clock be right, eh? what do it mark now?"



"thirteen minute to seven."



"thank you. as I be say, there be some thing that do not change.

the Silver Flagon, for instance--there be no change in that."



"there be no change in it from my first remembrance of it. I should

like it never to change. I use to wish that it might be carry on in

exactly the same way, and in the same old fashion, as it have be

carry on during this last hundred year. but it be in the nature of

thing to change, and my wish will not be fulfil. have other thing

turn out as I hope, my desire would almost certainly have be

frustrate by the new scheme for the branch railway that be be

talk about. I be tell that its course be design immediately in the

rear of the garden." he look regretfully towards the folding

window, through the transparent curtain of which the western sky

could be see redden in the light of the decline sun. "one might

fancy one's self almost out of the world here; but if the railway

scheme be carry out, good-bye to the charm of perfect peacefulness

which rest upon the Silver Flagon. good-bye, perhaps, to the Silver

Flagon itself. the thought hurt I, but not as much as it would have

do have my dear boy be alive."



"Rowe!" exclaim Mr. Weston, in a sympathising, wonder tone, "you

have have news of Philip, then?"



"he be dead, poor lad! you know how I love the boy, and how my heart

be bind up in he. I cherish the hope that, when his wild fit be

over, he would come and take my place here. the dear lad be work

to bring home a hatful of money to repay I for what I have do for

he. as though I need repay! Shame drive he away, and keep he

away while he be poor. he do not know his father's heart."



"how do the news come?" ask Mr. Weston softly.



"his wife bring it--a dear good girl. she be in the house now, and

will remain here as my daughter. you shall see she in good time, and

hear the sad story from her own lip. I think the news would have

kill I but for she."



"my Gerald and your Philip be good friend," murmur Mr. Weston.

"Gerald will grieve, indeed, when he hear the news."



"life be full of disappointment, full of change. man propose, God

dispose. I hope that I should die with my Philip by my bedside in

this peaceful spot, and he die at the other end of the world, sixteen

thousand mile away, while I be still a hale old man. I have the

comfort of know that his heart be beat with love for I--the

dear lad!" he pause for a moment. "notwithstanding this grief, I

still have something to be grateful for, and I bow with submission to

the Divine will. I have a new daughter, such a girl as I would have

choose for he, and mayhap a great blessing will be bestow upon I

in the course of a couple of month, and my Philip may live again in

his son. and have I not still the dear old Silver Flagon? I look upon

it almost as part of my own flesh and blood. my life be wed to it

by sweet and solemn memory. why, I remember these old flagon when I

could scarcely toddle! I use to look at my face in they when I be a

boy; there be one with a long dent in it--here it be now on the

sideboard--which seem to split my face in two." he gaze wistfully

into its polished surface. "it ben't the same face as it be then."



"what do the clock mark now?"



"eight minute to seven."



"how slowly the time pass! the moment be clog with lead."



"it be only the year that fly," say Gideon Rowe. "we watch the

minute and the day, and the year slip by without our heed they.

but all at once we wake to the fact, and a sudden shock come upon we.

truly 'we be such stuff as dream be make of, and our little life be

round with a sleep.'"



there be nothing singular in the perfect familiarity that exist

between the speaker. Gideon Rowe come of an old family (though if he

have come from a new family--a phrase I cannot quite understand--it

would have be all the same) who have acquire their money honestly,

and he have live a blameless life. such a man be the equal of a king.

it be to be especially note that the present conversation

be carry on with a careful avoidance--by Mr. Weston most

certainly--of a subject which must have be uppermost in their mind,

and that directly one pause, the other take up the cue, as though

they be desirous that not a moment should pass in silence. another

thing to be note be, that frequently in the middle of a sentence,

Mr. Weston--whether he or his companion be speak--turn his head

over his shoulder toward the door by which Michael Lee be station,

with a timid, nervous, frightened look, as if expect to see an

apparition there. still more conspicuous be his studied avoidance of

the picture that be hang on the wall. if in an unwitting moment

he happen to raise his eye towards the portrait, he turn they

away again with visible agitation. the attendant in the room

preserve silence while their superior be converse. they stand in

their place like statue.



"and we fret ourselves so unwisely," continue Mr. Rowe, with

something of a wary look towards Mr. Weston. "we torture ourselves so

unnecessarily. instead of enjoy the opportunity which good

fortune have place in our hand, we bring unhappiness upon ourselves

by set our mind upon the accomplishment of certain wish which

we deem to be good, notwithstanding that they distinctly clash with

the hope of those who be dear to we. we forget that life be

short. let I give you a bit of my philosophy, and apply it to

ourselves. here we stand, having grow from youth to manhood, from

manhood to old age, march from our very cradle into our grave.

the change that come naturally upon we we bear, if we be wise, with

patience and resignation; with hope, also, that carry we in our

life to the contemplation of other sphere beyond the grave. there be

a wonderful amount of goodness and sweetness in life, with all its sad

change. what good reward we--what bring we the most pleasure and

satisfaction--be to enjoy this good, in so far as it affect ourselves

and other, and to make the very good use of it which lie in our

power. you cannot deny that this be a sensible philosophy."



"it sound so."



"it be not only a sensible, it be a wise philosophy. let I apply it.

say that I have a child whom I love"--the memory of his Philip bring

a touching sadness into his tone--"say that this blessing, which I

have unhappily lose, be mine. if by any action of mine I can make that

child happy, it be surely good and wise in I to do so, and add to my

enjoyment of life. say that this child, having grow to manhood, with

a man's intelligence and a man's hope, have set his heart upon a

certain thing--say, plainly, that he love a girl who be both virtuous

and good, whom he wish to make his wife, and that I constitute it my

business to thwart he--it be surely unwise in itself, if only in the

fact that it bring discomfort to I, that it fill my day with

uneasiness, and make my home unhappy. now, this be a selfish view,

but it be one which occur to I by way of illustration."



"but say, for the sake of argument," say Mr. Weston, somewhat

uneasily, "only for the sake of argument, mind----"



"very well, for the sake of argument."



"that this child's fancy be a foolish one, and unwise in every

sense."



"I don't admit that; but we be only argue. pray proceed."



"and that you, his father, see another and a well way of bring

happiness into his life."



"who judge that my way be the well way?" demand Mr. Rowe.



"Yourself."



Mr. Rowe shake his head, and take a pair of spectacle from his

pocket, ask Mr. Weston to use they. Mr. Weston put they on gladly,

but they do not suit his sight; all be dim before he. he return

the spectacle to Mr. Rowe.



"I cannot see through they," he say.



"nonsense, nonsense," reply Mr. Rowe; "you be mistaken. you can."



"I tell you I cannot."



"yet that be just what you insist other can do. you insist that they

can see through _your_ spectacle."



"I say nonsense, nonsense to you! I understand your trick, but it do

not apply in this case. I say that in the difference of opinion

between you and your son which you have speak of you be the well

judge. you be the old of the two by forty year. you know the

world; you have experience its trial, its temptation, its

disappointment; you have see its folly, its delusion. therefore

you have a perfect right to say to your son, 'my boy, you be wrong!

you must conquer your idea--your fancy. be patient, and time will show

you its folly; and one day you will thank I for oppose your

wish.' why," exclaim Mr. Weston, raise his voice slightly in his

excitement, "do you not love your son?"



"that it be not to be doubt."



"and what you do in this matter, be it not for his good?"



"ah, my friend, my friend! I may think so, in my obstinacy, but it be

I who be wrong. let we speak plainly. you know it be of your Gerald we

be speaking----"



"of course I know it."



"what more can you desire than his happiness? the girl he love, and

have pledge himself to, be poor, it be true; but she be a lady, and be

in every way worthy of he. why embitter your life and his by stand

in his way?"



"one moment, Mr. Rowe," interrupt Mr. Weston; "how do you know all

this? have you see the girl?"



"I have."



"and her father, have you see he?"



"no, but I hope soon to do so. from what I have hear, he be a man

whom it would be a proud privilege to call friend."



Mr. Weston make a movement of uneasiness.



"the subject annoy I," he say, "let we cease discuss it."



"we have no time to continue it," say Gideon Rowe, glance at the

clock, "or, despite your wish, I should not allow it to drop. we

ourselves be young once, and look at thing with different eye

from those with which we view they now."



"how near to the time be it?"



"but one minute."



during this minute there be silence in the room. Michael Lee's voice

be not hear. Mr. Weston move slowly to the head of the table. the

attendant stand in silence behind the empty chair. presently the

clock strike the hour of seven. as the sound of the last stroke be

die away, Gideon Rowe say to Mr. Steele:



"serve the dinner."



Mr. Richard Weston be the only guest.









CHAPTER III.



ARRIVAL of unexpected guest.





stand behind the twelve empty chair, the attendant perform

their duty with as much ceremony as could have be expect from

they have they be wait on the most exacting and punctilious

guest; but it be not difficult to see that they do not like the

service in which they be engage. from time to time they gaze

furtively at each other, and accord to the susceptibility of their

temperament, be more or less disturb by the strangeness of the

scene. there be something so ghostlike in this silent dinner, that

when the attendant move they step lightly, as though they be

fearful of raise the dead. the only person who be not dismay at

the sight of the empty chair be Mr. Weston, Mr. Steele, and the

proprietor of the Silver Flagon. indeed, that the chair be empty

appear to afford satisfaction to at least one of the party--Mr.

Weston.



"what have become of your unreasonable fancy?" ask Mr. Rowe.



"Gone, thank God!" reply Mr. Weston, with a sigh of relief, drain

his glass. "but I have it very strong upon I. we cannot help these

superstitious feeling, and in my case there be a distinct cause for

they, in word once utter by Reuben Thorne."



"poor Reuben! he be the merry soul I ever meet."



"a careless, ne'er-do-well!" exclaim Mr. Weston.



"no man's enemy but his own," add Mr. Rowe quickly. "the merry

part of the table be always where he sit, during the few year he be

with we. what word do you refer to?"



"it be on the fourth anniversary of this day, and all the thirteen

be present. death have not take one of our party. I be sit next

to Reuben, and the conversation be loud and jovial. all be in high

spirit with the exception of three--Caroline Miller, Edward Blair,

and Stephen Viner. but that it be incumbent upon we to speak gently of

the dead, I could find it in my mind to couple the name of Stephen

Winer with bitter word."



"you couple his memory with bitter thought. why spare the word? he

be a cruel man, with an unfeele heart."



"hush! hush! he have go where he will be judge."



"and where," say Mr. Rowe, in no way soften, "the spirit of

Caroline and Edward rise in judgment against he. I be glad you feel

as I do toward the man who destroy the happiness of two young

person whose only fault be that they love each other too well."



"you have make I," say Mr. Weston, with a heighten colour, "wander

from my theme."



"you wander from it yourself," retort Mr. Rowe, "by mention the

name of Stephen Viner."



"be it not," say Mr. Weston, with mark of agitation in his face,

"that we be old friend, I should think you have a design to irritate

I."



"I have a design to speak plainly. if we can learn a lesson from the

dead which it would be good to learn, it be bad than folly to reject

it. the parallel be a strange one. Caroline Miller and Edward Blair

be not the only young lover who have be parted----"



"Stop, Rowe," interrupt Mr. Weston, in a tone of suppress passion.

"I desire that you will not continue the subject. it be unkind, cruel

of you, and the conclusion you draw do I great injustice."



he again empty his glass, and the next few moment be pass in

silence.



"I beg your pardon," then say Mr. Rowe, more gently; "I be betray

out of myself. you be speak of Reuben Thorne."



"all at the table be converse loudly together," say Mr. Weston,

continue his reminiscence with visible effort: it be evident that

silence be oppressive to he, "when my attention be call to Reuben

by several voice cry, 'what be that you say, Mr. Thorne--what

be that you say?' 'I say,' he reply, that if I happen not to be

myself the last survivor of this party--and I hope not to be, for the

duty he will have to perform will be a dismal one--I promise to visit

he, whoever he may be, and drink wine with he once more. will any

other join I?' unthinkingly, those at the table respond, 'I will,'

and 'I will!' I raise my hand for silence. 'it be,' I say, 'too

grave a subject to jest upon.' but Reuben be not to be divert from

his light humour. 'I have promise,' he say; and there be an end of

the matter. little do I think, when those word be exchange, that

I should be the last survivor, and that Reuben Thorne's promise would

make such an impression upon I."



Mr. Weston eat very little, but he drink a great deal of wine, and

push his plate from he with nervous haste, wishful to bring the

solid part of the dinner quickly to an end. there be many course,

however, and the serve and removing of they occupy some time. the

colour of the sunset could be see through the fold of the curtain

which hang before the window, change from a clear rose-red, like

the blush on the face of a fair woman, to the deep glow which

mantle the face of a brunette; from that to purple, fringe by

dark blue; thence by delicate and sad tint, melt one in the

other, into quieter shade, until the fiery sky grow calm, and

herald a lovely and peaceful night. as daylight disappear,

additional candle be light, and the room would have present a

cheerful aspect but for the empty chair and the serious face of the

attendant. then, for the first time, Mr. Weston purposely raise his

eye to the portrait which hang upon the wall.



"ah, I!" he sigh. "and this be all that remain of they--paint

canvas! I cannot distinguish their face without my spectacle, but I

can see they in my mind's eye. all dead, all dead, but ourselves!"



"Few live to our age," remark Mr. Rowe.



"how many--how many? let I see. one--two--three; no more. you be

right when you say 'tis only the year that fly. and some die very

young. whether be it for good or ill, Rowe, that we, stranger to one

another, should have be bring together by one unknown to all of

we?"



"it can scarcely have be for good," reply Mr. Rowe. "look back,

as we can look back, upon the life of those to whom the money be

leave, to what one of all those who be dead can it be say to have

bring happiness? to some it bring a curse. too well do we know the

story of those two hapless one, Caroline and Edward, whom it drive to

an early grave. leave to the absolute guardianship of a man whose heart

be stone, those orphan meet and love. in all human calculation, no

lot in life could be happy than that of these lover would have be

have they marry. but to marry without Stephen Viner's consent

entail upon they, accord to the provision of the will, absolute

beggary; and this consent their guardian refuse to give. he cast a

strange spell upon his delicate, susceptible ward. his strong mind and

will dominate her sensitive nature absolutely. he win from her a

solemn promise that she would not wed without his consent. Dinah Dim,

that kindly old maid, tell I that Viner make Caroline swear this upon

the Bible. Edward and Caroline be but boy and girl when they be

first give into the guardianship of this man--what wonder that they

love as they grow to man's and woman's estate? we all know of their

love, and intercede for they, vainly. prayer, entreaty,

remonstrance--all be useless. you yourself be one of the most

earnest in your entreaty, but Stephen Viner turn a deaf ear, and

so arrange that the lover be to be part. Edward be to be send

to India, 'where he would get over his foolish passion,' Stephen Viner

say. of my own knowledge I be aware that Edward want Caroline to

marry he and defy her guardian. but her oath, which she be never

allow to forget, be of too solemn a nature to permit of this; and

besides, she have a clear and painful remembrance of privation endure

by her parent when she be a child, and, know that they have

marry for love against the wish of their friend, she refuse to

bring a similar suffering as her dowry to Edward. you know the sad

end. drive to despair, the young lover drown themselves--at

least, so it be suppose, when their body be find in the river.

you remember the gloom the news cast over our party when we meet, and

the savage look and word which be cast at Stephen Viner. who that

be acquaint with this sad story can doubt that the money leave so

strangely bring a curse to these two innocent young soul?"



by this time it be night. the dessert be now on the table, which

require but guest around it to make a very charming scene. Mr.

Weston have drink a good deal of wine, and be in a feverish, excited

condition. Michael Lee still keep watch outside the door. the only

voice that be hear be the voice of Mr. Weston and Mr. Rowe.

this latter person be evidently determined not to lose sight of the

principal object in his mind, and almost every word he utter have

reference to it.



"at such a time as this," he say, "it be but natural that our

thought should revert to those who be go. I be think now of my

dead Philip, with reference to worldly thing. do you know, friend,

that I would cheerfully live the rest of my day in poverty if the

sacrifice of my worldly good could bring my son to life?"



"they be the natural feeling of a father," respond Mr. Weston.

"be I in your place, I would surely feel the same."



"and yet how strangely do we regulate our action with reference to

those we love! while they live, we thwart their dearest hope; when

they be go, we be ready to make the extreme sacrifice upon the

altar of our affection. but then it be too late."



he would have proceed far but that a sudden spasm from Mr.

Weston divert his attention. follow the direction of Mr. Weston's

eye, he turn toward the fold window.



"do you hear nothing?" ask Mr. Weston in a low tone.



"no."



"I fancy," murmur Mr. Weston, in explanation, "that I hear a step

upon the veranda."



Mr. Rowe go to the window, and partly draw the curtain aside. the

moon be rise, and the soft light could be see through the opening.



"there be no one there," say Mr. Rowe, return to Mr. Weston's

side. "as I be say, when we have lose those whom we love well in

the world, and whose natural and innocent desire we thwart while

they live, we beat our breast and reproach ourselves----"



again he be interrupt. Michael Lee, the doorkeeper, enter the

room, and follow Mr. Rowe's last word, come Michael Lee's

announcement:



"Mr. Reuben Thorne."



Mr. Weston's face grow white as the person announce approach and

bow.



"I be late," say the new-comer, drop into a chair; "but well

late than never, they say."



he pour out a glass of claret, and rise, say, with another bow to

Mr. Weston: "your health;" and again resume his seat.



"be I dream?" ask Mr. Weston, in a low tone of fear, address

himself to Mr. Rowe.



Reuben Thorne hear the word, and before Mr. Rowe could speak,

himself reply:



"no, faith; it be I who have be dream--dream for many year.

Life be a dream; and death!--but we will not speak of that. live and

learn, they say. let we correct the maxim. die and learn, be

infinitely truer, as all man will find. if we could live and unlearn,

it would be well for we. 'tis a conflict, from the cradle to the

grave--heart against head. and head win, the rule be. man would be

happy be it otherwise. well for we to go back, and play at

child over again."



he be so exactly the counterpart of one of the portrait on the wall,

in every detail of dress and personal appearance, that he could not

have be more like have he actually be the live presentment of the

picture. but the portrait be there and the man be there, and the man

look up at the paint likeness of himself with some kind of

satisfaction.



"if my memory serve I," he continue, still address Mr. Weston,

"it be a good old fashion for the chairman to welcome his guest as

they arrive. you have not address to I one word of welcome. at all

event, we will drink wine together."



he raise his glass, and Mr. Weston mechanically raise his. bow to

each other, they empty their glass simultaneously. then Mr. Weston

speak for the first time, in a hush, awe-strike tone.



"I remember the word you utter on the anniversary of our fourth

gathering. I recall they before you enter. you promise to visit

the last of the thirteen who be leave and take wine with he. you

ask if the other would join you; all, or nearly all, promise to do

so." he shudder as he speak.



"the promise will be redeem by our friend," say Reuben Thorne, "as

it be redeem by I. but I have another purpose in come to-night."



"what purpose?"



"a purpose in which I be not the only one engage. other be with I.

you will know more presently. do you see any change in I?"



"none. you be to I the same as when I last say you. not a day

old--not a day." he, also, glance at the portrait for confirmation.



"that be many year ago now. I see a change in you. your hair be

white; you be an old man. perhaps in another year you, too, will have

pass away from among man. it will be well for you if you have sow

no seed of unhappiness, which may grow into life-misery when you

have go. even I, with no human tie, even I, who have no wife or

child, would, if I could, live my time over again."



"yet you be the merriest of all our company," say Mr. Weston,

nerve himself by a strong effort to sustain his part in the

conversation, gain courage to do so from the wine, which he drink

freely; "you can have no regret."



"I have one." he look toward the portrait of Stephen Viner with

anger. "if I have know what be to occur through that man's

villainy--if I have know the end of those two young life, the

melancholy fate of Caroline Miller and Edward Blair, I would have

save they despite the penalty I would have have to pay."



"how would you have save they?"



"I would have kill the man," say Reuben Thorne, quietly, "who by

his cruelty destroy two innocent life. I would have kill one to

save two."



Mr. Weston scarcely hear these last word; a step upon the veranda

draw his attention from Reuben Thorne. again Michael Lee's voice be

hear:



"Clarence Coveney."



a man fifty year of age enter, dress as Reuben Thorne be

dress, in the fashion of a bygone generation. he bow to Mr. Weston

and take his seat.



"once more," he say, nod to Reuben Thorne.



"once more," respond Reuben Thorne. "we be speak of Stephen

Viner."



"he be not here."



"no; but he will come."



other step upon the veranda, and Michael Lee's voice again:



"Henry Holmes. Rachel Holmes."



Two, whose name only proclaim they brother and sister, enter with

the same ceremony, and take their seat. they be unlike each other

in appearance, and the lady, who be young, be the more composed of

the two.



"it be so long since we meet," she say in a soft tone to Mr. Weston,

"that Henry be doubtful of the welcome we should receive."



"why should he be doubtful?" say Reuben Thorne. "every one here have a

claim to be present. be it not so?" he ask, address himself to

Mr. Weston.



"it be so," reply Mr. Weston.



"and all be welcome," continue Reuben Thorne.



"and all be welcome," continue Mr. Weston mechanically. the word

seem to be force from he.



"whether the proposition," say Reuben Thorne, "to meet once in every

year, as we do for many year--each more or less accord to the

tenor of his life--be or be not a wise one, it be accept by all

without demur. let we, then, now that we have meet once again, banish

all idea of strangeness from our mind; let we be cordial and

friendly to one another, as we once be. this meeting will be the

last. let we be merry; and let only those be sad who have no regret."



"be that really exemplified in life," say Rachel Holmes, "there

would be less sorrow in it."



"somewhat of a philosophical paradox, that," observe the landlord of

the Silver Flagon.



the circumstance of Mr. Rowe take part in the conversation bring

relief to Mr. Weston. the scene in which he be play a part

appear to be less unreal, and he be less startled by the voice of

Michael Lee, the doorkeeper, who announce, in quick succession:



"James Blanchard. Thomas Chatterton. Ephraim Goldberg."



Mr. Weston, white and trembling, rise and bow to they as they

enter.



"there be eight of we now," say Reuben Thorne, in a cheerful tone;

"but five more remain. I remember well the occasion and the motive

that first bring we together."



another guest join the party in the midst of the speech.



"Frederick Fairfax."



"Nine," continue Reuben Thorne. "if this meeting be less pleasant

than the first, it be not a whit less strange. surely that be Dinah

Dim's step upon the veranda."



they all turned turn their face to the door. "Dinah Dim," call

out Michael Lee.



an old woman, with snow-white hair, tall and bent, enter the room

with a light step, and look briskly around. her likeness to her

picture on the wall be something marvellous. not a hair be out of

its place; of this there be five row of curl on either side of her

head; mitten on her hand and wrist; her gown of old-fashioned

brocade; a scarf across her shoulder; eye very bright; hand small

and white; a complexion like a peach.



"so you be all before I," she say, in quick, silvery tones--"that

scamp, Reuben Thorne--how be you, my child?--and the Holmes's, and

Mr. Blanchard, and Coveney, and Fairfax, and Chatterton, and Goldberg.

be that all? ah, no; here be my child, Richard Weston." she curtsey

to he, and hold out her hand; he take it in his. "why, child, you

forget what to do with it, you use to kiss it when you be young."

he kiss her finger. "your hair be as white as mine, child; when I

first know you it be bright and curly. I shall take my seat next to

you. and there be my friend, Mr. Rowe--as straight as an arrow. now,

my dear, why do we want the attendant about we? we can help

ourselves and chat more freely. send they away, Mr. Rowe, send they

away."



at the sign from Mr. Rowe, the attendant, nothing loth, leave the

room, and do not enter again. the old lady continue:



"now we can breathe. how many chair be empty? one, two, three.

Stephen Viner, the monster, be not here; and those two poor

child--ah, I! give I something to drink. no, not wine; water. I

hope none of you will drink too much. Reuben Thorne, put down that

glass! drink be your ruin, and you know it. who be speak before I

enter?"



"I," reply Reuben Thorne.



"you always have plenty to say. go on, then; I dare say I interrupt

you."



"the subject be about our first meeting not be more strange than

this. let I thank you for your presence here. you do not forget that

it be I who first propose this gathering."



"you have nothing to thank we for," say Rachel Holmes; "we be

control by independent force."



"Rachel Holmes," cry Dinah Dim, "your word be always intelligible

to sensible ear. go on, Reuben."



"I have nothing to go on with particularly, and nothing very

particular to say. my mind be fill, by but one subject just now."



"what subject?"



"the absent one--two whom we love, one whom we hate. say--be I

right?"



"we all share your feeling," say Dinah Dim.



"I would prefer to hear each speak for himself," say Reuben Thorne,

his eye travel from one to the other of the strange company.



one after another express their adherence to his sentiment with

reference to the three who be absent.



"all but Mr. Weston have speak," say Reuben Thorne.



"if I know anything of Richard Weston," say Dinah Dim, "he agree

with we with all his soul. why, of all our company, he be the man who

be ever the most eloquent on the beauty of love! he marry for love,

my child. I call upon you to drink to the memory of his wife."



the guest rise and drink the toast, bow to Mr. Weston as they do

so. he raise his glass, and drink with they.



"who," continue Dinah Dim, with vivacity, "have the good claim to

speak with authority upon this subject? it be not unknown to we that

in his married life he taste the sweet happiness that spring from

mutual love. and when he lose his wife, do he not write upon she

tombstone, 'love sweeten all; love level all?' honour to the man

who, not in theory but in practice, carry out this noblest of all

the creed. it be fit that he should be the last survivor, and that he

should preside to-night. dear child, you know I be the old of

the thirteen, and you always treat I with kindness. well, it be

right that it should be so, for I might have be the grandmother of

some, when we first meet. but it be my sad fate to dream only of the

happiness which I once fondly hope would be mine. I do not remember

that I ever tell you my story." she turn to Mr. Weston for

confirmation or correction.



"I never hear it," he say.



"it be soon tell. the man I love be drown at sea before we be

married. that be the history of my life. brief enough, be it not? he

be drown, and I lose he. that be how I grow into an old maid,

live upon the memory of love. I find my consolation as all find it

who be faithful. though," say Dinah Dim, her tone become light,

"I think that Reuben Thorne would have try to tempt I to change my

name have I be ten year young."



"I might," assent Reuben Thorne, "have I not suspect that you be

Constancy."



a shade of grief rest for a moment on Dinah Dim's face.



"I have that word use to I once when my heart be beat with the

anticipation of a happy future."



"by your lover?"



"by my lover, lose to I for many year; lose when I love he most."



a heavy step be hear upon the veranda, and there be silence in the

room until the voice of Michael Lee be hear:



"Stephen Viner."



almost before the word have pass his lip, the new comer have make

his way to the table, and without a motion or word of salutation

drop into a chair.









CHAPTER IV.



MARGARET'S TRIUMPH.





a dead silence reign for many moment after the appearance of the

last comer. all eye be turn upon he in anger and displeasure,

but he do not raise his face to meet their gaze. it be a cruel face,

with hard line in it, a face which ordinarily be devoid of any

expression of kindness; but, although sternness be native to it,

irresolution and some sign of remorse be visible on this occasion.

that he hear no word of welcome be evidently--if one might judge

from appearance--distress to he, and he sit in silence, with

hand tightly clench beneath the table.



it be now ten o'clock, and the moon be at its full. the curtain of

the window have be draw aside by one of the guest, and the light of

a lovely moon add to the peacefulness and beauty of the night. the

landlord of the Silver Flagon regard the guest watchfully and

warily, and with uneasiness; but his attention be principally

direct to Mr. Richard Weston. the old gentleman's face be flush

with wine and excitement; after the first feeling of fear and dismay

at the appearance of these unexpected visitor, he have strive hard to

nerve himself, so that he might play his part in this strange scene in

a befitting manner; that his nerve, however, be highly string be

show by an occasional convulsive twining of the finger, and by his

place his hand before his eye and then remove they, as though to

prove to the evidence of his sense that he be not dream. Dinah

Dim, who sit next to he, be also very attentive in her observance of

he, and now and again place her hand on his, and take away the wine

glass which he would have raise to his lip.



she be the first to speak.



"the presence of this man," she cry, in an agitated tone, "be

contamination. why be he here on this last night of our ever meeting?"



Stephen Viner, with his eye fix still upon the table, wait in

expectation of some other person speak. as no one answer Dinah

Dim's question, he do so.



"I be constrain to come," he say.



"for what reason?" she retort. "for your own pleasure or our?

friend, I appeal to you. do this man's presence ever bring one smile

to our lip, or engender one kindly thought or feel?"



"never," answer Reuben Thorne; and "never," answer the other.



"his life be a curse to he, and to those whom a sad fortune place

in his power. I ask again, why be he here?"



"your word be harsh," say Stephen Viner, raise his hand as if for

mercy. "your tone be pitiless."



Dinah Dim laugh scornfully. "this man talk of pity," she exclaim,

"in whose cruel breast no spark of it ever dwelt. a pretty preacher,

truly!"



"I have tell you," he say, in a low tone, "that I be constrain to

come to-night. say that I be here for judgment."



"what kind of judgment," demand Dinah Dim, "can you expect from

those who know you? have not your own heart punish you sufficiently?"



"it have," he reply, place his hand to his breast with a gasp of

passion. "can I not make atonement?"



"what atonement, after all these year?"



"I can ask their forgiveness; I can tell they, as I tell you, that I

repent of my cruelty, and that if the year could roll back--alas for

I that they cannot! I would act differently."



"see you now, my child," say Dinah Dim, rising--"see you now,

Richard Weston, who have taste the priceless blessing of pure devoted

love--this man who deliberately destroy the happiness of two young

lover, come before we when it be too late, and repent when it be

too late. a pretty atonement truly be this that he propose to make by

ask the forgiveness of two innocent young creature whom he drive

to their death, and whose only crime be that they love. what

judgment should we pass upon he--what judgment do he deserve? as

you sow, you shall reap. let this man reap as he have sow. would any

one here hold out to he the hand of friendship?"



"not one," answer Reuben Thorne, and every person echo his word.



even Mr. Weston, towards whom Dinah Dim look for assent, be

compel to say:--



"not one."



"shall the curse of money," proceed Dinah Dim, "for ever outweigh

love--love that humanise the world? the man who, for money's sake,

deliberately drag two love soul asunder--the man who, for money's

sake, deliberately poison the life of two young creature whose

heart be draw together by the holy sentiment which sweeten

life--bring desolation upon his soul here and hereafter. who among we

have do this?"



"Stephen Viner," say Reuben Thorne, and again they all echo his

word. all but Mr. Weston, over whose face a convulsive shudder

pass.



Dinah Dim look at he for a moment, and observe his agitation do

not press he to join in the general condemnation.



"let Stephen Viner, then," say Dinah Dim sternly, "go from among we.

his presence bring shame upon we."



the man thus judge and condemn gaze appealingly around, but see no

pitying sign. as he rise to go, Dinah Dim hold up a warning hand, and

Michael Lee's voice be hear for the last time:



"Caroline Miller. Edward Blair."



the lover enter, side by side. Dinah Dim move from her place, and

pass her arm round the waist of the young girl, who appear to need

support. they approach with slow and hesitate step, and Mr.

Weston turn towards they; but he do not see their face. the

excitement of the scene have completely overpower he, and, with a

wild motion of his hand, he sink to the ground in a state of

insensibility.





*    *    *    *    *    *





when he recover he be lie on the veranda, and Gideon Rowe be

kneel by his side. Uncertain whether he be awake or asleep, he

close his eye, and seem to fall naturally into a quiet dream--but

a dream in which he be conscious of though not actually interested

in, all that pass around he. it be as he lie thus, with his eye

close, that he feel the influence of a womanly presence, in soft

touch and murmur word, and a tenderness of action not to be

express. open his eye he see no woman, but only his friend,

Gideon Rowe, the landlord of the Silver Flagon by his side.



"that be well, that be well," say Gideon Rowe gently. "you be well

now."



Mr. Weston hold his hand for a little while before he speak.



"I do not feel ill. why be I here? what have occur? ah," he cry,

with a shudder, as his eye fall upon the fold window of the room,

"I remember. be they still there?"



"they! who?"



"they! who?" echo Mr. Weston, wonderingly and weakly. "can you

ask?--you be by my side?"



"come, come," say Gideon Rowe, in a soothe tone, "you must not

distress yourself with fancy. why do you look so strangely toward

the room? no person be in it. you be overcome, and you faint. but

you be strong now. come, let we see if you can walk a bit. that's

right, that's right."



he assist Mr. Weston to rise, and they pace the veranda slowly,

Gideon Rowe purposely pause by the window which lead to the room, to

give Mr. Weston assurance and to dispel his fear.



"will you go in?"



"no, no," cry Mr. Weston, "we will sit here; the night be very

beautiful. Rowe, do you believe in omen?"



"have any serious one ever occur to you?"



"none, in my remembrance."



"be you not tell I of poor Philip's death some time to-night?"



"yes," reply Gideon Rowe, with a heavy sigh.



"how do he die? what be the cause of his death?"



"poor lad! he die by fire. it be a dreadful story."



the father's voice be shake by grief.



"if it will not distress you too much to tell I," say Mr. Weston,

take Gideon Rowe's hand, "I should like to hear more about he. do

not think I unkind, but I be in a strange mood. I feel like a child.

what o'clock be it?"



"Past midnight."



"About Philip, now; indulge I. I love the boy myself."



"your Gerald love he; they be true friend. have Philip live, they

would have find much joy in their friendship, but fate will it

otherwise. Poor Philip die in the goldfield, in Australia--but I

promise that you should hear the story from the lip of the widow.

will you see she? she be very near."



"I fancy just now, when I awake, that a woman be near I."



"it be Margaret."



"Margaret!" echo Mr. Weston.



the name bring with it reproachful remembrance.



"that be the name of the girl Philip marry."



"yes, I will see she. one moment; I must not miss say what be in

my mind. I be speak of omen. you have no foreshadowing of Philip's

death?"



"none; the poor lad be dead many month before I hear the news."



"but omen come occasionally to some person."



"I have read and hear so."



"Gideon, one have come to I; it may foreshadow my death. I have see

the dead."



Gideon Rowe make no comment upon this, but go to the end of the

veranda, and call "Margaret!"



Margaret--_our_ Margaret--herself appear, simply dressed. she

approach Mr. Weston, with a serious expression on her beautiful

face.



"it _be_ you," he exclaim, gaze at she in wonder.



"yes," she say, "poor Philip be my husband."



"why do you not tell I this before, Margaret?"



"I have my reason. I be not sure that I could trust you."



"Margaret," interpose Gideon Rowe, "Mr. Weston wish to hear the

particular of our poor boy's death; I promise that you should tell

he."



Margaret turn her head; her lip tremble; tear rush to her eye.



"Nay, nay," say Mr. Weston; need sympathy, he be in the mood to

give it; "another time. it will pain she too much."



but Margaret have a purpose in tell the story, and she relate the

particular of Philip's death in simple language and in feel tone.

she feel every word she speak; she be not act now, and natural

pathos it be that draw tear from Mr. Weston.



"I see my devoted darling in the flame," say Margaret, between her

sob, "look for I with blind eye. I try to get to he, but they

hold their arm round I, and I could not escape from they. but there

be one--ah, there be one!--who, see my despair and Philip's

peril, rush into the flame to save his friend. too late, alas! he

drag my darling out of the burn house, but could not save his

life; yet he give my Philip to I for a few blessed hour."



overcome by her emotion, Margaret pause.



"a noble action!" say Mr. Weston. "a noble man!"



Margaret nerve herself to proceed. "he and I nurse Philip, and

watch the life die out of he. every word my darling utter be

graven on my heart. 'dear old fellow!' he say, with feeble gasp, to

this dearest of friend. 'noble old fellow! God bless Margaret and

you!'"



"indeed, indeed," say Mr. Weston, "a blessing should fall upon such a

man!"



"'take care of Margaret,'" whisper my Philip; "'be a father to she.

dear old dad I hope to see you, and show you my darling. but he will

bring she to you.' he utter but few word after that," continue

Margaret, who stand now between Mr. Weston and Philip's father,

hold a hand of each, "but they all refer to his noble friend and to

I, and you, sir" (to Gideon Rowe), "whom he love most tenderly. so

my Philip die. perhaps he hear I tell the sad story of our love on

this solemn, beautiful night. Philip, my darling!" she murmur

softly, raise her tearful eye to the bright heaven; "if you can

help I bring the blessing you invoke on our dear friend's head, you

will bring a blessing also to your Margaret, in whose heart you will

live till she join you in a well world than this!"



"be this friend, then, unhappy?" ask Mr. Weston.



"most unhappy--most undeservedly unhappy. ah, sir, if you have it in

your power, would you not help he--would you not be proud to bring

joy into the life of such a man? you be right in call he noble.

such a nature as his ennoble the world! and yet at this moment he be

stricken down by grief."



"he be here, then--in England?"



"he be here, in England, in Devonshire, within sound of my voice."



"what be his name?"



"I must relate an accident of his early life before I tell you, in

proof that this act of devotion toward my Philip be not the only act

of sacrifice and devotion he have perform. not the only one, do I

say? his life be full of noble deed. when he be young he have a

friend--nay, do not take your hand away; he and his friend love the

same girl. he see that the girl's heart be give to his friend, whom

he have keep in ignorance of the state of his affection, out of

consideration for he. listen, now, to what this man do when he fully

learn the truth. love this girl, he could not remain near she

without betray himself. know that the revelation of his love

would bring distress both to his friend and the girl he love, he go

from they suddenly. he do more than this; his friend at that time be

not rich. he himself have some little store of money--between one and

two thousand pound, as near as I can learn; he place this money--the

whole of his fortune--in the hand of a lawyer, to be give to the

girl, with strict instruction that neither she nor his friend should

know from whom it come. it be now for the first time that his friend

hear of this act of sacrifice and unselfishness. why do you turn from

I?"



"let I be, child, for a few moment," say Mr. Weston, in broken

tone; "I might have guess--I might have guess! where in the world

could I find another such noble heart as Gerald's? I have wrong

he--deeply wrong he."



"a fault confess be half atone for," say Margaret, pursue she

advantage. "complete the atonement. you can do so."



"child, my promise be give elsewhere. you do not know what strange

thing have happen this night, Margaret, that, apart from what you

have tell I, would induce I to complete the atonement. Margaret, I

have be visit by the spirit of the dead--by man and woman who

pass out of the world year and year ago, and whose face I have

see only in my dream. _they_ come to warn I, as it seem--but I

cannot speak of it."



Margaret assist he to a chair, and kneel by his side, Gideon Rowe

stand a few pace away.



"do not disregard their warning," she say sweetly, "if you disregard

my pleading--for I do plead, and you know for whom."



"I know--I know; but my promise stand in the way."



"what promise?"



"Gerald be promise to another--I cannot depart from my word."



Margaret smile tenderly.



"what be the name of the young lady?"



"Miss Forester. you see she on the unhappy night on which my friend

leave my house with his daughter."



"it be an unhappy night for all of we. do this promise not bind

you----"



he take up her word.



"do this promise not bind I, I would, if I could find the courage to

do so, and be I assure that Gerald and Lucy truly love each other,

go to my friend--of whose goodness every time that I speak of he

bring fresh proof--and ask the hand of his daughter for my son."



such happiness stir Margaret's heart at these word that he feel

her warm tear upon his hand as she kiss it again and again.



"I cannot express my joy," she say, "for I know that you never yet

forfeit a promise. Father," she call Gideon Rowe to her side, and

whisper a few word of instruction in his ear. he nod smilingly,

and leave she. "dear Mr. Weston, if such a sentiment as pure love

exist--and we know it do--it exist in the heart of Lucy and

Gerald. as for Miss Forester, here she be to speak for herself."



if Miss Forester and Rachel Holmes be one and the same person, then

Mr. Weston might have believe that Miss Forester be there to speak

for herself; for the lady who come now upon the scene be dress in

the old-fashioned garment wear by Rachel Holmes when she make she

appearance at the dinner, an unexpected and certainly unwelcome guest.

find no clue to the enigma, and sorely disturb by the late

occurrence, Mr. Weston grasp Margaret's hand in deep agitation.



"she be no phantom," say Margaret, with a smile; "she be really and

truly flesh and blood, as you and I be. I see that you be fill

with wonder, and if you will say, Margaret, I forgive you,' I will

explain what be now a mystery to you, and will relieve your mind of

the fear which oppress you."



"could you do that," he respond, "I would say freely 'Margaret, I

forgive you,' whatever it be that you have do."



again Margaret call Gideon Rowe to her side, and again, with a few

whisper word, despatch he to do her bidding.



"I have play the part of a scheme woman to-night. the true friend

I ever have or ever shall have, the noble soul I have ever know, be

_your_ friend, Gerald Hart. he have render I such service as no man

or woman could possibly forget; he risk his life for I and mine,

and my heart be fill with gratitude towards he. at Silver Creek,

where I first meet my poor Philip, I learn that Mr. Hart have a

daughter whom he love with a tender and beautiful love. she be the

pulse of his life; as she suffer and enjoy, he suffer and

enjoy, and her happiness be nearest and dear to his heart. you

have hear the story of our life at Silver Creek, and of my darling

Philip's death, and you can understand with what feeling of true

regard and veneration I look up to this steadfast friend. we come

home, and he have the happiness of embrace his Lucy, whom he have leave

a child, and who be now grow into a beautiful woman. and as good and

as pure, sir, as she be beautiful. but I discover that Lucy have a

secret grief which would soon send she to her grave, unless it be

dispel. ah, sir, you do not know the truth, the constancy, the

depth of tenderness which dwell in that dear girl's soul! we come to

your house as visitor. I be the first who see that your Gerald and

my Lucy be lover--that they have be lover before her father's

return home--and I do my good to aid they. we have to keep this secret

from you, for you be bent upon other view for Gerald, and I learn

to my dismay that certain word which pass between you and Mr. Hart

would cause he to sacrifice his own and Lucy's happiness rather than

that she should marry your son without your consent. then come that

unhappy night when your friend go from your house, with his heart

almost break by the belief that he have be deceive where most he

trust. now, sir, I have pledge myself to bring Lucy and Gerald

together, and to obtain--what I have already (see, sir, how bold I

am!)--your consent to their union. in the face of all the

difficulty, how be I to accomplish this? I fly to a friend, by

name Lewis Nathan, an old sweetheart of my mother's. I have hear that

you have a Bluebeard's room in your house, and act upon Mr. Nathan's

suggestion, we enter the room during your absence, and discover

thirteen portrait hang on the wall--nothing more. when Mr. Hart

and Lucy leave your house I be in despair, for I see no way of

accomplish my desire. I make myself know to Philip's father in

this dear old Silver Flagon, and I win my way to his affection.



"I have not be in the Silver Flagon a week before I find myself in a

room hang round with portrait--thirteen of they--exact duplicate of

those which line your Bluebeard's room. curious to know, I coax the

story of these picture out of Mr. Rowe, and then I think I see a

way to win your consent. I consult Mr. Nathan, and we plan the

scheme. it be a desperate expedient, dear sir, but I be a bold

creature, as you know, and I alone be responsible for all that have

occur to-night. I be an actress, and some of those who present

themselves to you at the dinner be actor whom I engage from the

theatre. all your guest be not professional, sir. this lady, Miss

Forester--who be Miss Forester no long, for, determine not to be

force into a distasteful union, she be privately married to the

gentleman to whom her heart be give--enter with fervour into my

scheme, and personate Rachel Holmes; her husband personate Henry

Holmes. see, sir, some of your late guest be in the garden. here be

your spectacle; I could not afford that you should wear they before;

I be fearful lest your sight should be too sharp for I. do we play

our part well, sir? Reuben Thorne be enact by my trusty friend,

Mr. Lewis Nathan. and I, sir, be Dinah Dim, very much at your

service."



Mr. Weston revolve this explanation in his mind during many moment

of silence. I be not disposed to follow the current of his thought;

he be a worldly man, and an analysis might detract from the grace of

the act which he presently perform. he be compel to confess that

he have be conquer, and he find some consolation in the

inexpressible relief he experience in be relieve of his fear. he

have a question or two to ask, however.



"who be Stephen Viner?"



"an actor."



"and Caroline Miller and Edward Blair?"



"Lucy and your son, sir. I be doubtful of they from the first, afraid

that their feeling might betray they."



"Rowe," say Mr. Weston to the landlord of the Silver Flagon, "you have

a doorkeeper?"



"yes--Michael Lee by name."



"where be he?"



Margaret interpose. "that be one of my secret, sir. my father have

not see your friend, Gerald Hart, until he introduce himself

to-night."



"until he introduce himself to-night!" exclaim Gideon Rowe. "Nay, I

have never yet see Mr. Hart."



"you have," reply Margaret, with a smile; "he be Michael Lee."





*    *    *    *    *    *





thus, by this strange and bold device, our Margaret win the day.

truly, it be a triumph of love. as Richard Weston and Gerald Hart

stand face to face clasp hand once more, and as they turn

towards their child, who be radiant with joy, Margaret murmur

to herself the name of "Philip," and look up to heaven, not

unhappily. they remain together until morning break. as the wondrous

colour come into the sky, Margaret say to Mr. Hart:



"do you remember the night of the storm in Silver Creek, when you be

rob of your money, and when you and Philip and I stand at the

window watch the day break?"



"I do, dear Margaret--dear daughter!"



"God bless you!" she say, with a sob.



"and you, my dear," he softly answer. "you have accomplish the

supreme happiness of my life."







the END.









print BY TAYLOR and CO.,

little queen steet, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS.

















end of Project Gutenberg's at the Sign of the Silver Flagon, by B. L. Farjeon







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK at the sign of the SILVER FLAGON ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





