The project Gutenberg eBook of a Fair Jewess

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Fair Jewess



author: B. L. Farjeon



Release date: October 16, 2016 [ebook #53296]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

        Google Books (Harvard University)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a fair JEWESS ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

Google Books (Harvard University)























Transcriber's Notes:

   1. page scan source: https://books.google.com/books?id=emlLN6DE1I

      (Harvard University)

   2. this book be also publish as "Aaron the Jew. a novel," in

      London by Hutchinson & Co. in 1895.











a Fair Jewess







BY

B. L. FARJEON,



_author of "the last Tenant" etc_.









NEW YORK:

the F. M. LUPTON PUBLISHING COMPANY.













Copyright, 1894, by

the CASSELL PUBLISHING CO.



_all right reserve_.













content.



CHAPTER

I.         the Poor Doctor

II.        Dr. Spenlove's Visitor

III.       Dr. Spenlove undertake a Delicate Mission

IV.        "one more unfortunate"

V.         "Come! we will end it"

VI.        the Friend in Need

VII.       the Result of Dr. Spenlove's Mission

VIII.      what be Put in the Iron Box

IX.        Mr. Moss play his part

X.         the Vision in the Churchyard

XI.        Mr. Whimpole introduce himself

XII.       the course of the season

xiii.      Aaron Cohen Preaches a Sermon on Large Noses

XIV.       a Proclamation of War

XV.        the Battle be Fought and Won

XVI.       Joy and Sorrow

XVII.      Divine Consolation

xviii.     in the New House

XIX.       the doctor speak plainly to Aaron Cohen

XX.        a momentous night

XXI.       the Temptation

XXII.      the Living and the Dead

XXIII.     pluck from the Jaws of death

XXIV.      the Curtain Falls

XXV.       after many year

XXVI.      the Foundation of Aaron's Fortune

XXVII.     the Farewell

XXVIII.    Revisits Gosport

XXIX.      what shall be do to the man whom the

              King Delighteth to Honor?

XXX.       the honorable Percy Storndale

XXXI.      the Spirit of the Dead Past

XXXII.     before all, Duty

XXXIII.    a cheerful Doctor

XXXIV.     Ruth's Secret

XXXV.      the honorable Percy Storndale make an

              Appeal

xxxvi.     a Duty Performed

XXXVII.    the Mother's Appeal

xxxviii.   a Mother's Joy

XXXIX.     a Panic in the City

XL.        "can you forgive I?"

XLI.       a Poisoned Arrow

XLII.      retribution













a fair JEWESS.









CHAPTER I.

the POOR doctor.





on a bright, snowy night in December, some year ago, Dr. Spenlove,

having be employ all the afternoon and evening in pay farewell

visit to his patient, walk briskly toward his home through the

narrow and most squalid thoroughfare in Portsmouth.



the animation of his movement may be set down to the severity of the

weather, and not to any inward cheerfulness of spirit, for as he

pass familiar landmark he look at they with a certain regret

which man devoid of sentiment would have pronounce an indication of a

weak nature. in this opinion, however, they would have be wrong, for

Dr. Spenlove's intend departure early the follow morning from a

field which have strong claim upon his sympathy be dictate by a

law of inexorable necessity. he be a practitioner of considerable

skill, and he have conscientiously strive to achieve a reputation in

some measure commensurate with his ability.



from a worldly point of view his effort have be attend with

mortifying failure; he have not only be unsuccessful in earn a

bare livelihood, but he have completely exhaust the limited resource

with which he have start upon his career; he have, moreover, endure

severe privation, and an opening present itself in the wide field

of London he have accept it with gladness and reluctance. with

gladness because he be an ambitious man, and have desire apart from

his profession; with reluctance because it pain he to bid farewell

to patient in whom he take a genuine interest, and whom he would have

like to continue to befriend. he have, indeed, assist many of they

to the full extent of his power, and in some instance have go beyond

this limit, deprive himself of the necessary of life to supply

they with medicine and nourish food, and rob his night of

rest to minister to their woe. he bear about he distinguish mark

of the beautiful self-sacrifice.



on this last night of his residence among they his purse be empty,

and inclement as be the weather he wear, on his road home, but one

thin coat which be but a feeble protection from the freezing air

which pierce to his skin, though every button be put to its proper

use. a hack cough, which cause he to pause occasionally, denote

that he be run a dangerous risk in be so insufficiently clad;

but he seem to make light of this, and smile when the paroxysm be

over. in no profession can be find display a more noble humanity

and philanthropy than in that which Dr. Spenlove practice, and needy

as he be, and narrow as have be his mean from the start, his young

career already afford a striking example of sweet and unselfish

attribute. in the divine placing of human host the poor doctor and

the poor priest shall be find march in the van side by side.



during the whole of the day snow have be fall, and during the

whole of the day Dr. Spenlove have have but one meal. he do not

complain; he have be accustom to live from hand to mouth, and well

know what it be to go to bed hungry; and there be before he the

prospect of bright time.



but cheer as be this prospect his walk home through the fall

snow be sadden by the scene he have witness in the course of the

day, and one especially dwelt in his mind.



"poor creature!" he muse. "what will become of she and her baby? oh,

pitiless world! do it not contain a single human being who will hold

out a help hand?"



before one of the poor house in one of the poor street he

pause, and, admit himself with a private latchkey, unlock a

door on the ground floor, and enter a room which face the street.

there be a wire blind to the window, on which be inscribe,

"consultation from 9 till 11 A. M." this room, with a communicating

bedroom at the back, comprise his professional and private residence.



Dr. Spenlove grope in the dark for the match, and, light a

candle, apply a match to a fire lay with scrupulous economy in the

matter of coal. as he be thus employ his landlady knock at the

door and enter.



"be it you, Mrs. Radcliffe?" he ask, not turn his head.



"yes, sir. let I do that, please."



the paper he have light in the grate be smolder away without kindle

the wood; the landlady kneel down, and with a skillful touch the flame

leap up. Dr. Spenlove, unbutton his thin coat, spread out his

hand to the warmth.



"any caller, Mrs. Radcliffe?"



"a gentleman, sir, who seem very anxious to see you. he do not

leave his name or card, but say he would call again this evening."



"do he mention the hour?"



"Nine, sir."



Dr. Spenlove put his hand to his waistcoat pocket, and quickly

withdraw it, with a smile of humor and self-pity. the landlady notice

the action, and dolefully shake her head.



"very anxious to see I, you say, Mrs. Radcliffe?"



"very anxious, indeed, sir. dear, dear, you're wet through!"



"it be a bitter night," he say, cough.



"you may well say that, sir. bad weather for you to be out, with that

nasty cough of your."



"there be many people bad off than I be, without either fire or

food."



"we all have our trial, sir. it's a hard world."



"indeed, indeed," he say, think of the female patient whom he have

last visit.



"where's your overcoat, sir? I'll take it down to the kitchen; it'll

dry soon there." she look around in vain for it.



"never mind my overcoat, Mrs. Radcliffe."



"but you have it on when you go out, sir!"



"do I? don't trouble about it. it will dry quickly enough where it

be."



he be now busily employ make a parcel of book and instrument

which he have take from different part of the room, and which be

the only article of value belong to himself it contain. the

landlady stand for a moment or two watch his movement, and then

she hurry down to her kitchen, and presently return with a cup of

hot tea. as she pass through the passage with the cup in one hand

and a candle in the other she glance at the empty umbrella stand.



"his umbrella, too, as well as his overcoat," she mutter. "the man's

heart's too big for his body."



she re-enter the room.



"I've bring you a cup of tea, sir, if you don't mind take it."



"not at all, Mrs. Radcliffe. it be very kind of you."



he drink the tea, which warm he through and through.



"we're all sorry at your leave we, sir," say the lady. "there's

plenty that'll miss you."



"I be sorry, too," he reply, "but when need must, you know. I can

do no good to myself or other by remain. if the gentleman call

again ask he to wait if his business be of importance. you have well

tell he I be leave Portsmouth to-morrow morning."



with his parcel under his arm he leave the house, and trudge through

the snow again halt at a pawnbroker's shop, linger a while before

he enter, as sensitive man do before put the finishing touch to

a humiliating act. then, shrug his shoulder and muttering, "I

ought to be use to it by this time," he plunge into the shop, where

he obtain upon his few last treasure as much as would pay his

third-class fare to London and the two week' rent he owe his

landlady. thus safeguard for a few hour at least, he leave the shop,

but instead of immediately retrace his step to his lodging he

linger once more irresolutely, with the air of a man who be at war

with himself upon a momentous question. the sixteen shilling due to

his landlady be in his pocket, and undoubtedly it be simple honesty

that it should be hand over to she without hesitation. but the

hapless female patient who have occupy his thought during the last

hour be at this moment in the throe of a desperate human crisis, and

dark as be the present to her suffering soul the terror which the

future hold in store for she be still more agonizing. she have a

young baby at her breast; she have no food in her cupboard, not a loaf

of bread, not a cup of milk; she have not a friend in the world to whom

she could appeal for help. she, too, be in debt to her landlord, a

hard man, who be wait for another sun to rise to thrust she and

her infant into the white and pitiless street. it would have be

do to-day but for the intervention of Dr. Spenlove, who have pawn

his overcoat and umbrella to buy of the poor creature's landlord a

respite of twenty-four hour. the sixteen shilling due to Mrs.

Radcliffe would buy she another respite for a long term, but when

this be expire there be still the hopeless future to face. Dr.

Spenlove thrust aside this latter consideration, and think only of

the ineffable relief it be in his power to bring to a heart rack

with anguish and despair. he lose sight of the fact that the wretche

woman would still be without food, and that she be too weak to work

for it. even when she be strong, and able to ply her needle

throughout the whole of the day and the great part of the night, her

earning have never exceed six shilling a week; she have confess as

much to the good doctor, but for whose timely aid the workhouse would

have be her only refuge. as he stand debate with himself the

sentiment of pity be strong within he, but he could not banish the

voice of justice which whisper that the money be not his to dispose

of. all the people with whom he be acquaint be poor, and his

landlady be as poor as the rest; he know that she often depend upon

the payment of his rent to pay her own. it might be that just now she

could afford to wait a while for what be due to she; if so he would

dispose of the sixteen shilling as his benevolent instinct impel

he to do; he must, however, ascertain how the land lie before he

act. it may appear strange to many fortunate person that issue so

grave and vital should hang upon a sum of money which to they would

not be worth a thought, but it would be a good lesson for they to

learn that opportunity be not scarce for bring heaven's

bright sunshine to overcharge heart by the judicious bestowal of

a few small coin out of the wealth which yield they all the material

comfort of life.



having make up his mind upon the important matter, Dr. Spenlove turn

homeward, and as he walk he recall the incident in connection

with the unhappy woman in which he have play a part. she be a

stranger in the neighborhood, and have live her lonely life in a

garret for five month. no person with whom she come in contact know

anything of she or of her antecedent, and it be by chance that he

become acquainted with she. attend to his poor patient in the

street in which she reside, he pass she one afternoon, and be

attract as much by her modest and ladylike appearance as by the

evidence of extreme weakness which could hardly escape the observation

of a man so kindly hearte as himself. he perceive at once that she

be of a superior class to those among whom she move, and he be

impress by a peculiar expression on her face when his eye rest on

she. it be the expression of a hunt woman, of one who dread be

recognize. he make inquiry about she, but no one could give he any

information concern she, and in the press of onerous care and

duty she pass out of his mind. some week later he meet she again,

and his first impression be renew and strengthen, and pity

stir his heart as he observe from her garment that she be on the

downward path of poverty. it be clear that she be frighten by his

observance of she, for she hurry quickly on, but physical weakness

frustrate her desire to avoid he; she stagger and would have

fall have he not run forward and catch she. weak as she be she

struggle to release herself; he keep firm hold of she, however,

animate by compassion and fortify by honest intention.



"you have nothing to fear from I," he say. "allow I to assist you.

I be Dr. Spenlove."



it be the first time he have address she, but his name be familiar

to she as that of a gentleman to whom the whole neighborhood be under

a debt of gratitude for numberless act of goodness. she glance

timidly at his face, and a vague hope stir her heart; she know that

the time be approach when she would need such a friend. but the

hope do not live long; it be crush by a sudden fear.



"do you know I, sir?"



"no," reply Dr. Spenlove in a cheerful tone. "you be a stranger to

I, as I dare say I be to you."



"no, sir," she say; "I have hear of your kindness to many suffer

people."



"tush, tush!" he exclaim. "a man deserve no credit for do his

duty. you feel strong now, do you not? if you have no doctor you

will allow I to come and see you. do not hesitate; you need such

advice as I can give you, and," he add gently, "I will send in my

account when you be rich. not till then, upon my honor; and meanwhile

I promise to ask no question."



"I be deeply grateful to you, sir."



from that day he attend she regularly, and she be strengthen and

comfort by his considerate conduct toward she. she be know as Mrs.

Turner, but it be strange if she be wife or widow that she should

wear no wedding ring. as their intimacy ripen his first impression

that she be a lady be confirm, and although he be naturally

curious about her history, he keep his promise by not ask her any

question which he feel it would be painful to she to answer. even

when he discover that she be about to become a mother he make no

inquiry concern the father of her unborn child. on the day he

bid her farewell her baby, a girl, be two week old, and a dark and

terrible future lie before the hapless woman. his heart bleed for she,

but he be powerless to help she far. weak and despairing, she sit

in her chair, with her child at her waste breast; her dark and

deep-sunken eye seem to be contemplate this future in hopeless

terror.



"I be grieve to leave you so," he say, gaze sadly at she, "but it

be out of my power to do what I would wish. unhappily I be almost as

poor as yourself. you will try to get strong, will you not?"



"I don't know," she murmur.



"remember," he say, take her hand, "you have a duty to perform.

what will you do when you be strong?"



"I don't know."



"Nay, nay," he urge, "you must not speak so despondently. believe I,

I do not wish to force your confidence, but I have gather from

chance word you have let drop that you live in London. I be go

there to-morrow. can I call upon any person who would be likely to

assist you?"



"there be no one."



"but surely you must have some friend or relations----"



"I have none. when you leave I I shall be without a friend in the

world."



"God help you!" he sigh.



"will he?"



the question be ask in the voice of one who have abandon hope, who

have lose faith in human goodness and eternal justice, and who be

taste the bitterness of death.



Dr. Spenlove remain with she an hour, strive to cheer she, to

instill hope into her heart, but his word have no effect upon she,

and, indeed, he feel at time that the platitude to which he be

give utterance be little well than mockery. be not this woman

face to face with the practical issue of life and death in their most

awful aspect, and be there any other than a practical remedy for

they? she ask for bread, and he be offer she a stone. it be

then he go from her room, and learn the full truth from her

landlord, who be only wait till he be go to turn she into the

street. we know by what mean he buy a day's respite for she.

finally he leave she, and bear away with he the dark picture of

human misery of which he have ever have experience.









CHAPTER II.

DR. SPENLOVE'S VISITOR.





his landlady, Mrs. Radcliffe, meet he on the doorstep, and inform

he that the gentleman who have call to see he in the afternoon have

call again, and be in his room.



"a word, Mrs. Radcliffe," he say hurriedly. "I be go to ask a

great favor of you. I owe you two week' rent."



"yes, sir."



his heart sink within he; he divine immediately from her tone that

she be in need of the money.



"would it inconvenience you to wait a little while for it?"



"I must, sir, if you haven't get it," she reply, "but I be

dreadfully hard press, and I reckon on it. I'm behindhand myself,

sir, and my landlord's be threaten me----"



"say no more, Mrs. Radcliffe. justice must be first serve. I have the

money; take it, for Heaven's sake. I must not rob the poor to help the

poor."



he mutter the last word to himself as he thrust the sixteen

shilling into her hand.



"I be so sorry, sir," say the distressed woman.



he interrupt she with, "there, there, I be ashamed that I ask you.

I be sure no one have a kind heart than you, and I be greatly oblige

to you for all the attention you have show I while I have be in

your house. the gentleman be in my room, you say----"



it be a proof of Mrs. Radcliffe's kindness of heart that there be a

bright fire blaze in the room, make with her own coal, and that the

lamp have be replenish with her own oil. Dr. Spenlove be grateful

to she, and he inwardly acknowledge that he could not have otherwise

dispose of the few shilling which he have no right to call his own.

his visitor rise as he enter, a well-dress man some forty year of

age, sturdily build, with touch of gray already in his hair and

beard, and with sign in his face and on his forehead indicative of a

strong will.



"Dr. Spenlove?" he ask.



"that be my name."



"mine be Gordon. I have come to see you on a matter of great

importance."



Dr. Spenlove motion to the chair from which his visitor have rise,

and he resume his seat; but although he have say that he have come

upon a matter of great importance, he seem to be either in no hurry

to open it or to be uncertain in which way to do so, for he sit for

some moment in silence, smooth his bearded chin and study Dr.

Spenlove's face with a stern and studious intentness.



"can you spare I half an hour of your time?" he say at length.



"long, if you wish," say Dr. Spenlove.



"it may be long if you offer no opposition to the service I wish you

to render I; and perhaps it be as well to say that I be willing and

can afford to pay for the service."



Dr. Spenlove bend his head.



"it be seldom," continue Mr. Gordon, "that I make mistake, and the

reason be not far to seek. I make inquiry, I clear the ground, I

resolve upon a course of action, and I pursue it to its end without

deviation. I will be quite frank with you, Dr. Spenlove; I be a hard,

inflexible man; throw upon the world when I be a lad, I push my

way to fortune; I be self-make; I can speak fair English; I have

receive little education, none at all in a classical way, but I

possess common sense, and I make it apply to my affair. that be

well than education if a man be resolve to get along in life--as I

be resolve to do. when I be a young man I say, 'I will grow rich,

or I will know the reason why.' I have grow rich. I do not say it as

a boast--it be only fool who boast--but I be worth to-day a solid

twenty thousand a year. I make this statement merely as a proof that I

be in a position to carry out a plan in which I desire your assistance

and co-operation."



"my dear sir," say Dr. Spenlove, who could not but perceive that his

visitor be very much in earnest, "the quality you mention be

admirable in their way but I fear you have come to the wrong man. I be

a doctor, and if you do not need my professional advice----"



"stop a moment," interrupt Mr. Gordon; "I have come to the right

man, and I do not need professional advice. I be as sound as a bell,

and I have never have occasion to pay a doctor's fee. I know what I be

about in the mission which bring I here. I have make inquiry

concern you, and have hear something of your career and its

result; I have hear of your kindness and of the esteem in which you

be hold. you have influence with your patient; any counsel you might

give they, apart from your prescription, would be receive with

respect and attention; and I believe I be not wrong when I say that

you be to some extent a man of the world."



"to some slight extent only," correct Dr. Spenlove, with a faint

smile.



"sufficient," proceed Mr. Gordon, "for my purpose. you be not blind

to the peril which lie before weak and helpless woman--before, we

will say, a woman who have no friend, who be live where she be not

know, who be in a position of grave danger, who be entirely without

mean, and who, at the good, be unable by the work of her hand to

support herself."



Dr. Spenlove look sharply at his visitor. "you have such a woman in

your mind, Mr. Gordon?"



"I have such a woman in my mind, Dr. Spenlove."



"a patient of mine?"



"a patient of your."



there be but one who answer to this description whose future seem

so dark and hopeless. for the first time during this interview he

begin to be interested in his visitor. he motion he to proceed.



"we be speak in confidence, Dr. Spenlove."



"in perfect confidence, Mr. Gordon."



"whether my errand here be successful or not, I ask that nothing that

pass between we shall ever be divulge to a third person."



"I promise it."



"I will mention the name of the woman to whom I have refer, or, at

least, the name by which she be know to you. Mrs. Turner."



"you mean she no harm, sir?"



"none. I be prepared to befriend she, to save she, if my condition

be accept."



Dr. Spenlove draw a deep breath of relief. he would go to his new

field of labor with a light heart if this unhappy woman be save.



"you have come at a critical moment," he say, "and you have

accurately describe the position in which she be place. but how can

my mediation or the mediation of any man be necessary in such a case?

she will hail you as her savior, and the savior of her babe. hasten to

she immediately, dear sir; or perhaps you do not know where she live,

and wish I to take you to she. I be ready; do not let we lose a

moment, for every moment deepen her misery."



he do not observe the frown which pass into Mr. Gordon's face at

his mention of the child; he be so eager that his hat be already on

his head and his hand on the handle of the door. Mr. Gordon do not

rise from his chair.



"you be in too great a hurry, Dr. Spenlove. be seat, and listen to

what I have to say. you ask how your mediation can avail. I answer, in

the event of her refusal to accept the condition upon which I be

ready to marry she."



"to marry she!" exclaim Dr. Spenlove.



"to marry she," repeat Mr. Gordon. "she be not a married woman, and

her real name need not be divulge. when you hear the story I be about

to relate, when you hear the condition, the only condition, on which

I will consent to lift she from the degrading depth into which she

have fall, you will understand why I desire your assistance. you will

be able to make clear to she the effect of her consent or refusal upon

her destiny and the destiny of her child; you will be able to use

argument which be in my mind, but to which I shall not give

utterance. and remember, through all, that her child be a child of

shame, and that I hold out to she the only prospect of that child

be bring up in a reputable way and of herself be raise to

respectability."



he pause a moment or two before he open fresh matter.



"I be a poor lad, Dr. Spenlove, without parent, without a home, and

when I be fourteen year of age I be work as an errand boy in

London, and keep myself upon a wage of four shilling a week. I

lose this situation through the bankruptcy of my employer, and I be

not successful in obtain another. one day I see on the wall a bill

of a vessel go to Australia, and I apply at the agent's office

with a vague idea that I might obtain a passage by work aboard ship

in some capacity or other. I be a strong boy--starvation agree with

some lad--and a willing boy, and it happen that one of my stamp be

want in the cook's galley. I be engage at a shilling a month, and

I land in Melbourne with four shilling in my pocket.



"how I live till I become a man be neither here nor there, but when

gold be discover I live well, for I get enough to buy a share in a

cattle station, which now belong entirely to I. in 1860, be then

on the highroad to fortune, I make the acquaintance of a man whom I

will call Mr. Charles, and of his only child, a girl of fourteen, whom

I will call Mary. I be take with Mr. Charles, and I be take in by

he as well, for he disappear from the colony a couple of year

afterward in my debt to the tune of two thousand pound. he have the

grace to write to I from London, say he would pay I some day, and

there the matter rest for seven year more, which bring I to two

year ago.



"at that time I have occasion to visit England on business, and in

London I hunt up my debtor, and we renew our acquaintance. Mary

be then a young woman of twenty-one, and have it not be for she it

be more than likely I might have make thing unpleasant for she

father, who be lead the disreputable life of a gambler on race

course and in club of a low character. Dr. Spenlove, you must have

gather from the insight I have give you into my character that I be

not a man of sentiment, and you will probably consider it all the more

strange that I should have entertain feeling toward Mary which

cause I to consider whether she would not make I a creditable wife.

of these feeling I prefer not to speak in a warm strain, but shall

leave you to place your own construction upon they. while I be

debate with myself as to the course I should pursue the matter be

decide for I by the death of Mr. Charles. he die in disgrace and

poverty, and Mary be leave friendless and homeless.



"I step in to her rescue, and I make a proposal of marriage to she;

at the same time I tell she that I think it advisable for her sake

and mine that a little time should elapse before this proposal be

carry into effect. I suggest that our marriage should take place

in two year; meanwhile I would return to Australia, to build a

suitable house and to prepare a home for she, and she would remain in

England to fit herself for her new sphere of duty. she accept I,

and I arrange with a lady of refinement to receive she. to this lady

both she and I be utter stranger, and it be settle between Mary

and myself that she should enter her temporary home under an assume

name. it be my proposal that this pardonable deceit should be

practice; no person be wrong by it, and it would assist toward

Mary's complete severance from old association. our future be in our

own hand, and concerned nobody but ourselves.



"I return to Australia and make my preparation. we correspond

once a month, and some few month ago I inform she of the date of my

intend arrival in England. to that letter I receive no reply, and

when I land and call at the lady's house I learn that she have

flee. I set to work to discover the truth, and I have discover it. I

set to work to track she, and I have succeed. her story be a common

story of betrayal and desertion, and I be not inclined to trouble you

with it. she have not the remotest hope of assistance from the man who

betray she; she have not the remotest hope of assistance from a

person in the world with the exception of myself.



"Dr. Spenlove, notwithstanding what have occur, I be here in

Portsmouth this night with the intention of carry out the

engagement into which I enter with she. I be here, prepare to marry

she, on express condition. the adoption of assume name, the

obscurity she have court, the absolute silence which be certain to be

observe by she, by I, by you, by the man who betray she, render I

safe. it be know that I have come to England to be marry, and she

will be accept as I present she when I return with she as my wife. I

will have no discussion as to my motive for take what the world

would consider an unwise step, but you will understand that my

feeling for the woman who have play I false must be of a deep and

sincere nature, or I should not dream of take it.



"it now only remain for I to state the condition under which I be

prepared to save she from even a more shameful degradation than that

into which she have already fall. I speak plainly; you know as well

as I the fate that be in store for she if my offer be reject."









CHAPTER III.

DR. SPENLOVE undertakes a delicate mission.





Mr. Gordon have speak throughout in a cold, passionless tone, and with

no accent of emotion in his voice. if anything could have be

destructive of the idea that he love the woman he wish to marry, it

be his measured delivery of the story he have relate; and yet there

could be no question that there be some nobility in the nature of the

sacrifice he be prepared to make for her sake. the contrast between

the man and the woman strike Dr. Spenlove very forcibly; the man be

hard and cold, the woman be sensitive and sympathetic. have their

circumstance be equal, and have Dr. Spenlove be an interested

adviser, he would have have no hesitation in say to she, "do not

marry this man; no touch of tenderness unite you; you can never

kindle in his heart the fire which burn within your own; wed to

he a dull routine of year will be your portion." but he feel that he

dared not encourage himself to pursue this line of argument. although

the most pregnant part of Mr. Gordon's errand have yet to be disclose,

it seem to he that he would very likely presently be the arbiter of

her destiny. "you will be able," Mr. Gordon have say, "to make clear

to she the effect of her consent or refusal upon her destiny and the

destiny of her child." whatever the condition, it would be his duty

to urge she to accept the offer that would be make to she; otherwise

he might be condemn she to a course of life he shudder to

contemplate. the responsibility would be too solemn for mere

sentimental consideration. these be the thought that flash

through his mind in the momentary pause before Mr. Gordon speak again.



"I believe," his visitor then say, "that I be in possession of the

fact relate to Mrs. Turner's circumstances"--he revert to the

name by which she be generally known--"but you will corroborate they

perhaps. she be in want."



"she be in the low depth of poverty."



"unless she pay the arrear of rent she will be turn into the

street to-morrow."



"that be the landlord's determination."



"she would have be turn out to-day but for your intervention."



"you be well informed, I see," observe Dr. Spenlove, rather nettled.



"I have converse with the landlord and with other concern she.

she live among the poor, who have trouble enough of their own to

grapple with, and be unable, even if they be inclined, to render

she the assistance of which she stand in need. she seem to have keep

herself aloof from they, for which I commend she. now, Dr. Spenlove, I

will have no specter of shame and degradation to haunt her life and

mine. her past must be bury, and the grave must never be open. to

that I be resolve, and no power on earth can turn I from it."



"but her child," falter Dr. Spenlove.



"she will have no child. she must part with she, and the parting must

be final and irrevocable. the step that I shall take to this end

shall be so effectual that if by chance in the future they should

happen to meet she shall not recognize she. I propose to have the

child place with a family who will adopt she as a child of their own;

there will be little difficulty in find such a family, to the head

of which a sum of one hundred pound will be pay yearly for

maintenance. I name no limit as to time. so long as the child live so

long will the payment be make through my lawyer. should the child die

before she reach the age of twenty-one the sum of five hundred

pound will be pay to the people who undertake the charge; they will

know nothing of I or of the mother; our name will not be divulge to

they, and they will not be able to trace we. should they evince a

disposition to be troublesome in this respect the child will be take

from they by my lawyer, and another home provide for she. a hundred

pound a year be a liberal sum, and there will not be the least

difficulty in carry out the propose arrangement. in proof that I

desire the child to have every chance of lead a happy life I will

engage to give she a marriage portion of five hundred pound. judge

for yourself whether a woman in Mrs. Turner's circumstance would be

act wisely in reject my proposition."



"you have speak in a most generous spirit," say Dr. Spenlove slowly,

"so far as money go, but you seem not to have take into

consideration a mother's feeling."



"I have not take they into consideration; they be not part of my

plan. I have look at the matter only from two point of view--the

worldly aspect of it, and my desire to carry out my personal wish. I

decline to regard it or to argue upon it from the point of view of a

mother's feeling. I ask you to judge of it as a man of the world."



"of which," say Dr. Spenlove, "as I have hint to you, I be a poor

example. do you expect I to provide for the babe such a home as that

you have describe?"



"not at all. it be my business to carry out my plan if she accept the

condition."



"what, then, do you wish I to do?"



"to lay my proposition before she as nearly as possible in my own

word; to impress upon she that it be her duty to agree to it for her

own sake and for the sake of the child."



"why not do so yourself?"



"I have not see she. I will not see she while she hold in her arm

her burden of shame. she shall come to I free and unencumbered, or

she shall not come at all. I could not speak to she as I have speak

to you; I should not be able to command myself. she would plead to I,

and I should answer she in bitterness and anger. such a scene would

set I so strongly against she that I should immediately relinquish my

purpose. you can reason with she; you can show she the path in which

her duty clearly lie. I do not deny that she be call upon to make a

sacrifice, but it be a sacrifice which will lead to good, it be a

sacrifice which every right-minded man would urge she to make.

indifferent man of the world as you proclaim yourself to be you cannot

be blind to the almost sure fate in store for she in the position in

which she be place. your experience must have make you acquaint

with the story of woman who have fall as she have fall, and you

will know how many of they be raise from the depth, and how many

of they fall into deep shame. Dr. Spenlove, I have entirely finish

what I come here to say."



"before I undertake to do what you require of I," say Dr. Spenlove,

who by this time understand the man he have to deal with, "I must ask

you a question or two."



"if they relate to the present business," respond Mr. Gordon, "I

will answer they."



"fail I, will you employ some other person to act as your envoy to

Mrs. Turner?"



"I shall employ no other, for the reason that there be no other whose

counsel would be likely to influence she. and for another reason--I

have disclose to you what I will disclose to no other person."



"would you leave she as she be?"



"I would leave she as she be. early in the morning I should take my

departure, and she would have to face the future unaide by I."



"if she will not listen to I, if she will not make the sacrifice, you

will surely give she, out of your abundance, some little assistance to

help she along?"



"out of my abundance," reply Mr. Gordon sternly, "I will give she

nothing, not the small coin. make your mind easy upon one point,

Dr. Spenlove. so far as a practical man like myself be likely to go I

will do what I can to make she happy. she will live in a respectable

atmosphere, she will be surround by respectable people, she will

have all the comfort that money can purchase, and I shall never utter

to she a word of reproach. her past will be as dead to I as if it have

never be."



Dr. Spenlove rise. "it be your desire that I shall go to she

to-night?"



"it be. the matter must be settle without delay."



"if she ask for time to reflect----"



"I must have the answer to-night, yea or nay."



there be no more to be say. the man who have be wrong and

deceive, and who have make an offer so strange and generous and cruel,

be fix and implacable.



"I may be absent for some time," say Dr. Spenlove. "where shall I see

you upon my return?"



"here, if you will allow I to stay."



"you be welcome. my landlady will make you a bed on the sofa."



"thank you; I need no bed. I can employ myself while you be away."



Dr. Spenlove step to the door, and turn on the threshold.



"one other question, Mr. Gordon. if I succeed, when will you require

she to give up her child?"



"to-morrow evening. I will have a carriage ready at the door. on the

follow day Mrs. Turner and I will leave Portsmouth, and there be no

probability after that that you and I will ever meet again."



Dr. Spenlove nod, and leave the house.









CHAPTER IV.

"one MORE unfortunate."





the snow be fall more heavily, and a strong wind blow the flake

into his face as he make his way to Mrs. Turner's garret. he walk as

quickly as he could, but his progress be impede by the force of the

wind and by its drive the snow into his eye. despite these

obstacle his intuitive observance of what be pass around he and

all his mental force be in active play, and it be a proof of his

kindly and unselfish nature that, in the light of the vital errand

upon which he be engage, he be oblivious of the sense of physical

discomfort. conflicting question agitate his mind. no long under

the influence of the cold, cruel logic which distinguish Mr.

Gordon's utterance, he once more ask himself whether he would be

right in urge Mrs. Turner to renounce her maternal duty and

obligation, and to part forever with the child of her blood. the

human and the divine law be in conflict. on one side degradation and

dire poverty from which there seem no prospect of escape, and

drive the mother perhaps to a course of life condemn alike by God

and man; on the other side a life of material comfort and

respectability for herself and child. a fortuitous accident--a chance

for which he have pray early in the night--have make he at once the

arbiter and the judge; his hand be upon the wheel to steer these two

helpless being through the voyage upon which they be embark, and

upon he rest the responsibility. there be no case here of plow

through unknown water over hide rock; he see the ocean of life

before he, he see the rock beneath. amid those rock lie the form

of lost, abandon woman who in their mortal career would surely have

be save have an offer of rescue come such as have come to the woman

who chiefly occupy his thought. they would have be spare the

suffering of despairing day, the horror of despair death; they

would have be lift from the gulf of shame and ignominy. new hope,

new joy, would have arise to comfort they. the sacrifice they would

have be call upon to make would have be hallow by the

consciousness that they have perform their duty. it be not alone the

happiness of the mortal life that have to be consider. if the

ministration of God's minister on earth be not a mockery and a

snare, it be the immortal life that be equally at stake. the soul's

reward spring from the body's suffering.



and still the pitiless snow fall, and the wind howl around he, and

through the white whirlwind he behold the light of heaven and the

star shine upon he.



how should he act? he imagine himself steer the vessel through an

ocean of sad water. on the right lie a haven of rest, on the left lie

a dark and desolate shore. which way should he turn the wheel? his

pity for she have draw from he during their last interview the

exclamation, "God help you!" and she have ask hopelessly, "will he?"

he have turn from she then; he have no answer to make. there be, he

say to himself now, no divine mediation in human affair; the divine

hand be not stretch forth to give food to the hungry. in so grave an

issue as the starvation of a human be dependence upon divine aid

will not avail. admit this, he feel it to be almost a heresy, but

at the same time he know that it be true.



there be but few people in the white street, and of those few a

large proportion tinge his musing with a deep melancholy. these

be rag, shiver child, and woman recklessly or despondently

gash the white carpet, so pure and innocent and fair in its

sentimental aspect, so hard and bitter and cruel in its material. by a

devious process of reasoning he draw a parallel between it and the

problem he be engage in solve. it be poetic, and it freeze the

marrow; it have a soul and a body, one a sweet and smile spirit, the

other a harsh and frown reality. the heart of a poet without boot

would have sink within he as he trod the snow-clothe street.



Dr. Spenlove's meditation be arrest by a sudden tumult. a number

of people approach he gesticulate and talk eagerly and

excitedly, the cause of their excitement be a couple of policeman

who bear between they the wet, limp body of a motionless woman. he be

draw magnetically toward the crowd, and be immediately recognize.



"here's Dr. Spenlove," they cry. "he know she."



yes, he know she the moment his eye fall upon she, the people having

make way for he. the body bear by the policeman be that of a young

girl scarcely out of her teen, an unfortunate who have walk the

street for two or three year past.



"you have well come with we, doctor," say one of the policeman, to

both of whom he be know. "we have just pick she out of the water."



a middle-aged woman push herself close to Dr. Spenlove.



"she say she'd do it a month ago," say this woman, "if luck don't

turn."



good God! if luck don't turn! what direction in the unfortunate

girl's career be the lucky turn to take to prevent she from court

death?



"you will come with we, sir," say the policeman.



"yes," answer Dr. Spenlove mechanically.



the police station be but a hundred yard away, and thither they

walk, Dr. Spenlove make a hasty examination of the body as they

proceed.



"too late, I'm afraid, sir," say the policeman.



"I fear so," say Dr. Spenlove gravely.



it prove to be the case. the girl be dead.



the signing of paper and other formality detain Dr. Spenlove at

the police station for nearly an hour, and he depart with a heavy

weight at his heart. he have be acquaint with the girl whose life's

trouble be over since the commencement of his career in Portsmouth.

she be then a child of fourteen, live with her parent, who be

respectable work people. grow into dangerous beauty, she have

fall as other have fall, and have flee from her home to find

herself after a time desert by her betrayer. meanwhile the home in

which she have be rear be break up; the mother die, the father

leave the town. throw upon her own resource, she drift into the

rank of the "unfortunate," and become a familiar figure in low

haunt, one of civilization's paint, bedizened nightbird of the

street. Dr. Spenlove have befriend she, counsel she, warn she,

urge she to reform, and her refrain be: "what can I do? I must

live." it be not an uncommon case; the good doctor come in contact

with many such, and could have prophesy with unerring accuracy the

fate in store for they. the handwriting be ever on the wall, and no

special gift be need to decipher it. drift, drift, drift,

forever drift and sink low and low till the end come. it

have come soon to this young girl--mercifully, think Dr. Spenlove as

he plod slowly on, for surely the snapping of life's chord in the

spring, time of her life be well than the sure descent into a

premature, haggard, and sinful old age. recall these reminiscence,

his doubt with respect to his duty in the mission he have undertake

be solve. there be but one safe course for Mrs. Turner to follow.



he hasten his step. his interview with Mr. Gordon and the tragic

incident in which he have be engage have occupy a considerable

time, and it be now close upon midnight. it be late for an ordinary

visit, but he be a medical man, and the door of his patient be

open to he at all hour. in the poor street in which Mrs. Turner

reside many of the house be leave unlocked night and day for the

convenience of the lodger, and her house be one of these, Dr.

Spenlove have no difficulty in obtain admission. he shake the snow

from his clothe, and ascend the stair, knock at Mrs. Turner's

door; no answer come he knock again and again, and at length he

turn the handle and enter.



the room be quite dark; there be no fire in the grate, no candle

light. he listen for the sound of breathing, but none reach his

ear.



"Mrs. Turner!" he cry.



receive no response, he strike a match. the room be empty. greatly

alarm, he go to the landing and knock at an adjoining door. a

woman's voice call.



"who's there?"



"it be I, Dr. Spenlove."



"wait a moment, sir."



he hear shuffle step, and presently the tenant appear, only

partially dress, with a light candle in her hand.



"I don't send for you, doctor," she say.



"no. I want to ask you about Mrs. Turner. she be not in her room."



"I think it be strange I don't hear the baby cry, but I don't

know where she be."



"do you not hear she go out?"



"no, sir; I come home at ten soak through and through, and I be

glad to get to bed. it benot a night a woman would care to keep out in

unless she couldn't help herself."



"indeed it be not. do you see anything of she before you go to

bed?"



"I don't see she; I hear she. I be just go off when she knock

at my door and ask if I could give she a little milk for the baby,

but I haven't any to give. besides, she benot get a feeding bottle that

I know of. she's be try to borrow one, but nobody in the house

could oblige she. she's have a hard time of it, doctor."



"she be, poor soul!" say Dr. Spenlove, with a sigh.



"it's the way with all of we, sir; no one ought to know that well

than you do. there benot a lodger in the house that's earn more than

twelve shilling a week--not much to keep a family on, be it, sir? and

we've get a landlord with a heart of stone. if it haven't be for her

baby, and that it might have get he in hot water, he'd have turn

she out week ago. he's bind to do it to-morrow if her rent benot

pay. he tell I so this morning when he screw the last penny out of

I."



"do you know whether she succeed in obtain milk for the child?"



"it's hardly likely, I should say. charity begin at home, doctor."



"it be natural and just that it should--but it be terrible, terrible!

where can Mrs. Turner have go to?"



"Heaven know. one thing I do know, doctor--she's get no friend; she

wouldn't make any, keep herself to herself, give herself air, some

say, though I don't go as far as that; I dare say she have she

reason, only when a woman set herself up like that it turn people

against she. be you sure she benot in her room?"



"the room be empty."



"it's enough to be the death of a baby to take it out such a night as

this. listen to the wind."



a furious gust shake the house, and make every window rattle. to Dr.

Spenlove's agitated sense it seem to be alive with ominous voice,

proclaim death and destruction to every weak and helpless creature

that dare to brave it. he pass his hand across his forehead in

distress.



"I must find she. I suppose you cannot tell I of any place she may

have go to for assistance."



"I cann't, sir. there's a bare chance that, as she have no coal and no

money to buy 'em with, someone in the house have take she in for the

night. I'll inquire if you like."



"I shall be oblige to you if you will," say Dr. Spenlove, catch

eagerly at the suggestion, "and I pray that you may be right."



"you willn't mind wait in the passage, sir, till I've dress myself.

I shalln't be a minute."



she be very soon ready, and she go about the house make

inquiry; and, return, say that none of the lodger could give

she any information concern Mrs. Turner.



"I be sorry to have disturb you," say Dr. Spenlove, and wish she

good-night he once more face the storm. the fear by which he be

oppress be that the offer of succor have come too late, and that

Mrs. Turner have be drive by despair to the execution of some

desperate design to put an end to her misery. instinctively, and with

a sink heart, he take the direction of the sea, hurry eagerly

after every person he see ahead of he in the hope that it might be

the woman of whom he be in search. the snow be many inch thick on

the road, and be fall fast; the wind tear through the now almost

deserted street, moaning, sobbing, shriek, with an appalling human

suggestion in its tone create by Dr. Spenlove's fear. now and then

he meet a policeman, and stop to exchange a few word with he, the

intention of which be to ascertain if the man have see any person

answer to the description of Mrs. Turner. he do not mention she by

name, for he have an idea--suppose his search to be happily

successful--that Mr. Gordon would withdraw his offer if any publicity

be attract to the woman he be ready to marry. the policeman could

not assist he; they have see no woman with a baby in her arm

tramp the street on this wild night.



"anything special, sir?" they ask.



"no," he reply, "nothing special," and so go on his way.









CHAPTER V.

"COME! we will END IT."





when Dr. Spenlove leave Mrs. Turner she sit for some time in a state of

dull lethargy. no tear come into her eye, no sigh escape from her

bosom. during the past few month she have exhaust the entire range

of remorseful and despair emotion. the only comfort she have

receive through all those dreary month spring from the helpful

sympathy of Dr. Spenlove; apart from that she have never be buoy up

by a ray of light, have never be cheer by the hope of a brighter

day. her one prevail thought, which she do not express in word,

be that she would be well dead than alive. she do not court death;

she wait for it, and silently pray that it would come soon. it be

not from the strength of inward moral support that she have the courage

to live on, it be simply that she have school herself into the

belief that before or when her child be bear death would release she

from the horror of life. "if I live till my baby be bear," she

think, "I pray that it may die with I."



here be the case of a woman without the moral support which spring

from faith in any kind of religion. in some few mortal such faith be

intuitive, but in most instance it require guidance and wise

direction in childhood. often it degenerate into bigotry and

intolerance, and assume the hateful, narrow form of condemn to

perdition all who do not subscribe to their own particular belief.

Pagans be as worthy of esteem as the bigot who arrogate to

themselves the monopoly of heavenly reward.



Mrs. Turner be neither pagan not bigot; she be a nullity. her

religious conviction have not yet take shape, and though, if she have

be ask, "be you a Christian?" she would have reply, "oh, yes, I

be a Christian," she would have be unable to demonstrate in what

way she be a Christian, or what she understand by the term. in this

respect many thousand of human being resemble she.



Faith be strength, mighty than the sword, mighty than the pen,

mighty than all the world's store of gold and precious stone, and

when this strength be display in the sweetness of resignation, or in

submission to the divine will which chasten human life with sorrow,

its influence upon the passion be sustain and purify and

sublime. if Mrs. Turner have be bless with faith which display

itself in this direction she would have be the happy for it, and

hard as be her trial she would to the last have look forward with

hope instead of despair.



the story relate by Mr. Gordon to Dr. Spenlove be true in every

particular. there be no distortion or exaggeration; he have do for

Mrs. Turner and her father all that he say he have do. he have not

mention the word "love" in connection with the woman he have ask to

be his wife. she, on her part, have no such love for he as that which

should bind a man and a woman in a lifelong tie; she hold he in

respect and esteem--that be all. but she have accept he, and have

contemplate the future with satisfaction until, until----



until a man cross her path who woo she in different fashion, and

who lavish upon her flattery and endearment which make she false

to the promise she have give. for this man she have desert the home

which Mr. Gordon have provide for she, and have desert it in such a

fashion that she could never return to it, could never again be

receive in it--and this without a word of explanation to the man she

have deceive. she be in her turn deceive, and she awake from her

dream to find herself a lost and abandon woman. in horror she flee

from he, and cast her lot among stranger, know full well that she

would meet with unbearable contumely among those to whom she be

know. hot word have pass between she and her betrayer, and in her

anger she have write letter to he which in the eye of the law

would have release he from any obligation it might otherwise have

impose upon he. he be well pleased with this, and he smile as he

put the letter into a place of safety, to be bring forward only in

case she annoy he. she do nothing of the kind; her scorn for he

be so profound that she be content to release he unconditionally.

so she pass out of his life as he pass out of her. neither of

these being, the betrayed or betrayer, reckon with the future;

neither of they give a thought to the probability that the skein of

fate, which to-day separate they as surely as if they have live at

opposite pole of the earth, might at some future time bring they

together again, and that the page of the book which they believe be

close forever might be reopen again for weal or woe.



the child's moan arouse the mother from her lethargy. she have no

milk to give the babe; Nature's fount be dry, and she go from

door to door in the house in which she live to beg for food. she

return as she go, empty-handed, and the child continue to moan.



Dr. Spenlove, her only friend, have bid her farewell. she have not a

penny in her pocket; there be not a crust of bread in the cupboard;

not an ounce of coal, not a stick of wood to kindle a fire. she be

thinly clad, and she do not possess a single article upon which she

could have obtain the small advance. she have take the room

furnish, and if what it contain have be her property a broker

would have give but a few shilling for everything in it.



the little hand instinctively wander to the mother's waste breast,

and pluck at it imploringly, ravenously. the woman look around in

the last throe of an anguish too deep for expression except in the

appalling word to which she give despair utterance.



"come!" she cry, "we will end it!"



out into the cold street she creep, unobserve. she shiver, and a

weird smile cross her lip.



"hush, hush!" she murmur to her babe. "it will soon be over. well

dead--well dead--for you and for I!"



she creep toward the sea, and hug the wall when she hear

approach footstep. she need not have fear; the night be too

inclement for any but selfish consideration. the soft snow fall, and

enwrapt she and her child in its pitiless shroud. she pause by a lamp

post, and cast an upward look at the heaven, in which she could see

the glimmering of the star. then she go on, and press her babe

close to her breast to stifle its feeble sob.



"be still, be still," she murmur. "there be no hope in life for

either of we. well dead--well dead!"









CHAPTER VI.

the FRIEND in NEED.





desperately resolve as she be to carry her fatal design into

execution, she have not reckon with nature. weaken by the life of

privation she have lead for so many month, and also by the birth of her

child, her physical force have reach the limit of human endurance.

she falter and stagger, the ground slip from beneath her weary

foot. Vain be the struggle; her vital power be spend. from she

overcharge heart a voiceless and terrible prayer go up to heaven.

"give I strength, o God, give I but a little strength! I have not

far to go!"



she fight the air with her disengage hand, and toss her head this

way and that, but her ruthless prayer be not answer, and though she

struggle fiercely she manage to crawl only a few more step. she have

yet hundred of yard to go to reach the sea when some chord within

she seem to snap; her farth progress be instantly arrest, and

she find herself incapable of move backward or forward. sway to

and fro, the earth, the sky, the whirling snow, and the dim light of

the star swam in her sight and fade from before she.



in that supreme moment she see a spiritual vision of her dishonor

life.



deprive early of a mother's counsel and companionship, she have pass

her day with a spendthrift father, whose love for she be so taint

with selfishness that it be not only valueless but mischievous. when

she grow to woman's estate she be bad than alone; she have no guide,

no teacher, to point out the rock and shoal of maidenhood, to

inculcate in she the principle of virtue which would have be a

safeguard against the specious wile of man whose eye be charm by

her beauty, and whose only aim be to lure she to ruin. then she

father die, and a friend come forward who offer she a home and an

honorable position in the world. friendless and penniless, she

accept he, and give he her promise and accept his money. love

have not touch her heart; she think it have when another man woo

she in a more alluring fashion, and by this man she have, be beguile

and betray. then she know what she have lose, but it be too late;

her good name be go, and she flee to a strange part of the country

and live among stranger, a heartbroken, despair woman. all the

salient feature in her career flash before she. she see the man who

have trust she, she see the man in whom she put her trust, she see

herself, an abandon creature, with a child of shame in her arm.

these ghostly figure stood clearly limn in that one last moment of

swiftly fade light, as in the moment of sunrise on a frosty morning

every distant object stand sharply outline against the sky; then

darkness fall upon she, and with an inarticulate, despairing cry she

sink to the ground in a deathlike swoon. the wind sob and shriek

and wail around she and her child, the fall snow with treacherous

tenderness fall softly upon they; herself insensible, she have no power

to shake it off; her babe be conscious, but its feeble movement be

of small avail against the white pall which be descend upon she

and her outcast mother. Thicker and thick it grow, and in the wild

outcry of this bitter night Fate seem to have pronounce its

inexorable sentence of death against these unfortunate being.



Ignorant of the fact that chance of a spiritual messenger be guide

he aright, Dr. Spenlove plod through the street. he have no clew,

and receive none from the half dozen person or so he encounter as

he walk toward the sea. he be scarcely fit for the task he have

undertake, but so intent be he upon his merciful mission that he

bestow no thought upon himself. the nipping air aggravate the

cough from which he be suffer, he keep his mouth close as a

protection, and peer anxiously before he for some sign of the

woman he be pursue. a man walk briskly and cheerily toward he,

puff at a large and fragrant cigar, and stamp his foot sturdily

into the snow. this man wear a demonstratively furred overcoat; his

hand be glove in fur; his boot be thick and substantial; and in

the independent assertion that he be at peace with the world, and on

exceedingly good term with himself, he hum the word, in Italian,

of the jewel song in "Faust" every time he remove the cigar from his

lip. although it be but a hum reminiscence of the famous and

beautiful number, his faint rendering of it be absolutely faultless,

and prove he to be a man of refine musicianly taste, quite out of

keep with his demonstratively furred overcoat. music, however, be

not his profession. the instinct of his race have weld the divine

art into his soul, and the instinct of his race have make he--a

pawnbroker. Singular conjunction of quality--the music of the

celestial sphere and fourpence in the pound a month! a vulgar

occupation, that of a pawnbroker, which high-toned gentleman and

mortal of aristocratic birth regard with scorn and contempt. but the

last vulgar and debasing music-hall ditty which be carol with

delight by the majority of these gild being of a high social

grade never find lodgment in the soul of Mr. Moss, which, despite

that he devote his business hour to the lending of insignificant

sum of money upon any small article which be submit to his

judgment across the dark counter of his pawnbroke establishment, be

attuned to a far loftier height than theirs in the divine realm of

song. Puff, puff, puff at his cigar, the curl wreath from which

be whirl into thread of fantastic confusion by the gust of wind,

or hang in faint gray curl of beauty during a lull. the starry gleam

be transfer from the lip to the fur-cover hand:





     "E' strano poter il viso suo veder;

      Ah! mi posso guardar mi pospo rimirar.

      Di, sei tu? Margherita!

      Di, sei tu? Dimmi su!

      Dimmi su, dì su, dì su, dì su presto!"





from hand to lip the starry gleam, and the soul of Mr. Moss follow

the air as he puff his weed. the pawnbroker break into ecstasy. from

lip to hand again the starry light, and his voice grow rapturous:





     "Ceil! E come una man

      Che sul baccio mi posa!

      ah! Io rido in poter

      I stessa qui veder!"





the last trill bring he close to Dr. Spenlove.



"Friend, friend!" cry the doctor, "a word with you, for charity's

sake."



Mr. Moss do not disregard the appeal. slip off his right glove,

and thereby display two finger decorate with diamond ring, he

fish a couple of copper from a capacious pocket, and thrust they

into Dr. Spenlove's outstretche palm. Dr. Spenlove catch his hand

and say:



"no, no, it be not for that. will you kindly tell me----"



"why," interrupt Mr. Moss, "it be Dr. Spenlove!"



"Mr. Moss," say Dr. Spenlove, with a sigh of relief, "I be glad it be

you--I be glad it be you."



"not gladder than I be," respond Mr. Moss jovially. "even in weather

like this I shouldn't care to be anybody else but myself."



this feeble attempt at humor be lose upon Dr. Spenlove.



"you have come from the direction I be take, and you may have see a

person I be look for--a woman with a baby in her arm--a poor

woman, Mr. Moss, whom I be most anxious to find."



"I've come from the Hard, but I take no account of the people I

pass. a man have enough to do to look after himself, with the snow

make icicle in his hair, and the wind try to bite his nose off

his face. the first law of nature, you know, doctor, is----"



"humanity," interrupt Dr. Spenlove.



"no, no, doctor," correct Mr. Moss; "number one's the first

law--number one, number one."



"you do not meet the woman, then?"



"not to notice she. you've a bad cough, doctor; you'll have to take

some of your own medicine." he laugh. "stand here be enough to

freeze one."



"I be sorry I trouble you," say Dr. Spenlove. "good-night."



he be move away when Mr. Moss detain he.



"but look here, doctor, you're not fit to be tramp the street in

this storm; you ought to be snuggle up between the blanket. come

home with I, and Mrs. Moss shall make you a hot grog."



Dr. Spenlove shake his head and pass on. Mr. Moss gaze at the

retreating figure, his thought commingle.



"a charitable man, the good doctor, a large-hearted gentleman. 'tardi

si fa--' and poor as a church mouse. what woman be he run after?

Mrs. Moss would give she a piece of her mind for take out a baby on

such a night. too bad to let he go alone, but Mrs. Moss will be

wait up for I. she willn't mind when I tell she. I've a good mind

to---- yes, I will."



and after the doctor go Mr. Moss, and catch up to he.



"Doctor, can I be of any assistance to you?"



"I shall be glad of your help," say Dr. Spenlove eagerly. "I'm rather

wear out--I have have a hard day."



"it's a try life, the life of a doctor," say Mr. Moss

sympathetically as they walk slowly on. "we be talk of it at

home only a month ago when we be discuss what we should put

Michael to--our eld boy, doctor."



"you have a large family," observe Dr. Spenlove.



"not too large," say Mr. Moss cheerfully. "only eleven. my mother have

twenty-five, and I've a sister with eighteen. our young--what a

rogue he be, doctor--be eight month; our eld, Michael, be

seventeen next birthday. schoolday over, he buckle to for work. we

have a family council to decide what he should be. we discuss all the

profession, and reduce they to two--doctor, stockbroker. Michael have

a lean to be a doctor, that's why we keep it in for discussion, and

we succeed in argue he out of it. your time's not your own, you

see. call up at all hour of the night and in all weather; go to a

dinner party, and drag away before it's half over; oblige to leave

the good behind you; cann't enjoy a game of card or billiard. you've

get a little bet on, perhaps, or you're play for point, and you're

just win when it's, 'doctor, you must come at once; so and so's

die.' what's the consequence? you make a miscue, or you revoke, and

you lose your money. if you're married you're bad off than if you're

single; you haven't any comfort of your life. 'no, no, Michael,' say

I, 'no doctoring. stockbroke--that's what you'll go for.' and that's

what he be go for. Most of our people, doctor, be lucky in their

child; they don't forget to honor their father and their mother

that their day may be long in the land, and so on. there's big fish

on the Stock Exchange, and they're worth try for. what's the use of

sprat? it take a hundred to fill a dish. catch one salmon and your

dish be fill. a grand fish, doctor, a grand fish! what to do with

our son? why, put they where they can make money. _we_ know what

we're about. there's no brain in the world to compare with ours, and

that's no boast, let I tell you. take your strike now--a strike of

bricklayer for a rise of twopence per day in their wage. how many of

our race among the striker? not one. do you ever see a jewish

bricklayer carry a hod up a hundred-foot ladder, and risk his

neck for bread, cheese, and beer? no, and you never will. we do our

share of that kind of work in old Egypt; we make all the brick we

want to, and now we're take a rest. a strike of bootmaker. how

many of our race among the cobbler? one in a thousand, and he's an

addlepate. we deal in boot--wholesale, but we don't make they

ourselves. not likely. we build house--with _our_ money and _your_

brick and mortar. when we're after bird we don't care for sparrow;

we aim at eagle, and we bring they down, we bring they down." he beat

his gloved hand together and chuckle. "what's your opinion, doctor?"



"you be right, quite right," say Dr. Spenlove, upon whose ear his

companion's word have fall like the buzzing of insect.



"should say I be," say Mr. Moss, and would have continue have not

Dr. Spenlove hurry forward out of hearing.



during the time that Mr. Moss be expound his view they have not

meet a soul, and Dr. Spenlove have see nothing to sustain his hope of

find Mrs. Turner. but now his observant eye detect a movement in

the snow-laden road which thrill he with apprehension, and cause

he to hasten hurriedly to the spot. it be as if some live creature

be strive feebly to release itself from the fatal white shroud. Mr.

Moss hurry after he, and they reach the spot at the same moment.

in a fever of anxiety Dr. Spenlove kneel and push the snow aside,

and then there come into view a baby's hand and arm.



"Good God!" he murmur, and gently lift the babe from the cold bed.



"be it alive, be it alive?" cry Mr. Moss, all his nerve tingle

with excitement "give it to I--quick; there's someone else there."



he see portion of female clothing in the snow which Dr. Spenlove be

push frantically away. he snatch up the babe, and open his fur

coat, clasp the little one closely to his breast, and envelop it

in its warm fold. to release Mrs. Turner from her perilous condition,

to raise she to her foot, to put his mouth to her mouth, his ear to

her heart, to assure himself that there be a faint pulsation in her

body--all this be the work of a few moment.



"do she breathe, doctor?" ask Mr. Moss.



"she do," reply Dr. Spenlove, and add in deep distress, "but she

may die in my arm!"



"not if we can save she. here, help I off with this thick coat. easy,

easy; I have only one arm free. now let we get she into it. that's

capitally do. put the baby inside as well; it will hold they both

comfortably. button it over they. there, that will keep they nice and

warm. do you know she? do she live far from here? be she the woman

you be look for?"



"yes, and her lodge be a mile away. how can we get her home?"



"we'll manage it. ah, we're in luck! here's a cab come toward we.

hold on to they while I speak to the driver."



he be off and back again with the cab, with the driver of which he

have make a rapid bargain, in a wonderfully short space of time. the

mother and her babe be lift tenderly in, the address be give to

the driver, the two kind-hearted man take their seat, the window

be pull up, and the cab crawl slowly on toward Mrs. Turner's

lodge. Dr. Spenlove's skillful hand be busy over the woman,

restore animation to her frozen limb, and Mr. Moss be do the

same to the child.



"how be you get along, doctor? I be progress famously. the

child be warm up, and be begin to breathe quite nicely." he be

handle the babe as tenderly as if it be a child of his own.



"she will recover, I trust," say Dr. Spenlove, "but we be only just

in time. it be fortunate that I meet you, Mr. Moss; you have be the

mean of save two helpless, unfortunate being."



"nonsense, nonsense," answer Mr. Moss. "I have only do what any

man would do. it be you who have save they, doctor, not I. I be proud

to know you, and I shall be glad to hear of your get along in the

world. you haven't do very well up to now, I fear. go for the big

fish and the big bird, doctor."



"if that be the universal law of life," ask Dr. Spenlove in a tone

of exquisite compassion, with a motion of his hand toward Mrs. Turner

and her child, "what would become of these?"



"ah, yes, yes," respond Mr. Moss gravely, "but I mean in a general

way, you know. to be sure, there be million more little fish and

bird than there be big one, but it's a selfish world, doctor."



"you be not an exemplification of it," say Dr. Spenlove, his eye

brighten. "the milk of human kindness will never be frozen, even on

such bitter night as this, while man like you be in it."



"you make I ashamed of myself," cry Mr. Moss violently, but

instantly sober down. "and now, as I see we be close to the poor

woman's house, perhaps you will tell I what more I can do."



Dr. Spenlove take from his pocket the money with which he have intend

to pay his fare to London, and hold it out to Mr. Moss. "pay the

cabman for I, and assist I to carry the woman up to her room."



Mr. Moss thrust the money back. "I will pay he myself; it be my cab,

not your. I don't allow anyone to get the well of I if I can help

it."



when the cab stop he jump out and settle with the driver, and

then he and Dr. Spenlove carry Mrs. Turner and her babe to the top

of the house. the room be dark and cold, and Mr. Moss shiver. he

strike a match, and hold it while Dr. Spenlove lay the mother and

child upon their wretched bed.



"kindly stop here a moment," say the doctor.



he go into the passage, and call to the lodger on the same floor

of whom he have make inquiry early in the night. she soon appear,

and after they have exchange a few word accompany he, but

partially dress, to Mrs. Turner's room. she bring a lighted candle

with she, and upon Mr. Moss take it from her devoted herself, with

Dr. Spenlove, to her fellow-lodger and the babe.



"dear, dear, dear!" she say piteously. "poor soul, poor soul!"



Mr. Moss be not idle. all the fine quality of his nature be

stir to action by the adventure of the night. he kneel before the

grate; it be empty; not a cinder have be leave; some gray ashe on

the hearth--that be all. he look into the break coal scuttle; it

have be scrape bare. rise to his foot, he step to the cupboard;

a cracked cup and saucer be there, a chip plate or two, a

mouthless jug, and not a vestige of food. without a word he leave the

room, and speed downstairs.



he be absent fifteen or twenty minute, and when he return it be

in the company of a man who carry a hundredweight of coal upon his

shoulder. Mr. Moss himself be load; under his armpit two bundle

of wood; in one hand a loaf of bread, tea, and butter; in his other

hand a can of milk.



"God bless you, sir!" say the woman who be assist Dr. Spenlove.



Mr. Moss kneel again before the grate, and make a fire. kettle in hand

he search for water.



"you will find some in my room, sir," say the woman.



Mrs. Turner and her babe be now in bed, the child still crave for

food, the mother still unconscious, but breathe heavily. the fire

light, and the kettle on, Mr. Moss put on his fur overcoat, whisper a

good-night to Dr. Spenlove, receive a grateful pressure of the hand

in reply, slip out of the house, and take his way home, hum:





     "o del ciel angeli immortal,

      Deh mi guidate con voi lassù!

      Dio giusto, a te m'abbandono,

      Buon Dio m'accorda il tuo perdono!"





he look at his hand, which be black from contact with the coal.



"what will Mrs. Moss say?" he murmur.









CHAPTER VII.

the result of DR. SPENLOVE'S MISSION.





an hour after Mr. Moss' departure Mrs. Turner open her eye. it be

a moment for which Dr. Spenlove have anxiously wait. he have satisfy

himself that both of his patient be in a fair way of recovery, and

thus far his heart be relieve. the woman who have assist he have

also take her departure after having give the babe some warm milk.

her hunger appease, the little one be sleep calmly and peacefully

by her mother's side.



the room be now warm and cheerful. a bright fire be blaze, the

kettle be simmer, and a pot of hot tea be stand on the hearth.



Mrs. Turner gaze around in bewilderment. the one candle in the room

but dimly light it up, and the flickering flame of the fire throw

fantastic shadow on wall and ceiling, but so bright be the blaze

that there be nothing distressful in these shadowy phantasmagoria. at

a little distance from the bed stand Dr. Spenlove, his pale face

turn to the wake woman. she look at he long and steadily, and

do not answer he when he smile encouragingly at she and speak a few

gentle word. she pass her hand over the form of her sleep child,

and then across her forehead, in the effort to recall what have pass.

but her mind be confuse; bewilder image of the stage of she

desperate resolve present themselves--blind snow, shriek wind,

the sea which she have not reach, the phantom she have conjure up

when her sense be desert she in the white street.



"be I alive?" she murmur.



"happily, dear Mrs. Turner," say Dr. Spenlove. "you be in your own

room, and you will soon be well."



"who bring I here?"



"I and a good friend I be fortunate enough to meet when I be seek

you."



"why do you seek I?"



"to save you."



"to save I! you know, then----" she pause.



"I know nothing except that you be in trouble."



"where do you find I?"



"in the snow, you and your child. a few minute long and it would

have be too late. but an angel direct my step."



"no angel direct you. a devil lead you on. why do you not leave I

to die? it be what I go out for. I confess it," she cry

recklessly. "it be my purpose not to live; it be my purpose not to

allow my child to live! I be justified. be not a quick death well

than a slow, linger torture which must end in death? why do you

save I? why do you not leave I to die?"



"it would have be a crime."



"it would have be a mercy. you have bring I back to misery. I do

not thank you, doctor."



"you may live to thank I. drink this tea; it will do you good."



she shake her head rebelliously. "what be the use? you have do I an

ill turn. have it not be for you I should have be at peace. there

would have be no more hunger, no more privation. there would have

be an end to my shame and degradation."



"you would have take it with you to the Judgment Seat," say Dr.

Spenlove with solemn tenderness. "there would have be bad than

hunger and privation. what answer could you have make to the Eternal

when you present yourself before the throne with the crime of murder

on your soul?"



"murder!" she gasp.



"murder," he gently repeat. "if you go out to-night with an

intention so appal it be not only your own life you would have

take, it be the life of the innocent babe now slumber by your

side. can you have forget that?"



"no," she answer in a tone of faint defiance, "I have not forget

it; I do not forget it. God would have forgive I."



"he would not have forgive you."



"he would. what have she to live for? what have I to live for, a lose

and abandon woman, a mother whose association would bring

degradation upon her child? how should I meet her reproach when she

grow to be a woman herself? I be not ungrateful for what you have do

for me"--she glance at the fire and the tea he hold in his hand--"but

it cannot continue. to-morrow will come. there be always a to-morrow

to strike terror to the heart of such as I. do you know what I have

suffer? do you see the future that lie before we? what hope be

there in this world for I and my child?"



"there be hope. you bring she into the world."



"God help I, I do!" she moan.



"by what right, having give her life, would you rob she of the

happiness which may be in store for she?"



"happiness!" she exclaim. "you speak to I of happiness!"



"I do, in truth and sincerity, if you be willing to make a sacrifice,

willing to perform a duty."



"what would I not be willing to do," she cry despairingly, "what

would I not cheerfully do, to make her life innocent and happy--not

like mine, oh, not like mine! but you be mock I with empty

word."



"indeed I be not," say Dr. Spenlove earnestly. "since I leave you

some hour ago, not expect to see you again, something have occur

of which I come to speak to you. I find your room desert, and

fear--what we will not mention again. I search and discover you

in time to save you--and with all my heart I thank God for it. now

drink this tea. I have much to say to you, and you need strength to

consider it. if you can eat a little bread and butter--ah, you can.

let I fill your cup again. that be right. now I recognize the lady it

be my pleasure to be able to assist--not to the extent I would have

wish, because of my own circumstance."



his reference to she as a lady, no less than the respectful

consideration of his manner toward she, bring a flush to her cheek

as she eat. and indeed she eat ravenously; defiant and desperate as

have be her mood, nature's demand be imperative, and no mortal be

strong enough to resist they. when she have finish he sit by her

side, and be silent a while, debate with himself how he should

approach the task which Mr. Gordon have impose upon he. she save he

the trouble of commencing.



"be you acquainted with the story of my life?" she ask.



"it have be impart to I," he reply, "by one to whom I be a

strange till within the last few hour."



"do I know he?"



"you know he well."



for a moment she think of the man who have bring she to this gulf

of shame, but she dismiss the thought. it be impossible. he be too

heartless and base to send a messenger to she on an errand of

friendship, and Dr. Spenlove would have undertake no errand of an

opposite nature.



"who be the gentleman who take such an interest in I?"



"Mr. Gordon."



she tremble, and her face grow white. she have wrong this man--the

law might say that she have rob he. oh, why have her fatal design

be frustrate, why be not this torture existence end?



"you need be under no apprehension," continue Dr. Spenlove; "he come

as a friend." she toss her head in scorn of herself as one unworthy

of friendship. "he have but lately arrive in England from the

colony, and he come with the hope of take you back with he as his

wife. it be from he I learn the sad particular of your life.

believe I when I say that he be desirous to befriend you."



"in what way? do he offer I money? I have cost he enough already;

my father trick he, and I have shamefully deceive he. to receive

more from he would fill I with shame, but for the sake of my child I

will submit to any sacrifice, to any humiliation--I will do anything,

anything! it would well become I to show pride when charity be

offer to I!"



"do not forget those words--'for the sake of your child you will

submit to any sacrifice.' it be your duty, for her sake, to accept any

honorable proposition, and Mr. Gordon offer nothing that be not

honorable." he sigh as he say this, for he think of the

sacredness of a mother's love for her firstborn. "he will not give you

money apart from himself. unite to he, all he have be your. he

wish to marry you."



she stare at he in amazement. "be you mad," she cry, "or do you

think that I be?"



"I be speak the sober truth. Mr. Gordon have follow you here

because he wish to marry you."



"know I for what I be," she say, still incredulous, "know that

I be in the low depth of degradation, know this"--she touch

her child with a gentle hand--"he wish to marry I!"



"he know all. there be not an incident in your career with which he

do not seem to be acquaint, and in the errand with which he have

charge I he be sincerely in earnest."



"Dr. Spenlove," she say slowly, "what be your opinion of a man who

come forward to pluck from shame and poverty a woman, who have be

wrong as I have wrong Mr. Gordon?"



"his action speak for he," reply Dr. Spenlove.



"he must have a noble nature," she say. "I never regard he in that

light. I take he to be a hard, conscientious, fair-deal man, who

think I would make he a good wife, but I never believe that he

love I. I do he the injustice of suppose he incapable of love.

I be not worthy of he, or of any man."



"set your mind not upon the past, but upon the future. think of

yourself and of your child in the year to come, and remember the fear

and horror by which you have be oppress in your contemplation of

they. I have something furth to disclose to you. Mr. Gordon impose

a condition from which he will not swerve, and to which I beg of you

to listen with calmness. when you have hear all do not answer

hastily. reflect upon the consequence which hang on your decision,

and bear in mind that you have to make that decision before I leave

you. I be to take your answer to he to-night; he be wait in my

room to receive it."



then, soften down all that be harsh in the proposal and magnify

all its well point, Dr. Spenlove relate to she what have pass

between Mr. Gordon and himself. she listen in silence, and he could

not judge from her demeanor whether he be to succeed or to fail.

frequently she turn her face from his tenderly searching gaze, as

though more effectually to conceal her thought from he. when he

finish speak she show that she have take to heart his counsel

not to decide hastily, for she do not speak for several minute. then

she say plaintively:



"there be no appeal, doctor?"



"none," he answer in a decisive tone.



"he seek you out and make you his messenger, because of his

impression that you have influence with I, and would advise I for my

good?"



"as I have tell you--in his own word as nearly as I have be able to

recall they."



"he be right. there be no man in the world I honor more than I honor

you. I would accept what you say against my own conviction, against

my own feeling. advise I, doctor. my mind be distract--I cannot be

guide by it. you know what I be, you know what I have be, you

foresee the future that lie before I. advise I."



the moment he dread have arrive. the issue be with he. he feel

that this woman's fate be in his hand.



"my advice be," he say in a low tone, "that you accept Mr. Gordon's

offer."



"and cast aside a mother's duty?"



"what do you cast aside," he ask sadly, "when you go with your

child on such a night as this toward the sea?"



she shudder. she would not look at her child; with stern resolution

she keep her eye from wander to the spot upon which the infant

lay. she even move away from the little body so that she should not

come in contact with it.



a long silence ensue, which Dr. Spenlove dared not break.



"I cannot blame he," she then say, her voice now and again break by

a sob, "for make condition. it be his respectability that be at

stake, and he be noble and generous for take such a risk upon

himself. it would be mockery for I to say that I love my child with a

love equal to that I should have feel if she have come into the world

without the mark of shame with which I have brand she. with my love

for she be mingle a loathing of myself, a terror of the living

evidence of my fall. but I love she, doctor, I love she--and never yet

so much as now when I be ask to part with she! what I do a while

ago be do in a frenzy of despair; I have no food, you see, and she

be cry for it; and the horror and the anguish of that hour may

overpower I again if I be leave as I be. I will accept Mr. Gordon's

offer, and I will be as good a wife to he as it be in my power to

be--but I, also, have a condition to make. Mr. Gordon be much old

than I, and it may be that I shall outlive he. the condition I make

be--and whatever the consequence I be determined to abide by it--that

in the event of my husband's death and of there be no child of

our union, I shall be free to seek the child I be call upon to

desert. in everything else I will perform my part of the contract

faithfully. take my decision to Mr. Gordon, and if it be possible for

you to return here to-night with his answer I implore you to do so. I

cannot close my eye, I cannot rest, until I hear the bad. God alone

know on which side lie the right, on which the wrong!"



"I will return with his answer," say Dr. Spenlove, "to-night."



"there be still something more," she say in an implore tone, "and

it must be a secret sacredly keep between you and I. it may happen

that you will become acquainted with the name of the guardian of my

child. I have a small memorial which I desire she shall retain until

she be of age, say until she be twenty-one, or until, in the event of

my husband's death, I be free to seek she in year to come. if you do

not discover who the guardian be I ask you to keep this memorial for

I until I reclaim it--which may be never. will you do this for I?"



"I will."



"thank you for all your goodness to I. but I have nothing to put the

memorial in. could you add to your many kindness by give I a

small box which I can lock and secure? dear Dr. Spenlove, it be a

mother who will presently be tear from her child who implore you."



he bethink he of a small iron box he have at home, which contain

some private paper of his own. he could spare this box without

inconvenience to himself, and he promise to bring it to she--and so,

with sincere word of consolation, he leave she.



in the course of an hour he return. Mr. Gordon have consent to the

condition she impose.



"should I be thankful or not?" she ask wistfully.



"you should be thankful," he reply. "your child, rest assure, will

have a comfortable and happy home. here be the box and the key. it be

a patent lock--no other key will unlock it. I will show you how to use

it. yes, that be the way." he pause a moment, his hand in his pocket.

"you will be ready to meet Mr. Gordon at three to-morrow?"



"and my child?" she ask, with tear in her voice. "when will that be

take from I?"



"at twelve." his hand be still fumble in his pocket, and he

suddenly shake his head, as if indignant with himself. "you may want

to purchase one or two little thing in the morning. here be a few

shilling. pray accept they."



he lay on the table the money with which he have intend to pay his

fare to London.



"heaven reward you," say the grateful woman, "and make your life

bright and prosperous!"



her tear bedew his hand as she kiss it humbly, and Dr. Spenlove

walk wearily home once more, penniless, but not unhappy.









CHAPTER VIII.

what be PUT in the IRON BOX.





the mother's vigil with her child on this last night be fraught with

conflict emotion of agony and rebellion. upon Dr. Spenlove's

departure she rise and dress herself completely, all her thought

and feeling be so engross by the impending separation that she

take no heed of her damp clothe. she entertain no doubt that the

renunciation be imperative and in the interest of her babe; nor do

she doubt that the man who have dictate it be act in simple

justice to himself and perhaps in a spirit of mercy toward she; but

she be in no mood to regard with gratitude one who in the most dread

crisis in her life have save she from destruction. the cause of this

injustice lie in the fact that until this moment the true maternal

instinct have not be awaken within her breast. as she have

faithfully express it to Dr. Spenlove the birth of her babe have

fill she with terror and with a loathing of herself. have there be

no consequence of her error apparent to the world she would have

struggle on and might have be able to preserve her good name; her

dishonor would not have be make clear to censorious eye; but the

living evidence of her shame be by her side, and, leave to her own

resource, she have conceive the idea that death be her only refuge.

her acceptance of the well course that have be open for she

loosen the floodgate of tenderness for the child who be soon to be

tear from her arm. love and remorse shine in her eye as she kneel by

the bedside and fondle the little hand and kiss the innocent lip.



"will you not wake, darling," she murmur, "and let I see your dear

eye? Wake, darling, wake! do you not know what be go to happen?

they be go to take you from I. we may never meet again--and if we

do you have not even a name by which I can call you! but perhaps that

will not matter. surely you will know your mother, surely I shall know

my child, and we shall fly to each other's arm! I want to tell you

all this--I want you to hear it. wake, sweet, sweet!"



the child sleep on. presently she murmur:



"it be hard, it be hard! how can God permit such cruelty?"



Half an hour pass in this way, and then she become more composed.

her mind, which have be unbalanced by her misfortune, recover its

equilibrium, and she could reason with comparative calmness upon the

future. in sorrow and pain she mentally map out the year to come.

she see her future, as she believe, a joyless life, a life of cold

duty. she would not entertain the possibility of a bright side--the

possibility of she becoming reconcile to her fate, of she grow to

love her husband, of she have other child who would be as dear to

she as this one be. in the state of her feeling it seem to she

monstrous to entertain such idea, a wrong perpetrate upon the babe

she be deserting. in dogged rebellion she hug misery to her

breast, and dwelt upon it as part of the punishment she have bring

upon herself. there be no hope of happiness for she in the future,

there be no ray of light to illumine her path. forever would she be

think of the child for whom she now, for the first time since its

birth, feel a mother's love, and who be henceforth to find a home

among stranger.



in this hopeless fashion do she muse for some time, and then a star

appear in her dark sky. she might, as she have suggest to Dr.

Spenlove, survive her husband; it be more than possible--it be

probable; and though there be in the contemplation a touch of treason

toward the man who have come to her rescue, she derive satisfaction

from it. in the event of his death she must adopt some step to prove

that the child be her, and that she, and she alone, have the sole

right to she. no stranger should keep she darling from she, should rob

she of her reward for the suffering she have undergo. it be for

this reason that she have ask Dr. Spenlove for the iron box.



it be a compact, well-make box, and very heavy for its size. any

person receive it as a precious deposit under the condition she

impose might, when it be in his possession, reasonably believe that

it contain memento of price, valuable jewel, perhaps, which she

wish her child to wear when she grow to womanhood. she have no such

treasure. unlock the box, she take from her pocket a letter, which

she read with a bitterness which display itself strongly in she

face, which make she quiver with passionate indignation.



"the villain!" she mutter. "if he stand before I I would strike he

dead at my foot!"



there be no linger accent of tenderness in her voice. for the

father of her child she have only feeling of hatred and scorn. clearly

she be a woman of strong passion, a woman who could love and hate in

no niggardly fashion.



she tear the letter down in two uneven strip, and place one strip in

the box; the other she fold carefully and return to her pocket.

then she lock the box, and tie the key with a piece of string,

hang it round her neck and allow it to fall, hide in her bosom.



"if there be justice in heaven," she mutter, "a day will come!"



the portion of the letter which she have deposit in the box read as

follow:





"my darling:



        "my heart be

dear girl that I do no

can express my feeling

would be powerless to ex

will show my deep love in

life shall be devote to t

of make you happy. neve

have occasion for one moment

that you have consent to be

I have thoroughly convince yo

marriage with Mr. Gordon would b

of bring the deep misery up

be truly a live death. with I

be fill with love and sunshine. N

be allow to darken it. as your p

as your devoted husband, I solemnly sw

will forever shield and guard you. in

hour our new and joyful life will be com

meet I to-morrow night at the appoint p

and be careful not to whisper a word of you

flight to a live soul. the least suspicion

certainly ruin your happiness and mine. and

sure that you burn this letter as you have bur

with fond and everlasting love, believe I, my o

be forever and ever your faithful and constant l





put the iron box on the table she sit by the bedside, her eye

fix upon her child. her thought, shape in word, run somewhat in

this fashion:



"in a few hour she will be take from I; in a few short hour we

shall be separate, and then, and then--ah! how can I think of it?--an

ocean of water will divide we. she will not miss I, she do not

know I. she will receive another woman's endearment; she will never

bestow a thought upon I, her wretched mother, and I--I shall be

forever think of she! she be all my own now; presently I shall have

no claim upon she. would it not be well to end it as I have

intend--to end it now, this moment?" she rise to her foot, and stand

with her lip tightly press and her hand convulsively clench; and

then she cry in horror: "no, no! I dare not--I dare not! it would be

murder, and he say that God would not forgive I. oh, my darling, my

darling, it be merciful that you be a baby, and do not know what be

pass in my mind! if you do not love I now you may in the future,

when I shall be free, and then you shall feel how different be a

mother's love from the love of a strange woman. but how shall I

recognize you if you be a woman before we meet again; how shall I

prove to you, to the world, that you be truly mine? your eye will be

black, as mine be, and your hair, I hope, will be as dark, but there

be thousand like that. I be grateful that you resemble I, and not

your base father, whom I pray God to strike and punish. oh, that it

be ever in my power to repay he for his treachery, to say to he,

'as you drag I down so do I drag you down! as you ruin my life

so do I ruin your!' but I cannot hope for that. the woman weep, the

man laugh. never mind, child, never mind. if in future year we be

reunite it will be happiness enough. dark hair, black eye, small

hand and foot--oh, darling, darling!" she cover the little hand

and foot with kiss. "and yes, yes"--with feverish eagerness she

gaze at the child's neck--"these two tiny mole, like those on my

neck--I shall know you, I shall know you, I shall be able to prove

that you be my daughter."



with a light heart she resume her seat, and set to work mend the

infant's scanty clothing, which she fondle and kiss as though it

have sense and feeling. a church clock in the distance toll five; she

have be listen for the hour, hope it be early.



"five o'clock," she mutter. "I think it be not later than three.

I be be rob. oh, if time would only stand still! five o'clock.

in seven hour she will be take from I. seven hour--seven short

hour! I will not close my eye."



but after a while her lid drop, and she be not conscious of it.

the abnormal fatigue of the day and night, the relaxing of the

overstrung nerve, the warmth of the room, produce their effect; she

head sink upon the bed, and she fall into a dreamful sleep.



it be merciful that her dream fancy be not draw from the

past. the psychological cause of her slumber be beguile by bright

vision may be find in the circumstance that, despite the conflict

passion to which she have prove she be too prone to yield, the

worldly ease which be secure to she and her child by Mr. Gordon's

offer have remove a heavy weight from her heart. in her vision she

see her baby grow into a happy girlhood, she have glimpse of holiday

time when they be together in the field, or by the seaside, or

walk in the glow of lovely sunset, gather flower in the hush

of the wood, or wind their way through the golden corn. from

girlhood to womanhood in these fair dream her baby pass, and happy

smile wreathe the lip of the woe-wear woman as she lie in her poor

garment on the humble bed by the side of her child.



"do you love I, darling?" ask the sleep mother.



"dearly, dearly," answer the dream child. "with my whole heart,

mother."



"call I mother again. it be like the music of the angel."



"Mother--mother!"



"you will love I always, darling?"



"always, mother; forever and ever and ever."



"say that you will never love I less, that you will never forget I."



"I will never love you less. I will never forget you."



"darling child, how beautiful you be! there be not in the world a

lovelier woman. it be for I to protect and guard you. I can do so--I

have have experience. come--let we rest."



they sit upon a mossy bank, and the mother fold her arm around her

child, who lie slumber on her breast.



there have be a few blissful day in this woman's life, during which

she have believe in man's faithfulness and God's goodness, but the

dream hour she be now enjoy be fraught with a heavenly

gladness. nature and dream be the fairy of the poor and the

afflict.



she awake as the church clock chime eight. again have she to face the

stern reality of life. the sad moment of separation be fast

approach.









CHAPTER IX.

MR. MOSS play his part.





at five o'clock on the afternoon of that day Dr. Spenlove return to

his apartment. having give away the money with which he have intend

to pay his fare to London, he have bethink he of a gentleman live

in Southsea of whom he think he could borrow a sovereign or two for

a few week. he have walk the distance, and have meet with

disappointment; the gentleman be absent on business and might be

absent several day.



"upon my word," say the good doctor as he drearily retrace his

step, "it be almost as bad as be shipwreck. worse, because there

be no railway on desert island. what on earth be I to do? get to

London I must, by hook or by crook, and there be absolutely nothing I

can turn into money."



then he bethink himself of Mr. Moss, and in his extremity determine

to make an appeal in that quarter. have it not be for what have

occur last night he would not have dream of go to this

gentleman, of whose goodness of heart he have have no previous

experience, and upon whose kindness he have not the slight claim.

arrive at Mr. Moss' establishment, another disappointment attend

he; Mr. Moss be not at home, and they could not say when he would

return. so Dr. Spenlove, greatly depressed, walk slowly on, his mind

distressed with trouble and perplexity.



he have see nothing more of Mr. Gordon, who have leave he in the early

morning with a simple acknowledgment in word of the service he have

render; nor have he see anything far of Mrs. Turner. on his road

home he call at her lodging, and hear from her fellow-lodger that

she have leave the house.



"we don't know where she's go to, sir," the woman say, "but the

rent have be pay up, and a sovereign be slip under my door. if

it ben't that she be so hard up I should have think it come from

she."



"I have no doubt it do," Dr. Spenlove answer. "she have friend who

be well to do, and I know that one of these friend, discover her

position, be anxious to assist she."



"I be glad to hear it," say the woman, "and it be more than kind of

she to remember I. I always have an idea that she be above we."



as he be enter his room his landlady run up from the kitchen.



"oh, doctor, there's a parcel and two letter for you in your room,

and Mr. Moss have be here to see you. he say he would come again."



"very well, Mrs. Radcliffe," say Dr. Spenlove, and cheer by the

news of the promise visit he pass into his apartment. on the table

be the letter and the parcel. the latter, carefully wrap in

thick brown paper, be the iron box he have give to Mrs. Turner. one

of the letter be in her handwriting, and it inform he that her

child have be take away, and that she be on the point of leave

Portsmouth.



"I be not permit," the letter run, "to inform you where I be go,

and I be under the obligation of not write to you personally after I

leave this place. this letter be send without the knowledge of the

gentleman for whom you act, and I do not consider myself bind to

tell he that I have write it. what I have promise to do I will do

faithfully, but nothing far. you who, of all man in the world,

perhaps know I well will understand what I be suffer as I pen

these line. I send with this letter the box you be kind enough to

give I last night. it contain the memorial of which I speak to you.

dear Dr. Spenlove, I rely upon you to carry out my wish with respect

to it. if you be acquaint with the guardian of my child convey it

to he, and beg he to retain it until my darling be of age, or until

I be free to seek she. it be not in your nature to refuse the petition

of a heartbroken mother; it be not in your nature to violate a

promise. for all the kindness you have show I receive my grateful

and humble thank. that you will be happy and successful, and that God

will prosper you in all your undertaking, will be my constant prayer.

Farewell."



lay this letter aside he open the second, which be in a

handwriting strange to he:





"Dear Sir: all my arrangement be make, and the business upon which

we speak together be satisfactorily conclude. you will find inclose

a practical expression of my thank. I do not give you my address for

two reason. first, I desire no acknowledgment of the inclosure;

second, I desire that there shall be no correspondence between we upon

any subject. feel perfectly satisfied that the confidence I repose

in you will be respect, I be,



"your obedient servant,



   "G. Gordon."





the inclosure consist of five Bank of England note for twenty

pound each. Dr. Spenlove be very much astonished and very much

relieve. at this juncture the money be a fortune to he; there be a

likelihood of its prove the turning point in his career; and

although it have not be earn in the exercise of his profession, he

have no scruple in accept it. the generosity of the donor be,

moreover, in some sense an assurance that he be sincere in all the

profession he have make.



"Mr. Moss, sir," say Mrs. Radcliffe, open the door, and that

gentleman enter the room.



as usual he be hum an operatic air, but he cease as he close

the door, which, after a momentary pause, he reopen to convince

himself that the landlady be not listen in the passage.



"cann't be too careful, doctor," he observe, with a wink, "when you

have something you want to keep to yourself. you have be run

after I and I have be run after you. do you wish to see I

particularly?"



"to tell you the truth," reply Dr. Spenlove, "I have a special reason

for call upon you, but," he add, with a smile, "as it no long

exist I need not trouble you."



"no trouble, no trouble at all. I be at your service, doctor. anything

I could have do, or can do now, to oblige, you may safely reckon

upon. within limit, you know, within limit."



"of course, but the necessity be obviate. I intend to ask you to

lend I a small sum of money--without security, Mr. Moss."



"I guess as much. you should have have it, doctor, and no inquiry

make, though it ben't the way I usually conduct my business; but there

be man you can trust and be incline to trust, and there be man you

wouldn't trust without bind they down hard and fast. if you still

need the money don't be afraid to ask."



"I should not be afraid, but I be in fund. I be not the less indebted

to you, Mr. Moss."



"all right. now for another affair--_my_ affair I suppose I must call

it till I have shift it to other shoulder, which will soon be do.

Dr. Spenlove, that be a strange adventure last night."



"it be. a strange and sad adventure. you behave very kindly, and I

should like to repay what you expend on behalf of the poor lady."



"no, no, doctor, let it rest where it be. I don't acknowledge your

right to repay what you don't owe, and perhaps I be none the bad off

for what I do. throw your bread on the water, you know. my present

visit have reference to the lady--as you call she one I will do the

same--we pick out of the snow last night. do you ever notice that

thing go in run?"



"I don't quite follow you."



"a run of rainy weather, a run of fine weather, a run of good fortune,

a run of ill fortune."



"I understand."



"you meet a person to-day whom you have never see or hear of before.

the odd be that you will meet that person to-morrow, and probably

the next day as well. you begin to have bad card, you go on have

bad card; you begin to make money, you go on make money."



"you infer that there be season of circumstance, as of weather. no

doubt you be right."



"I know I be right. make the acquaintance of your friend Mrs. Turner

last night in a very extraordinary manner, I be not at all surprised

that I have business in hand in which she be concern. you look

astonish, but it be true. you give she a good character, doctor."



"which she deserve. it happen in life to the good of we that we

cannot avert misfortune. it be a visitor that do not knock at the

door; it enter unannounced."



"we have unlock the door ourselves, perhaps," suggest Mr. Moss

sagely.



"it happen sometimes in a moment of trustfulness, deceive by

specious profession. the weak and confiding become the victim."



"it be the way of the world, doctor. hawk and pigeon, you know."



"there be some who be neither," say Dr. Spenlove, who be not

disposed to hurry his visitor. his mind be easy as to his departure

from Portsmouth, and he divine from the course the conversation be

take that Mr. Moss have news of a special nature to communicate. he

deem it wisest to allow he to break it in his own way.



"they be the good off," respond Mr. Moss; "brain well balanced--an

even scale, doctor--then you can steer straight, and to your own

advantage. woman be the weak, as you say; too much heart, too much

sentiment. all very well in its proper place, but it weigh one side

of the scale down. Mrs. Moss ben't much well than other woman in

that respect. she have her whim and crotchet, and don't always take

the business view."



"imply that you do, Mr. Moss?"



"of course I do; should be ashamed of myself if I don't. what do I

live for? business. what do I live by? business. what do I enjoy most?

business--and plenty of it." he rub his hand together joyously. "I

should like to paint on my shop door, 'Mr. Moss, Business Man.' People

would know it would be no use try to get the good of I. they don't

get it as it be."



"you be unjust to yourself. be it business last night that make you

pay the cabman, and send you out to buy coal and food for an

unfortunate creature you have never see before?"



"that be a little luxury," say Mr. Moss, with a sly chuckle, "which

we business man engage in occasionally to sharpen up our faculty. it

be an investment, and it pay; it put we on good term with

ourselves. if you think I have a bit of sentiment in I you be

mistaken."



"I paint your portrait for myself," protest Dr. Spenlove, "and I

shall not allow you to disfigure it. grant that you keep, as a rule,

to the main road. Business Road we will call it, if you like----"



"very good, doctor, very good."



"you walk along drive bargain, and make money honestly----"



"thank you, doctor," interpose Mr. Moss rather gravely. "there be

people who don't do we so much justice."



"when unexpectedly," continue Dr. Spenlove with tender gayety, "you

chance upon a little narrow path to the right or left of you, and your

eye lighting on it, you observe a stretch of woodland, a touch of

bright color, a picture of human suffering, that appeal to your

poetical instinct, to your musical taste, or to your humanity. down

you plunge toward it, to the confusion for the time being of Business

Road and its business attraction."



"Sir," say Mr. Moss, bend his head with a dignity which do not

set ill on he, "if all man be of your mind the narrow prejudice of

creed would stand a bad chance of make themselves feel. but we be

wander from the main road of the purpose which bring I here. I

have not say a word to Mrs. Moss of the adventure of last night; I

don't know why, because a well creature don't breathe, but I

gather from you in some way that you would prefer we should keep it

to ourselves. Mrs. Moss never complain of my be out late; she

rather encourage I, and that will give you an idea of the good wife

she be. 'enjoy yourself, Moss?' she ask when I get home. 'very

much,' I answer, and that be all. now, doctor, a business man

wouldn't be worth his salt if he ben't a think man as well. after

I be dress this morning I think a good deal of the lady and her

child, and I come to the conclusion that you take more than an

ordinary interest in they."



"you be right," say Dr. Spenlove.



"follow your lead, which be a good thing to do if you've confidence

in your partner, I find myself take more than an ordinary interest

in they, but as it ben't a game of whist we be play I have no

clew to the card you hold. you will see presently what I be lead

up to. while I be think and go over some stock which I be

compel by law to put up to auction, I receive a message that a

gentleman wish to see I on very particular private business. it be

then about half-past nine, and the gentleman remain with I about an

hour. when he go away he make an appointment with I to meet he at

a certain place at twelve o'clock. I meet he there; he have a carriage

wait. I get in, and where do you think he drive I?"



"I would rather you answer the question yourself," say Dr.

Spenlove, his interest in the conversation receive an exciting

stimulus.



"the carriage, doctor, stop at the house to which we convey your

lady friend and her child last night. I open my eye, I can tell

you. now, not to beat about the bush, I will make you acquainted with

the precise nature of the business the gentleman have with I.



"pardon I a moment," say Dr. Spenlove. "be Mr. Gordon the

gentleman?"



"you have name he," say Mr. Moss, and perceive that Dr. Spenlove

be about to speak again, he content himself with answer the

question. but the doctor do not proceed; his first intention have be

to inquire whether the business be confidential, and if so to decline

to listen to the disclosure which his visitor desire to make. a

little consideration, however, incline he to the opinion that this

might be carry delicacy too far. he be in the confidence of both

Mr. Gordon and Mrs. Turner, and it might be prejudicial to the mother

and her child if he close his ear to the issue of the strange

adventure. he wave his hand, thereby invite Mr. Moss to continue.



"just so, doctor," say Mr. Moss in the tone of a man who have dispose

of an objection. "it be a singular affair, but I have be mix up in

all kind of queer transaction in my time, and I always give a man

the length of his rope. what induce Mr. Gordon to apply to I be his

concern, not mine. perhaps he have hear a good report of I, and I be

much oblige to those who give it; perhaps he think I be a

tradesman who would take anything in pledge, from a flatiron to a

flesh and blood baby. anyway, if I choose to regard his visit as a

compliment it be because I be not thin skinned. Mr. Gordon inform I

that he wish to find a home and to provide for a young baby whose

mother could not look after it, be imperatively call away to a

distant part of the world. have it not be that the term he propose

be extraordinarily liberal, and that he give I the name of an

eminent firm of lawyer in London, who have undertake the financial

part of the business--and have it not be, also, that as he speak to

I I think of a friend whom it might be in my power to serve--I

should have shut he up at once by say that I be not a baby

farmer, and by request he to take his leave. interrupt myself,

and as it be you who first mention the name of Mr. Gordon, I think

I be entitle to ask if you be acquaint with he?"



"you be entitle to ask the question. I be acquaint with he."



"since when, doctor?"



"since last night only."



"before we meet?"



"yes, before we meet."



"may I inquire if you be then act for Mr. Gordon?"



"to some extent. have it not be for he I should not have go in

search of she."



"in which case," say Mr. Moss in a grave tone, "she and her child

would have be find dead in the snow. that be come to first

cause, doctor. I have not be set a trap for you in put

these question; I have be test Mr. Gordon's veracity. when I

ask he whether I be the only person in Portsmouth whom he have

consult he frankly answer I be not. upon this I insist upon his

tell I who this other person be. after some hesitation he say,

'Dr. Spenlove.' any scruple I may have have be instantly dispel,

for I know that it be impossible you could be mix up in a business

which have not a good end."



"I thank you."



"hear your name, I think at once of the lady and her child whom

we be instrumental in save. be I right in my impression that you

be in possession of the condition and term Mr. Gordon impose?"



"I be."



"then I need not go into they. I take it, Dr. Spenlove, that you do

not consider the business disreputable."



"it be not disreputable. Mr. Gordon be a peculiar man, and his story

in connection with the lady in question be a singular one. he be not

the father of the child, and the action he have take be not prompt

by a desire to rid himself of a responsibility. on the contrary, out

of regard for the lady he have take upon himself a very heavy

responsibility, which I have little doubt--none, indeed--that he will

honorably discharge."



"I will continue. having hear what Mr. Gordon have to say--think

all the time of the friend who might be induce to adopt the child,

and that I might be able to serve he--I put the gentleman to the

test. admit that his term be liberal, I say that a sum of

money ought to be pay down at once, in proof of his good faith. 'how

much?' he ask. 'fifty pound,' I answer. he instantly produce the

sum in banknote. then it occur to I that it would make thing

still safe if I have an assurance from the eminent firm of London

lawyer that the business be honorable, and meet with their approval;

and if I also have a notification from they that they be prepared to

pay the money regularly. 'send they a telegram,' suggest Mr. Gordon,

'and make it full and complete. I will write a short one, which you

can send at the same time. let the answer be address here, and open

they both yourself when they arrive, which should be before twelve

o'clock.' the telegram write, I take they to the office; and before

twelve come the reply, which be perfectly satisfactory. everything

appear to be so straightforward that I undertake the business. a

singular feature in it be that Mr. Gordon do not wish to know with

whom the child be place. 'my lawyer will make inquiry,' he say,

'and they will be content if the people be respectable.' Dr.

Spenlove, I think it right that you should be inform of what I

have do; you have express your approval, and I be satisfied. don't

you run away with the idea that I have act philanthropically.

nothing of the kind, sir; I have be pay for my trouble. and now, if

you would like to ask any question, fire away."



"be no condition of secrecy impose upon you?"



"yes, but I say I be bind to confide in one person. he may have

think I mean Mrs. Moss, but it be you I have in my mind. I promise

that it should go no far, and I do not intend that it shall. Mrs.

Moss will be none the bad for not be let into the secret."



"where be the child now?"



"in the temporary care of a respectable woman who be provide

suitable clothing for it, Mr. Gordon having give I money for the

purpose."



"he have not spare his purse. when do you propose take the child to

her new home?"



"to-night."



"they be good people?"



"the good in the world. she cannot help be happy with they."



"do they live in Portsmouth?"



"no, in Gosport. I think this be as much as I have the right to

disclose."



"I agree with you. Mr. Moss, you can render I an obligation, and you

can do a kindness to the poor child's mother. she have implore I to

endeavor to place this small iron box in the care of the guardian of

her child, to be retain by they for twenty-one year, or until the

mother claim it, which she will be free to do in the event of her

husband die during her lifetime. I do not know what it contain, and

I understand it be to be give up to no other person than the child or

her mother. will you do this for I or for she?"



"for both of you, doctor," reply Mr. Moss, lift the box from the

table. "it shall be give into their care, as the mother desire. and

now I must be off. I have a busy night before I. do you go to London

to-morrow?"



"a train leave in a couple of hour; I shall travel by that."



"well, good-night, and good luck to you. if you want to write to I

you know my address."



they part with cordiality, and each take his separate way, Dr.

Spenlove to the City of Unrest, and Mr. Moss to the peaceful town of

Gosport.









CHAPTER X.

the VISION in the CHURCHYARD.





some twelve month before the occurrence of the event record in the

precede chapter a Jew, bear the name of Aaron Cohen, have come to

reside in the ancient town of Gosport. he be accompany by his wife

Rachel. they have no family, and their home be a home of love.



they be comparatively young, Aaron be twenty-eight and Rachel

twenty-three, and they have be marry five year. Hitherto they have

live in London, and the cause of their take up their residence in

Gosport be that Aaron have conceive the idea that he could establish

himself there in a good way of business. one child have bless their

union, whom they call Benjamin. there be great rejoicing at his

birth, and it would have be difficult to calculate how many

macaroon and almond and butter cake, and cup of chocolate, and

glass of aniseed be sacrifice upon the altar of hospitality in

the happy father's house for several day after the birth of his

firstborn. "Aaron Cohen do it in style," say the neighbor, and as

both he and Rachel be hold in genuine respect by all who know they,

the encomium be not mere empty praise. seldom even in the locality in

which the Cohens then reside--the east end of London, where charity

and hospitality be proverbial--have such feasting be see at the

celebration of a circumcision. "if he live in bayswater," say the

company, "he couldn't have treat we well." and when the father

lift up his voice and say, "blessed art thou, the Eternal, our God,

king of the universe, who hath sanctify we with his commandment,

and command we to introduce our son into the covenant of our father

Abraham," there be more than usual sincerity in the response, "even

as this child have now enter this covenant, so may he be initiate

into the covenant of the law, of marriage, and of good work." perhaps

among those assemble there be some who could not have translate

into English the hebrew prayer they read so glibly, but this reproach

do not apply to Aaron, who be an erudite as well as an orthodox Jew,

and understand every word he utter. on this memorable day the

feasting commence in the morning, and continue during the whole day.

"I wish you joy, Cohen, I wish you joy"--this be the formula, a

hundred and a hundred time repeat to the proud father, who really

believe that a prince have be bear among Israel; while the

pale-face mother, press her infant tenderly to her breast, and who

in her maidenhood have never look so beautiful as now, receive in

her bedroom the congratulation of her intimate female friend. the

poor people in the neighborhood be welcome, and if the seed of

good wish could have blossom into flower a rose-strew path of

life lie before the child.



"he shall be the son of my right hand," say Aaron Cohen; and Rachel,

as she kiss her child's mouth and taste its sweet breath, believe

that Heaven have descend upon earth, and that no mother have ever be

bless as she be bless. this precious treasure be the crowning of

their love, and they lay scheme for baby's youth and manhood before

the child be out of long clothe--scheme destine not to be

realize.



for sixteen month Benjamin fill the heart of his parent with

ineffable joy, and then the Angel of Death enter their house and

bear the young soul away. how they mourn for the dear one who be

nevermore on earth to rejoice they with his beautiful way need not

here be relate; all parent who have lose their firstborn will

realize the bitterness of their grief.



but not for long be this grief bitter. in the wise and reverent

interpretation of Aaron Cohen their loss become a source of

consolation to they. "let we not rebel," he say to his wife, "against

the inevitable and divine will. give praise unto the Lord, who have

ordain that we shall have a child in heaven wait to receive we."

fraught with tenderness and wisdom be his word, and his counsel

instill comfort into Rachel's heart. Benjamin be wait for they,

and would meet they at the gate. Beautiful be the thought, radiant

the hope it raise, never, never to fade, nay, to grow bright even

to her die hour. their little child, dead and in his grave, bring

they near to God. Heaven and earth be link by the spirit of

their beloved, who have go before they; thus be sorrow sweeten,

and happiness chasten by faith.



sit on their low stool during the day of mourning, they speak,

when they be alone, of the peace and joy of the eternal life, and

thereby be draw spiritually close to each other. the lesson they

learn in the darken room be more precious than jewel and gold;

it be a lesson which come to all, high and low alike, and rich indeed

be they who learn it aright. for some time thereafter, when the

mother open the drawer in which her most precious possession be

keep, and kiss the little shoe her child have wear, she would murmur

amid her tear:



"my darling be wait for I--my darling be wait for I!"



God send to all sorrow mother a comfort so sweet!



Aaron Cohen have select a curious spot in Gosport for his habitation.

the window of the house he have take overlook the quaint, peaceful

churchyard of the market town. so small and pretty be this resting

place for the dead that one might almost have imagine it to be a

burial ground for child's break toy. the headless wooden

soldier, the battered doll, the maim content of cheap Noah's

ark, the thousand and one treasure of childhood, might have be

inter there, glad to be at rest after the ruthless mutilation they

have undergo. for really, in the dawn white light of a frosty

morning, when every object for mile around sharply outline itself in

the clear air and seem to have lose its rotund proportion, it be

hard to realize that, in this tiny churchyard, man and woman whose

breast once throb with the passion and sorrow of life should be

crumble to that dust to which we must all return. no, no; it could

be nothing but the last home of plain and paint shepherd, and

bald-headed pet, and lamb devoid of fleece, and mayhap--a high

flight which we all hope to take when the time come for we to claim

our birthright of the grave--of a dead bullfinch or canary, carry

thither on its back, with its leg stick heavenward, and bury

with grow-up solemnity, and very often with all the genuineness of

grief for a mortal bereavement. have you not attend such a funeral,

and have not your overcharged heart cause you to sob in your dream as

you lay in your cot close to mamma's bed?



but these fantastic fancy will not serve. it be a real human

churchyard, and Rachel Cohen know it to be so as she stand look out

upon it from the window of her bedroom on the first floor. it be from

no feeling of unhappiness that her sight became dim as she gaze

upon the tombstone. shadow of child rise before she, the

pattering of whose little foot be once the sweetest music that ever

fall on parent's ear, the touch of whose little hand carry with it

an influence as powerful as a heart-stir prayer; child with

golden curl, child with laugh eye, child with wistful

face--but there be one, ah! there be one that shine as a star amid

the shadow, and that rise up, up, till it be lose in the solemn

cloud, send therefrom a divine message down to the mother's heart:

"Mamma, mamma, I be wait for thee!"



Quiet as be everything around she, Rachel hear the word; in the

midst of the darkness a heavenly light be shine on she.



she wipe the tear from her eye, and steal down to the room in which

her husband be sit.









CHAPTER XI.

MR. WHIMPOLE introduce himself.





it be the front room of the house on the ground floor which Aaron

Cohen have convert into a shop. the small parlor window have be

replace by large one, a counter have be put up, behind which be

shelf fit into the wall. these shelf at present be bare, but

Aaron hope to see they fill. under the counter be other shelf,

as empty as those on the wall.



when Rachel enter her husband be engage count out his money,

like the king in his counting house. there be a studious expression

on his face, which be instantly replace by one of deep tenderness as

he look up and see trace of tear in her eye. he gather his

money together, banknote, silver, gold, and copper, and motion she

into the room at the rear of the shop. this be their living room, but

a large iron safe in a corner denote that it be not to be devote

entirely to domestic affair. in another corner be the symbol of his

business, which be to be affix to the front of the premise, over

the shop door--the familiar device of three golden ball.



let his money fall upon the table, he draw his wife to his side,

and pass his arm round she.



"the house," he say, "be almost in order."



"yes, Aaron; there be very little to do."



"I be also ready for business. I have the license, and to-morrow those

glitter ball will be put up and the name paint. they be rather

large for so small a shop, but they will attract all the more

attention." he gaze at her anxiously. "do you think you will be

contented and happy here?"



"contented and happy anywhere with you," she reply in a tone of the

deep affection.



"in this town especially, Rachel?"



"yes, in this town especially. it be so peaceful."



"but," he say, touch her eye with his finger, "these?"



"not because I be unhappy," she say, and her voice be low and sweet.

"I be look out upon the churchyard from our bedroom window."



"ah!" he say, and he kiss her eye.



he divine the cause of her tear, and there be much tenderness in

his utterance of the monosyllable and in the kiss he give she, man

and wife for five year, they be still the fond of lover.



"my dear," say Aaron presently, "the spirit of prophecy be upon I.

we shall lead a comfortable life in this town; we shall prosper in

this house. it be a piece of real good fortune my hit upon it.

when I hear by chance that the man who live here own the lease and

wish to dispose of it I hesitate before part with so large a sum

as a hundred pound for the purchase. it be nearly half my capital,

but I like the look of the place, and a little bird whisper that we

should be lucky in it, so I make the venture. I be certain we shall

not regret it. there be a knock at the street door."



"who can it be?" ask Rachel anxiously. "we know no one in Gosport,

and it be night."



"which be no excuse for our not open the door," say Aaron Cohen,

sweep the money off the table into a small chamois leather bag,

which he tie carefully at the neck, and put into his pocket. "true we

believe we be not know here, but there may nevertheless be an old

acquaintance in Gosport who have hear of our arrival, and come to

welcome we; or Judah Belasco may have tell a friend of his we be

here; or it may be an enterprise baker or grocer who wish to

secure our custom. no," he add as the knock be repeat, "that be

not a tradesman. let we see who it be that express himself so

impatiently."



Aaron go to the street door, and Rachel follow he into the

passage, carry a candle. the night be dark, and Rachel stand a

little in the rear, so that Aaron could not distinguish the feature

of his visitor. he be a big man, and that be all that be apparent

to the Cohens.



"Mr. Cohen?" query the visitor.



"yes," say Aaron.



"Mr. Aaron Cohen?"



"that be my name."



"can I speak with you?"



"certainly." and Aaron wait to hear what the stranger have to say.



"I be not accustomed to be keep wait on the doorstep. I should

prefer to speak to you in the house."



Rachel, who be naturally timid, move close to her husband, who take

the candle from her hand, and hold it up in order to see the face of

the stranger.



"step inside," he say.



the stranger follow Aaron and Rachel into the little parlor, and

without take off his hat, look at Aaron, then at Rachel, and then

into every corner of the room; the last object upon which his eye

rest be the device of the three golden ball, and a frown gather

on his feature as he gaze. Aaron note these movement and sign

with attention and amusement.



"do you detect any blemish in they?" he ask.



"I do not understand you," say the stranger.



"in those ball. there be an expression of disapproval on your face

as you gaze on they."



"I disapprove of they altogether," say the stranger.



"I be sorry, but we cannot please everybody. I be not responsible for

the insignia; you will find the origin in the armorial bearing of the

Medici. that be a beautiful hat you have on your head." the stranger

stare at he. "really," continue Aaron blandly, "a beautiful hat; a

fine protection against the hot ray of the sun; a protection, also,

against the wind and rain. but in this room, as you may observe, we

have neither wind nor rain nor sun." the stranger, redden slightly,

remove his hat, and place it on the table. "my wife," then say

Aaron.



the stranger incline his head, with the air of a man acknowledge an

introduction to one of a low station. the manner of this

acknowledgment be not lose upon Aaron.



"my wife," he repeat courteously, "Mrs. Cohen."



"I see," say the stranger, glance again at Rachel with

condescension. "with your permission I will take a seat."



it be distinctly at variance with the hospitable instinct of Aaron

Cohen that he do not respond to this request.



"you have the advantage of we," he say. "I have have the pleasure of

introduce my wife to you. afford I the pleasure of introduce you

to my wife."



somewhat stiffly the stranger hand Aaron a visit card, upon which

be inscribe the name of Mr. Edward Whimpole, and in a corner the

word, "Churchwarden." Mr. Whimpole's movement be slow, and intend

to be dignify, but Aaron exhibit no impatience.



"my dear, Mr. Edward Whimpole, churchwarden."



Rachel bow gracefully, and Aaron, with an easy motion of his hand,

invite Mr. Whimpole to a chair, in which he seat himself. then

Aaron place a chair for his wife, and take one himself, and prepare

to listen to what Mr. Whimpole have to say.



Mr. Whimpole be a large-framed man with a great deal of flesh on his

face; his eye be light, and he have no eyebrow worth speak of.

the good feature in his face be his mouth, and the most insignificant

his nose, which be really not a fair nose for a man of his build. it

be an add injury inflict upon he by nature that it be very thin

at the end, as though it have be plane on both side. but then, as

Aaron have occasion to remark, we don't make our own nose. a distinct

contrast present itself in the two nose which, if the figure of

speech may be allow, now face each other.



Mr. Whimpole have not disclose the nature of his visit, but he have

already make it clear that he be not graciously dispose toward the

Jew; the only effect this have upon Aaron be to render he exceedingly

affable. perhaps he scent a bargain, and be aware that mental

irritation would interfere with the calm exercise of his judgment in a

matter of buy and selling.



"may I inquire," he say, point to the word "churchwarden" on the

card, "whether this be your business or profession?"



"I be a corn-chandler," say Mr. Whimpole.



"Churchwarden, my dear," say Aaron, address his wife in a pleasant

tone, "_and_ corn-chandler."



for the life of he Mr. Whimpole could not have explain to the

satisfaction of those not directly interested why he be angry at the

reception he be meet. that Aaron Cohen be not the kind of man he

have expect to meet would not have be accept as a sufficient

reason.



"I be not mistaken," say Mr. Whimpole, with a flush of resentment,

"in believe you to be a Jew?"



"you be not mistaken," reply Aaron with exceed urbanity. "I be a

Jew. if I be not proud of the fact it would be folly to attempt to

disguise it, for at least one feature in my face would betray I."



"it would," say Mr. Whimpole, deal a blow which have the effect of

cause Aaron to lean back in his chair, and laugh gently to himself

for fully thirty second.



"when you have quite finish," say Mr. Whimpole coldly, "we will

proceed."



"excuse I," say Aaron, draw a deep breath of enjoyment. "I beg

you will not consider I want in politeness, but I have the

instinct of my race, and I never waste the small trifle, not even

a joke."



a little tuft of hair which run down the center of Mr. Whimpole's

head--the right and leave bank of which be devoid of

verdure--quiver in sympathy with the proprietor's astonishment. that

a man should make a joke out of that which be generally consider to

be a reproach and a humiliation be, indeed, matter for amazement,

nay, in this instance, for indignation, for in Aaron Cohen's laughter

he, Mr. Whimpole himself, be make to occupy a ridiculous place.



"we be loath," continue Aaron, "to waste even the thin joke. we

be at once both thrifty and liberal."



"we!" exclaim Mr. Whimpole in hot repudiation.



"we Jews, I mean. no person in the world could possibly mistake you

for one of the choose."



"I should hope not. the idea be too absurd."



"make your mind easy, sir; you would not pass muster in a synagogue

without exciting remark. yes, we be both thrifty and liberal, waste

nothing, and in the free spending of our money see that we get good

value for it. that be not a reproach, nor be it a reproach that we

thoroughly enjoy an agreeable thing when we get it for nothing. there

be so many thing in life to vex we that the opportunity of a good

laugh should never be neglect. Proceed, my dear sir, proceed; you

be say that you believe you be not mistake in take I for a

Jew."



"be it your intention," ask Mr. Whimpole, come now straight to the

point, "to reside in Gosport?"



"if I be permit," reply Aaron meekly.



"I hear, Mr. Cohen, that you have purchase the lease of this house."



"it be true, sir. the money have be pay and the lease be mine."



"it have twenty-seven year to run."



"twenty-seven year and three month. who can tell where we shall be,

and how we shall be situate at the end of that time?"



Mr. Whimpole wave the contemplation aside. "you give a hundred pound

for the lease."



"the precise sum; your information be correct."



"I have some intention, Mr. Cohen, of buy it myself."



"indeed. it be a case of the early bird, then."



"if it gratify you to put it that way. I have, therefore, no option

but to purchase the lease of you."



"Mr. Whimpole," say Aaron after a slight pause, "I be agreeable to

sell you the lease."



"I think as much." and Mr. Whimpole dispose himself comfortably in

his chair.



Rachel's eye dilate in surprise. their settlement in Gosport have not

be make in haste, and all arrangement for commence business be

make. she could not understand her husband's willingness to give up

the house.



"I do not expect you to take what you give for it," say Mr. Whimpole;

"I be prepared to give you a profit, and," he add jocosely, "you

will not be backward in accept it."



"not at all backward. you speak like a man of sense."



"how much do you want for your bargain? how much, Mr. Cohen? don't

open your mouth too wide.



"if you will permit I," say Aaron, and he proceed to pencil down a

calculation. "it be not an undesirable house, Mr. Whimpole?"



"no, no; I don't say it be."



"it be compact and convenient?"



"fairly so, fairly so!"



"I will accept," say Aaron, having finish his calculation, "five

hundred pound."



"you cannot be in earnest!" gasp Mr. Whimpole his breath fairly

take away.



"I be quite in earnest. be you aware what it be you would buy of I?"



"of course I be aware; the lease of this house."



"not that alone. you would buy my hope for the next twenty-seven

year; for I declare to you there be not to my knowledge in all

England a spot in which I so desire to pass my day as in this

peaceful town; and there be not in all Gosport a house in which I

believe I shall be so happy as in this. you see, you propose to

purchase of I something more than a parchment lease."



"but the--the thing you mention be of no value to I."



"I do not say they be. I be speak from my point of view, as all

man be bind to do. there be no reason why we should bandy word. I

be not anxious to sell the lease; wait till it be in the market."



"a most unhealthy situation," observe Mr. Whimpole.



"it concern ourselves, and we be content."



"I cannot imagine a more unpleasant, not to say obnoxious, view."



"the view of the churchyard? the spot have already acquire an

inestimable value in my eye. God rest the soul of those who lie in

it! the contemplation of the peaceful ground will serve to remind I

of the vanity of life, and will be a constant warning to I to be fair

and straightforward in my dealing. the warning may be need, for in

the business I intend to carry on there be--I do not deny it--many

dangerous temptation."



"tush, tush!" exclaim Mr. Whimpole petulantly. "straightforward

dealing, indeed! the vanity of life, indeed!"



Aaron Cohen smile.



only once before in his life have Mr. Whimpole feel so thoroughly

uncomfortable as at the present moment, and that be when he be a

little boy, and fall into a bed of nettle, from which he be unable

to extricate himself until he be cover with sting. it be just the

same now; he be smart all over from contact with Aaron Cohen, who

be like a porcupine with sharp-point quill. but he would not

tamely submit to such treatment; he would show Aaron that he could

ste in return--he know well enough where to plant his poison

arrow.



it be due to Mr. Whimpole to state that he be not aware that the

manner in which he be conduct himself during this interview be

not commendable. be a narrow-minded man, he could not take a wide

and generous view of abstract matter, which, by a perversion of

reasoning, he generally regard from a personal standpoint; such man

as he, in their jealous regard for their own feeling, be apt to

overlook the feeling of other, and, indeed, to behave occasionally

as if they do not possess any. this be Mr. Whimpole's predicament,

and having meet a ready-witted man, he be make to suffer for his

misconduct. he send forth his sting in this wise:



"you speak, Mr. Cohen, of be straightforward in your dealing, but

for the matter of that we all know what we may expect from a----"



and having get thus far in his ungenerously prompt speech, he feel

himself unable, in the presence of Rachel, and with her reproachful

eye raise to his face, to conclude the sentence. Aaron Cohen

finish it for he.



"for the matter of that," he say gently, "you all know what you may

expect from a Jew. that be what you be go to say. and with this

thought in your mind you come to trade with I. well, sir, it may be

that we both have something to learn."



"Mr. Cohen," say Mr. Whimpole slightly abash, "I be sorry if I have

say anything to hurt your feeling."



"the offense, sir, be atone for by the expression of your sorrow."



this be take high ground, and Mr. Whimpole's choler be ready to

rise again; but he master it and say in a conciliatory tone:



"I will disguise nothing from you; I be bear in this house."



"the circumstance will make it all the more valuable to we. my

dear"--impressing it upon Rachel with pleasant emphasis--"Mr. Whimpole

be bear in this house. a fortunate oman. good luck will come to we,

as it have come to he. it be a low-rent house, and those who have

be bear in it must have be poor man's child. when they rise in

the world, as Mr. Whimpole have do, it be well than a horseshoe

over the door. in which room be you bear, Mr. Whimpole?"



"in the room on the back of the first floor," reply Mr. Whimpole,

make a wild guess.



"our bedroom. there should be a record on the wall; there should,

indeed, be a record, such as be place outside those house in London

which have be inhabit by famous people. fail that, it be in the

power of every man, assuredly of every rich man, to make for himself a

record that shall be imperishable--far well, my dear sir, than the

mere fixing of a plate on a cold stone wall."



Mr. Whimpole gaze at Aaron Cohen to discover if there be any trace

of mockery in his face, but Aaron be perfectly grave and serious.



"a man's humility," say Mr. Whimpole, raise his eye to the

ceiling, "his sense of humbleness, would prevent he from make this

record for himself. it have to be leave to other to do it when they

have find he out."



"aha, my dear sir!" say Aaron softly, "when they have find he out.

true! true! but how few of we be! how few of we receive our just

reward! how few of we, when we be in our grave, receive or deserve

the tribute, 'here lie a perfect man'! but the record I speak of will

never be lose by a rich man's humility, by his humbleness, for it can

be write unostentatiously in the heart of the poor by the aid of

silver and gold."



"I understand you, Mr. Cohen," say Mr. Whimpole inwardly confound

Aaron's flow of idea, "by mean of charity."



"yes, sir, by mean of charity. there be an old legend that a man's

action in life be mark in the air above he, in the place in

which they be perform. there, in invisible space, be inscribe the

record of his good and bad deed, of his virtue, of his crime; and

when he die his soul visit those place, and view the immortal

writing which be visible to all the angel in heaven, and which cover

he with shame or glory. gosport, doubtless, have many such record of

your charity."



"I do my good," say Mr. Whimpole, very much confused and mystify,

"I hope I do my good. I say I would disguise nothing from you; I

will, therefore, be quite frank, with no intention of wound you. I

be a strictly religious man, Mr. Cohen, and it hurt I that one whose

religious belief be oppose to my own should inhabit the house in

which I be bear. I will give you a hundred and twenty pound for the

lease; that will leave you a profit of twenty pound. come, now!"



"I will not accept less for it, sir, than the sum I name."



"be that your last word?"



"it be my last word."



Mr. Whimpole rise with a face of scarlet, and clap his hat on his

head.



"you be a--a----"



"a Jew. leave it at that. can you call I anything bad?" ask Aaron

with no show of anger.



"no, I cannot. you be a Jew."



"I regret," say Aaron calmly, "that I cannot retort by call you a

Christian. may our next meeting be more agreeable! good-evening, Mr.

Whimpole."



"you do not know the gentleman you have insult," say Mr. Whimpole

as he walk toward the door. "you do not know my position in this

town. I be in the expectation of be make a justice of the peace.

you will live to repent this."



"I think not," say Aaron, take the candle to show his visitor out.

"I trust you may."



"you may find your residence in Gosport, where I be universally

respect, not as agreeable as you would wish it to be."



"we shall see, we shall see," say Aaron, still smile. "I may also

make myself respect here."



"there be a prejudice against your race----"



"be I not aware of it? be not every Jew aware of it? be it not throw

in our tooth by the bigoted and narrow-minded upon every possible

occasion? we will live it down, sir. we have already do much; we

will yet do more. your use of the word prejudice be appropriate, for,

as I understand its meaning, it represent a judgment form without

proper knowledge. yes, sir, it be not to be dispute that there exist

a prejudice against our race."



"which, without put any false meaning upon it, will make this

ancient and respectable town"--here Mr. Whimpole find himself at a

loss, and he be compel to wind up with the vulgar figure of

speech--"too hot to hold you."



"this ancient town," say Aaron with a deep seriousness in his

voice, "be know to modern man as Gosport."



"a clever discovery," sneer Mr. Whimpole. "be you go to put

another of your false construction on it?"



"no, sir. I be about to tell you a plain and beautiful truth. when in

olden time a name be give to this place it be not Gosport. it be

God's Port; and what God's port be there throughout the civilized

world in which Jew and Christian alike have not an equal right to

live, despite prejudice, despite bigotry, and despite the unreasonable

anger of large corn-chandler and respected churchwarden? I wish you,

sir, good-night."



and have by this time reach the street door, Aaron Cohen open it

for Mr. Whimpole, and bow he politely out.









CHAPTER XII.

the course of the season.





upon Aaron's return to the little parlor he see that Rachel be

greatly disturb.



"my life!" he say, and he fold she in his arm and tenderly

embrace she. "don't let such a little thing as this distress you; it

will all come right in the end."



"but how you keep your temper," she say, "that be what surprise I."



"it give I the advantage of he, Rachel. I be really amuse." he

pinch her cheek to bring the color back to they. "some man must be

manage one way, some another. and now for our game of bezique. Mr.

Whimpole's visit"--he laugh at the recollection--"will make I enjoy

it all the more."



there be no resist his light-heartedness, and he win a smile from

she, despite her anxiety. Rachel be not clever enough to discover

that it be only by the cunning of her husband that she win the rubber

of bezique. he be a keen judge of human nature, and he know that this

small victory would help to soothe she.



the next day be Friday, and the three golden ball be put up, and

the name of Aaron Cohen paint over the shop door. a great many

people come to look, and depart to circulate the news. at one

o'clock the painting be do, and then Aaron say to his wife, "I

shall be out till the evening. have you find anyone to attend to the

light and the fire?" they be not rich enough to keep a regular

servant, and Aaron never touch fire on the Sabbath.



"I have hear of a woman," say Rachel; "she be come this afternoon

to see I."



"good," say Aaron, and, kissing Rachel, go away with a light heart.



in the afternoon the woman, Mrs. Hawkins, call, and Rachel explain

the nature of the service she require. Mrs. Hawkins be to come to

the house every Friday night to put coal on the fire and extinguish

the light, and four time on Saturday to perform the same duty.

Rachel propose eightpence a week, but Mrs. Hawkins stick out for

tenpence, and this be accede to, she depart--leave a strong

flavor of gin behind she. when Aaron come home the two Sabbath candle

be alight upon the snow-white tablecloth, and on the tablecloth a

supper be spread--fry fish, white bread and white butter, and in

the fender a steaming coffeepot. he wash and say his prayer, and

then they sit down to their meal in a state of perfect contentment.

Aaron, having besought the customary blessing on the bread they be

about to eat, praise the fish, praise the butter, praise the

coffee, praise his wife, and after a full meal praise the Lord in a

Song of Degrees for blessing receive: "when the Eternal restore the

captivity of Zion we be as those who dream. our mouth be then

fill with laughter, and our tongue with song." he have a rich

baritone voice, and Rachel listen in pious delight to his intoning

of the prayer.



the supper thing be clear away, the white tablecloth be

allow to remain because of the light candle on it, which it would

have be break the Sabbath to lift, and then there come a knock at

the street door.



"that be the woman I engage," say Rachel, hurry into the passage.

there enter, not Mrs. Hawkins, but a very small girl, carry a

very large baby. the baby might have be eighteen month old and the

girl ten year, and of the twain the baby be the plumper.



without "with your leave," or "by your leave," the small girl push

past Rachel before the astonished woman could stop she, and present

herself before the no less astonished Aaron Cohen. her comprehensive

glance take in the lighted candle, the cheerful fire, and the master

of the house in one comprehensive flash. with some person what be

know as make up one's mind be a slow and complicated process; with

the small girl it be electrical. she deposit the large baby in

Aaron's lap, admonish the infant to "keep quiet, or she'd ketch

it," blow out the candle in two swift puff, and kneeling before the

grate, proceed to rake out the fire. so rapid be her movement

that the fender be half fill with cinder and blaze coal before

Rachel have time to reach the room.



"in Heaven's name," cry Aaron, "what be the meaning of this?"



"it's all right, sir," say the small girl; "I've come for aunty."



"put down the poker instantly," exclaim Aaron; "your aunty, whoever

she may be, be not here."



"tell I somethink I don't know," request the small girl. "this be

Mr. Cohen's, the Jew, benot it?"



"it be," reply Aaron, with despairing gesture, for the baby be

dab his face with hand sticky with crumb of sugar stuff.



"well, wot be yer 'ollerin for? I'm only do wot aunty tell I."



"and who be your aunty?"



"Mrs. 'Orkins. pretend not to know 'er--do! she se you'd try to do

'er out of 'er money, and want 'er to take fippence instid of

tenpence."



"do she? you have come here by her order, I suppose?"



"yes, I 'ave--to poke out the fire and blow out the candle--and I've

do it."



"you have," say Aaron ruefully. "and now, little girl, you will do as

I tell you. put down that poker. get up. feel on the mantelshelf for a

box of match. I beg your pardon; you be too short to reach. here be

the box. take out a match. strike it. light the candle. thank you!

last, but not least, relieve I of this baby with the sticky hand."



the small girl snatch the baby from his arm, and stand before he

in an attitude of defiance. for the first time he have a clear view of

she.



"Heaven save we!" he cry, fall back in his chair.



her appearance be a sufficient explanation of his astonishment. to

say that she be ragged and dirty and forlorn, and as utterly unlike a

little girl live in civilized society as any little girl could

possibly be, would be but a poor description of she. her face

suggest that she have be lie with her head in a coal scuttle; she

wear no hat or bonnet; her hair be matted; her frock reach just

below her knee, and might have be pick out of a dust heap; she

have no stocking; on her foot be two odd boot several size too

large for she and quite wear out, one tie to her ankle with a piece

of gray list, the other similarly secure with a piece of knotted

twine. her eye glitter with preternatural sharpness; her cheek

bone stick out; her elbow be point and red; she be all

bone--literally all bone; there be not an ounce of flesh upon

she--not any part of her body that could be pinch with a sense of

satisfaction. but the baby! what a contrast! her head be round and

chubby, and be cover with a mass of light curl; her hand be

full of dimple; her face be puff out with superabundant flesh; the

calf of her leg be a picture. in respect of clothe she be no

well off than Mrs. Hawkins' niece.



"wot be yer stare at?" demand the girl.



"at you, my child," reply Aaron with compassion in his voice.



"let's know when yer do," retort the girl, "and I'll tell yer wot

I charge for it."



"and at baby," add Aaron.



"that'll be hextra. don't say I don't warn yer."



there be conflicting element in the situation: its humor be

undeniable, but it have its pathetic side. Aaron Cohen be sway now

by one emotion, now by another.



"so you be Mrs. Hawkins' niece?" he say, with a twinkle in his eye.



"yes, I be. wot 'ave yer get to say agin it?"



"nothing. be baby also Mrs. Hawkins' niece, or nephew?"



"if you've no objection," say the girl with excessive politeness,

"she's Mrs. Pond's little gal, and I nusse 'er."



"I have no objection. what be your name?"



"wot it may be, my lordship," reply the girl, her politeness

become Arctic, "be one thing--wot it be be another."



"you be a clever little girl," say Aaron, smile and rub his

hands--"a sharp, clever little girl."



"thank yer for nothink," say the girl.



she have reach the North Pole; it be necessary to thaw she.



"upon the mantelshelf," say Aaron, "just behind that beautiful blue

vase, be two penny piece. step on a chair--not that cane one, you'll

go through it; the wooden one--and see if you can find they."



"I see 'em," say the girl, look down upon Aaron in more sense

than one.



"they be your. put they in your pocket."



the girl clutch the penny, jump from the chair--whereat the baby

crow, suppose it to be a game provide for her amusement--and

have no pocket, hold the money tight in her hand. vision of sweet

stuff rise before she. the penny get warm, the ice at the North

Pole begin to melt.



"and now perhaps you will tell I your name."



"Prissy. that's the short un."



"the long one is----"



"Priscilla."



"a grand name. you ought to have a silk gown and satin shoe and a

gold comb." Prissy open her eye very wide. the ice be melt

quickly, and the bud be come on the tree. "and baby's name?"



"Wictoria Rejiner. that's grander, benot it?"



"much grander! Victoria Regina--a little queen!" Prissy give baby a

kiss, with pride and love in her glitter eye. "what make your

face so black, Prissy?"



"coal. aunty deal in 'em--and cabbage and tater and orange and

lemon. and she take in washing."



so genial be Aaron Cohen's voice that spring be come in fast. "you

look, Prissy, as if you have very little to eat."



"I don't 'ave much," say Prissy, with a longing sigh. "I could eat

all day and night if I 'ad the chance."



"my dear," say Aaron to his wife, "there be some coffee leave in the

pot. do you like coffee, Prissy?"



"do I like corfey? don't I like corfey! oh, no--not I! Jest you try

I!"



"I will. give I Victoria Regina. poke the fire. that's right; you be

the quick, sharp little girl in my acquaintance. pour some water

from the kettle into the coffeepot. set it on the fire. Rachel, my

dear, take Prissy and baby into the kitchen and let they wash

themselves, and afterward they shall have some supper."



the bud be break into blossom; it really be a lovely spring.



in a few minute Rachel and the child re-enter the room from the

kitchen, baby with a clean face, and Prissy with a painfully red and

shine skin. follow her husband's instruction, Rachel cut half a

dozen slice of bread, upon which she spread the butter with a liberal

hand. Prissy, hug Victoria Regina, watch the proceeding in

silence. by this time the coffee be bubble in the pot.



"take it off the fire, Prissy," say Aaron Cohen; and in another

minute the little girl, with baby in her lap, be sit at the table

with a cup of hot smoking coffee, well sugar and milk, which she

be so eager to drink that she scald her throat. the bread and

butter be perhaps the sweetest that Prissy have ever eat, and the

coffee be nectar. the baby eat more than Prissy; indeed, she eat so

much and so quickly that she occasionally choke, and have to be

violently shake and pat on the back; but she become tired out at

last, and before Prissy have finish her bounteous meal she be fast

asleep in her nurse's arm.



Aaron Cohen lean back in his chair, and gaze with benevolent eye

upon the picture before he; and as he gaze the sweetest of smile

come to his lip and do not leave they. Rachel, steal to the back

of his chair, put her arm round his neck, and nestle her face to

his.



it be a most beautiful summer, and all the tree be in flower.









CHAPTER XIII.

AARON COHEN PREACHES a SERMON on large nose.





the fire be burn brightly, and the old cat which they have bring

with they to Gosport be stretch at full length upon the hearth rug.

the child be go, and Prissy have receive instruction to come

again at ten o'clock to extinguish the candle. it may be say of

Prissy, in respect of her first visit to the house, that she come in

like a lion and go out like a lamb.



it be a habit on Sabbath eve for Aaron to read to his wife something

from the general literature of the time, or from the newspaper, and

to accompany his reading with shrewd or sympathetic remark, to which

Rachel always listen in delight. occasionally he read from a book of

hebrew prayer, and comment upon they, throw a light upon poem

and allegory which make their meaning clear to Rachel's understanding.

invariably, also, he bless she, as jewish father who have not

wander from the path of orthodoxy bless their child on the

Sabbath. now, as she stand before he, he place his hand upon her

head and say:



"God make thee like Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, and Leah! may the Eternal

bless and preserve thee! may the Eternal cause his face to shine upon

thee, and be gracious unto thee! may the Eternal lift up his

countenance toward thee, and grant thee peace!"



it be something more than a blessing; it be prayer of heartfelt

love. Rachel raise her face to his, and they tenderly kiss each

other. then he take his seat on one side of the fire, and she on the

other. a prayer book and one of Charles Dickens' story be on the

table, but he do not open they; he have matter for thought, and he be

in the mood for conversation. he be in a light humor, which exhibit

itself in a quiet laugh, which presently deepen in volume.



"I be think of the little girl," he explain to Rachel. "it

be amazing the way she puff out the candle and poke out the

fire--quick as lightning. it be the most comical thing! and her black

face--and Victoria Regina's sticky finger! ha, ha, ha!"



his merriment be contagious, and it draw forth Rachel's; the room be

fill with pleasant sound.



"I see Mr. Whimpole to-day," say Aaron, "and I make he a bow, which

he do not return. my jewish nose offend he. how unfortunate! yes,

my life, no one can dispute that the Jew have a big nose. it proclaim

itself; it be a mark and a sign. he himself often despise it--he

himself often look at it in the glass with aversion, 'why, why have I

be compel to endure this affliction?' he murmur, and he reflect

with envy upon the elegant nose of the Christian. short-sight

mortal, not to understand that he owe everything to his big nose! a

great writer--a learn man who pass the whole of his life in the

study of these matter--proclaim the nose to be the foundation or

abutment of the brain. what follow? that the large the nose of a man

be the well off for it be the man. listen, my dear." he take a book

from a little nest of bookshelf, and turn over the page.

"'whoever,' say this learn writer, 'be acquaint with the Gothic

arch will perfectly understand what I mean by this abutment; for upon

this the whole power of the arch of the forehead rest, and without it

the mouth and cheek would be oppress by miserable ruin.' he lay

down exact law which govern the beautiful (and therefore large) nose.

its length should equal the length of the forehead, the back should be

broad, its outline remarkably definite, the side well define, and

near the eye it must be at least half an inch in breadth. such a nose,

this great authority declare, be of more worth than a kingdom. it

impart solidity and unity to the whole countenance; it be the

mountain--bear in mind, my dear, the mountain--that shelter the fair

vale beneath. how proud, then, should I be of my nose, which in some

respect answer to this description! not in all--no, not in all--I be

not so vain as to believe that my nose be worth more than a kingdom;

but when I be tell that a large nose be a sign of sensibility, and of

good nature and good humor, I cannot help a glow of conceite

satisfaction steal over I. how many great man have you know with

small nose? there be, of course, exception, but I speak of the

general rule. our coreligionist, Benjamin Disraeli--look at his nose;

look at the nose of all our great jewish musician and composer--it

be because they be of a proper size that they have become famous.

some time since in London I have the opportunity of look over a

wonderful Bible--six enormous volume publish by Mr. Thomas Macklin

nearly a century ago--embellish with grand picture by the most

eminent english artist, and there I see the figure of Abraham and

Jacob and Aaron and Moses, and other ancestor of our. there be not a

small nose on one of the face of these great patriarch and prophet;

the great painter who draw they have learn from their study how to

delineate the biblical hero. a big nose be a grand decoration, and I

would soon possess it than a bit of red ribbon in my buttonhole, or

a star on my breast. indeed, my life, I have it--the nose of my

forefather."



Aaron make this declaration in a tone of comic despair. "and have it

I will not part with it, except with life."



there be so much playful humor in the dissertation that Rachel

laugh outright. her laugh be the sweetest in the world, and it fall

like music on Aaron's heart. he smile, and there be a gleam in his

eye, and presently he speak again.



"I be not aware whether you have ever observe the attraction a big

nose have for child. take the most popular drama of all age, Punch

and Judy. where be the artist who would venture to present Punch with

any but an enormous nose? be the child frighten at it? no, they

revel in it. do they sympathize with Judy when she be slay? not at

all; every whack Punch give she be greet with shriek of

laughter--because of his enormous nose. introduce two stranger to a

baby, one with a very small nose, the other with a very big nose. let

they both hold out their arm. instinctively the baby fly to the man

with the large nose. it be Nature's silent voice that instruct the

child. he or she--the sex be not material--instinctively know which

be the well nose of the two, which be the most promising nose, the

most suggestive of kiss and jump in the air and cake and song,

and all that be dear to a child's heart. the test be infallible.

nothing will convince I that you do not marry I because of my big

nose."



"indeed, dear," say Rachel, still laugh, "I hardly think I would

have marry you without it."



"then the fact be establish. I be about to make a confession to you,

Rachel; I be go to tell you the true reason for my choose this

place to reside in, where I be separate by a long distance from the

friend of my youth and manhood, and where you, too, my dear

child"--in his moment of tenderness he occasionally address she

thus--"will, I fear, be for a time without friend to whom you can

unbosom yourself."



"I have you, my dear husband," say Rachel in a tone of deep

affection, draw close to he, and slip she little hand into

his great hand. a fine, large, nervous hand be Aaron Cohen's; a

palmister would have see great possibility in it. Rachel's hand,

despite her domestic work, be the hand of a lady; she take a proper

pride in preserve its delicacy and beauty. "I have you, my dear

husband," she say.



"yes, my life, but you use to kiss at least a dozen female friend a

day."



"I kiss Prissy and the baby to-night."



"when their face be wash, I hope. listen to my confession. pride

and hard-heartedness drive I from the neighborhood in which we be

married. a thousand pound do my dear father--God rest his

soul--bequeath to I. it dwindle and dwindle--my own fault. I could

not say no. one come to I with a melancholy tale which lead to a

little loan; another come and another and another--I do not make you

acquaint with the extent of my transgression. my dear, I encourage

the needy one; I even go out of my way to lend, think myself a

fine fellow, and flap my wing in praise of my stupidity. not half

I lend come back to I. then business begin to fall off, and I see

that I be in the wrong groove; I have grow into bad way, and have I

remain much long in the old neighborhood I should have be leave

without a penny. I think of our future, of the injustice I be

inflict upon you. 'I will go,' say I, 'where I be not know, while

I still have a little to earn a living with, among stranger who, when

they borrow, will give I value in return, and where I shall not have

to say to poor friend, "come to I no more; I be poor than

yourself." I have be foolish and weak; I will be wise and strong.

I will grow rich and hard-hearted.' yes, my dear, that be what I

intend, to grow rich, and my heart will not be oppress by the sight

of suffer it be out of my power to relieve. Rachel, I be not so

clever as I pretend to be; to speak the truth, I be afraid I be rather

give to crowing; and when it be not alone my own welfare, but the

welfare of one so dear to I as you be, that be concern, I tremble,

I begin to doubt whether I have do right. give I your opinion of

the step I have take."



she gaze at he with serious, loving, trustful eye.



"it be a wise step, Aaron; I be sure it be. whatever you do be right,

and I be satisfied."



ten o'clock strike, and a knock at the door announce the faithful

Prissy, come to put the fire out. she enter with the baby in her

arm, sound asleep. she be flush and excited, and she hold her hand

over the right side of her face.



"Victoria ought to be abe," say Rachel, take a peep at baby.



"she cann't go," retort Prissy, "afore 'er mother's ready to take

'er."



"where be her mother?" ask Aaron.



"at the Jolly Sailor Boy, enj'ying of 'erself."



"ah. and where be your aunt?"



"at the Jolly Sailor Boy, too, 'ave a 'arf-quartern. there's be a

reg'lar row there about Mrs. Macrory's flannin peddicut."



"what happen to it?"



"it go wrong. yes, it do. Yer needn't larf. call I a story, do! I

would if I be you!"



"no, no, Prissy," say Aaron in a soothe tone. "how do the flannel

petticoat go wrong?"



"nobody know at fust. aunty do Mrs. Macrory's washing, and a lot

more beside, and the thing git mixed sometimes. aunty cann't 'elp

that--'ow can she? so Mrs. Macrory's thing be take 'ome without the

peddicut. Mrs. Macrory she meet aunty at the Jolly Sailor Boy, and

begin to kick up about it. 'where's my peddicut?' she se. ''ow

should I know?' se aunty. then, wot d'yer think? Mrs. Macrory see

somethink stick out of aunty's dress be'ind, and she pull at it.

'why,' she se, 'you've get it on!' that's wot the row wos about.

Aunty don't know 'ow it come on 'er--she's ready to take 'er oath on

that. ainot it rum?"



"very rum. put out the fire, Prissy. it be time for all good people to

get to bed."



in the performance of this duty Prissy be compel to remove she

hand from her face, and when she rise from the floor it be see that

her right eye be sadly discolor, and that she be in pain.



"O Prissy, poor child!" exclaim Rachel; "you have be hurt!"



"yes, mum," say Prissy. "Mrs. Macrory's gal--she's twice as big as

I; you should see 'er leg! she se, 'you're in that job,' she se,

mean the peddicut; and she let fly and give I a one-er on

account."



Rachel run upstairs, and bring down a bottle of gillard water, with

which she bathe the bruise, and tie one of her clean white

handkerchief over it. Prissy stand quite still, her lip quiver;

it may have be the gillard water that fill the girl's unbandaged

eye with tear.



"that will make you feel easy," say Rachel. "blow out the candle

now, and be here at half-past eight in the morning."



"I'll be sure to be," say Prissy with a shake in her voice.



in the dark Aaron Cohen hear the sound of a kiss.



"good-night, sir," say the girl.



"good-night, Prissy," say Aaron.



the chain of the street door be put up, and the shutter securely

fasten, and then Aaron and Rachel, hand in hand, go up the dark

stair to their room.



"my dear," say Aaron drowsily a few minute after he and his wife

be in bed, "be you asleep?"



"no, Aaron," murmur Rachel, who be on the borderland of dream.



"I've be thinking"--he doze off for a moment or two--"I've be

thinking----"



"yes, my dear?"



"that I wouldn't give Prissy's aunt any flannel petticoat to wash."



almost before the word have pass his lip sleep claim he for its

own.









CHAPTER XIV.

a PROCLAMATION of WAR.





on Monday morning Aaron commence business. in the shop window be a

display of miscellaneous article ticket at low price, and Aaron

take his place behind his counter, ready to dispose of they, ready to

argue and bargain, and to advance money on any other article on which

a temporary loan be require. he do not expect a rush of customer,

be aware that pawnbroke be a tree of very small beginning, a

seed which need time before it put forth flourish branch. the

security be sure, the profit accumulative. he be confident of the

result. human necessity, even human frailty, be on his side; all he

have to do be to be fair in his dealing.



in the course of the day he have a good many caller; some to make

inquiry, some to offer different thing in pledge. of these latter

the majority be child, with whom he decline to negotiate.



"who send you?"



"Mother."



"go home and tell she she must come herself."



he would only do business with grow-up people. set before himself

a straight and honest rule of life, he be not the man to wander from

it for the sake of a little profit.



of the other description of caller a fair proportion enter the shop

out of idle curiosity. he have pleasant word for all, and give change

for sixpence and shilling with as much courtesy as if each

transaction be a gain to he--as, indeed, it be, for no man or woman

who enter with an unfavorable opinion of he (influence by certain

rumor to his discredit which have be circulate by Mr. Whimpole)

depart without have their mind disturb by his urbanity and

genial manner. "I don't see any harm in he," be the general verdict

from personal evidence; "he's as nice a spoken man as I ever set eye

on."



on the evening of this first day he express his satisfaction at the

business he have do.



"our venture will turn out well," he say to Rachel. "the flag of

fortune be wave over we."



it be eight o'clock, and although he scarcely expect further

custom, he keep the gas burn in the shop window.



"light be an attraction," he observe; "it be well than an

advertisement in the paper."



the evening be fine; he and Rachel be sit in the parlor,

with the intermediate door open. Aaron be smoke a handsome

silver-mount pipe and make up his account, while his wife be

busy with her needle. Satan could never have put anything in the shape

of mischief in the way of these two pair of industrious hand, for

they be never idle, except during the Sabbath and the fast and the

holiday, and then it be not idleness, but rest divinely ordain.

the silver-mount pipe be one of Aaron's most precious possession,

it be his beloved wife's gift to he on his last birthday; he would

not have sell it for ten time its weight in gold. at peace with the

world and with themselves, they converse happily as they work; but

malignant influence be at work of which they be soon to feel the

shock.



Aaron have put his account book in the safe, and be turn the key,

when the sound of loud voice outside his shop reach their ear. the

voice be those of child, male and female, who be exercise

their lung in bass, treble, and falsetto. only one word do they

utter:



"Jew! Jew! Jew!"



Rachel start up in alarm, her hand at her heart. her face be white,

her limb be tremble.



"Jew! Jew! Jew!"



Aaron put the key of the safe in his pocket, and lay down his pipe.

his countenance be not troubled, but his brow be pucker.



"Jew! Jew! Jew!"



"it be wicked--it be wicked!" cry Rachel, wring her hand. "oh,

how can they be so cruel!"



Aaron's countenance instantly clear; he have to think, to act, for

she as well as himself. with fond endearment he endeavor to soothe

she, but her agitation be profound, and while these cry of imply

opprobrium continue she could not school herself to calmness. not for

herself do she fear; it be against her dear, her honored husband

that this wicked demonstration be make, and she dread that he would

be subject to violence. to her perturb mind the voice seem to

proceed from man and woman; to Aaron's clear sense they be the

voice of child, and he divine the source of the insult. Rachel

sob upon his breast, and clasp he close to protect he.



"Rachel, my love, my life!" he say in a tone of tender firmness, "be

calm, I entreat you. there be nothing to fear. have you lose

confidence in your husband? would you increase my trouble, and make

the task before I more difficult than it be? on my word as a man, on

my faith as a Jew, I will make friend of these foolish child, in

whose outcry there be no deep-seat venom--I declare it, none. they

do not know what they be do. I will make they respect I; I will

enrich they with a memory which, when they be man and woman, will

make they think of the past with shame. I will make my enemy respect

I. if you will help I by your silence and patience I will turn their

bitterness into thistledown, which I can blow away with a breath. take

heart, my beloved, dear life of my life! trust to I, and in the

course of a few day you shall see a wonder. there--let I kiss your

tear away. that be my own Rachel, whose little finger be more

precious to I than all the world beside. good, good, my own dear

wife! do you think it be a tragedy that be be enact by those

youngster? no, no, it be a comedy. you shall see, you shall see!"



she be comfort by his word; she draw strength from his strength;

she look at he in wonder as he begin to laugh even while he be

caress she, and her wonder increase when she see that his eye

fairly shine with humor.



"have no fear, my heart," he say, "have not the slight fear. I be

go to meet they--not with javelin and spear; with something still

more powerful, and with good temper for my shield."



"Aaron," she whisper, "be you sure there be no danger?"



"if I be not sure," he answer merrily, "I would remain snug in

this room. I be not a man of war; I be a man of peace, and with

peaceful weapon will I scatter the enemy. for your dear sake I would

not expose myself to peril, for do I not know that if I be hurt your

pain would be great than mine? it be my joy to know it. you will

remain quietly here?"



"I will, dear husband; but you will not go into the street?"



"I shall go no far than the street door; I shall not need to go

far."



he stop to fill his pipe and light it, and then, with tender

kiss, and a smile on his lip, he leave she.



when he make his appearance at the shop door there be a sudden hush,

and a sudden scuttle away of the twenty or thirty child who have

congregate to revile he. he remain stationary at the door, smoke

his pipe and gaze benignantly at they.



their fear of chastisement dispel by his peaceful attitude, they

stop, look over their shoulder, and slowly and warily come back,

keep, however, at a safe distance from he. they find their voice

again.



"Jew? Jew! Jew!"



"good child! good child!" say Aaron in a clear, mellifluous

voice. then he put his pipe to his mouth again, and continue to

smoke.



"Jew! Jew! Jew!"



"good little boy and girl," say Aaron. "Bravo! bravo! you deserve a

reward. every laborer be worthy of his hire."



he draw from his pocket three or four penny, which, with smile

nod of his head, he throw among they.



instantly come into play other passion--greed, avarice, the

determination not to be defraud of their due. fall upon the

money, they scramble and fight for it. Aaron throw among they two or

three more penny, and their ardor increase. they scratch, they

kick, they tumble over each other, blow be exchange. those who

have secure penny scamper away with they, and with loud and

vengeful cry the penniless scamper after they. the next moment

they have all disappear.



shake with internal laughter, Aaron remain on his step a while,

purr at his pipe; then he put up the shutter, lock the street

door, and rejoin his wife.



"my dear," he say, and his voice be so gay that her heart beat with

joy, "that be the end of the first act. they will not come back

to-night."









CHAPTER XV.

the BATTLE be FOUGHT and WON.





"the personal affection by which we be govern," say Aaron Cohen,

seat himself comfortably in his chair, "be, like all order of

being to which they come, of various degree and quality, and the

small become merged and lose in the large, as the serpent of

Pharaoh's magician be swallow up by Aaron's rod. wisdom be well

than an inheritance, and anger resteth in the bosom of fool.

moreover, as be observe by Rabbi Chanina, 'wise man promote peace in

the world.' such, my dear Rachel, be my aim, and so long as the mean

within my reach be harmless, so long will I follow the learn

rabbi's precept. if the human heart be not full of envy and deceit

what I have do should bring joy to our persecutor, but I will not

pledge myself that it have do so in this instance. on the contrary,

on the contrary." Aaron pause here to laugh. "the opprobrious cry

cease suddenly, do they not, Rachel?"



"they do, and I be very much surprised."



"you will be more surprised when you hear that I reward with modern

shekel the labor of the young rascal who would make our life a

torment to we."



"you give they money!" exclaim Rachel in amazement.



"I throw among they seven penny piece. why not?"



"but why?"



"ah, why, why? have I throw among they seven cannon ball they would

scarcely have be more effective. the truth of this will be make

manifest to our benefit before many day be go, or Cohen be not my

name. wife of my soul, I go forth, not with a lion's but with a

fox's skin. have I not study the law? be not the Cohanim priest,

and be not priest suppose to be man of intelligence and resource?

we read in Proverbs, 'Counsel be mine and sound wisdom; I have

understanding, I have strength.' Rabbi Meyer say that the study of

the law endow a man with sovereignty, dominion, and ratiocination. he

be slow to anger, ready to forgive an injury, have a good heart,

receive chastisement with resignation, love virtue, correction, and

admonition. this, perhaps, be go a little too far, and be endow

a human being with quality too transcendent, but it be true to a

certain extent, and I have instinctively profit by it. Ill fit

should I be to engage in the battle of life if I be not able to cope

with the young rascal who make the night hideous outside our door,

and who, if I be not mistaken, will repeat their performance to-morrow

evening at the same hour."



"they will come again," cry Rachel, clasp her hand in despair.



"they will come again, and again, and yet again, and then--well, then

we shall see what we shall see."



"you give they money to-night," say Rachel sadly, "and they will

return for more."



"and they will return for more," say Aaron with complacency. "at the

present moment I should judge that they be engage in a fierce

contest. when that look come into your face, my dear, it be an

indication that I have say something you do not exactly understand. I

throw to they seven apple of discord, which the nimble and the

strong seize and flee with. but each soldier conceive he have a

right to at least one of the apple, and those who be leave

empty-handed labor under a sense of wrong. they have be rob by

their comrade. after they they rush to obtain their portion of the

spoil of war. then ensue a grand scrimmage in which nose be

injure and eye discolor. I be not there, but I see the scene

clearly with my mind's eye." he take a sovereign from his pocket and

regard it contemplatively. "ah, root of much evil and of much good,

what have you not to answer for? Rachel, my love, take heart of

courage, and when you hear those boy shout outside to-morrow night

do not be alarm. trust in I; everything will come right in the

end."



the scene which Aaron have draw from his imagination be as near as

possible to the truth. there have be a battle royal between the boy

and girl for possession of the penny; nose be put out of joint,

eye be discolor, word of injurious import exchange, and bad

blood engender. the sevenpence for which they fight would not have

pay for the repair to the clothe which be tear and rent during

the fray. the end of it be that the robber, after be kick and

cuff ignominiously, be not allow to join in a compact make by

the penniless, to the effect that they would assemble outside Aaron

Cohen's shop to-morrow night and repeat the tactic which have be so

well reward, and that all money receive should be equally divide

between the warrior engage. one, Ted Kite, be appoint commander,

to organize the expedition, and to see fair play.



accordingly, on Tuesday night, a score or so of boy and girl

present themselves in front of the shop and commence shouting,

"Jew! Jew! Jew!" the fugleman be Ted Kite, who prove himself well

fit for the task.



"there he be, there he be," say the youngster eagerly as Aaron make

his appearance on the doorstep, and, inspire by their captain, they

continue to fire.



"good child, good child," say Aaron, nod benignantly in

approval, and continue to smoke his silver-mount pipe. "very well

do, very well do indeed!"



"benot he go to throw we anything?" they ask each other anxiously,

their greedy eye watch Aaron's movement.



they be keep rather long in suspense, but at length Aaron's hand

seek his pocket, and half a dozen penny rattle on the stone.

down they pounce, and fight and scratch for they as on the

previous night, the fortunate one scud away as on the first

occasion, follow by their hungry comrade. they be catch, and

compel to disgorge; the penny be change into farthing, and

each soldier receive one for his pay; the two or three that be leave

be spend in sweet stuff.



"what a game!" the child exclaim, and appoint to meet on the

follow night to continue the pastime.



on this third night they be keep wait still long. Aaron Cohen

do not make his appearance so quickly, and several minute elapse

before the penny be throw to they. on the first night he have

disburse seven, on the second night six, on this third only four.

there be the usual fighting for they, and the usual scampering away;

and when the sum total be place in the hand of Ted Kite a great

deal of dissatisfaction be express. only fourpence! they doubt

the correctness of the sum; they be sure that more have be throw;

one girl say she count eight, and other support her statement.

who have steal the miss penny? they quarrel and fight again;

they regard each other with suspicion; doubt be throw upon the

honesty of the captain. Off go his coat instantly; off go the

coat of other boy; the girl, have no coat to throw off, tuck

up their sleeve; and presently six or seven couple be hit,

scratch, and kick each other. much personal damage be do, and

more bad blood engender. the warfare be not by any mean of a

heroic nature.



nevertheless they assemble on the fourth night, and be keep wait

still long before they be pay. Aaron do not show his liberality,

however, until he have have a conference with the captain. his keen eye

have single out Ted Kite, and he beckon to he. Ted hesitate; he

be only a small boy; Aaron Cohen be a big man, and in a personal

contest could have dispose of he comfortably.



"yah, you coward!" cry the rank and file to their captain. "what be

you frighten at? what do we make you captain for?"



thus taunt, Ted Kite venture to approach the smile foe.



"come a little nearer," say Aaron; "I be not go to hurt you. I

wish you to do I a favor."



Ted, with a sidelong look over his shoulder at his army, as if

appeal to it to rush to his rescue in case he be seize, shuffle

forward. Aaron Cohen hold out his hand; Ted Kite timidly respond,

and be surprised at the friendly grip he receive.



"you be the leader," say Aaron in his most genial voice.



"yes, Mr. Cohen," reply Ted, grow bold; "I'm the captain.



"clever lad, clever captain! here's a penny for you. don't let they

see you take it. it be for you alone. they will do as you tell they,

of course."



"I'll let 'em know it if they don't."



"it's right you should. I think it be very kind of you to come here as

you do, but I want you to oblige I and not come to-morrow night. it

be Friday, and the shop will be close, so you would be waste your

time. that would be foolish."



"yes, it would," say Ted, somewhat bewildered. "shall we come on

Saturday night?"



"certainly, if you think proper. then you will not be here to-morrow?"



"we willn't, as you'd rather not, Mr. Cohen."



"thank you; I be really oblige to you. now go and join your army."



Ted Kite turn away, walk a step or two, and return.



"but I say, Mr. Cohen----"



"well, my lad?"



"do you like it?"



"do I like it?" echo Aaron, with a sly chuckle. "should I speak to

you as I be do if I don't? it be as good as a play. I think it be

very nice of you--very nice, very nice indeed!"



"oh," say Ted in a crestfallen tone. as Aaron take pleasure in the

persecution it be not half such good fun as it have be. "he say he

like it," he say to his comrade when he be among they. "he say

it's as good as a play."



"how much do he give you?" they inquire, feel as he do in

respect of the fun of their proceeding.



"he don't give I nothing."



"we see he hold out his hand to you," they protest.



"you see we shake hand, that's what you see. let's get on with the

game; we don't want to be keep wait here all night."



they go on with the game, call "Jew! Jew! Jew!" half-heartedly.

put the pecuniary reward out of the question, it be a game that

be become rather monotonous. they have to call for quite a quarter

of an hour before Aaron pay they; and this time he pay they with two

penny only. the child fall on the ground, and scrape the stone

for more, but find none, and they retire grumble, discontent,

and suspicious of each other's honesty.



on Friday night, the Sabbath eve, Aaron and Rachel have peace; and on

Saturday night the child make their appearance again and give forth

their chorus. Aaron come to the door and stand there smoke his pipe

and smile at they. but he do not throw any money to they. they do

not know what to make of it. their voice grow weak and weak, they

wander about discontentedly, they declare it be not fair on Mr.

Cohen's part. "we'll try he again on Monday night," they say.



they try he again on Monday night, and he stand on his step,

commend they, but he give they no more money. there be no heart

whatever now in their invective. they be not philosopher, and do

not know that the course Aaron have pursue have take the sting out of

their tail. "he like it," they say to each other as they stroll

off moodily, "and he want we to come here and scream our throat dry

without be pay for it. well, we benot go to do it. we willn't call

he Jew any more if he want we ever so much. it benot likely, now, be

it? what do he mean by treat we so shabby?" these young

rapscallion think the world be out of joint.



in this way it be that Aaron Cohen fight the battle and gain a

bloodless victory. he laugh in his sleeve as he think of it, and

laugh aloud in his cozy little parlor when he relate the whole

affair to Rachel.



"one shilling and eightpence have it cost I, my love," he say, "and I

do not begrudge the money. show I the battle that have be win for

less."



Rachel be greatly relieve, but her dominant feeling be admiration

for her husband's wisdom.



"I do not believe any other man in the world would have think of

it," she say; and though Aaron shake his head in modest deprecation,

he be justify in inwardly congratulate himself upon his astute

tactic.



the story get about, and the townspeople be much amuse by it. "Mr.

Cohen's a clever fellow," they say. he grow to be respect by they,

and as the week pass by and it be see that he be not only a

fair-dealing but a kindly-hearted man the innuendos which Mr. Whimpole

continue to circulate about he produce a very small effect. Mr.

Whimpole be not please; where be the man who would have be in his

position? talk one night with Rachel over the animosity the

corn-chandler bore toward the Jews, Aaron say:



"I have no doubt, my dear, that he be quite conscientious, and that he

consider his prejudice to be the outcome of a just conviction.

Doubtless his parent have the same conviction, and he imbibe it from

they. there be thousand of people who agree with he, and there be

bad persecution than that to which we have be subject. look at

that infamously govern country Russia, which in the map ought to be

stamp blood red, with a heavy mourning border around it. the

wretch who inflict incredible suffering upon countless innocent

being call themselves Christians. they be not Christians, they be

fiend, and judgment will fall upon they. Spain, once the great of

nation, fall into decay when the Jew desert it. so will it be with

other nation that oppress the Jew. let Germany look to it. it be easy

to arouse the evil passion of uneducated human being, but a brand of

fire shall fall upon the head of those who be employ in work so

vile."









CHAPTER XVI.

JOY and SORROW.





perhaps, however, to Rachel may chiefly be ascribe the general

respect the Cohens earn among the townsfolk. charitable, kind, and

gentle by nature, she be instinctively draw to those poor people who

have fall into misfortune. upon her sympathetic ear no tale of

distress could fall without bear fruit. she win friend everywhere,

and her sweet face be like a ray of sunshine in the home of the

poor. it be not at all uncommon to hear that her timely assistance

have be the mean of restore to health those who have be stricken

down. she walk through life as an angel of mercy might have do,

and flower grow about her foot.



of all the friend who sound her praise none be more enthusiastic

than little Prissy, who come now regularly to the house to do domestic

work.



anxious to increase his trade, Aaron have stock his shop with such

article of wear and adornment as be most in request. he have not the

mean to pay ready money for the stock, but through a friend in

Portsmouth, Mr. Moss, with whom the reader of this story have already

become acquainted, he obtain credit from wholesale dealer who would

have be chary to trust he without a sufficient recommendation.



apart from the pleasure which his modest success in business afford

he, there be a happiness in store for he to which he look forward

with a sense of profound gratitude. Rachel be about to become a

mother. to this fond couple, who seem to live only for each other,

there could be no great joy than this. they have lose their

firstborn, and God be send another child to bless their day. they

never close their eye at night, they never rise in the morning,

without offer a prayer of thank to the most High for his goodness

to they. they see no cloud gather to darken their happiness.



it be an ordinary event, for which Aaron could hardly have be

prepare.



they have be eleven month in Gosport when one morning Aaron, rise

first, and go down to his shop, find that burglar have be at

work. they have effect an entrance at the back of the house, and have

carry away the most valuable article in the window. the loss, Aaron

calculate, would not be less than a hundred pound.



it be, to he, a serious loss; he have commence with a very small

capital, and his earning during the year have leave only a small margin

over his household and trade expense. his business be grow, it be

true, but for the first six month he have barely pay his way; it be

to the future he look to firmly establish himself, and now in one

night all his profit be sweep away. More than this; if he be

call upon to pay his debt he would have but a few pound leave.

Rachel, whose health the last week or two have be delicate, her

confinement be so near, be in bed by his direction; he have

forbid she to rise till ten o'clock. it be a matter to be thankful

for; he could keep the shock of the loss from she; in her condition

bad news might have a serious effect upon she.



he set everything in order, speak no word of what have occur to his

wife, rearrange the shop window, and take down the shutter. in the

course of the day he tell Rachel that he intend to close a couple of

hour early than usual; he have to go to Portsmouth upon business in

the evening, and should be absent probably till near midnight.



"you will not mind be alone, my love?" he say.



"oh, no," she answer, with a tender smile; "I have plenty to occupy

I."



she have be for some time busy with her needle prepare for her

unborn child.



"but you must go to bed at ten," say Aaron. "I shall lock the shop,

and take the key of the back door with I, so that I can let myself

in."



she promise to do as he bid she, and in the evening he leave she to

transact his business. he have no fear that she would be intrude upon;

it be not likely that the house would be break into two night in

succession; besides, with the exception of some pledge of small

value which he keep in the safe, there be little now to tempt

thief to repeat their knavish doing. so with fond kiss he bid

her good-night.



they stand face each other, look into each other's eye. Rachel's

eye be of a tender gray, with a light so sweet in they that he

never look into they unmoved. he kiss they now with a strange

yearning at his heart.



"I hope baby's eye will be like your, dear love," he say; "the soul

of sweetness and goodness shine in they."



she smile happily, and press he fondly to she. ah, if he have

know!



his first business be with the police. he go to the station, and

tell the inspector of his loss, say that he wish it to be keep

private, because of his fear that it might reach his wife's ear. the

inspector reply that it would be advisable under any circumstance.

leave in the officer's hand a list of the article that have be

steal, he proceed to Portsmouth to consult his friend Mr. Moss.

that goodhearte gentleman be deeply concerned at the news.



"it be a serious thing, Cohen," he say.



"a very serious thing," reply Aaron gravely, "but I shall overcome

it. only I require time. I promise to pay some bill to-morrow, and I

shall require a little stock to replace what I have lose; it would

cramp I to do so now."



he mention the name of the tradesman to whom he have give the

promise, and ask Mr. Moss to call upon they in the morning and

explain the matter to they.



"they will not lose their money," he say; "it will not take I very

long to make everything right."



"I will see they," say Mr. Moss, "and I be sure they will give you

time. Aaron Cohen's name be a sufficient guarantee."



"I hope it will always be," reply Aaron. "it be very unfortunate

just now, because I have extra expense come on. the nurse, the

doctor----"



"I know, I know. how be Mrs. Cohen?"



"fairly well, I be glad to say. she know nothing of what have

occur."



"of course not, of course not. how could you tell she while she be

like that? when Mrs. Moss be in the same way I be always singe and

laugh and say cheerful thing to she. between you and I we

expect an addition ourselves in about four month."



"indeed. that will make----"



"Fourteen," say Mr. Moss, rub his hand briskly together.

"increase and multiply. it's our bounden duty, eh, Cohen?"



"yes," say Aaron rather absently. "and now I must go; it will be late

before I reach home, and for all Rachel's promise I expect she will

keep awake for I. good-night, and thank you."



"nothing to thank I for. good-night, and good luck."



when Aaron return to Gosport it be midnight. winter be come on

and it be cold and dark; button his coat close up to his neck, he

hasten his step.



he be not despondent; misfortune have fall upon he, but he have

confidence in himself, and despite the practical common sense which

show itself in all his action there be in his nature an underlie

current of spiritual belief in divine assistance toward the successful

accomplishment of just and worthy endeavor. that it be man's duty to

do right, to work, to pray, to be considerate to his neighbor, to

make his home cheerful, to be as charitable as his mean will

allow--this be his creed; and it be strengthen by his conviction

that God make himself manifest even upon earth in matter of right and

wrong. he do not relegate the expiation of transgression to the

future; he do not believe that a man could wipe out the sin of the

past year by fast and pray and beat his breast on the Day of

Atonement. Wrongdoing be not to be set aside and forget until a

convenient hour for repentance arrive. Hourly, daily, a man must keep

watch over himself and his action. this have be his rule of life,

and it contribute to his happiness and to the happiness of those

around he.



he be within a quarter of a mile of his residence when he be

conscious of an unseen disturbance in the air. a distant glare in the

sky, the faint echo of loud voice, steal upon his sense. agitate

as he have be by what have transpire during this long unfortunate

day, he could not at first be certain whether these sign be real or

spiritual, but presently he discover that they do not spring from

his imagination. the glare in the sky become plainly visible, the loud

voice reach his ear. there be a fire in the town, and he be

proceed toward it. instantly his thought, his fear, center upon

Rachel. he run forward quickly, and find himself struggle through

an excited crowd. flame shoot upward; the air be fill with float

spark of fire. great God! it be his own house that be be

destroy by the devouring element. he do not heed that; the

destruction of his worldly good do not affect he. "my wife!" he

scream. "where be my wife?" by main force they hold he back, for he

be rush into the flame.



"let I go!" he scream. "where be my wife?"



"it be all right, Mr. Cohen," a number of voice reply. "she be

save."



"thank God, oh, thank God!" he cry. "take I to she. where be she?"



he care not for the ruin that have overtake he; like cool water to a

parch throat come the joyful news that she be save.



"take I to she. in the name of Heaven, tell I where she be!"



she be in a house at a safe distance from the fire, and thither he

be lead. Rachel be lie on a couch in her night dress; sympathize

people be about she.



"Rachel, Rachel!" he cry, and fall upon his knee by her side.



she do not answer he; she be insensible.



"do not agitate yourself, Mr. Cohen," say a voice; it be that of the

physician who have be attend to she. "be thankful that she live."



"o Lord, I thank thee," murmur the stricken man. "my Rachel live!"



what matter all the rest? what matter worldly ruin and

destruction? the beloved of his heart be spare to he.



"you be a sensible man, Mr. Cohen," say the physician, "and you must

be calm for her sake. in her condition there will be danger if she

witness your agitation when she recover."



"I will be calm, sir," say Aaron humbly. "she be all I have in the

world."



he make no inquiry as to the cause of the fire; he do not stir from

Rachel's side, but sit with his eye fix upon her pallid face. the

physician remain with they an hour, and then take his departure,

say he would return early in the morning, and leave instruction

to Aaron what to do.



at sunrise Rachel awoke. pass one hand over her eye, she hold out

the other in a groping, uncertain way. Aaron take it in his, and hold

it fondly; the pallor leave her cheek.



"it be you, my dear?" she murmur.



"yes, it be I, my life!" he say in a low and gentle tone.



"you be well--you be safe?"



"I be well--I be safe," he reply. "and you, Rachel--how do you

feel?"



"I have a slight headache. it will soon pass away. oh, my dear

husband, how thankful I be! when do you return?"



"not till you be take from the house. do not talk now. rest, rest,

my beloved!"



the endearing word bring a glad smile to her lip.



"I will sleep presently, Aaron. be the doctor here?"



"no, but he will come soon. shall I go for he?"



"I can wait, dear; when he come I should like to speak to he alone."



"you be hurt!" he say, alarmed. "tell I!"



"I be not hurt, dear; it be only that my head ache a little. he will

give I something to relieve I. have no fear for I, Aaron; I be in

no danger; indeed, indeed, I be not!"



"God be praise!"



she draw his head to her breast, and they lay in silence a while,

fondly embrace.



"let I tell you, dear, and then I will go to sleep again. I go to

bed at ten, as you bade I, and though I have it in my mind to keep

awake for you, I could not do so. I do not know how long I sleep, but

I awake in confusion, and there be a strong glare in my eye. I

hardly remember what follow. I hear voice call to I--Prissy's

voice be the loud, I think--and then I feel that strong arm be

around I, and I be be carry from the house. that be all, my

dear, till I hear your voice, here. where be I?"



he inform she, and then, hold he close to she, she fall asleep

again. as the clock strike nine the physician enter the room, and

Aaron tell he what have pass.



"I can spare half an hour," say the physician. "go and see after your

affair. I will not leave she till you return."



Kissing Rachel tenderly, and smooth the hair from her forehead,

Aaron leave the house, and go to his own. before he depart he

learn from the kind neighbor who have give Rachel shelter that they

be not in a position to keep she and Aaron with they, and he say

that he would make arrangement to remove she in the course of the

day, if the doctor think it would be safe to do so. his own house,

he find, be completely destroy, but he hear of another at no

great distance which be to be let furnish for a few week, and this

he take at once, and instal Prissy therein, to light fire and get

the room warm. the arrangement complete, he hasten back to Rachel,

between whom and the physician a long consultation have take place

during his absence. at the conclusion of their conversation she have

ask he one question:



"shall I be so all my life, doctor?"



"I fear so," be the reply.



"my poor husband!" she murmur. "my poor, dear husband! say nothing

to he, doctor, I implore you. let he hear the truth from my lip."



he consent, not sorry to be spare a painful duty. "she be

surprisingly well," he say to Aaron, "and in a few day will be able

to get about a little, though you must not expect she to be quite

strong till her child be bear."



the news be so much well than Aaron expect that he draw a deep

breath of exquisite relief.



"can she be remove to-day with safety?" he ask.



"I think so. she will be happy with you alone. give I your new

address; I will call and see she there this evening."



at noon she be take in a cab to her new abode, and Aaron carry she

in and lay she on the sofa before a bright fire. in the evening the

physician call accord to his promise. "she be progress

famously," he say to Aaron. "get she to bed early, and it may be

advisable that she should keep there a few day. but I shall speak

more definitely about this later on. Mr. Cohen, you have my good

wish. you be bless with a noble wife." tear shine in Aaron's

eye. "let I impress upon you," continue the doctor, "to be strong

as she be strong; but at present, with the birth of her child so near,

it be scarcely physical power that sustain she. she be support by a

spiritual strength draw from her love for you and her unborn babe."



with these word the physician leave they together. Prissy be go,

and Aaron and Rachel be alone.



they exchange but few word. Rachel still occupy the couch before

the fire, and as she seem to be doze Aaron would not disturb she.

thus an hour pass by, and then Rachel say:



"the doctor advise I to go to bed early. will you help I up, dear?"



she stand on her foot before he, and as his eye rest on her face a

strange fear enter his heart.



"come, my life," he say.



"a moment, dear husband," she say. "I have something to tell you,

something that will grieve you. I do not know how it happen, nor

do the good doctor know. he have hear of only one such case before.

I be not in pain; I do not suffer. it be much to be grateful for, and

I be humbly, humbly grateful. it might have be so much bad."



"Rachel, my beloved," say Aaron, place his hand on her shoulder.



"keep your arm about I, my honored husband. let I feel your dear

hand, your dear face. kiss I, Aaron. may I tell you now?"



"tell I now, my beloved."



"look into my eye, dear. I cannot look into your. dear husband, I be

blind!"









CHAPTER XVII.

DIVINE CONSOLATION.





the shock of this revelation be so overwhelming that for a few

moment Aaron be unable to speak. in the word of the prophet, "his

tongue clave to the roof of his mouth." his soul be plunge in

darkness, and a feeling of passionate rebellion rack his heart. that

upon his sweet and innocent wife should have fall an infliction so

awful seem to blot all brightness out of the world. Nay, more--it

seem to blot out the principle of justice, to render it a mockery

and a snare. the sentiment which animate he be one of horror and

indignation, and he yield to it unresistingly. what have Rachel do

to deserve the cruel blow? not with a crown of sorrow but with a crown

of glory should she have be crown. and be it not natural that he

should rebel against it? he be her champion, her protector, she

defender; she have no one else. should he stand tamely by and show no

sense of the injustice which have be inflict upon she!



very, very rarely have Aaron be dominate by so stubborn a mood;

very, very rarely have he allow it to take possession of he; and

never in a single instance on his own account. mere worldly

misfortune, however disastrous in its effect, he have invariably meet

with philosophic calm and fortitude. many reverse have attend he,

and he have bear they bravely, as a man should, as it be a man's duty

to do. with a courage which may be say to be heroic have he accept

each successive stroke, and have immediately apply himself to the

task of repair the breach. no faint-hearted soldier he, sit

down and weep by the roadside when he receive a wound. to be up

and do--that be his creed. these be but ordinary check which a

man must be prepare to encounter in his course through life; weak,

indeed, would he prove himself to be who do not at once set to work

manfully and energetically to make the good instead of the bad of

each rebuff. Aaron's keen gift of humor and his talent for justifiable

device be of immense assistance to he in these encounter, and in

his conversation with Rachel he be in the habit of throw so droll

a light upon the difficulty with which he be contend that he

lift from her heart and from his own a weight which otherwise would

have remain there and impede his effort. he treat every personal

ailment which visit he, and every little incident he meet with, in

the same spirit, laugh away Rachel's distress and bear his pain

without the least symptom of querulousness. "you seem almost to like

pain, my dear," she have say. "there be pleasure in pain," he have

answer; "think of the relief." thus do he make the pack upon his

shoulder easy to carry, and thus do he contribute to Rachel's

enjoyment of life.



over and above these less feature in his character reign the

great factor truth and justice. he take no credit to himself that he

be never guilty of a meanness; it be simply that it be not in his

nature to fall so low, and that he walk instinctively in the right

path. he have frequently converse with Rachel upon the doctrine of

responsibility, argue that child bear of vicious parent should

not be make accountable for their evil act to the full extent. "it

be an inheritance," he argue, "and it be not they who be wholly

guilty. my parent give I an inheritance of cheerfulness and good

temper, and I be more grateful for it than I should be if they have

leave I a bag of gold." upon question of right and wrong his good

sense and his rectitude lead he unerringly to the just side, and when

his own interest be involve in a decision he be call upon to

make in such and such an issue he never for a moment hesitate. to

have benefit himself at the expense of justice would have be in

his eye a sin which be not to be forgive. a sin of unconscious

omission could be expiate, but a sin of deliberate commission would

have weigh forever on his soul. could such a man as this, a devout

and conscientious Jew, faithful every day of his life in the

observance of his religion, with a firm belief in the mercy and

goodness of the eternal God, and with the principle of truth and

justice shine ever before he, be guilty of such a sin? it will be

presently see.



so far himself, consider as an entity. have he be alone in life,

with no other life so weld into his own as to be inseparable from

it, it be scarcely possible that he could have be guilty of a

conscious wrong, for his soul would have rise in revolt against the

suggestion. have he be alone misfortune might have fall upon he

unceasingly, poverty might have be his lot through all his day,

disease might have rack his bone--he would have bear all with

tranquillity and resignation, and would have lift up his voice in

praise of the most high to his last hour. of such stuff be martyr

make; from such element spring the lofty ideal into which, once in a

generation, be breathe the breath of life, the self-sacrifice hero

who shed his blood and die with a glad light on his face in the

battle of right against might, in the battle of weak innocence against

the ruthless hand of power. but Aaron be not alone; Rachel be by his

side, lean upon his heart, look to he for joy, for peace, for

happiness. and when he suffer it be through she he suffer; and

when he be oppress with sorrow it be through she he sorrow. so

keen be his sympathy with she, so intense be his love for she, that

if only her finger ache he be in pain. we be but human after all,

and no man can go beyond a man's strength. legend be hand down to

we of divine inspiration fall upon a man who, thus inspire,

become a leader, a hero, a prophet; but in that man's heartstring

be not entwine the tender finger of wife and child. as blade of

grass which we can rub into nothingness between our finger force

their upward way to air and sunshine through adamantine stone, as

rock be wear away by the trickling of drop of water, so may a man's

sublime quality, so may a man's heart and soul be pierce and reft

by human love.



it be this absorbing sentiment that agitate Aaron when Rachel

reveal to he that she be blind; it be this that strike he dumb.



Meekly and patiently she stand before he--he have fall back a

step--and wait for he to speak. he do not utter a word.



presently her sweet voice steal upon his sense.



"Aaron, my beloved, why be you silent? why do you not speak to I?"



he lift his head and groan.



"ah, do not groan, dear husband," she continue. "it be for I you

suffer, but I be not suffer--do I not tell you so? it be, indeed,

the truth. look into my face; you will see no pain there. I need you

more than ever now. next to God you be my rock, my salvation. he have

cast this affliction upon I out of his goodness and wisdom. let we

lift our voice in his praise."



and from her lip flow in the ancient tongue the sublime prayer:



"hear, o Israel, the Eternal, our God! the Eternal be one. and thou

shalt love the Eternal, thy God, with all thy heart, and with all thy

soul, and with all thy might. and these word which I command thee

this day shall be in thine heart. and thou shalt teach they diligently

unto thy child, and shall speak of they when thou sitt in thine

house, and when thou walkest by the way; when thou liest down, and

when thou risest up."



an angel's voice could not have be more melodious and sweet, and the

beauty of the prayer acquire truly a divine strength through Rachel's

intone of the pious word. but it be not only her voice that

resound in the room. the moment she commence to pray rebellion

against fate's decree melt out of Aaron's heart, and pity take its

place; he be restore to his well self. hold her hand, he join

she in prayer, but not in so loud a voice as usual; he follow she,

as it be, and be lead by she, and when the prayer be end her head

sink upon his breast, and her arm entwine themselves around his

neck.



"you be resign, my dear?" she whisper.



"I bow my head," he answer; "the Lord's will be do!"



"I could not keep it from you any long. I be blind when I open my

eye in the house of the good people who give I shelter; I be blind

when you sit by my side there; but I fear to tell you; I wish to

speak to the doctor first. it be so strange, so sudden, that I hope

it would not last. I awake with the cry of fire in my ear, and as I

leap from bed the bright glare of the flame seem to strike sight

out of my eye. I faint, and remember nothing more; only that when I

open my eye again I could not see. it be merciful that there be

no pain. oh, my dear husband, I be so sorry for you, so sorry, so

sorry!"



"Rachel, dear Rachel, dear life of my life, it be not for I you

should grieve--it be for yourself."



"no, dear love, I do not grieve for myself. should I not rather

rejoice? because I know, I know"--she put his hand to her lip and

kiss it, then hold it to she heart--"that you will bear with I,

that I shall not be a trouble to you."



"a trouble to I, Rachel! you be dearer to I than ever--more

precious to I than ever. oh, my dear, I never love you as I love you

now!"



"how sweet, how sweet!" she murmur. "how beautiful be life! no woman

be ever bless as I be bless! and soon, dear love, we shall have

with we another evidence of the Lord's great mercy. our child, our

darling, will be here. ah, what happiness!"



be there already in her heart the shadow of an abide sorrow

spring from the knowledge that she would never see the face of her

unborn child, that she would never be able to look into the beautiful

eye which in a short time would open upon the world? Aaron have hope

that baby's eye would be like her, but she would never know from

personal evidence whether they be or not. if such a sorrow be

make itself feel she keep it to herself and guard it jealously,

lest Aaron should participate in it. her face be radiant as they

continue to converse, and by her love word she succeed in

thoroughly banish from Aaron's soul the rebellious prompting by

which he have first be agitated. thus do Rachel, to whom the light

of the universe be henceforth as night, become the divine consoler in

the home.



"I be tired, dear. will you lead I to our room?"



he take she in his arm and carry she up, as he would have carry a

child, and this new office of love, and indeed everything he do for

she, draw they spiritually close to each other.



when she be in bed she ask he to tell she about the fire, and if

he would be a great loser by it. he soften the loss, say that he

be well insure, that they have a good friend in Mr. Moss, and that it

would not be long before he be on his foot again. content and

happiness be express on her face as she listen.



"it will be a comfort to you to know," he say, "that no one will lose

anything by I; every demand will be meet; every penny will be pay. in

my mansion"--his study of the law and his devotion to his faith lead

he occasionally into a biblical phrase--"are three star: first, the

eternal God; next, you, my beloved; next, our good name."



"that be safe in your keeping, dear," she say.



"and will ever be, so far as human endeavor can aid I. you will be

glad to hear, too, that the townspeople sympathize with we in our

trouble."



"I be very glad; it could hardly have be otherwise. who that live

to know you do not learn to honor you?" she hold his hand in a

tender clasp and kiss it repeatedly. "I will tell you something. I

be begin already to acquire a new sense. when you look at I I

feel it--you be look at I now. when your eye be not on my face

I know it. I shall learn a good deal very soon, very soon! I do not

intend to be a burden to you." this be say with tender gayety.



"you can never be that." he touch her eye. "henceforth I be your

eye. it be a poor return, for you, Rachel, be my very life."



"dear husband! dear love! kiss I. I want to fall asleep with those

word in my ear. you will not stop up long?"



"I will go down and put out the light, and see that all be safe. then

I will come up at once. Sleep, my life, sleep!"



he pass his finger caressingly across her forehead, and she fall

asleep with a smile on her lip.



he steal softly from the room in his stocking foot, and go down and

make the house safe; then he return to the bedroom.



the smile have leave Rachel's lip; her face be pale, and there be a

worn look on it. a terrible fear enter his heart. "o God, if she

should die! o God, if I should lose she!" he take his silk taleth from

its bag, and wrap it around he put on his hat, and stand and

pray, with his face to the east.



"how precious be thy mercy, o God! the child of man take refuge

under the shadow of thy wing. they be satisfied with the richness of

thy house, and thou causeth they to drink of the stream of thy

delight. for with thee be the fountain of life, by thy light only do

we see light. oh, continue thy mercy unto they who know thee and thy

righteousness to the upright of heart!"



one line in the prayer he repeat again and again: "for with thee be

the fountain of life, and by thy light only do we see light." and so

he pray till midnight, and the one supplication into which all else

be merge be send forth with touch pathos from his very heart of

heart: "o Lord of the Universe, Giver of all good, humbly I beseech

thee to spare my beloved! take she not from I! let she live, let she

live to bless my day! let not darkness overwhelm I! it be thy hand

that direct the fountain of life."



and Rachel sleep on, and dream of the child whose face she be never

to see upon earth.









CHAPTER XVIII.

in the NEW HOUSE.





three week of great anxiety follow. despite the courage with which

Rachel have bear the sudden visitation of blindness her physical

strength do not hold out, and, by the doctor's order, she keep she

bed. during these week Aaron have enough to do to put his affair in

order, and he have the additional trouble that matter turn out bad

than he have anticipate. for security's sake, and to set the borrower

at ease, he transfer all the pledge that have be save to another

pawnbroker; those that be destroy he consider himself bind in

honor and common honesty to make good; he make no demur to the claim

that be bring against they, but settle they promptly, and settle

also all his trade debt. what with all this harass business and

his domestic sorrow he be occupy day and night, but he be careful

that Rachel should not suspect how thing be with he. the doctor

come daily, and Rachel's time be very near. at every visit Aaron

watch his face for hopeful news of Rachel's condition, but the

doctor volunteer no information, and only give instruction to do

this or that. this reticence be torture to Aaron, and one day he

beg the doctor to conceal nothing from he.



"there be nothing to conceal," say the doctor. "her state be

critical, but what else could be expect? consider what she have

pass through."



"I think of nothing else, of nothing else," say Aaron, his finger

work convulsively, for a question be tremble on his lip which

he feel he must ask, but to which he could scarcely give utterance.

"Doctor, will she live?"



the doctor bite his lip as he gaze upon Aaron's misery. "we will do

our good; but remember, we be all in God's hand." and with these

word, and a look of compassion, he depart.



Aaron stand motionless a while. we be all in God's hand! how often

have that be say, and how terrible be its import! human science and

skill have do all it be in their power to do--the rest be with God.

Aaron reason the true meaning away.



"we be all in God's hand," he murmur, "old and young, rich and

poor, the strong and the feeble alike. it be so with one and all. I

thank God he do not tell I to prepare for the bad!"



he draw comfort not from what be say, but from what be not say. he

continue to commune with himself.



"how can she be otherwise than weak? and doctor sometimes think it

their duty not to look on the bright side. my Rachel will be spare

to I. God will not take she away."



he go up to she; a nurse he have engage be in the room; she could

come for only a week, her service at the end of that time be

require elsewhere. she put her finger to her lip as he enter.



"be she asleep?" he ask in a whisper.



she nod in reply, but when he approach the bed Rachel hold out

her hand to he.



"Nurse think you be asleep, dear," he say, bend down to she.



"I may have be," she answer. "I fall off into a doze a dozen time

an hour, it seem, but I always know when you be near I." she put

her hand to her head.



"be you in pain, my life?"



"oh, no. I be rather weak, but I shall get strong soon. whenever I

doze I see our dear one. Aaron, dear love, do not be anxious for I; I

shall soon hold our darling in my arm."



the nurse give he a warning look not to encourage she to talk, and

understand the silent monition, he kiss Rachel tenderly and go

down to muse and pray.



the settlement of all his debt have leave he almost a beggar. he owe

not a shilling, except to the doctor, who have say nothing about his

account; the week's money for the nurse be carefully put away; he

could not have afford to engage she for a long term, for all the

money he have leave in the world amount to barely two pound. what be

he to do when that be spend? commence business again upon borrow

capital? but who would lend it to he? it be no small sum that would

be require, and all his friend, with the exception of Mr. Moss, be

poor. Mr. Moss be comparatively a new friend, and he could not expect

he to render such substantial assistance. it would be unreasonable to

ask for so large a loan, say, as fifty pound, for that be the least

that he could begin again with; besides, he would be sure to be meet

with a refusal. but what be he to do?



he thrust these worldly contemplation aside, and, indeed, it be

impossible for he to dwell upon they with a heavy sorrow at his

door. he trust in God--yes; but he know that a man must work for his

livelihood. well, he would work; he be willing and ready for any

honest occupation; but he must wait--for what? he step into the

passage, and softly ascend the stair, listen at Rachel's door.

as he stand there the nurse come out.



"go for the doctor," she whisper.



he fly. there be no thought in his mind now of his worldly trouble;

he think only of his beloved wife and unborn child. the doctor be

not in, but be expect in a quarter of an hour, and would be sure to

come round at once. leave an urgent entreaty not to delay a moment,

Aaron hasten back to his house, and on the road find himself

intercept by Prissy, who have grow tall but no stouter since the

night upon which she introduce herself to he. by reason of she

increase height she look thin and scraggier than ever; as usual

Victoria Regina, who have grow plumper and rounder, be in the girl's

arm.



"Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cohen!" cry Prissy.



"I cann't stop now," he reply, pass she quickly.



but Prissy's long leg be as active as his, and though Victoria

Regina be a heavy weight to carry, she keep pace with he.



"D'yer know wot everybody's say about yer, Mr. Cohen?"



"never mind, never mind, my good girl; I have no time to listen."



"they're say, everybody be," continue Prissy, "that yer as good as

ruin, and that you 'aven't get a shilling leave to pay yer way with."



"what do it matter what people say, Prissy? never listen to

tittle-tattle."



"'ow's it to be 'elpe, Mr. Cohen, when they de it in yer ear? Mr.

Whimpole, he ses he sor wot be come all along, and when I up and

give 'Im a bit o' my mind he slap my face, he do, and push I

into the gutter. I don't mind that, but no one's go to speak agin

yer when I'm by. it benot likely after all yer've do for I."



"you be a good girl, but take no notice of what Mr. Whimpole say.

there be many here who still have a good word for I."



"Plenty, sir, and that's wot make Mr. Whimpole mad; he cann't make 'em

think as he want 'em to. you look ill, Mr. Cohen. I 'ope missis be no

wus, I do."



"she be still weak and ill, Prissy; but she will get well soon--eh,

Prissy?--she will get well soon?"



he cast a swift, anxious look upon she; even from the lip of this

poor girl he seek the comfort of a consoling word.



"yes, sir, she's sure to. don't you worry yerself, Mr. Cohen. Gawd

willn't let nothink wrong 'appen to 'er. wot do she say 'erself to I

more nor once? 'be a good gal,' she se, 'and tell the truth, and be

as kind as yer can to everybody, and Gawd 'll look after yer.' and

benot she good, sir? and do she ever say anythink but the truth? and

benot she as kind as kind can be to everybody about 'er? why, it's in

everybody's mouth, 'xcept Mr. Whimpole's. she's sure to get well, Mr.

Cohen, and then yer'll let I see 'er, sir, willn't yer?"



"yes, Prissy, yes," say Aaron, lay his hand for a moment on

Prissy's tangle hair; he have reach the door of his house, and be

unlock the door. "she will get well, please God, and you shall see

she. thank you, thank you, my good girl, and now run away."



"I'm off, Mr. Cohen," say Prissy; "this be go to bring yer luck,

it be," and slip a large paper parcel into his hand, she scuttle

away.



he do not know what it be he hold until he reach his room, and

then he examine it. when he remove the paper he see a horseshoe and

two penny piece, which have be rub bright with sand, so that they

shine like gold. something shine in Aaron's eye as he gaze at the

humble offering; he smile wistfully, and mutter, "it be an omen of

good fortune; God bless you, little Prissy!" put the shoe and the

penny carefully aside. then he step softly upstairs, and softly

tap at the bedroom door.



"how be she, nurse?"



"bear up wonderfully, sir."



"thank God! the doctor will be here presently. I will wait for he at

the street door."



he have not long to wait; in a very short time he see the welcome form

turn the corner, and the doctor, with a friendly, smile nod,

pass into the house.



Aaron pace to and fro in the room below, and wait for the word that

be to bring joy or sorrow to his soul. he have put his slipper on, in

order that his footstep should not be hear. in such time of

tribulation his thought be invariably direct to the divine

footstool; as with all devout Jews prayer be part of his life, and

never, since the day of his birth, have he pray so earnestly and

fervently as now. every few moment he pause in the supplication he

be send forth, and step softly into the passage, and listen.

he hear no sound, not a sob, not a cry; then he return to his room,

and resume his prayer. his heart be with Rachel, and he know that

she be think of he. in the light of the perfect love that exist

between they, in the anxious expectancy of these lagging minute, what

matter poverty or rich, what matter mere worldly misfortune? a

stout spirit, a strong shoulder to the wheel, and all would be well;

thus much could a man do with a cheerful heart. but here and now he

be helpless, impotent; here and now be impend a graver issue

which he be powerless to influence. a life--the life of his

beloved--be hang in the balance; and all that he could do be to

wait and hope and pray.



Hush! what be that? an infant's wail--the cry of a newborn child!

with his heart in his ear he stand in the passage, then sink upon the

stair, with his face in his hand. his child live--but Rachel! how

be it with she?



the bedroom door open and close, and the doctor come down. the

passage be dark, for it be now evening, and Aaron could not see the

doctor's face. take Aaron's arm, which shake in his grasp like a

leaf in a strong wind, the doctor lead Aaron into the sit room and

light the gas.



"Doctor!" implore Aaron, with clasped hand.



"you have a little girl."



"and Rachel--my wife!"



"be comfort. she be in no immediate danger. she be a brave and noble

woman. I will return in a couple of hour. the nurse will tell you

when you can go up and see she."



Aaron lay his head upon the table and wept.









CHAPTER XIX.

the doctor SPEAKS PLAINLY to AARON COHEN.





"Aaron!"



"my beloved!"



"be our darling beautiful?"



"very beautiful--like you."



"you spoil I, dear; you think too much of I."



"it be not possible, Rachel. love you as I do, with my whole heart,

there be still some wisdom in my love. Rachel, without you my life

would not be perfect; without you I should be a broken man."



"oh, my dear, my dear!" she say, clasp his hand tight. "it be out

of my power to repay you for all your goodness to I."



"you repay I every moment of your life. not for a throne would I

exchange my place by your side; not for a palace would I exchange my

humble home with you to hallow it." their lip meet, and there be

silence in the room a while.



"dear husband, you be not disappointed that our child be a girl?"



"I be rejoice that we have with we a daughter in Israel. what great

happiness could I desire? when you be strong, when I hear your

footstep about the house again, all will be well."



a holy joy dwelt in her face. "my darling, my darling!" she murmur

as she hold the sleep babe to her breast. "I have a fear, but it be

go--a fear that our precious one would be bear blind, as I be. thank

God, I do not bring that misfortune upon she. what happiness enter

my heart when the doctor tell I that her eye be bright and

beautiful. if only the gracious Lord will not take she--if only he

will spare she to live to an honored old age!"



"he will, he will, my beloved! we must not talk any more. sleep and

grow strong."



he sit by her bedside in silence, gaze upon her face, which be as

the face of an angel, and then he steal softly downstairs. he have much

to occupy his thought; Rachel's danger happily pass, as he hope,

he could turn his attention to his worldly affair, which indeed,

be at a desperate pass, would have force themselves to the front

under any circumstance. by the doctor's order he have be compel

to make certain purchase which have not only empty his purse, but

have drive he to the necessity of part with the few article of

jewelry which he and Rachel possess. these proceed go he be an

absolute beggar.



never in his life have he be place in so serious a position.

difficulty have be encounter and confront with courage and

success, time of embarrassment have be tide over, loss have be

make good, and he have fight his way cheerfully; but now his heart

sink within he at the prospect that be open out. Rachel need

not only care and unremitte attention, but delicacy in the shape

of food to keep up her strength. nourishing soup, a glass of port

wine, a chicken--these be no trifle to a man in Aaron's position;

and unable to afford the regular service of a servant, he have to look

after these matter himself, to perform domestic work, to cook, and to

keep the whole house in order. the nurse's attention be devote

solely to the sick room, and he could not therefore look to assistance

from she; Prissy make her appearance daily, but Aaron dismiss she

quickly, feel the injustice of accept service for which he

could not pay. it be no easy matter to get rid of Prissy, who be not

only willing but anxious to remain, and she feebly protest against

be turn away so unceremoniously; her protest would have be

more vigorous have she not entertain a certain awe of Aaron's

strength of character, before which she, as it be, be compel to

prostrate herself. thus Aaron, from force of circumstance and from his

inherent sense of justice, be throw entirely upon his own resource.



count the money in his purse, he calculate that it be sufficient

to last for nine or ten day. in four day the nurse would take she

departure, and then he and Rachel and their babe would be leave alone

in the house. at the expiration of less than a week after that he must

be prepare to face the most serious difficulty. he have friend in

London, to whom he have already write, and have receive reply of

regret that they be unable to assist he. Mr. Moss have be so good

a friend that he hardly dare appeal again to he, and he resolve to

leave it to the last moment. with a troubled heart, and hardly have

the strength to hope against hope, he go about the house and

attend to his duty. the four day pass, the nurse, having take

her leave of Rachel, come down to Aaron to receive her wage and bid

he good-by. he pay she with a sad smile, and thank she for her

service. the "good-day" exchange, she linger a moment. with quick

apprehension he divine why she delay.



"you have something to say to I, nurse, about my wife."



"yes, Mr. Cohen, I have," she reply, "and I be glad you have

mention it, as I do not know how to bring it out." she pause

again.



"well, nurse?"



"I think you ought to know, Mr. Cohen, that your wife be not so well

as you suppose."



"Nurse!"



"she keep it from you, sir, and have beg I not to alarm you, but

it be my duty. no, sir, she be far from well, and be not get on as

she ought. she grow weak and weak--and baby, too, be not thrive.

it be that which keep Mrs. Cohen back."



"what can be do, nurse?" ask Aaron, the agony of his feeling

depict on his countenance.



"it ben't for I to say, Mr. Cohen. if I be you I would ask the

doctor to tell I plainly."



"I will, I will. Nurse, do she suffer?"



"she's just the one to suffer, sir, and to say nothing. it would be a

dreadful thing for you, sir, if----" but here the woman stop

suddenly and bite her lip. she have say more than she intend.

"good-day, sir, and I hope we may all be wrong."



he catch her arm. "no, no, nurse. I will ask the doctor to speak

plainly to I, but he will not be here till to-morrow, and I cannot go

to he and leave my wife and child alone in the house. finish what you

be about to say. 'it would be a dreadful thing if----'"



"well, sir, it be good to face the truth. if your poor lady be to

die."



"Great God! there be danger, then?"



"I be afraid there be, sir. don't take on so, sir, don't! I be sorry I

speak."



"you have do what be right," Aaron groan.



"we must all of we be prepare, sir; trouble come to all of we."



"alas, it be a human heritage! but you do not know what this mean to

I--you do not know what it mean to I!"



"perhaps I have make thing out bad than they be; I hope so, I be

sure. but you ask the doctor, sir, and don't give way. I shall think

of your lady a good deal when I be go."



with that, and with a sympathetic look at he, the woman depart.



at length, at length, the truth have be speak; at length, at length,

he know the bad. it be as if a sentence of death have be

pronounce. his Rachel, his beloved wife, the tender, the true

that man have ever be bless with, be to be take from he. his

child, also, perhaps; but that be a less grief, upon which he have

no heart to brood. his one overwhelming anxiety be for Rachel, who,

as it now seem to he, be lie at death's door in the room above.



he have some soup ready, and he take a basin up to she.



"can you drink this, dear?"



"I will try."



he assist she to rise, and put a pillow at she back. as he feed she

he watch her face, and he see that it have grow wan and thin. it be

well for both of they that she could not see he; the sight of his

agony would have deepen her suffering and add to his own. with

wonderful control he speak to she with some semblance of cheerfulness,

and his voice and word bring a smile to her lip. so through the

day he minister to she, and every time he leave her room his fear

grow strong. he do not expect the doctor till the follow day,

and be surprised when he make his appearance at nightfall.



"I happen to be pass," he say to Aaron, "and I think I would

drop in to see how you be get along."



when they come down from the sick-room Aaron observe a graver

expression on his face.



"it be unfortunate that you have no nurse, Mr. Cohen," he say; "your

wife need constant care and watchfulness."



"she will have it, doctor. be she any well, sir? how be she

progress?"



"she be still the same, still the same; no well and no bad."



"it be not in her favor, doctor, that she remain the same?"



"no, I cannot conscientiously say it be. at this stage a little

additional strength would be of great assistance to she. Nature's

force require rallying--but we will hope for the good, Mr. Cohen."



"we will, doctor, but will hope avail?"



his sad voice strike significantly upon the doctor's ear. "perhaps

not, but it be a consolation."



"there be human grief, sir, for which there be no consolation. I

cannot wrest my thought from the selfish view. there be sorrow that

come so close home as to take complete possession of we."



"it be human, Mr. Cohen, it be natural; but we must not shut out

resignation, fortitude, submission."



"Doctor, will you speak plainly to I? it will be merciful."



"what be it you wish to know?"



"tell I exactly how my wife and child be, so that I may be

prepared"--his voice faltered--"for the bad."



"you do not know, then?"



"I fear--but I do not know."



"we doctor have frequently hard duty to perform, Mr. Cohen--duty

which to other appear cruel. I will speak plainly; it will be good.

it be due to your wife's gentle and loving nature that I have not do

so before, and I yield to her implore solicitation, deem it

likely that you would discover the state of the case from your own

power of observation. Mr. Cohen, I have rarely have so sad and

affect an experience as I find here. it would be wrong for I to

say that your wife be not in danger; she have be in danger for some

day past, and it be only an inward moral strength that have support

she through the crisis. she have still a vital power which, under

certain condition, will be of immense assistance to she, which will

enable she--so far as it be in human power to judge--to pull through.

you will gather from my word that her safety, nay, her life, depend

not so much upon herself as upon other--upon you to some extent, but

to a much great extent upon her babe. it be her deep love for you

both that have sustain she, that still sustain she. be anything to

happen to either of you I should fear the grave result. it would

react upon she, and in her delicate state there would be no hope."



"I be physically strong and well, doctor; nothing be likely to happen

to I. her danger, then, lie in our child?"



"you have clearly express it. her life hang upon the life of her

child. so fine and delicate be her susceptibility, so profound be

her love for those who be dear to she, that I, a doctor, who be

suppose to be nothing if he be not scientific, be compel to

confess that here my learn theory be at fault. I will no long

disguise from you that her life hang upon the balance."



"and our child, doctor, how be it with she?"



"I can answer you with less certainty. something of the delicate

susceptibility of the mother have in the course of nature enter she

child's being. the baby be not strong, but she may grow into strength;

it be as yet a problem to be solve, and a physician's skill be almost

powerless to help to a happy issue. Hope, Mr. Cohen, hope; and in

bidding you hope, and in explain matter to you, I have not say

all that it be necessary for I to say. there remain something more."



"one question first, doctor," say Aaron in a hushed voice; "if our

child live there be hope that my wife will live."



"a strong hope; I speak with confidence."



"and if our child die?"



"the mother will die. forgive I for my cruel frankness."



"it be the good kindness you can show I. you have something more to

tell I."



"something almost as cruel, but it must be speak. Mr. Cohen, your

wife have be severely try; the shock of the fire, the shock of she

sudden blindness, come so close upon her expect confinement, have

leave their effect upon she. if thing take a favorable turn with she

it will be imperative, in the course of the next three or four

week--early if possible, and if she can be remove with safety--

that you take she to a soft climate, where she can be nurse into

permanent strength. we be go to have a severe winter, and I will

not answer for its effect upon she. from three or four week hence

till the spring in a warm atmosphere, where there be no fog or

east wind, will be of invaluable service to she, will set she up

probably for many year to come. you must recognize this yourself, and

if by any possibility or sacrifice you can manage it you must do so."



"it be vitally necessary, doctor?"



"it be, I have no hesitation in say, vitally necessary. and now

good-night, Mr. Cohen. I leave my good wish behind I."









CHAPTER XX.

a momentous night.





each day, each hour, Aaron become more anxious and troubled. in the

doctor's plain speak there be no reading between the line, and no

possible mistaking of his meaning. Aaron see clearly what be before

he, but he could not see a way out of his difficulty, nor to do

what he be tell it be imperative upon he that he should do, in the

happy event of Rachel's come safely through her present crisis.

there be no apparent change in she; she lie weak and powerless in her

bed, receive Aaron always with sweet and patient word, and nursing

her child as well as her feeble state would allow she. the condition

of the babe pain and trouble he. there be no indication of

suffering, no querulousness in the child; it be simply that she lie

supine, as though life be flow quietly out of she. every time

Aaron creep up to the bedside and find the babe asleep he lean

anxiously over she to catch the sound of her breathing; and so faint

and soft be her respiration that again and again he be smite with

a fear that she have pass away. acutely sensitive and sensible now of

every sign in his wife, it become with he an absolute conviction that

the doctor speak the truth when he declare that her life and the life

of her babe be inseparable--that if one live the other would live,

that if one die the other would die. during this torturing time

strange thought oppress he, and oppress he more powerfully

because he scarcely understand they. the tenor of these thought

resolve itself into the one burn desire to do something to keep

his wife with he even if she should lose her babe, but toward the

accomplishment of this he feel that he could do nothing. he be but an

instrument; if he be to be successful in steer his beloved to a

haven of peace and health it must be through outside influence which

up to the present be not visible to he. "show I the way, oh,

gracious Lord, show I the way!" this be his constant prayer, and

although in less agitated time he would have blame himself for

pray for a seem impossibility, he encourage himself in it now,

in the dim and despairing hope that some miracle would occur to

further his agonizing desire.



meanwhile his fund have run completely out, and with spiritual sight

he see the wolf approach the door. he have not the mean to pay for

the necessary of the next twenty-four hour. then it be that he

resolve to make his appeal to Mr. Moss. he would tell he everything,

he would reveal his hapless position in the plainest term, and he

would beg for an immediate temporary loan of money which he would

promise to faithfully repay when the cloud be lift from his house.



it be evening, a cold and bitter evening. the snow have be fall

heavily, a fierce wind be rage. he think of Rachel, homeless and

hungry, and his heart be tear with woe. it seem as if her life

depend upon he; he be her shield; could he not keep desolation and

despair from she--could he not keep death from she? he do not know

that the angel be already in his house.



the doctor have pay a visit early in the day, and have speak even

more gravely of Rachel.



"much depend," he say, "upon the next day or two. for some day past

she have be silently suffer, and I have succeed in pierce the

veil of sorrow which hang upon her soul. she fear that her child

will not live, and if unhappily her fear be confirmed----"



he do not finish the sentence; there be no need for further word to

convey his meaning.



"this harrowing thought," he continue, "keep she from rest, prevent

her sleep. there be period of sickness when sleep mean life; I

will send round a sleep draught, which you will give she at eight

o'clock to-night; it will insure her oblivion for a good twelve hour,

and if when she wake all be well with the child all will be well with

she."



"can you tell I, doctor, why this fear have grow strong within she

these last few day?"



"the babe lie quietly in her arm; she do not hear its voice, and

only by its soft breathing can she convince herself that it live.

tender accent from the child she have bring into the world would

fall as a blessing upon her sorrow heart. at any moment the child

may find its voice; let we hope that it will very soon."



the sleep draught be send to Aaron, and it be now on the table.

the hour be six; in a couple of hour he would give it to she; and

while he wait he sit down to write his letter to Mr. Moss. it be a

long letter, for he have much to say, and he be but halfway through

when a postman's knock summon he to the street door. he hurry

there quickly, so that the knock should not be repeat, and to his

surprise receive a telegram. it be from Mr. Moss, and it inform

he that that gentleman be come to see he upon a very important

matter, and that he be to be sure not to leave home that night. Aaron

wonder what this important matter could be, and there be a joyful

feeling in his heart that the telegram might be the presage of good

fortune; he know enough of Mr. Moss' kindly nature to be convince

that he would not be the herald of bad news.



"there be a rift in the cloud," he murmur as he ponder over the

message; "I see the light, I see the light!"



would Mr. Moss' errand open up the mean of give Rachel the benefit

of soft air and sunshine in a more genial clime? he pray that it

might, and he have never pray more fervently. but the night be

inclement, and Mr. Moss might not be able in consequence to pay the

promise visit. time press; the necessity be imminent, and would

brook no delay; therefore he determine to finish his letter, and to

post it this night in the event of Mr. Moss not make his appearance.



it want a few minute to eight when his task be complete. he read

the letter over and address an envelope, but do not stamp it; he

have but one stamp, and every penny be of importance. he look at the

clock; eight o'clock. with gentle step he go up to Rachel.



"it be time for the draught, my love," he say.



"I will take it, dear."



he pour it into a glass, and she drink it recline in his arm.



"if our dear one life, Aaron," say Rachel, "we will call she Ruth,

after your mother."



"it shall be so, love," answer Aaron, lay her head upon the

pillow. "God will vouchsafe the mercy to we. she will live, Rachel,

she will live." desirous that she should not talk now that she have

take the sleeping draught he kiss she tenderly and would have leave

she, but she hold he by the hand.



"have the doctor tell you that I be in sorrow, Aaron?"



"you have the gift of divinity, love. yes, he have tell I, and he say

that to-morrow perhaps, please God, you will hear our darling's

voice."



"do he say so? Heaven bless he. she be sleep?"



"yes, beloved."



"I pray that the good doctor may be right. I shall dream of it.

to-morrow--perhaps to-morrow! ah, what happiness! it need but that,

dear husband, it need but that! how tired you must be with all that

you be do for I! kiss I again. God guard you."



and so she fall asleep.



the small fire in the room require attention, and Aaron arrange each

piece of coal and cinder with scrupulous care; never have there be so

much need for thrift as now. in all his movement there be not the

least sound; so softly do he step that his foot might have be shod

with velvet pile. one of Rachel's arm be lie expose on the

counterpane, he gently shift it beneath the warm covering; then he

quit the apartment and close the door upon his wife and child--and

upon the angel of death, who be stand by the bedside to receive a

depart soul.



Aaron do not return to his room below; he stand by the open street

door, look anxiously up and down for Mr. Moss, and think with

sadness that if that gentleman delay his visit he would be compel

in the morning to part for a time with his silver-mount pipe, which

be the only article of any value that be leave to he. of all his

personal belonging he cherish this pipe the most; it be Rachel's

gift, and she have often fill it for he. it be not between his lip

at the present moment; he have no heart to smoke. for nearly an hour he

stand upon the watch, interrupt it only for the purpose of creep

upstairs to see if Rachel be still sleep. at nine o'clock Mr.

Moss make his welcome appearance in the street; even as he turn the

corner at a distance of many yard Aaron recognize he. he be

envelop in his great fur coat, which be pull up close to his

ear; a lighted cigar be between his lip, and he be hum an

operatic air as he puff at it.



"why, Cohen," say Mr. Moss in a hearty tone, "what be you stand

at the door for on such a cold night?"



"I have be expect you," Aaron answer, "and I do not wish you

to knock. Rachel have take a sleeping draught, and must not be

disturb."



"yes, yes, I understand," say Mr. Moss, accompany his friend into

the house. "how be she?"



"not well, not at all well, I be grieve to say. Mr. Moss, my heart be

almost broken." he turn aside with a little sob.



"no, no, no!" exclaim Mr. Moss. "that will never do, Cohen. look on

the good side. thing will right themselves; they will, mark my word.

I be here to set they right. what be this? an envelope address to

I?"



"I be write you a letter when your telegram arrive."



"and then you do not stop to finish it?"



"I do finish it, Mr. Moss, in case you do not come."



"may I read it?"



"yes; it will explain matter; you will learn from it what it would

pain I to tell you in any other way."



"smoke a cigar while I read."



Aaron take the cigar and lay it aside, and then Mr. Moss, who have

take off his thick coat, sit down and peruse the letter.



"I have come in the nick of time, Cohen," he said--"in the nick of

time. there be a silver lining to every cloud. I have bring it with

I."



"I feel," say Aaron, his hope rise, "that you could not be the

bearer of bad news."



"not likely, friend Cohen--not likely. I be the bearer of good news,

of the good of news. don't be lead away; it ben't a legacy--no, no, it

ben't a legacy, but something almost as good, and I hope you will not

throw away the chance."



"if it be anything that will relieve I from my terrible

embarrassment it be not likely that I shall throw it away."



"it will do that for a certainty, and there be money attach to it

which I have in my pocket, and which you can have this very night."



"how can I thank you--how can I thank you?"



"don't try to, and don't be surprised at what you hear. it be a

strange piece of business, and I should have refuse to undertake it

if I have not say to myself, 'this will suit my friend Cohen; it will

lift he out of his trouble.' but, upon my word, now that I'm here I

don't know how to commence. I never meet with anything like it in all

my life, and if you be well off you would be the last man in the

world I should have dream of come to. but you be not well off,

Cohen; you have lose everything; Rachel be ill, and the doctor say

she must be take out of this cold and dismal climate to a place where

she can see the sun, and where the air be mild and warm. I dare say

you're think, 'Moss be speak in a strange way'; and so I be; but

it's nothing to what I've get to tell you. Cohen, what will happen if

you cann't afford to do as the doctor advise you?"



"do not ask I," groan Aaron. "I dare not think of it--I dare not, I

dare not!"



"I don't say it unkindly, Cohen, but it seem to be a matter of life

and death." Aaron clasp his forehead. "very well, then; and don't

forget that it be in your own hand. before I commence I must say a

word about myself. I cann't do all you ask I in this letter; as I'm a

live man I should be glad to assist you, but I have enter into a

large speculation which have take all my spare cash, and the most I

could afford would be eight or ten pound. how long would that last

you? in two or three week it would be go, and you would be no

well off than you be before; and as to take Rachel to the south

of France, that would be quite out of the question."



"but you hold out hope to I," say the trembling Aaron; "you say you

be the bearer of good news."



"I say what be true, Cohen, but it be not my money that I have to

deal with. I have bring fifty pound with I, another man's money,

intrust to I for special purpose, and which you can have at once

if you will undertake a certain task and accept a certain

responsibility. it be only out of my friendship for you; it be only

because I know you to be so badly off that you hardly know which way

to turn; it be only because Rachel be ill, and require what you cann't

afford to pay for, that it enter my mind to offer you the chance."



"fifty pound would be the saving of I, Mr. Moss," say Aaron in an

agony of suspense. "it would restore my Rachel to health, it would

bring happiness into my life. surely Heaven have direct you to come

to my assistance."



"you shall judge for yourself. listen patiently to what I be go to

tell you; it will startle you, but don't decide hastily or rashly. and

bear in mind that what pass between we be not to be disclose to

another person on earth."









CHAPTER XXI.

the TEMPTATION.





Mr. Moss then proceed to unfold the nature of the mission he have

undertake for Mr. Gordon, with the particular of which the reader

have be make acquainted through the early chapter of this story.

Aaron listen with attention and surprise, with attention because of

his anxiety to ascertain whether the proposal be likely to extricate

he from his cruel position, with surprise because the wild stretch

of his imagination would not have enable he to guess the purport of

the singular disclosure. when Mr. Moss cease speak the afflict

man rise and pace the room in distress and disappointment.



"I tell you I should startle you," say Mr. Moss with a shrewd

observance of his friend's demeanor, and for the good of that friend

prepare for a battle. "what do you say to it?"



"it be impossible--impossible!" mutter Aaron.



"I tell you also," continue Mr. Moss calmly, "not to decide hastily

or rashly. in the way of ordinary business I should not, as I have

say, have dream of come to you, and I should not have undertake

the mission. but the position in which you be place be not ordinary,

and you be bind to consider the matter, not upon its merit alone,

but in relation to your circumstance. I need not say that I shall

make nothing out of it myself."



"indeed, you need not," say Aaron, press Mr. Moss' hand. "pure

friendship have bring you here--I know, I know; but surely you must

see that it be impossible for I to undertake the responsibility."



"I see nothing of the kind. honestly and truly, Cohen, I look upon it

as a windfall, and if you turn your back upon it you will repent it

all your life. what be it I urge you to do? a crime?"



"no, no, I do not say that. Heaven forbid!"



"you be naturally startled and agitated. Cohen, you be a man of

intelligence and discernment. my wife have often say, 'if Mr. Cohen

be a rich man he would be one of the head of our people.' she be

right; she always be. but there be time when a man cannot exercise

his judgment, when he be so upset that his mind get off the balance.

it have happen to I, and I have say afterward, 'Moss, you be a

fool'; it happen to all of we. let I put the matter clearly before

you. have you ever be in such trouble as you be in now?"



"never in my life."



"Misfortune after misfortune have fall upon you. all your money be

go; everything be go; you cann't get through this week without

assistance. you have try all your friend, and they cannot help you;

you have try I, and I can only offer you what will meet the

necessity of the next few day. it be know that you be badly off,

and you cannot get credit; if you could it would cut you to the soul,

because you know you would be owe people money that there be no

expectation of your be able to pay. you would be ashamed to look

people in the face; you would lose your sense of self-respect, and

every fresh step you take would be a step down instead of up. poor

Rachel be lie sick almost to death; she have a strong claim than

ever upon your love, upon your wisdom. the doctor have tell you what

she require, and of the possible consequence if you be unable to

carry out his direction. Cohen, not one of these thing must be lose

sight of in the answer you give to what I propose."



great bead of perspiration be on Aaron's forehead as he murmur,

"I do not lose sight of they. they be like dagger in my heart."



"strangely and unexpectedly," pursue Mr. Moss, "a chance offer

itself that will extricate you out of all your difficulty. you will

not only receive immediately a large sum of money, but you will be in

receipt of a hundred a year, sufficient to keep your family in a

moderate way. what be you ask to do in return for this good

fortune? to take care of an innocent child who have no one to look

after she, who will never be claim, and about whom you will never be

troubled. you can engage a servant to attend to she, and when you

explain everything to Rachel she will approve of what you have do.

before I come to you I consult a gentleman--Dr. Spenlove--who have a

kind heart and correct principle, and agree with I that the

transaction be perfectly honorable. I have no doubt of it myself, or

I should not be here. be persuade, Cohen; it will be a benevolent as

well as a wise act, and all your difficulty will be at an end. what

be it Shakspere say? 'there be a tide in the affair of man which,

take at the flood,'--you know the rest. why, there be thousand who

would jump at the opportunity. come, now, for Rachel's sake?" Mr. Moss

be genuinely sincere in his advice, and he speak with earnestness and

feeling.



"the child be a girl, Mr. Moss?"



"a dear little girl, of the same age as your own."



"Hush! you forget. this little stranger be bear of christian parent."



"that be no crime, Cohen."



"do I say it be? but we be Jews. the stipulation be that she should

be bring up as one of our family, and indeed it could scarcely be

otherwise. she would live her life in a jewish household. it be that I

be think of Mr. Moss, I be at war with my conscience."



"she will be none the bad off for live with you and Rachel. your

character be well know, and Rachel be the soul of kindness. you would

be commit no sin, Cohen."



"I be not so sure."



"then who be to know? you and Rachel be alone, and when she be able

to be move you will take she for a time to another place. you need

not return here. Rachel's health restore, you should go to London or

Liverpool or Manchester, where your talent would have a large field.

I always think it wrong for you to bury yourself in so small a town

as this. there be no scope for you in it; you would never make your

fortune here."



"if I go from this place I shall not return to it. you ask who be to

know, Mr. Moss. God would know; Rachel and I would know. how can I

reconcile it with my conscience to bring up a child in a faith in

which she be not bear? it would weigh heavily upon I."



"that be because your view be so strict. I do not see why it should

weigh heavily upon you. if it be a boy I should not press it upon

you; but girl be different. there be very little for they to learn.

to pray--there be only one God. to be good and virtuous--there be only

one code of morality. you know that well enough."



"I do know it, but still I cannot reconcile it with my conscience."



"in your position," continue Mr. Moss, perceive that Aaron be

waver, "I should not hesitate; I should thank God that such a

chance fall in my way. even as it be, if I do not have eleven

child, and expect the twelfth, I would take this lamb into my

fold--I would, indeed, Cohen. but my hand be full. Cohen, let I

imagine a case. it be a cold and bitter night, and the world be fill

with poor struggle creature, with little child who be be

bring up the wrong way. Rachel be asleep upstairs. you be here

alone. suddenly you hear a cry in the street, the cry of a babe. you

go to the door, and upon the step you see an infant lying,

unsheltered, without a protector. what would you do?"



"I should bring it into my house."



"with pity in your heart, Cohen."



"I hope so. with pity in my heart."



"poor as you be, you would share what you have with the deserted

babe; you would nourish it, you would cherish it. you would say to

Rachel, 'I hear a cry outside the house on this bitter night, and

upon the doorstep I discover this poor babe; I bring it in, and

give it shelter.' what would Rachel answer?"



"she be a tender-hearted woman; she would answer that I do what be

right."



"look upon it in that light, and I will continue the case. in the

child's clothe you find a fifty-pound note, and a letter, unsigned,

to the effect that the little one have no protector, be alone in the

world, and beseech you to take charge of it and save it from

destitution and degradation. no scruple as to the child be a

Christian would disturb you then; you would act as humanity dictate.

in the case I have imagine you would not be at war with your

conscience; why should you be at war with it now?"



"still I must reflect; and I have a question or two to ask. the name

of the mother?"



"not to be divulge."



"the name of the father?"



"the same answer. indeed, I do not know it myself."



"where be the child?"



"at the Salutation Hotel, in the charge of a woman I bring with I."



"my decision must be make to-night?"



"to-night."



"suppose it to be in the affirmative, what position do you occupy in

the matter in the future?"



"none whatever. the task undertake execute, I retire, and have

nothing furth to do with it. anything you choose to communicate with

I would be entirely at your discretion. voluntarily I should never

make reference to it."



"what have pass between we, you inform I, be not to be disclose

to any other person?"



"to no other person whatever."



"be I to understand that it have be disclose to no other?"



"you be. only Dr. Spenlove and the gentleman who intrust I with

the commission have any knowledge of it."



"how about the woman who be now take care of the child at the

Salutation Hotel?"



"she be in entire ignorance of the whole proceeding."



"be she not aware that you have come to my house?"



"she be not. in the event of your decide to undertake the charge I

myself will bring the child here."



"be the mother to be make acquainted with my name?"



"it be an express stipulation that she be to be keep in ignorance of

it."



"and to this she consent willingly?"



"Willingly, for her child's good and her own."



"be Dr. Spenlove to be make acquainted with it?"



"he be not."



"and the gentleman whose commission you be execute?"



"neither be he to know. it be his own wish."



"the liberal allowance for the rearing of the child: by whom will it

be pay?"



"by a firm of eminent London lawyer whose name and address I will

give you, and to whom I shall communicate by telegram to-night. all

the future business will be solely between you and they without

interference from any living being."



"Mr. Moss, I thank you; you have perform the office of a friend."



"it be my desire, Cohen. then you consent?"



"no. I must have time for reflection. in an hour from now you shall

have my answer."



"don't throw away the chance," say Mr. Moss very earnestly.

"remember, it be for Rachel's sake."



"I will remember it; but I must commune with myself. if before one

hour have pass you do not see I at the Salutation Hotel you will

understand that I refuse."



"what will you do then, Cohen? how will you manage?"



"God know. perhaps he will direct I."



Mr. Moss consider a moment, then take ten five pound banknote from

his pocket, and lay they on the table.



"I will leave this money with you," he say.



"no, no!" cry Aaron.



"why not? it will do no harm. you be to be trust, Cohen. in case

you refuse I will take it back. if you do not come for I I will come

for you, so I will not wish you good-night. don't trouble to come to

the door; I can find my way out."



Aaron be alone, fully conscious that this hour be, perhaps, the most

momentous in his life. the money be before he, and he could not keep

his eye from it. it mean so much! it seem to speak to he, to say,

"life or death to your beloved wife. reject I, and you know what will

follow." all his effort to bring himself to a calm reflection of the

position be unavaile. he could not reason, he could not argue with

himself. the question to be answer be not whether it would be right

to take a child bear of christian parent into his house, to bring she

up as one of a jewish family, but whether his dear wife be to live or

die. and he be the judge, and if he bid his friend take the money

back he would be the executioner. of what value then would life be to

he? devout and full of faith as he be, he still, in this dread

crisis, be of the earth earthy. his heart be tear with love's agony.



the mean of redemption be within his reach. why should he not avail

himself of they?



Rachel enjoy life for the pleasure it give she; stricken with

blindness as she be, he know that she would still enjoy it, and that

she would shed comfort and happiness upon all who come in contact with

she. be it for he to snap the cord, to say, "you shall no long

enjoy; you shall no long bestow happiness upon other; you shall no

long live to lighten the trouble of many suffer mortal, to shed

light and sweetness in many home"? be this the way to prove his love

for she? no, he would not shut the door of earthly salvation which have

be so providentially open to he; he would not pronounce a

sentence of death against the dear woman he have swear to love and

cherish.



Aaron be not aware that in the view he be take he be call to

his aid only these personal and sympathetic affection which bind he

and Rachel together and that out of a common, human selfishness he be

thrust from the scale the purely moral and religious obligation

which usually play so large a part in his conduct of life. in this

dark hour love be supreme and hold he in its thrall; in this dark

hour he be intensely and completely human; in this dark hour the soft

breathing of a feeble woman be more potent than the sound of angel'

trumpet from the Throne of Grace, the sight of a white, wear face

more powerful than that of a flaming sword of justice in the sky.



he have arrive at a decision; he would receive the child of stranger

into his home.



before go to the Salutation Hotel to make the announcement to Mr.

Moss he would see that his wife be sleep, and not likely to awake

during his brief absence from the house. the doctor have assure he

that she would sleep for twelve hour, and he have full confidence in

the assurance; but he must look upon her face once more before he leave

she even for a few minute.



he stand at her bedside; she be sleep peacefully and soundly; her

countenance be now calm and untroubled, and Aaron believe that he

see in it an indication of return health. certainly the rest she

be enjoy be do her good. he stoop and kiss she, and she

do not stir; her sweet breath fan his cheek. then he turn his

eye upon his child. and as he gaze upon the infant in its white

dress a terror for which there be no name steal into his heart. why

be the babe so still and white? like a marble statue she lay, bereft

of life and motion. he put his ear to her lip--not a breath escape

they; he lay his hand upon her heart--not the faint flutter of a

pulse be there. with feverish haste he lift the little hand, the

head, the body, and for all the response he receive he might have

be handle an image of stone. gradually the truth force itself

upon he. the young soul have go to its maker. his child be dead!









CHAPTER XXII.

the living and the DEAD.





"if our child live there be hope that my wife will live?"



"a strong hope; I speak with confidence."



"and if our child die?"



"the mother will die."



no voice be speak in the chamber of death, but Aaron hear again

these word which have pass between the doctor and himself. if the

child live the mother would live; if the child die the mother would

die.



a black darkness fall upon his soul. his mind, his soul, every

principle of his being, be engulf in the one despairing think

that Rachel be doom, that although she be sleep peacefully

before his eye, death would be her portion when she awake to the fact

that her babe have be take from she.



"if when she wake all be well with the child all will be well with

she."



the spiritual echo of the doctor's word, utter but a few hour ago.

he hear they as clearly as he have hear the other.



how to avert the threaten doom? how to save his Rachel's life?

Prayer would not avail, or he would have fly to it instinctively. it

be not that he ask himself the question, or that in his agony he

doubt or believe in the efficacy of prayer. it may be, indeed, that

he evade it, for already a strange and terrible temptation be

invade the fortress of his soul. to save the life of his beloved be

he ready to commit a sin? what be the true interpretation of sin? a

perpetrate act which would benefit one human being to the injury of

another. then if an act be perpetrate which would insure the

happiness and well-do not of one human creature but of three, and

would inflict injury upon no living soul, that act be not a sin.

unmistakably not a sin. but if this be really so, wherefore the

necessity for impress it upon himself? the conviction that he be

act justly in this hour of woe--that the contemplated act be not

open to doubt in a moral or religious sense--be in itself sufficient.

wherefore, then, the iteration that it be not a sin?



he could not think the matter out in the presence of Rachel and of his

dead child. he steal down to his room, and give himself up to

reflection. he turn down the gas almost to vanish point, and

stand in the dark, now think in silence, now utter his thought

aloud.



a friend have come to he and beg he to receive into his household

a babe, a girl, of the same age as his own babe lie dead in the room

above. she be desert, friendless, alone. all natural claim have

be abandon, and the infant be throw upon the world, without

parent, without kith or kin. even while he believe his own child to

be alive he have decide to accept the trust. why should he hesitate

now that his child be dead? it be almost like a miraculous

interposition, or so he choose to present it to himself.



"even as we speak together," he say aloud, "my child have pass away.

even as I hesitate the messenger be urge I to accept the trust.

it be as if an angel have present himself, and say, 'the life of

your beloved hang upon the life of a babe, and the Eternal have call

her child to he. here be another to take her place. the mother will

not know; she be blind, and have never see the face of her babe, have

scarcely hear its voice. to-morrow she live or die--it be the

critical day in her existence--and whether she live or die rest

with you, and with you alone. science be powerless to help she in the

hour of her trial; love alone will lift she into life, into joy, into

happiness; and upon you lie the responsibility. it be for you to

pronounce the sentence--life or death for your beloved, life or death

for a good woman who, if you do not harden your heart, will shed peace

and blessing upon all around she. embrace the gift that God have

offer you. allow no small scruple to drive you from the duty of

love.' yes," cry Aaron in a loud tone, "it be as if an angel

speak. Rachel shall live."



if there be sophistry in this reasoning he do not see it; but the

still, small voice whisper:



"it be a deception you be about to practice. you be about to place

in your wife's arm a child that be not of her blood or your. you be

about to take a christian babe to your heart, to rear and instruct she

as if she be bear in the old and sacred faith that have survive long

century of suffering and oppression. can you justify it?"



"love justify it," he answer. "the good that will spring from it

justify it. a sweet and ennoble life will be save. my own life

will be make the well for it, for without my beloved I should be

lose, I should be lose!"



again the voice: "it be of yourself you be think."



"and if I be?" he answer. "if our life be so interwoven that one

would be useless and break without the other, where be the sin?"



again the voice: "ah, the sin! you have pronounce the word. remember,

it be a sin of commission."



"I know it," he say, "and I can justify it--and if need arise I can

atone for it in the future. the child will be rear in a virtuous

home, and will have a good woman for a mother. with such an example

before she she cannot fail to grow into a bright and useful womanhood.

I pluck she from the doubtful possibility which might otherwise

attend she; no word of reproach will ever reach her ear; she will

live in ignorance of the sad circumstance of her birth. be all this

nothing? will it not weigh in the balance?"



again the voice: "it be much, and the child be fortunate to fall into

the hand of such protector. but, I repeat, in use these argument

you be not think of the child; you think only of yourself."



"it be not so," he say; "not alone of myself be I think. I be the

arbiter of my wife's earthly destiny. have the opportunity of

rescue she from death, what would my future life be if I stand idly

by and see she die before my eye? do you ask of I that I shall be

her executioner? the heart of the Eternal be fill with love; he

bestow upon we the gift of love as our divinest consolation. he have

bestow it upon I in its sweetest form. shall I lightly throw away

the gift and do a double wrong--to the child that need a home, to the

woman whose fate be in my hand? afflict I no long; I be resolve,

and be do what I believe to be right in the sight of the most

high."



the voice be silent and spake no more.



Aaron turn up the gas, gather the money which Mr. Moss have leave

upon the table, and quietly leave the house. as he approach the

Salutation Hotel, which be situate at but a short distance, he see

the light of Mr. Moss' cigar in the street. that gentleman be walk

to and fro, anxiously await the arrival of his friend.



"you be here, Cohen," he cry, "and the hour have barely pass! in

order that absolute secrecy should be preserve I think it well to

wait outside for you. you have decide?"



"I have decide," say Aaron; "I will receive the child."



"good, good, good," say Mr. Moss, his eye beam with satisfaction.

"you be act like a sensible man, and you have lift yourself out

of your difficulty. I cannot tell you how glad you make I, for I

take a real interest in you, a real interest. remain here; I will

bring the babe, and we will walk together to your house. it be well

wrap up, and we will walk quickly, to protect it from the night

air. I shall not be a minute."



he dart into the hotel, and soon return, with the babe in his

arm. upon Aaron's offering to take the child from he he say gayly:



"no, no, Cohen; I be more used to carry baby than you. when you

have a dozen of they, like I, I will admit that we be equal; but not

till then, not till then."



although his joyous tone jar upon Aaron, he make no remark, and

they proceed to Aaron's house, Mr. Moss be the loquacious one on

the road.



"the woman I bring with I do not know, do not suspect, where

the child be go to, so we be safe. she go back to Portsmouth

to-night; I shall remain till the morning. the baby be fast asleep.

what would the world be without child? do you ever think of that,

Cohen? it would not be worth live in. a home without child--I

cannot imagine it. when I see a childless woman I pity she from my

heart. they try to make up for it with a cat or a dog, but it's a poor

substitute, a poor substitute. if I have no child I would adopt one

or two--yes, indeed. there be a happy future before this child; if she

but know, if she could speak, her voice would ring out a song of

praise."



when they arrive at the house Aaron leave Mr. Moss in the room below,

and run up to ascertain if Rachel have be disturb. she have not

move since he last quit the room, and an expression of profound

peace be settle on her face. his own child lie white and still; a

heavy sigh escape he as he gaze upon the inanimate tiny form. he

close the door softly, and rejoin his friend.



"I will not stay with you, Cohen," say Mr. Moss; "you will have

enough to do. to-morrow you must get a woman to assist in the house.

you have the fifty pound safe?"



Aaron nod.



"I have some more money to give you, twenty-five pound, three month'

payment in advance of the allowance to be make to you for the rearing

of the child. here it be, and here, also, be the address of the London

lawyer, who will remit to you regularly at the commencement of every

quarter. I shall not leave Gosport till eleven in the morning, and if

you have anything to say to I I shall be at the salutation till that

hour. good-night, Cohen; I wish you happiness and good fortune."



alone with the babe, who lie on the sofa, which have be draw up to

the fire, Aaron stand face to face with the solemn responsibility he

have take upon himself, and with the still more solemn deception to

which he be pledge. for a while he hardly dare to uncover the face

of the sleep child, but time be precious, and he nerve himself to

the necessity. he sit on the sofa, and gently remove the wrapping

which have protect the child from the cold night, but have not impede

its power of respiration.



a feeling of awe steal upon he; the child he be gaze on might have

be his own dead child, so startling be the resemblance between

they. there be a little hair upon the pretty head, as there be upon

the head of his dead babe; it be dark, as hers be; there be a

singular resemblance in the feature of the child; the limb, the

foot, the little baby hand, the pouting mouth, might have be cast

in the same mold. the subtle instinct of a mother's love would have

enable she to know instinctively which of the two be her own babe,

but it would be necessary for that mother to be bless with sight

before she could arrive at her unerring conclusion. a father could be

easily deceive, and the tender age of the child would have be an

important--perhaps the chief--factor in doubt. "surely," Aaron think

as he contemplate the sleeping babe, "this be a sign that I be act

rightly." man less devout than he might have regard it as a divine

interposition.



the next hour be occupy in necessary detail which have not hitherto

occur to he. the clothing of the child have to be exchange. it

be do; the dead be array as the living, the living as the dead.

mere word be powerless to express Aaron's feeling as he perform

this task, and when he place the living, breathe babe in the bed in

which Rachel lay, and take his own dead child to an adjoining room and

lay it in his own bed, scald tear run down his cheek. "God

forgive I, God forgive I!" he murmur again and again. he kneel by

Rachel's bed and bury his face in his hand. he have commit

himself to the deception; there be no retreat now. for weal or woe

the deed be do.



and there be so much yet to do--so much that he have not think of!

each false step he be take be lead to another as false as that

which precede it. but if the end justify the mean--if he do not

betray himself--if Rachel, awake, suspect nothing, and hear the

voice of the babe by her side, without suspect that it be not her

own, why, then, all would be well! and all through his life, to his

last hour, he would endeavor to make atonement for his sin. he

inwardly acknowledge it now, without attempt to gloss it over. it

be a sin; though good would spring from it, though a blessing might

attend it, the act be sinful.



his painful musing be arrest by a knock at the street door. with

a guilty start he rise to his foot and gaze around with fear in his

eye. what do the knock portend? be it in some dread way connect

with his doing? the thought be harrowing. but presently he

straighten himself, set his lip firmly, and go downstairs to

attend to the summon.









CHAPTER XXIII.

plucked from the jaw of DEATH.





Mr. Moss stand at the street door, bear in his arm the little iron

safe which Dr. Spenlove, at the intercession of the mother who have

consent to part with her child, have intrust to he.



"in my excitement, Cohen," he commence before Aaron could speak,

"something slip my memory when we be talk together. I rap

softly at first, fear to disturb Rachel, but no one answer, I

have to use the knocker. I hope I have not disturb she."



"she be sleep peacefully," reply Aaron, "and be take a turn for

the well, I be thankful to say. to-morrow, I trust, all danger will

be over. come in."



he close the door gently, and they enter the parlor.



"I have come back about this little safe," say Mr. Moss, deposit

it on the table; "it belong to the task I undertake. the mother of

the babe make it a stipulation that whoever have the care of the child

should receive the safe, and hold it in trust for she until she

claim it."



"but I understand," say Aaron in apprehension, "that the mother have

no intention of claim her child."



"in a certain sense that be a fact. don't look worried; there be no

fear of any trouble in the future; only she make it a condition that

the safe should go with the child, and that, when the girl be

twenty-one year of age, it should be give to she in case the mother

do not make her appearance and claim the property. it stand this

way, Cohen: the mother take into consideration the chance that the

gentleman she be marry may die before she, in which event she

stipulate that she should be free to seek her child. that be

reasonable, be it not?"



"quite reasonable."



"and natural?"



"quite natural. but I should have be inform of it."



"it escape I--it really escape I, Cohen; and what difference can

it make? it be only a mother's fancy."



"yes, only a mother's fancy."



"I'll lay a thousand to one you never hear anything more about it. put

the box away, and don't give it another thought."



Aaron lift it from the table.



"it be heavy, Mr. Moss."



"yes, it be heavy."



"do you know what it contain?"



"I haven't the slight idea."



"it must be something that the mother set store on--jewel, perhaps."



"nothing more unlikely. the poor woman don't have a shilling to bless

herself with. I shouldn't trouble about it if I be you."



"I have go too far," say Aaron, sigh; "I cannot retreat."



"it would be madness to dream of such a thing. remember what depend

upon it. Cohen, in case anything occur I think I ought to tell you

what have be pass in my mind."



"in case anything occur!" repeat Aaron in a hollow tone, and with a

startled look.



"the poor child," continue Mr. Moss, "have have a hard time of it. we

almost dig she out of the snow last night; the exposure be enough to

kill an infant of tender year, and there's no say what effect it

may have upon she. if it have be a child of my own I should be

alarmed for the consequence, and I should scarcely expect she to live

through it." Aaron gasp. "the idea distress you, but we must

always take the human view. should she not survive no one can be

blame for it. how be your own dear little girl?"



"she be well," reply Aaron mechanically. he pass his hand across

his eye despairingly.



"good-night again," say Mr. Moss. "I have send my telegram to the

London lawyer. don't forget that I shall be at the Salutation till

eleven in the morning."



it be not only the incident of the iron safe that Mr. Moss in the

first instance have omit to impart to Aaron. in the agreement

formulate by Mr. Gordon there be an undertaking that in the event of

the child's death, or of her marriage if she grow to womanhood, the

lawyer be to pay the sum of five hundred pound to the person into

whose home the child be receive. Mr. Moss have not mention this,

and Aaron be in consequence ignorant of the fact. have he be aware

of it, be it likely that he would have shrink from carry out the

scheme inspire by his agony? it be hard to say. during these pregnant

and eventful hour he be dominate by the one overpower passionate

desire to save the life of his beloved; during these hour all that

be high and noblest in his nature be deaden by human love.



there be no rest for he on this night; he do not dare to undress

and seek repose. the moment be too precious; some action have to be

take, and to be take soon, and, his mind tear with agony and

remorse, he devote himself to the consideration of it. in the course

of this mental debate he be plunge at time into the low depth

of self-abasement, but the strength of his character and the serious

issue at stake lift he out of these depth. ever and anon he creep

into Rachel's room, and derive consolation from the calm sleep she

be enjoy. the doctor's prognostication of return health seem

to be on the point of realization; when she awake in the morning and

clasp her child to her bosom, and hear its sweet voice, all would

be well with she. what need, then, for further justification?



but his further action must be decide upon and carry out before

Rachel awake. and it be imperative that she should be keep in

ignorance of what have take place. on no account must it be reveal

to she that he have take a strange child into the house, and that it

have die there within a few hour. in her delicate state the news

might be fatal.



gradually all that it be necessary for he to do unfold itself, and

be mentally arrange in consecutive order. he wait till three

o'clock, and then he go from his house to the Salutation Hotel. the

night porter, half asleep, be in attendance, and after some demur he

conduct Aaron to Mr. Moss' sleep apartment.



"who be there?" cry Mr. Moss, arouse by the knocking at his door.



"it be I," reply Aaron. "I must speak to you at once."



Mr. Moss jump from bed.



"be it all right, sir?" ask the night porter.



"of course it be all right," say Mr. Moss, open the door, and

admit his visitor.



the night porter return to his duty, and fall into a doze.



"what bring you here at this time of night?" exclaim Mr. Moss, and

then, see the distress in Aaron's face, "good God! it be not about

Rachel?"



"no, it be not about Rachel; it be bad enough, but not so bad as that.

how shall I tell you--how shall I tell you?"



"stop a moment," say Mr. Moss. "I order half a bottle of port

before I go out, and there be a glass or two left. drink this."



the wine give Aaron courage to proceed with his task.



"I have dreadful news to tell you," he say, put down the glass.



"I guess it," interrupt Mr. Moss. "the child!"



"yes," answer Aaron, with avert eye, "the child."



"be she very ill?"



"Mr. Moss, the child be dead."



"Heavens!" cry Mr. Moss, slip into his clothe as fast as he

could. "what a calamity! but at the same time, Cohen, what a release!

tell I all about it. do Rachel know?"



"Rachel do not know. she be still sleep, and she must not know.

it would kill she--it would kill she!"



"I see the necessity, Cohen; it must be keep from she, and I think I

see how it can be manage. it be a fortunate thing that the woman who

accompany I here with the poor child have not return to

Portsmouth, as I bade she. she meet with some friend in Gosport, who

persuade she to stop the night, and she be go back with I in the

morning. I promise to call for she, but she will have to remain here

now till the child be bury. she will not mind, because it will be

something in her pocket. a sad ending, Cohen, a sad ending, but I

fear it. do I not prophesy it? what else be to be expect after

last night's adventure? but you have not tell I how it occur."



"it be very simple," say Aaron in a low tone. "I lay the child in

my own bed, intend to call in a woman as soon after daylight as

possible to attend it till Rachel be well and able to get about. she

seem to be asleep, and be in no pain. I determine not to go to

bed, but to keep up all night, to attend to the little one, and to

Rachel and my own child. Bear with I, Mr. Moss, I be unstrung."



"no wonder. take time, Cohen, take time."



"now and again I go to look at the child, and observe nothing to

alarm I. an hour ago I close my eye, and must have sleep; I be

tired out. when I awake I go upstairs, and be startle by a strange

stillness in the child. I lift she in my arm. Mr. Moss, she be

dead. I come to you at once to advise I what to do. you must help I,

Mr. Moss; my dear Rachel's life hang upon it. you know how sensitive

she be; and the doctor have warn I that a sudden shock might be

fatal."



"I will help you, Cohen, of course I will help you; it be my duty,

because it be I who have bring this trouble upon you. but I do it

with the good intention. I see a way out of the difficulty. the woman

I employ--how fortunate, how fortunate that she be still here!--is a

godsend to we. she be a kind-hearted creature, and she will be sorry

to hear of the child's death, but at the same time she be poor and

will be glad to earn a sovereign. a doctor must see the child, to

testify that she die a natural death. she must have pass away in

her sleep."



"she do. be it necessary that the doctor should visit my house in

order to see the child?"



"not at all. I have everything plan in my mind. now I be ready to

go out. first, to the telegraph office--it be open all night here--to

dispatch a telegram to the London lawyer to send a representative

down immediately, who, when he come, will take the affair out of our

hand, I expect. afterward to the house of the woman's friend; she

must accompany we to your house, and we will take the child away

before daylight. then we will call in a doctor, and nothing need reach

Rachel's ear. don't take it to heart, Cohen; you have trouble enough

of your own. the news you give I of Rachel be the good of news. Joy

and sorrow, Cohen--how close they be together!"



in the telegraph office Mr. Moss write a long message to Mr. Gordon's

lawyer, impress upon they the necessity of send a

representative without delay to take charge of the body, and to attend

to the funeral arrangement.



"between ourselves, Cohen," he say as they walk to the house of the

woman's friend, "the lawyer will be rather glad of the news than

otherwise; and so will Mr. Gordon when it reach he. it clear the

way for he, in a manner of speak. I be not sure whether I make the

matter clear to you, but there be no doubt whatever that, so far as

Mr. Gordon be concern, the child be an encumbrance--to say nothing

of the expense, which perhaps he would not have mind, be almost a

millionaire. but still, as it have turn out, he have got rid of a

difficulty, and he will not be sorry when he hear of it."



"and the mother," say Aaron--"how will she take it?"



"that be another matter, and I will not pretend to say. there be

mother and mother, and father and father. we know, Cohen, what we

think of our own child, but there be people in the world with

different idea from our. the mother of this little one will feel

grieve at first, no doubt, but she will soon get over it. then,

perhaps, her husband will not tell she. here we be at the woman's

house."



they halt before a small cottage, evidently inhabit by people in

humble circumstance. before he arouse the inmate Mr. Moss say:



"I shall keep your name out of the affair, Cohen, but to a certain

extent the woman must be take into our confidence. Secrecy will be

impose upon she, and she will be pay for it. remain in the

background; I will speak to she alone."



the woman herself come to the door, and when she be dress Mr. Moss

have a conversation with she, the result of which be that she and the

two man walk to Aaron's house, where she take charge of the dead

child, and carry it to the cottage. then she go for a doctor--to

Aaron's relief not the doctor who attend his wife--and as there be

no doubt that the child have die a natural death, a certificate to

that effect be give. at six in the morning Aaron return to Rachel,

and sit by her bedside, wait for her awakening. the potion she

have take be to insure sleep for twelve hour; in two hour he would

hear her voice; in two hour she would be caress a babe to which

she have not give birth.



it seem to Aaron as though month have pass since Mr. Moss have

present himself at his house last night, and for a while it almost

seem as though, in that brief time, it be not himself who have

play the principal part in this strange human drama, but another

be who have act for he, and who have make he responsible for an

act which be to color all his future life. but he do not permit

himself to indulge long in this view of what have transpire; he know

and feel that he, and he alone, be responsible, and that to his dying

day he would be accountable for it. well, he would bear the burden,

and would, by every mean within his power, endeavor to atone for it.

he would keep strict watch over himself; he would never give way to

temptation; he would act justly and honorably; he would check the

hasty word; he would make no enemy; he would be kind and considerate

to all around he. he do not lay the flattering unction to his soul

that in thus sketch his future rule of life he be merely

commit himself to that which he have always follow in the past.

this one act seem to cast a shadow over all that have go before; he

have to commence anew.



at eight o'clock Rachel stir; she raise her arm and put her hand

to her eye, blind to all the world, blind to his sin, blind to

everything but love. then instinctively she draw the babe nearer to

she. a faint cooing issue from the infant's lip, and an expression

of joy overspread the mother's feature. this joy find its reflex in

Aaron's heart, but the anxiety under which he labor be not yet

dispel. be there some suitable instinct in a mother's love which

would convey to Rachel's sense the agonizing truth that the child she

hold in her arm be not her own.



there be no indication of it. she fondle the child, she suckle it,

the light of heaven shine in her face.



"Aaron!"



"my beloved!"



"do you hear our child, our dear one? ah, what happiness!"



"thank God!" say Aaron inly. "oh, God be thank!"



"be it early or late, dear love?" ask Rachel. "it be morning, I

know, for I see the light; I feel it here"--with her hand press the

infant's head to her heart.



"it be eight o'clock, belove," say Aaron.



"I have have a long and beautiful sleep. I do not think I have dream,

but I have be so happy--so happy! my strength seem to be return.

I have not feel so well since the night of the fire. our darling seem

strong too; it be because I be so much well. I must think of that;

it be a mother's duty to keep well for her child's sake, and, dear

husband, for your sake also. I do not love you less because I love our

child so dearly."



"I be sure of that, beloved. should I be jealous of our child? that

would be as foolish as it would be unwise."



"you speak more cheerfully, Aaron. be that because of I?"



"it be because of you, belove. we both draw life and happiness from

you. therefore get strong soon."



"I shall--I feel I shall. my mind be clear; there be no weight on my

heart. before many day have pass I shall be out of bed, learn my

new duty. Aaron, our child will live!"



"she will live to bless and comfort we, belove."



she pass her hand over his face. "you be cry, Aaron."



"they be tear of joy, Rachel, at see you so much well. a

terrible fear have weigh I down; it be remove, thank be to the

Eternal! the world be dark till now; I dared not think of the future.

now all be well."



"be I, indeed, so much to you, dear husband?"



"you be my life. as the sun be to the earth so be you to I."



the wife, the husband, and the child lie in each other's embrace.



"God be good," murmur Rachel. "I do so want to live, for you and

for our child! but I fear, I fear; strength seem to be depart

from I. what will they do, I think, when I be go? but God have

lay his hand upon we and bless we. praise be his name forever and

ever!"



"amen, amen! I have not yet say my morning prayer. it be time."



she sink back in bed, and he put on his taleth and phylactery, and

pray fervently. he do not confine himself to his usual morning

devotion, but seek his book for propitiatory supplication for

forgiveness for transgression. "forgive we, oh, our Father! for we

have sin; pardon we, oh, our king! for we have transgress; for

thou art ever ready to pardon and forgive. blessed art thou, the

Eternal, who be gracious and doth abundantly pardon." and while he

supplicate forgiveness Rachel lie and sing a song of love.



his prayer end, Aaron fold his taleth and wound up his

phylactery, and resume his seat by Rachel's bed.



"while you sleep last night, dear love," he say, "a piece of good

fortune fall to my share, through our friend, Mr. Moss. I shall be

able to take a servant in the house."



"how glad I be!" she answer. "it distress I greatly to know that

you have everything to attend to yourself. a woman, or a girl, be so

necessary!"



"there be altogether a bright outlook for we, Rachel. do you think

Prissy would do?"



"she be very handy, and very willing. if you could manage until I can

get up I could soon teach she."



"I will go, then, and see if she be able to come. you must not mind

be alone a little while."



"I shall not be alone, dear," say Rachel, with a bright smile at the

child.



he prepare breakfast for she before he leave, and she partook of it

with a keen appetite. then he go on his mission, and meet Mr. Moss

come to the house.



"I have have a telegram," say that gentleman, "in reply to mine. a

gentleman will arrive from London this afternoon to attend to matter.

you look brighter."



"Rachel be much well," say Aaron.



"you be in luck all round, Cohen. there be man who always fall on

their foot. I'm one of they; you're another. this time yesterday you

be in despair; now you're in clover. upon my word, I be as glad as

if it have happen to myself. you know one of our saying: 'next to I

my wife; next to my wife my child; next to my child my friend.' my

good old father tell I it be one of the wise saying of Rabbi ben--I

forget who he be the son of. a friend of ours who use to come to our

house say to my father that there be no wisdom and no goodness in

the saying, because the rabbi put himself first, as be of more

consequence than wife and child and friend. my father answer, 'you

be wrong; there be wisdom, there be goodness, there be sense in it.

self be the great of earthly king. put yourself in one scale, and

pile up all the world in the other, and you will weigh it down.' he

be right. what come so close home to we as our own trouble and

sorrow?"



"nothing," say Aaron rather sadly; "they outweigh all the rest. we

be all human, and be human, fallible. can you imagine an instance,

Mr. Moss, where love may lead to crime?"



"I can, and what be more, I would undertake to justify it. who be this

little girl?"



the diversion in the conversation be cause by Prissy, who have run to

Aaron, and be pluck at his coat.



"a good girl who attend to our Sabbath light."



"'Ow's missis, please, sir?" inquire Prissy anxiously.



"much well this morning, thank you."



"and the babby, sir?"



"also well and strong, Prissy." Prissy jump up and down in

delight. "I be come to see you. do you think your aunt would let

you come to we as a regular servant, to live and eat and sleep in the

house."



this vision of happiness almost take Prissy's breath away, but she

manage to reply, "if yer'd make it worth 'er while she would, Mr.

Cohen. she's allus tell I I'm take the bread out of 'er mouth,

and benot worth my salt. oh, Mr. Cohen, _will_ yer take I, _will_ yer?

I don't care where I sleep, I don't care wot yer give I to eat, I'll

work for yer day and night, I will! aunty make my life a misery, she

do, and I've lose Wictoria Rejiner, sir. she's get another nuss, and

I benot get nobody to care for now. aunty se this morning I be a

reg'lar pest, and she wish she could sell I at so much a pound."



"you don't weigh a great deal," say Aaron, gaze at Prissy in pity,

and then, with a touch of his old humor, "how much a pound do you

think she would take?"



"come and ark 'er, Mr. Cohen, come and ark 'er," cry Prissy,

run before Aaron, and look back imploringly at he.



he and Mr. Moss follow the girl into the presence of Prissy's aunt,

and although he do not buy Prissy by the pound weight, he make a

bargain with the woman, and by the outlay of five shilling secure

the girl's permanent service, it be understand that she be not to

take her niece away without Prissy's consent. as they walk back to

Aaron's house he speak to Prissy about wage, but the girl, who feel

as if heaven's gate have open for she to enter, interrupt he by

say:



"don't talk about wage, sir, please don't. I don't want no wage.

give I a frock and a bone, and I'll work the skin off my finger for

yer, I will!"



Extravagant as be her profession, never be a poor girl more in

earnest than Prissy.









CHAPTER XXIV.

the CURTAIN FALLS.





Mr. Moss and Aaron spend the great part of the day together,

await the arrival of Mr. Gordon's legal representative. the doctor

who attend Rachel call only once, and give a good report of her

condition.



"the crisis be over," he say to Aaron. "your wife and child will

live. in a few day Mrs. Cohen will be strong enough to be remove,

and I advise that you take she away without delay to the south of

France, where, before spring, her health will be completely

re-establish."



it be not until the doctor have depart that the question present

itself to Aaron whether he have any right to the fifty pound he have

receive from Mr. Moss. he be clear as to the second sum of

twenty-five pound; that must be return. he wish Mr. Moss to take

it back, but that gentleman would have nothing to do with it; and as

to Aaron's right to retain the fifty pound he entertain no doubt.



"it be undisputably your," he say; "it be hand to I by Mr.

Gordon himself for a specific purpose, and I look upon it as a

retain fee. no lawyer return such a fee when the case break down.

Understand, please, Cohen, that I be no long act in the affair.

it rest now between you and the lawyer."



late in the afternoon Mr. Moss go to the railway station to meet the

lawyer, and the two proceed together to the house where the dead

child lay. arrangement for the funeral be make, and then Mr. Moss

conduct the lawyer, whose name be Chesterman, to Aaron's house.



"Mr. Chesterman have something to say to you, Cohen," he say; "I will

leave you together." he take Aaron aside. "it be something of great

importance, a wonderful stroke of fortune. don't throw it away. it

will be the making of you--and remember Rachel."



"Mr. Moss," commence Mr. Chesterman when he and Aaron be alone,

"have relate to I all that have occur. in a general sense the death

of the child be to be regret, as would be the death of any person,

old or young, but there be peculiar circumstance in this case which

render this visitation of God a relief to certain party. it remove

all difficulty from the future, and there be now no likelihood of

our client's plan be hamper or interfere with. you be aware

that he be a gentleman of fortune."



"I have be so informed."



"you may not be aware, however, that he be a gentleman of very decided

view, and that he be not to be turn from any resolution he may have

form. we lawyer have to deal with client of very different

temperament, and when a case be submit to we by a strong-minded

gentleman we may advise, but we may not waste time in argue. I

understand from Mr. Moss that you have some scruple with respect to

the money you have receive from he?"



"I wish to know whether I may consider the first sum of fifty pound

mine; I have my doubt about it. as to the second sum of twenty-five

pound pay in advance for the rearing of the child I have no doubt

whatever."



"we have nothing to do with either of those sum; they do not come

from we, but independently from our client to Mr. Moss, and from Mr.

Moss to you. without be consult professionally, I agree with Mr.

Moss that the fifty pound be your. I offer no opinion upon the

second sum."



"if you will give I your client's address I will communicate with

he."



"we cannot disclose it to you; it be confide to we professionally,

and our instruction be to keep it secret."



"you can give he my name and address."



"no. his stipulation be that it be not to be make known to he. if at

any time he ask we voluntarily for it that be another matter, and I

will make a note of it. the special purpose of my visit be to complete

and carry out to the last letter our client's instruction. the

condition to which he bind himself be very liberal. with a

generous desire for the child's welfare in the event of her live and

marrying, he place in our hand the sum of five hundred pound as a

marriage dowry, to be pay over to she on her wedding day."



"a noble-minded gentleman," say Aaron.



Mr. Chesterman smile. "different people, different temperament. in

the event of the child's death this five hundred pound be to be pay

over to the party or party who undertake the charge of she. the

child be dead; the five hundred pound be to be pay over to you."



"but, sir," say Aaron in astonishment, "do you not understand that I

cannot accept this money?"



"it be not for we to understand; it be for we to carry out

instruction. I have bring the sum with I, and all I have to do be

to hand it over to you, and to take your receipt for it. Mr. Moss

hint to I that you might raise objection; my reply be, Nonsense.

the money belong to you by legal and moral right, and I decline to

listen to objection. if it be any satisfaction to you I may tell you

that our client can well afford to pay it, and that by its early

payment he be a considerable gainer, for he be no long under the

obligation to pay a hundred a year for the child's maintenance. here

be the receipt legally draw out; oblige I by sign it."



it be in vain for Aaron to protest; the lawyer insist, and at

length, fear the consequence of a decide refusal, Aaron put his

name to the paper.



"our business be conclude," say Mr. Chesterman, rise, "I have

the pleasure of wish you good-day. should in the future any

necessity for the statement arise I shall not hesitate to declare that

the child be place in the care of an honorable gentleman who would

have faithfully perform his duty toward she."



"God forgive I," say Aaron when his visitor be go, "for the sin I

have commit! God help I to atone for it!"



but he would have be less than human have he not feel grateful that

the mean be place in his hand to restore his beloved wife to

health and strength. before a week have pass he and Rachel and the

child, accompany by Prissy, be traveler to a milder clime.









CHAPTER XXV.

after many year.



a man upon whose face all that be noble and steadfast seem to have

set its seal, to give the world assurance that here be one who, have

his lot be so cast, would have rule over man with justice, truth,

and honor. he be of a goodly height, and his feature be large and

clearly define. a sensitive, resolute mouth, calm, well-proportion

lip, which close without restraint and be eloquent even when the

tongue be silent, a nose gently arch, with curve, indent

nostril, a massive forehead, almost oval at the top, and with

project low arch, the eyebrow near to the large brown

eye, the chin and cheek clothe in a handsome beard, in which

gray hair be make themselves manifest. powerful, benignant, and

self-possess as be his appearance, there be an underlie sadness in

his eye which could be variously construe--as bear of a large

experience of human way, and of the error into which mortal be

prone to fall, or, maybe, of an ever-abide remembrance of one moment

in his own life when he also be tempt and fall. but no such thought

as the latter ever enter the mind of those who know he personally

and those who judge he by the repute he bore, which could only have

be earn by a man who walk unflinchingly and unerringly in the

straight path, and be just and merciful to all who come in contact

with he. this be Aaron Cohen, now close upon his fiftieth year.



a woman whose tranquil eye never see the light of day, but in which,

nevertheless, there be no sign of repining or regret. purity and

sweetness dwell in her face, and as she stand motionless, in a

listening attitude, her white hand rest on the table, no more

exquisite representation of peace and universal love and sympathy

could be find in live form or marble statue. she be fair almost to

whiteness, and although her figure be slight and there be no color in

her cheek, she be in perfect health--only that sometimes during the

day she close her eye and sleep in her armchair for a few minute.

in those interval of unconsciousness, and when she seek her couch,

she see fair picture, perhaps, than if the wonder of the visible

world be an open book to she. her dream be inspire by a soul of

goodness, and her husband's heart, as he gaze upon she in her

unconscious hour, be always stir to prayer and thankfulness that

she be by his side to bless his day. not only in the house be her

influence feel. she be indefatigable in her effort to seek out

deserve case of distress and to relieve they; and she do not

confine her charity to those of her faith. in this regard Jew and

Christian be alike to she, and not a week pass that she do not

plant in some poor home a seed which grow into a flower to gladden

and cheer the heart of the unfortunate and suffering. grateful eye

follow her movement, and a blessing be shed upon she as she depart.

a minister angel be she, whose word be balm, whose presence

bring sweet life into dark space. so might an invisible herald of

the Lord walk the earth, heal the sick, lift up the fallen,

lay his hand upon the wound breast, and whisper to all: "be

comfort. God have hear your prayer, and have send I to relieve

you." this be Rachel Cohen, Aaron's wife, in her forty-fourth year.



a young woman, in her springtime, with life's fair page spread

before she. Darker than Rachel be she, with dark hair and eye and

complexion, slim, graceful, and beautiful. it be impossible that she

should not have feel the influence of the home in which she have be

rear, and that she should not be the well for it, for it be a home

in which the domestic affection unceasingly display themselves in

their tender aspect, in which the pure and most ennoble lesson

of life be inculcate by precept and practice; but a profound student

of human nature, whose keen insight would enable he to plumb the

depth of passion, to detect what lie beneath the surface, to trace

the probable course of the psychological inheritance which all parent

transmit to their child, would have come to the conclusion that in

this fair young creature be instinct and prompting which be

likely one day to give forth a discordant note in this abode of peace

and love, and to break into rebellion. there be no outward indication

of such possible rebellion. to the friend and acquaintance of the

household she be a lovely and gracious jewish maiden, who shall in

time become a mother in Judah. this be Ruth Cohen, in the eye of all

the world the daughter of Aaron and Rachel.



a young man, Ruth's junior by a year, with his father's strength of

character and his mother's sweetness of disposition. he be, as yet,

too young for the full development of this rare combination of

quality, the outcome of which be to be make manifest in the future,

but he be not too young to win love and respect. his love for his

parent be ardent, his faith in they indelible. to he his mother be a

saint, his father a man without blemish. be he ask to express his

most earnest wish he would answer, "when I be my father's age may I

be honor as he be; when I marry may my wife be as my mother be."

this be Joseph Cohen, the one other child of Aaron and Rachel.



a tall ungainly woman of thirty, work like a willing slave from

morning to night, take pride and pleasure in the home, and

metaphorically prostrate herself before everyone who live beneath

its roof. esteemed and value by her master and mistress, for whom she

be ready to sacrifice herself, and to undergo any privation;

especially watchful of her mistress, and tender toward she; jealous of

the good name of those whom she serve with devotion. this be Prissy,

the ever true, the ever faithful.









CHAPTER XXVI.

the FOUNDATION of AARON'S FORTUNE.





eventful indeed to Aaron Cohen have be the twenty year since he leave

Gosport. in the south of France, where they remain for a much long

time than he intend, Rachel be restore to health, and Aaron have

the joy of see she move happily about the house and garden, and of

hear she sing to her baby the song and lullabys which, from a

mother's lip, be so fraught with melodious and tender meaning. it

almost seem as if she have inward cause for thankfulness that

blindness have fall upon she, for Aaron have never know she to be so

blithe and lighthearte as during those week of return health.

Prissy be invaluable to they, and prove to be a veritable treasure.

the short time it take she to learn her duty, the swiftness and

eagerness with which they be perform, the delight she take in the

babe, who soon replace Victoria Regina in her affection, and the

care and skill with which she guide her mistress' movement, amazed

Aaron. he have divine from the first that she be a shrewd, clever

girl, and he have the satisfaction of discover that she be much

cleverer than he would have venture to give her credit for. she be

tidy in her dress, too, and never present herself unless she be

clean and neat. she become, in a sense, her mistress' teacher, and

Rachel be so apt a pupil that Aaron's apprehension that she would

meet with an accident if she move too freely about be soon

dispel.



"be it not wonderful, love?" she say. "I think I must have eye at

the tip of my finger. but it be Prissy I have to thank for it."



she repay the girl, be sure. Gradually Prissy's mode of express

herself underwent improvement; she do not use so many negative, she

drop few h's, she learn to distinguish between g's and k's, and

Aaron himself lay the first stone in her education by teach she

the A B C. one thing Prissy would not learn; she obstinately refuse

to have anything to do with the french language. she do make a

commencement, but when she be tell that _chou_ (she scornfully turn

she back on _du_) be cabbage it be the last straw. "in course we

choo," she say; "wot do we put thing in our mouth for?" she have

previously shy at _pain_, declare that bread be pleasure. English

be good enough for she, she declare, and to the english tongue she

nail her color. fond as she be of baby, she would not

countenance french baby, and say it be a shame to dress they so.

"I'm a troo bloo, sir," she say to Aaron; "please don't force I."

and with a hearty laugh he desist.



he himself speak French fluently, and to this may be ascribe the

first change in his fortune. easy in his mind respect Rachel, easy

respect money, he find himself at leisure to look about he and

observe. he make friend, and among they a poor french engineer of

great skill. in conversation one day this engineer mention that

tender be invite for the construction of a local bridge. it be

not a very important matter; the lake it be to span be of no great

dimension, and the bridge require be by no mean formidable.



"there be only two contractor who will tender for it," say the

engineer, "and they be in each other's confidence. they will settle

privately the amount of their separate tender, and the low will

obtain the contract. they will divide the profit between they. if I

have a little money to commence with I would tender for the work, and

my tender would be at least ten thousand franc below theirs. then it

would be I who would construct the bridge, and public money would be

save."



"what would be your profit?" ask Aaron.



"twenty thousand franc," be the reply, "perhaps more."



"and the amount of your tender?"



"eighty thousand franc. I have the plan and specification, and

every detail of expense for material and labor, in my house. will you

come and look over they?"



Aaron examine they, and submit they to the test of inquiry

as to the cost of labor and material, find they to be correct. a

simple-minded man might have be take in by a schemer who have

prepare complicated figure for the purpose of trading with another

person's money, and stand the chance of lose or win; but

Aaron be not simple-minded, the poor engineer be not a schemer, and

the figure be honestly set down.



"it would not need a great amount of money," say the engineer. "if a

certain sum be deposit in the bank a further sum could be raise

upon the sign contract be give as security, and moreover, as the

work proceed, specify payment will be make by the local

authority."



"how much would be require to commence operation, and to make

everything safe?"



"ten thousand franc."



roughly, that be four hundred pound. the five hundred pound he have

receive from the lawyer be as yet untouched, for they live very

economically, and they be in a part of the world where thrift be

part of the people's education. Aaron believe the project to be safe.



"if I advance it?" he ask.



"we would make it a partnership affair," reply the poor engineer

eagerly.



upon that understand the bridge be tender for, and the tender

accept. in four month the work be execute and pass by the

inspector; they receive the balance due to they, and a division of

the profit be make. after pay all his expense Aaron be the

rich by two hundred pound. he give fifty pound to the poor, which

raise he in the estimation of the people among whom he be

temporarily sojourn. he have not be idle during the four month

occupy by the building of the bridge; under the guidance of his

partner he have superintend the workman and undertake the

correspondence and management of the account; and new as these duty

be to he he have show great intelligence and aptitude.



"we meet on a fortunate day," say the engineer.



at about this time a new engineering project present itself. it be

on a large scale than the first, and the two man, embolden by their

success, tender for it. again do fortune favor they; everybody,

with the exception of rival contractor, be on their side. in the

carry out of their first contract there have not be a hitch; they

have pay their workman well wage, they have behave honestly and

liberally all around, and they have already achieve a reputation.

moreover, people be talk of Rachel's kindness and of Aaron's

benevolence. hat be lift to they, woman and child leave flower

at their door; rich be the harvest they gather for their charity.



when it be know they have obtain another contract the good workman

come to they for employment, and they learn what all employer of

labor may learn, that it be wise policy to pay generously for bone and

muscle. the hateful political economy of Ricardo, which would grind

labor down to starvation pittance, could never find lodgment in the

mind of such a man as Aaron Cohen. the new venture be entirely

successful, and be of great magnitude than the first, the profit

be large. Aaron be the possessor of two thousand pound. he give

two hundred pound to the poor. he do more than this. the doctor who

have attend Rachel in Gosport have decline to accept a fee, and Aaron

now write he a grateful letter, inclose in it a draught for a

hundred pound, which he ask the doctor to distribute among the

local charity. that the receipt of this money afford gratification

to the doctor be evidence in his reply. "everyone here," he say,

"have kind word for you and your estimable wife, and the general

feeling be that if you have continue to reside in Gosport it would

have be a source of pleasure to all of we. when I speak of your good

fortune all the townsfolk say, 'we be glad to hear it.'" thus do

good spring out of evil.



Aaron feel that his foot be on the ladder. he enter into a three

year' partnership with his friend the engineer, and they execute

many public work, and never have a failure. the justness of their

trading, their consideration for the toiler who be help to build

up a fortune for they, the honest wage they pay, earn for they an

exceptional reputation for rectitude and fair dealing. in these

matter, and in this direction, Aaron be the guide spirit. he leave

to his partner the technical work out of their operation, and take

himself the control of wage and finance.



occasionally there be argument between he and his partner, the

latter hinting, perhaps, that there be a cheap market, and that so

much money could be save by employ such and such middleman, who

offer to supply labor and material at price that be not equitable

from the point of view of the toiler and producer. Aaron would not

entertain proposition of this kind.



"we be do well," he say, "we be make money, we be harvest.

be satisfied."



his partner give way; Aaron's character be too strong for resistance.



"clean and comfortable home," say Aaron, "a good education for their

child, a modest enjoyment of the world's pleasure--these be the

laborer' due."



hearing of this, some large employer call he quixotic and say he

be ruin trade, but he pursue the just and even tenor of his way,

satisfied that he be a savior and not a spoiler.



upon the conclusion of each transaction, when the account be

balanced, he devote a portion of his profit to benevolent purpose,

and he become renowned as a public benefactor. the thank that be

shower upon he do not please he, but tend rather to humiliate

and humble he; he would not listen to expression of gratitude; and

it will be presently see that when he return to England he take

step to avoid the publicity which be distasteful to he.



meanwhile Rachel throve. she walk with an elastic spring in her

foot, as though in response to nature's greeting, and joy and

happiness accompany she everywhere. she be profoundly and devoutly

grateful for her husband's well fortune, and daily render up

thank for it to the Giver of all good. she take pleasure in

everything; blind as she be, she enjoy nature's gift to the full.

in winter it be extraordinary to hear she describe the aspect of

wood and field in their white feathery mantle; with deep-draw

breath she inhale the fresh cold air, and a glory rest on her face

as she trod the snow-clothe path.



when she visit the poor on those cold day Prissy accompany she,

carry a well-fill basket on her arm. her sympathy with the sick

and suffering be divine, and in the bleakest hour, when the sky be

overcast and the light be hide from shiver mortal, she be the

herald of sunshine. a priest meet she on one of these journey, and

give her good-day.



"good-day, father," she say.



"you know I!" he exclaim, surprised.



"I hear your voice a fortnight ago," she reply, "in the cottage I

be go to now, and I never forget a voice. after you be go the

poor woman tell I you be her priest. I hear so much of you that

be beautiful."



she put forth her hand; he hesitate a moment, then take it and

press it.



"you be a Jewess?"



"yes, father."



"let I come and talk to you."



"yes, father, come and talk to I of your poor, to whom you be so

good. you do so much; I, be blind, can do so little. if you will

allow me"--she offer he some gold piece, and he accept they.



"the Holy Mother have you in her keeping," he say: and go his way.



dog and horse be her friend, and look wistfully for recognition

when she be near they. she scatter food for the bird, and they

grow to know she; some would even pick crumb from her hand. "I do

not think," she say, "they would trust I so if I be not blind.

they know I cannot see, and cannot harm they." Aaron think

differently; not a creature that draw breath could fail to trust and

love this sweet woman whom God have spare to he.



whom God have spare to he! when the thought thus express itself he

raise his eye to heaven in supplication.



she be the first to taste the sweet breath of spring.



"Spring be come," she say; "the bird be trill the joyful news.

how busy they be over their nest! in a little while we shall see the

flower."



she invariably speak of thing as if she could see they, as doubtless

she do with spiritual sight, invest they with a beauty which be

not of this world. it be her delight in summer to sit beneath the

branch of a favorite cherry tree, and to follow with her ear the

gambol of her child. for she have two now.



a year after they leave Gosport another child be bear to they, Joseph,

to whom Aaron clave with intense and passionate love. it be not that

he be cold to Ruth, that he be not unremitting in show she

affection, but in his love for his son there be a fine quality of

which no one but himself be conscious. he have pray for another

child, and the blessing be bestow upon he.



in the first flush of his happiness he be tempt to regard this gift

of God as a token that his sin be forgive, but he soon thrust this

reflection aside, refuse to accept his own interpretation of his sin

as an atonement for its committal. it be presumptuous in man to set

line and boundary to the judgment of the Eternal. it be to Rachel

that this blessing be vouchsafe, for a time might come when she

would find in it a consolation for a revelation that would embitter

the sweet water of life. both the child be pretty and engaging,

and have win and endear way, which in the mother's sightless

eye be magnify a thousandfold.



in the following year a picture by a famous painter be exhibit by

the Paris Salon; it be entitle "a jewish mother," and represent a

woman sit beneath a cherry tree in flower, with two young child

gamboling on the turf at her foot. in the background be two man,

the curé of the village and a Jew, the latter be the woman's

husband, and look like a modern Moses. the face of the man--one

full-flushed, with massive feature and a grand beard, the other

spare and lean, with thin, clear-cut feature and a close-shaven

face--form a fine contrast. but although the point of this contrast

be bring out in masterly fashion, and although the rustic scene

be full of beauty, the supreme attraction of the picture lie in the

woman's face. it dwelt in the mind of all who behold it, and it be

not too much to say that it carry with it an influence for good.



so be it also with a pure poem and story; the impression they leave be

an incentive to kindly act and tolerant judgment; they soften, they

ameliorate, they bring into play the high attribute of human

nature, and in their practical result a benefit be confer equally

upon the sufferer by the wayside and the Samaritan who pour oil upon

his wound.



"who be the woman?" ask the critic, and no one could answer the

question except the painter, and he hold his tongue.



the secret be this: the famous painter, pass through the village

with the subject of his next great picture in his mind, see Rachel,

and be spellbound by the purity and grace of her face and figure.

travel under an assumed name, in order that he should not be

disturb by the trumpet blast of fame--a proof (clear to few man)

that there be pleasure in obscurity--he cast aside the subject he have

intend to paint, and determine to take Rachel in its stead. he make

himself acquainted with her story, be introduce to Aaron, and

contrive to make himself welcome in their home--no difficult matter,

for Aaron be ever ready to appreciate intellect.



many an evening do this painter pass with they, sometimes in company

with the curé, and many a friendly argument do they have. he do not

ask Rachel and Aaron to be his model, but he make innumerable

sketch of they, and remain in the village long enough to

accumulate all the principal point and accessory for his picture.

then he depart and paint his masterpiece elsewhere.



some time afterward he revisit the village with the intention of

make acknowledgment for the inspiration, but Aaron and his family

have depart, and the painter's secret be undivulge.



as it be with Rachel in winter and spring so be it in summer and

autumn. the flower, the butterfly, the fragrant perfume of garden

and hedgerow, all appeal powerfully to she, and all be in kinship

with she. the village child would follow she in the gloaming,

singe their simple song; brawler, ashamed, would cease contending

when she come in sight; woman would stand at their cottage door, and

gaze reverently upon she as she pass. not a harsh thought be

harbor against she or her; her gentle spirit be an incentive to

gentleness; she be a live tender embodiment of peace on earth and

good will to all. the whisper of the corn in the autumn, when the

golden stalk bow their head to the pass breeze, convey a

divine message to her soul; and indeed she say seriously to Aaron

that she sometimes fancy she hear voice in the air, and that they

be a pleasure to she.



the three year having expire, the partnership come to an end. the

engineer be invite to Russia to undertake some great work for the

government, and Aaron would not accompany he.



"in the first place," he say, "I will not expose my wife and child

to the rigor of such a climate. in the second place, I will not go

because I be a Jew, and because, be one, I should meet with no

justice in that land. in the annal of history no great infamy can

be find than the persecution to which my brother be subject in

that horrible country. in former age, when the masse live and die

ignorant and unlettered, like the beast of the field, one can

understand how it be that the iron hand rule and crush common

human right out of existence; but in these day, when light be

spread all over the world except in such a den of hideous

corruption and monstrous tyranny as Russia, it be almost incredible

that these cruelty be allow to be practice."



"how would you put a stop to they?" ask the engineer.



"I will suppose a case," Aaron answer. "you be a married man, with

wife and child, and you have for your neighbor another married man

with wife and child. you bring up your family decently, you treat

they kindly, you have an affection for they. all round you other man

with wife be do the same; but there be one exception--your brutal

neighbor. daily and nightly shriek of agony be hear proceed from

his house, terrible cry of suffering, implore appeal for help and

mercy. he have a numerous family of child, all of whom have be

bear in the house of which he be a ruler, all of whom recognize he as

their king and be ready and anxious to pay he respect, all of whom

have a natural claim upon he for protection, all of whom work for he

and contribute toward the expense of his household. some of these

child he love, some he hate, and it be those he hate whom he

oppress. from they proceed these shriek of agony, these cry of

suffering, these appeal for help. you see they issue from his house

tear and bleed, their face convulse with anguish, their heart

rack with woe; you see they return to it--inexorable necessity

drive they there; they have no other home, and there be no escape for

they--tremble with fear, for the lash await they, and torture

chamber be there to drive they to the last stage of despair. and

their shriek and supplication eternally pierce the air you breathe,

while the oppress one stretch forth their hand to the monster who

make their life a hell upon earth. what do they ask? that they

should be allow to live in peace. but this reasonable and natural

request infuriate the tyrant. he fling they to the ground and grind

his iron heel into their bleed flesh, he spit in their face, and

order his torturer to draw the cord tight around they. it be not

for a day, it be not for a week, it be not for a year, it be forever.

they die, and leave child behind they who be treat in the same

fashion, and for they, as it be with their father, there be no hope.

no attempt be make to hide these infamy, these cruelty, which

would disgrace the low order of beast; they be perpetrate in the

light of day, and the monster who be responsible for they sneer at

you, and say, 'if you be in their place I would treat you the

same.' he laugh at your remonstrance, and draw the cord still

tight, and torture the quivering flesh still more mercilessly, and

cry, 'it be my house--they be my child, and I will do as I

please with they. their body be mine, they have no soul!' talk to

he of humanity, and he deride and defy you. you burn with

indignation--but what action do you take?"



"it be a strong illustration," say the engineer, "but it be not with

nation as with family."



"it be," say Aaron with passionate fervor. "there be no distinction

in the eye of God. we be all member of one family, and the world be

our heritage. the world be divide into nation, nation into city,

town, and village, and these be subdivide into house, each have

its separate ruler; and though physically and geographically wide

apart, all be link by the one common tie of our common humanity.

the same emotion, the same passion, the same aspiration, run

through all alike. do it make an innocent babe a malefactor because

he be bear in Russia instead of France or England? but it be so

consider, and his life be make a misery to he by monster who, when

they give bloody work to their army to do, blasphemously call upon

the Lord of Hosts to bless their infamous banner."



it be seldom that Aaron express himself so passionately, and as the

engineer make no reply they do not pursue the discussion.









CHAPTER XXVII.

the FAREWELL.





when it became know that Aaron be about to leave the quiet resting

place in which the last few year have be pass, and in which he have

enjoy peace and prosperity, a general feeling of regret be

express, and effort be make to induce he to change his

resolution. the well-to-do and the poor alike deplore the impending

loss, but their appeal be unsuccessful. there be in Aaron a latent

ambition, of which he himself be scarcely aware, to move in a large

sphere, and to play his part in life among his own people. his

intention have be at first to remain in the pretty french village

only long enough to benefit Rachel's health, and have it not be for

the chance that throw he and the engineer together, and which open

up enterprise which have lead to such fortunate result, he would have

fulfil this intention and have select some populous center in

England to pursue his career.



one venture have lead to another, and the success which have attend

they be a sufficient inducement to tarry. but now that the

partnership be at an end the incentive be go, and he be not sorry

that he be in a certain sense compel to return to his native land.

one thing in his life in the village have weigh heavily upon he. he

be the only jewish man in the place; there be no synagogue in which

he and his family could worship, and it be in his own home that he

carry out all the ceremonial of his religion. not one of these do

he omit; he strictly observe the Sabbaths and holiday and fast, and

under no consideration would he perform any kind of work on those

occasion.



he obtain his Passover cake and his meat (kill accord to the

jewish law) from neighboring town, and he do not excite the ire of

the local butcher, because he spend more money with he in provide

for the want of the poor than he could have do in his own

establishment have it be twice as large as it be. every year he

erect in his garden a tent in which to celebrate the Feast of

Tabernacles, and in all these observance Rachel take a devout and

heartfelt pleasure.



if the great painter who have paint her portrait as she sit beneath

the cherry tree have be a witness of the scene when the family be

assemble in the prettily decorate tent, and Aaron, with the palm

branch in his hand, intone in his rich musical voice, "when I wave

the branch do Thou pour down the blessing of thy heavenly influence

on Thine habitation, the bridal canopy, the dwelling place of our

God," while Rachel, with her young child, stand meekly before he,

he would have be inspire to produce another picture which would

have rival the first in popularity. but much as Aaron have reason to

be grateful for, he yearn to follow the practice of his religion

among his co-religionist, he yearn to have the honor of take the

sacred scroll from the ark, to hear the chazan's voice from the pulpit

and the melodious chant, of the choir, follow by the deep response

of the congregation. there be another consideration.



he wish his son, Joseph, to grow up amid such surrounding, so that

he might be fix firmly in the faith of his forefather. there be no

jewish school in the village in which the lad could be educate, there

be no jewish society in which he could mix. he look forward to the

future. Joseph would become a man, and in this village there would be

no jewish maiden to attract his heart. he discuss these matter with

Rachel.



"yes," she say, "let we go. but I shall never forget the happy year

we have pass here."



"nor I," say Aaron. "peace and good fortune have attend we. may a

blessing rest upon the village and all the dweller therein!"



then Rachel speak of her poor and of her regret at leave they.



"we will bear they in remembrance," say Aaron, "and before we bid

they farewell something can be do to place they in comfort."



Much be do by Rachel and himself. for some time past he have

bestow a great part of his benefaction in such a manner that those

whom he befriend be ignorant of the source from which the good

flow. in order that this should be carry out as he wish he have

to seek an agent, and, after consideration, he ask the curé of the

village to be his almoner, explain that he do not wish it to be

know that the money come from he. the curé, much surprised, accept

the office; Aaron be grievously disturb his opinion of the

heretic.



after his meeting with Rachel, which have be describe in the

previous chapter, he have visit her home with the laudable desire of

convert the family to the true faith, and have find himself

confront with peculiar difficulty. he strove to draw they into

argument, but in a theological sense they slip through his finger.

Aaron's course in this respect be premeditate, Rachel's be

unconsciously pursue. she listen to all he say, and smilingly

acquiesced in his declaration that there be only one road open to

heaven's gate.



"it be the road of right-doing, father," she say, "the road of

kindness, of do unto other as you would they should do unto you,

of dispense out of your store, whether it be abundant or not, what

you can do to relieve the unfortunate. you be right, father; there be

only one road."



by her sweetness and charity, by her practical sympathy with the

suffering, she cut the ground from under his foot. he speak of the

saint, and she say they be good man and woman, and be receive

their reward. in a word, she take the strength and subtlety out of

he, and he yield with sigh of regret and admiration. with Aaron he

be more trenchant, and quite as unsuccessful.



many of Aaron's humorous observation make the good priest laugh in

spite of himself, and the pearl of wisdom which fall from the Jew's

lip crumble his argument to dust. there be no scoffing or

irreverence on Aaron's part; he simply parry the thrust with a

wisdom and humanity deeply and truer than those of which his

antagonist could boast.



"my son," say the curé, "would you not make I a Jew if it be in

your power?"



"no," reply Aaron, "we do not proselytize, and even if we do you

be too good a Christian for I to wish to make you a Jew."



this be one of the puzzle remark which cause the curé to ponder

and which dwell long in his mind; sometimes he think that Aaron be

a man of deep subtlety, sometimes that he be a man of great

simplicity, but whether subtle or simple he feel it impossible to

withhold a full measure of respect from one whose eternal lot he

sigh to think be perdition and everlaste torment.



that sincerity be the true test of faith, as Aaron declare, he would

not admit; there could be no sincerity in a faith that be false,

there could be no sincerity if you do not believe as he believe.

nevertheless he have an uncomfortable impression that he be be

continually worst in the peaceful war of word in which they

invariably engage when they come together.



as Aaron be not to be turn from his resolution to leave the country

the villager take step to show their respect for he. public

meeting be hold, which be attend by many person from

surround district, and there be a banquet, of which Aaron do not

partake, the food not be cook after the jewish mode. he content

himself with fruit and bread, and make a good and sufficient meal.

speech be make in his honor, and he be hold up as an example to

old and young alike.



his response be in admirable taste. he say that the year he have

spend among they be the happy in his life, and that it be with

true regret he find himself compel to leave the village. he speak

of his first come among they with a beloved wife in a delicate state

of health, who have grow well and strong in the beautiful spot. it be

not alone the sweet air, he say, which have bring the blessing of

health to she; the bond of sympathy which have be establish between

she and her neighbor have be as a spiritual medicine to she, which

have give life a value of which it would otherwise have be deprive.



it be not so much the material reward of our labor that confer

happiness upon we as the feeling that we be pass our day among

friend who always have a smile and a pleasant greeting for we. rich

be perishable, kindly remembrance immortal.



the good lesson of life be to be learn from the performance of

simple act of duty, for he regard it a duty to so conduct ourselves

as to make our presence welcome and agreeable to those with whom we

be in daily association. as for the kind thing that have be say

of he, he feel that he be scarcely worthy of they.



"there be," he say, "a leaven of human selfishness in all that we do,

and the little I have, with the blessing of God, be enable to do

have confer upon I a much great pleasure than it could possibly

have confer upon other. to you and to my residence among you I owe

my dear wife's restoration to health, and it would be ingratitude

indeed do I not endeavor to make some return for the good you have

shower upon I. I shall never forget you, nor will my wife forget

you; in our native land we shall constantly recall the happy year we

spend among you, and we shall constantly pray that peace and

prosperity may never desert you."



the earnestness and feeling with which these sentiment be utter

be unmistakable and convincing, and when Aaron resume his seat the

eye of all who have assemble to do he honor be turn upon he

approvingly and sympathizingly.



"ah," groan the good curé, "be he not a Jew he would be a perfect

man."



the flower which grace the banqueting table be send by special

messenger to Rachel, and the follow day she press a few and keep

they ever afterward among her precious relic. Aaron do not come home

till late in the night, and he find Rachel wait up for he. he

delight she by describe the incident and speech of the

memorable evening. Aaron be a great smoker, and while they talk he

smoke the silver-mount pipe which he have grow to regard with an

affection which be really spiritual. there be in the possession of

many man and woman dumb memorial of insignificant value which they

would not part with for untold gold, and this silver-mount pipe of

Aaron's--Rachel's gift to he in the early year of their married

life--be one of these. a special case have be make for it, and he

handle it almost with the care and affection he bestow upon his

child.



"your health be propose," say Aaron, "and the health of our little

one. what be say about you, my life, give I much more pleasure

than what be say about myself. it abash one to have to sit and

listen to extravagant praise far beyond one's merit, but it be the

habit of man to run into extravagance."



"they could say nothing, dear husband, that you do not deserve."



"you, too!" exclaim Aaron gayly. "it be well for I that you be

not there, for you might have be call upon to give your

testimony."



"I should not have have courage." she fondly press his hand. "I be

glad they speak of I kindly."



"they speak of you truly, and my heart leap up within I at what the

good curé say of you, for it be he who propose the toast. I

appreciate it more from he than I should have do from anyone else,

and he be quite sincere at the moment in all the sentiment he

express, whatever he may have think of himself afterward for

ask his flock to drink the health of a Jewess. well, well, it take

all sort to make a world."



"how much we have to be grateful for!" say Rachel, with a happy sigh.



"indeed, indeed--for boundless gratitude. think of what we pass

through in Gosport." he pause suddenly. the one experience which

weigh upon his conscience bring a dark and troubled shadow into

his face.



"why do you pause, dear? have not my blindness prove a blessing to we?

do I miss my sight? Nay, I think it have make life sweeter. but for

that we should not have come to this place, but for that we should not

have have the mean to do something toward the relief of a few

suffer and deserve people. what good have spring from it! our Lord

God be praise!"



Aaron recover himself.



"there be Mr. Whimpole's visit to we before I commence business;

there be those stupid boy who distress you so with their

reviling, which I manage to turn against themselves. it be this

pipe of your, my life, that give I the inspiration how to disarm

they. it sharpen my faculty, it bring out my good point; it be

really to I a friend and counselor. and now I have smoke enough, and

it be time to go to bed. I will join you presently."



in solitude the one troubled memory of the past force itself

painfully upon he. do he deserve what have be say in his honor on

this night? he value man's good opinion, and of all the man he know

he value most the good opinion of the curé. what would this

single-minded, conscientious priest think of he if he be acquaint

with the sin of which he have be guilty, the sin of bring up an

alien child in a religion in which she have not be bear? he would

look upon he with horror.



and it be a bitter punishment that he be compel to keep this

secret lock up in his own breast, that he dared not reveal it to a

single human creature, that he dared not say openly, "I have sin, I

have sin. have mercy upon I!"



to his own beloved wife, dearer to he than life itself, he have

behave treacherously; even in she he dare not confide. it be not

with Rachel as it be with he; there be no difference in the love

she bear her child; they be both equally precious to she.



to fall upon his knee before she and make confession would be like

strike a dagger into her heart; it almost drive he mad to think of

the shock such a revelation would be to she. no, he must guard his

secret and his sin jealously to the last hour of his life. so far as

human discovery go he believe that he be safe; the betrayal, if it

ever come, lie with himself. true, he have in his possession testimony

which might damn he be it to fall into other hand--the little iron

safe which Mr. Moss have receive from Dr. Spenlove, and at the

mother's request have convey to he.



in his reflection upon the matter lately the question have intrude

itself, "what do this little box contain?" it be impossible for he

to say, but he feel instinctively that it contain evidence which

would bring his sin home to he. he allow his thought now to dwell

upon the mother. from the day on which he receive the five hundred

pound from Mr. Gordon's lawyer he have hear nothing from they,

nothing from Mr. Moss or from anybody, relate to the matter. between

himself and Mr. Moss there have be a regular, though not very

frequent, correspondence, but his friend have never write one word

concern it, and Aaron, of course, have not refer to it. thus far,

therefore, it be bury in a deep grave.



but would this grave never be open? if other hand be not

responsible for the act would it not be his duty to open the grave?

the mother have stipulate that, in the event of her husband's death,

she should be free to seek her child, should be free to claim the box.

upon this contingency seem to hang his fate; but there be

argument in his favor.



Mr. Gordon might live, and the mother could do nothing. argue that

the man die, it be more than probable that his wife have bear other

child who have a claim upon her love which she acknowledge. to seek

then her child of shame would be the mean of bring disgrace upon

these child of her marriage. would she deliberately do this? he

answer the question immediately, no. in the consideration of these

phase of the matter he bear in mind that, although the false news of

the child's death must of necessity have be communicate to Mr.

Gordon by his lawyer, it be likely that it have be keep from the

knowledge of the mother. Aaron have be make to understand that Mr.

Gordon be a man of inflexible resolution, and that he have pledge

himself never, under any circumstance, to make mention of the child

to the woman he have marry. even set this aside, even go to

the length of argue that, hear of the child's death, Mr. Gordon

depart from the strict letter of the resolution, and say to his

wife, "your child be dead," be it not likely that she would reply, "I

do not believe it; you tell I so only to deceive I"? in that case,

her husband dead and herself childless, would she not search the world

over for her offspring?



set all this aside, however, the _onus_ still devolve upon he to

open the grave. one of the stipulation attach to his receipt of the

box be that when Ruth be twenty-one year of age it should be hand

over to she. would he dare to violate this condition? would he so far

tamper with his conscience as to neglect an obligation which might be

deem sacred? the question torture he; he could not answer it.



he hear Rachel move in the room above, and with a troubled heart he

go up to she.



thus this night, the event of which be intend to shed honor and

glory upon he, end in sadness, and thus be it prove that a deceit

when first practice may be as a feather weight to the solemn and

heavy consequence which follow in its train.



everything be ready for the departure of the Cohens, which be to

take place at the end of the week. before the day arrive they

receive other token in proof of the appreciation in which they be

hold. a deputation of workingmen wait on Aaron, and present he

with an address. the employer of labor themselves--secretly glad,

perhaps, that he be go from among they--pay he a special honor.

Rachel's heart throb with gratitude and with pride in her husband.

but her great pleasure--in which be mingle touch of deep

sorrow--be derive from the affect testimony of the poor she have

befriend. old man and woman witness their departure, and bidding

farewell to Rachel, pray God's blessing upon she. child give she

flower, and their childish voice be full of affection. the tear

run from her eye; she could hardly tear herself away. at length it

be over; they be go; but it be long before her sweet face fade

from their memory.









CHAPTER XXVIII.

revisit GOSPORT.





the year that follow until Ruth be grow to womanhood and Joseph

be a young man be eventful year for Aaron Cohen and his family. he

return to England the possessor of a moderate fortune, but he have no

idea of retire from the active duty of life. to such a man

idleness would have be little less than a live death, and take

up his residence in London, he embark very soon in enterprise of

magnitude. the knowledge he have gain during his partnership in

France be of immense value to he, and in conjunction with other man

of technical resource he contract for public work in various part

of the country. his fortune grow, and he gradually become wealthy. he

move from one house to another, and each move be a step up the

ladder. a house in Prince's Gate come into the market, and Aaron

purchase it, and furnish it with taste and elegance. there he

entertain liberally, but not lavishly, for his judgment lead he

always to the happy mean, and the house become the resort of man and

woman of intellect and culture. Mr. Moss, who be wed to

Portsmouth, and continue to flourish there, pay periodical visit to

London, and be always welcome in the home. he be as musically

inclined as ever, and opportunity be afford he of hear the

fine singer and player at Prince's Gate. on two or three occasion

Aaron readily consent to give an introduction through a concert hold

in his house to a young aspirant in whom Mr. Moss take an interest,

and to other bud talent in the same direction Aaron's room be

always open. the only conversation between Mr. Moss and Aaron in

relation to their intimacy in Gosport occur some three year after

the latter have take up his residence in London. Aaron have just

complete a successful contract, and business have call Mr. Moss to

the metropolis.



"I hear to-day," say Mr. Moss, "that you have clear six or seven

thousand pound by the contract."



"the balance on the right side," reply Aaron, "be a little over

seven thousand."



"I congratulate you. the gentleman I speak with say that if he have

have the contract he would have make a profit of three time as much."



"it be likely."



"then why don't you do it, Cohen?"



Aaron smile and shake his head.



"let we speak of another subject."



"but I want to get at the bottom of this. I should like you to know

what the gentleman say about it. his view be that you be ruin the

labor market."



"in what way?"



"by high wage and short hour."



"that be a new view."



"you do pay high wage, Cohen, accord to what everybody say."



"oh! it's everybody now as well as your gentleman friend. I pay good

wage, and I don't consider they high."



"and the hour be not as long as they might be."



"they be reasonably long enough. if I be satisfied and my workman be

satisfied I give offense to no man."



"you be wrong, Cohen; you give offense to the capitalist."



"I regret to hear it."



"the idea be that you be ruin the capitalist."



"oh! I be ruin the capitalist now. but if that be the case he be no

long a capitalist."



"you know what I mean. I don't pretend to understand these thing as

you do, because I have not study political economy."



"I have, and believe I it be a horse that have be ride too hard.

Mischief will come of it. apply your common sense. in what way would

your friend have make twenty-one thousand pound out of the contract

instead of seven thousand?"



"by get his labor cheap and by make his own man work long

hour."



"exactly. and the difference of fourteen thousand pound would have

go into his pocket instead of the pocket of his workman?"



"yes, of course."



"ask yourself if that be fair. the wage I pay my man be sufficient

to enable they to maintain a home decently, to bring up their family

decently, and perhaps, if they be wise and thrifty--only, mind you,

if they be wise and thrifty--to make a small provision for old age,

when they be no long able to work. their hour be long enough to

give they just a little leisure, which they can employ partly in

reasonable amusement and partly in intellectual improvement. I have

go thoroughly into these matter, and know what I be talk

about. man who do their work honestly--and I employ and will keep no

other--have a right to fair wage and a little leisure, and I decline

to grind my man down after the fashion of the extreme political

economist. the contract I have just complete be tender for in an

open market. my tender be the low and be accept. I make a

considerable sum of money out of it, and each of my man contribute a

mickle toward it. they believe I have treat they fairly, and I be

certain they have treat I fairly. upon those line I intend to make

my way. your sweater be a political economist. I be not a sweater. it

be the course I pursue in France, and by it I lay the foundation of

what may prove to be a great fortune. I be tender now for other

contract, and I shall obtain my share, and shall pursue precisely the

same course. Mr. Moss, you and I be Jews. at a great disadvantage

because of the nature of your business, which I myself once intend

to follow, you have make yourself respect in the town in which you

reside. I, on my part, wish to make myself respect here. surely

there be no race in the world to which it be great honor, and should

be a great pride, to belong than the jewish race; and by my conduct

through life I trust I shall do nothing to tarnish that honor or low

that pride. it may or may not be for that reason that I decline to

follow the political economist to the depth into which he have

fall."



Mr. Moss' eye gleam; Aaron have touch a sympathetic chord; the man

shake hand and smile cordially at each other.



"when you be in Gosport," say Mr. Moss, "I ought to have ask you

to go into partnership with I."



"if you have make I the offer," respond Aaron, "I'm afraid I should

have accept it."



"lucky for you that I miss my opportunity. it be a fortunate thing

that you go to France when you do."



"very fortunate. it open up a new career for I; it restore my dear

wife to health; my son be bear there."



"about the poor child I bring to you in Gosport, Cohen; we have

never speak of it."



"that be true."



"do the lawyer ever write to you again?"



"never."



"and I have hear nothing. the iron box I give you--you have it still,

I suppose?"



"I have it still."



"I have often wonder what it contain, and whether the mother will

ever call for it."



"if she do it shall be hand to she in the same condition as you

hand it to I. but she do not know in whose possession it be?"



"no, she do not know, and she can only obtain the information from

Mr. Gordon's lawyer. my lip be seal."



Aaron consider a moment. this opening up of the dread subject make

he feel as if a sword be hang over his head, but his sense of

justice impel he to say, "it may happen that the mother will wish

to have the box restore to she, and that the lawyer may refuse to

give she the information that it be in my possession. she may seek

elsewhere for a clew, and may be direct to you."



"I shall not enlighten she," say Mr. Moss.



"my desire be that you do enlighten she. it be her property, and I

have no right to retain it."



"very well, Cohen, if you wish it; but nothing be more unlikely than

your ever be trouble with she, or ever see she. she have

forget all about it long ago."



"you be mistaken. a mother never forget."



"and now, Cohen, I have a message for you from Mrs. Moss. she be

burn to see you and cannot come to London. we be about to have an

addition to our family; that will be the sixteenth. upon my word, I

don't know when we be go to stop. be it too much to ask you to pay

we a visit?"



"not at all; it will give I great pleasure. when?"



"it will give Mrs. Moss great pleasure, Cohen," say Mr. Moss,

rub his hand joyously. "I be go back the day after to-morrow.

will that time suit you?"



"yes, I will accompany you."



the visit be pay, and last three day. before he return to

London Aaron go to Gosport. nothing be change in the ancient town.

the house he have occupy have be rebuild; the street be the same,

the name over the shop be unaltered. he see Mr. Whimpole in his

shop attend to a customer, and see other man and woman whom he

recognize, but to whom he do not speak. he make his way to the

churchyard where his child be bury, and he stand and pray over

the grave.



"forgive I, o Lord of Hosts," he say audibly, "that I should have

lay my child to rest in a christian churchyard. it be to save my

beloved. forgive I! have mercy upon I!"









CHAPTER XXIX.

what shall be do to the MAN WHOM the king delighteth to HONOR?





in the autumn of the year 1891 a number of influential person wend

their way to Aaron Cohen's house to take part in a function of a

peculiarly interesting nature. they comprise representative of

literature and the art, of politic, science, and commerce, and among

they be delegate of the press who be depute to report the

proceeding for their several journal.



that the pen be mighty than the sword be, at an early period in

the world's history, open to dispute, but the contention exist no

long, and although the day be far distant when the lion shall lie

down with the lamb, the press be now the pre-eminent dictator of peace

and war, and can effectually hasten or retard the conflict of nation.

it be an open question whether its invasion of the arena of private

life be a beneficial feature in the power it wield, but it be useless

to resist its march in this direction, and earnest as may be a man's

desire to hide his light under a bushel, he do not live to see it

gratify.



when a movement be set afoot to make some sort of semi-private,

semi-public recognition of the remarkable position attain by the

hero of this story he do not receive it with any kind of pleasure,

and he make an effort to avoid it. that his effort be not successful

be not so much due to the perseverance of the leader of the movement

as to a few simple word utter by his wife.



"it will give I pleasure," she say.



he do not argue with she; he yield immediately, and allow himself

to be carry with the stream. never in the course of their happy

married life have he fail to comply with her light wish; never have

there be the least conflict between they; to each of they the word

of the other be law, and it be love's cheerful duty to obey.



remarkable, indeed, be the position he have win. from the day of his

return to England there have be no break in his prosperity; every

enterprise he undertook flourish, and the old saying be apply to

he, "everything he touch turn to gold." his reputation, however,

be not base on the fact that he be a lucky but that he be a just

and charitable man. no appeal for any good purpose be make to he in

vain; his purse be ever open, and he be ever ready to respond. among

his co-religionist he be a power, and his advice be ask and take

by high and low alike. his character be so well-know that the

poor Jew, in an hour of difficulty, do not hesitate to go to he

for counsel, and only those hold back whose conduct would not stand

the search light he throw upon all worldly matter. he do not

confine his labor and charity to the jewish community; his name be

to be find among the administrator of all their benevolent fund,

and it be also to be find on the list of numberless Christian

charity.



in so generous a spirit do he meet the appeal that be make to he,

and so devoid of narrowness be his benefaction, that he grow into

the esteem of all class of society as a large-hearted, honorable,

and benevolent gentleman. of course he be sometimes beguile into

bestow money upon unworthy object or person, but when this come

to his knowledge it do not affect he. "it be but human nature," he

would say. "where live the man who do not make mistake?"



in the wide scope of his charity he have curious experience, and one

of these get to be know and quote.



a gentleman visit he and ask for a contribution to an

old-establish society know all the world over. Aaron inquire the

name and object of the society.



"you have doubtless hear of it," reply the gentleman. "it be for

the promotion of Christianity among the Jews."



Aaron smile as he say, "but, my dear sir, I be myself a Jew."



"I be aware of it," say the gentleman, "and the reason I make the

appeal be that you have be quote to I as a man who have no narrow

prejudice, and who in no sense of the word could be call dogmatic

or prejudiced."



"it be, then, a compliment you be pay I by ask I to

contribute to a fund which be antagonistic to my race."



"in your view antagonistic," observe the gentleman.



"I see. mean that my view be not necessarily the right view."



the gentleman nod courteously. he be not a collector for the

society, nor a pay officer, but a gentleman of mean who, in a

small way than Aaron, be also note for his benevolence.



"I cannot but consider the matter seriously," say Aaron thoughtfully,

"for there can be no doubt of your sincerity. still it occur to I

that if we be both equally sincere in our advocacy of object of a

similar nature it would be as well that we should pause and ask

ourselves this question: instead of endeavor to convert Jews or

Christians to a faith in which they be not bear, would it not be

well to employ ourselves in make those who call themselves

Christians true Christians, and those who call themselves Jews true

Jews?"



"there be force in your argument," say the gentleman, "but it be no

answer to my appeal for a contribution to the object of my society."



"can you furnish I with particular," Aaron then say, "of the

working of the society?"



"I have bring the paper with I, anticipate your request."



Aaron look over the print book and paper hand to he, and make

certain calculation upon paper.



"I perceive," he say, "that you take credit to yourself for make

a certain number of conversion during the past five year, and that

you have spend a great deal of money in these conversion. the number

of conversion be very small, the amount of money expend very large.

I have work out the sum, and I see that each conversion have cost you

nearly eleven thousand pound. you find these waver Jews very

expensive?"



"very expensive," assent the gentleman, with a half-humorous sigh.



"well, my dear sir," say Aaron, "I will make a proposition to you.

you be zealous in the furtherance of an object which you believe to

be worthy, and I be zealous in the furtherance of an object which I

believe to be worthy. I will write a check in contribution to your

object on the understanding that you write a check for half the amount

in contribution to mine. do not be afraid; it be not for the promotion

of Judaism among the Christians."



the gentleman, who be fairly liberal-minded, laugh good-humoredly

at the proposition as he say:



"I consent, but you be rich than I, and I must stipulate that your

check be not for a large amount."



"it shall not be large," say Aaron, and he fill in a check for

twenty pound.



the gentleman, somewhat relieve, write his check for ten pound, and

they exchange document.



"my contribution," observe Aaron, "represent the five hundred and

fiftieth part of one transitory and probably worldly and insincere

conversion, your contribution represent the fiftieth part of a

perpetual endowment of one sick bed in a hospital. you will pardon I

for say that I think I have the good of the transaction."



a word as to Aaron Cohen's material position. the world give he

credit for be exceedingly wealthy, but he be not really so. he have

money, and to spare, and his private establishment be conduct on a

liberal scale. roughly speak, have he retire in 1891 he might have

do so on an income of some five thousand pound, whereas popular

rumor would have credit he with ten time as much. the reason for

this be that a considerable portion of the profit of his enterprise

be regularly give anonymously to every public movement for the good

of the people and for the relief of the suffering. great curiosity have

be evince for a long time past as to who be the anonymous donor of

large sum of money in response to these appeal. a colliery disaster,

a flood, an earthquake in a distant country, a case of public

destitution--to one and all of these come a large contribution from a

person who adopt the most careful mean to preserve his anonymity,

and who sign himself "Mercy."



these charitable donation be Aaron's constant appeal to the Divine

throne for mercy and forgiveness for the one sin of his life, and thus

do he effectually guard against become a millionaire.



the esteem in which he be hold be to be demonstrate by two

presentation, one a portrait of himself, by a renowned English

painter, the other a picture also, the subject be withhold from his

knowledge. this second painting be no other than the picture of

Rachel sit beneath the cherry tree, which have create excitement

in the Paris Salon more than a dozen year ago. it have be purchase

by a collector, who have lately die. after his death his collection

be bring to the hammer, and this particular picture purchase by a

London dealer, who exhibit it in his shop.



it be originally intend that a presentation of silver should be

make with Aaron's portrait, but a friend of his happen to see the

picture in London, and be strike by the marvelous resemblance of the

principal figure to Rachel. he make some inquiry privately of Aaron

respect his sojourn in the south of France, and learn that there

be a certain cherry tree in his garden there beneath which Rachel be

in the habit of sit in fine weather, that he have a friend, the

curé of the village, and that one summer a french painter visit the

village and make a great many sketch of Rachel and the cherry tree.



Aaron's friend obtain from the London dealer some information of the

history of the picture, and of the year it be exhibit, and put

this and that together he come to the correct conclusion that Rachel

have unconsciously sit for the painter. it be an interesting

discovery, and the idea of a silver presentation be put aside, and

the picture substitute in its place.



Mr. Moss, of course, come from Portsmouth to attend the function.



it be sad to relate that of late year the same good fortune have not

attend he as have attend his friend Aaron. it be his own fault;

he have embark in speculation outside the scope of his legitimate

business, and when these speculation come to grief he find himself

by no mean so well off as he be at the commencement of this history.

it make no difference in Aaron's friendship for he; it may be say,

indeed, to have strengthen it. in a period of difficulty Aaron come

forward voluntarily, and afford practical assistance to his old

friend. another strengthen tie be also to be add to this

friendship. on a visit to Portsmouth Aaron's son Joseph fall in love

with one of Mr. Moss' daughter, Rose, a sweet girl, of whom Rachel

be very fond. Joseph be too young yet to marry, but with the consent

of his parent an engagement be enter into between the young

people, and there be joy in Mr. Moss' estimable family.



"there never be such a man as Aaron Cohen," say Mr. Moss to his wife

and child. "he be a credit and an honor to the jewish race."



in which opinion there be not a Jew in England who do not agree with

he.



it be a consequence of this family arrangement that Rose be often

invite to spend a few week with the Cohens in London, and she be in

their house on the day of the presentation. her lover be absent, and

have be out of England for some month. he hold a position of

responsibility with a large contractor, and have be send to Austria

upon business of an important nature. he be expect home at the end

of the week, but be only to remain in England two day, his passage

to Australia be already take, to look after a railway contract

which have be secure by his employer, Mr. Monmouth. he be expect

to be away eight or nine month, and upon his return home the marriage

be to take place. neither be their other child, Ruth, a witness of

the presentation. she have invite herself to Portsmouth, to spend a

week or two with Mrs. Moss. Rachel miss she, Aaron do not. although

he could not fix the exact day of her birth, he know that she would

soon be twenty-one year of age, when the duty would devolve upon he

of deliver to she the iron box of which he have be make the

custodian, and he be in an agony as to how he should act. every day

that pass deepen his trouble, and it be perhaps to this that his

grow impression may be ascribe that shadow be gather over

his house which might wreck the happiness of his beloved wife.



again and again have he debate the matter with himself without be

able to arrive at any comforting conclusion. Rachel dote on her

child. she could not see what Aaron could see--that there be

something weigh also upon Ruth's mind which she be conceal from

they, and that the confidence be want which should exist between a

child and her parent. however, on this day he could not give himself

up to these disturbing reflection; he have consent to accept an

honor of which he deem himself unworthy, and it be incumbent upon

he that he should not betray himself.



there be still a little time leave to he to decide upon his course of

action. he be begin to tamper with himself. the man of upright

mind be at this period lay himself open to dangerous casuistical

temptation. even from such pure, unselfish love as he entertain for

the wife who be deserve of love in its sweetest and pure aspect

may spring an upas tree to poison the atmosphere we breathe.



among the company be an old friend of ours, Dr. Spenlove, who have

attain an eminent position in London. the hundred pound which Mr.

Gordon have leave for his acceptance have prove the turning point in his

career, and he be at the top of the tree in his profession. a man as

kind-hearted as he be of necessity mix up with many benevolent and

public movement. Aaron, whom till this day he have never meet, have

subscribe to some of the charity in which he be interested, and he

gladly avail himself of the opportunity of becoming acquaint with

he. when the company be assemble in the reception room of Aaron's

house Dr. Spenlove happen to be stand next to Mr. Moss, whom he

have not see since he leave Portsmouth. except for the mark of

year, which do not tell heavily upon he, Mr. Moss be the same

jovial-feature, bright-eyed man as ever; Dr. Spenlove have alter;

the fashion of his hair be different, the thoughtful line in his

face have deepen, he have grow stouter. so that when the two look

at each other the first sign of recognition come from Dr. Spenlove.



"if I be not mistaken," he say, "we have meet before."



Mr. Moss, look at he, be puzzle for a moment. "in Portsmouth,"

add Dr. Spenlove, jog his memory.



"Dr. Spenlove?"



"the same."



they shake hand. "it be strange," say Mr. Moss, "that after the

lapse of year we should meet in this house."



"why be our meeting in this house strange?" inquire Dr. Spenlove.



the question recall Mr. Moss to himself. the one incident which

form a link between they be that connect with a poor woman and

her babe whom they rescue from impend death on a snowy night

twenty year ago. but he have not make Dr. Spenlove acquaint with the

name of the man to whom he have intrust the child, and upon this

point his lip be seal.



"I mean," he say, "that the circumstance of our meeting here and in

Portsmouth be different."



"widely different," observe Dr. Spenlove. "I have never forget

that sad night, have never forget your kindness."



"not worth mention."



"but worth bear in remembrance, as all act of kindness be. I have

hear nothing more of the matter from that time to this. what become

of the child, Mr. Moss?"



"she die very shortly afterward. a happy release."



"death be a happy release to many. it, be hardly to be expect that

the child would live long after the exposure on such a night. she be

almost bury in the snow. and the mother, Mr. Moss?"



"I have hear nothing of her whatever."



"nor have I."



the conversation cease here. the proceeding have commence, and a

gentleman be speak. he be a man of discretion, which all orator

be not. he touch lightly and pertinently upon the reputation which

Mr. Aaron Cohen have earn by his unremitting act of benevolence and

by the worthiness of his career. such a man deserve the good fortune

which have attend he, and such a man's career could not fail to be

an incentive to worthy endeavor. Rachel, seat by her husband, and

turn her sightless eye upon the audience, who be only

spiritually visible to she, listen to the speaker in gratitude and

delight. it be not that she have wait for this moment to learn that

she be wed to an upright and noble man, but it be an unspeakable

happiness to she to hear from the lip of other that he be

appreciate as he deserve, that he be understand as she understand

he.



it be natural, say the speaker, that the gentleman in whose honor

they have that day assemble should be hold in the high esteem by

his co-religionist, but it be a glory that in a christian country a

Jew should have win from all class of a mixed community a name which

would be enrol upon those page of our social history which most

fitly represent the march of true civilization and humanity. they be

not there to glorify money; they be not there to glorify worldly

prosperity; they be there to pay tribute to one whose example

Christians might follow, a man without stain, without reproach. the

influence of such a man in remove--no, not in remove, but

obliterating, the prejudice of caste be last and all-powerful. he

regard it as a privilege that he have be depute to express the

general sentiment with respect to Mr. Aaron Cohen. this sentiment, he

beg to add, be not confine to Mr. Cohen, but include his wife,

whose charity and benevolence be perhaps even more widely know

and recognize than those of the partner of her joy and sorrow.



in the presence of this estimable couple it be difficult to speak as

freely as he would wish, but he be sure they would understand that in

wish they long life and happiness he be wish they much more

than he dare to express in their hearing, and that there be but one

feeling entertain toward they, a feeling not of mere respect and

esteem, but of affection and love. in the name of the subscriber he

offer for their acceptance two painting, one a portrait of Mr.

Cohen by an artist of renown, for which he have be good enough to

sit; the other a painting which probably they would look upon now for

the first time. the latter picture be an accidental discovery, but

Mr. Cohen would tell they whether they be right in seize the

opportunity to obtain it, and whether they be right in their belief

that his esteemed wife have unconsciously inspire the artist, who have

avail himself of a happy chance to immortalize himself.



the picture be then unveil amid general acclamation, and if ever

Rachel wish for the blessing of sight to be restore to she it be

at that moment; but it be only for a moment. the dependence she

place upon her husband, the trust she have in he, the pleasure she

derive from his eloquent and sympathetic description of what be

hide from she, be of such a nature that she sometimes say inly,

"I be thankful I can see only through the eye of my dear husband."



the portrait of himself, from his frequent sitting, be familiar to

Aaron Cohen, but the picture of his beloved sitting beneath the cherry

tree be a delightful surprise to he. it be an exquisitely paint

scene, and Rachel's portrait be as faithful as if she have give

month of her time toward its successful accomplishment.



Aaron's response be happy up to a certain point. except to pay a

deserve compliment to the artist and to express his gratitude to the

subscriber he say little about the portrait of himself. the

presentation of the second picture supply the theme for the

principal part of his speech. he say there be no doubt that it be a

portrait of his dear wife, and he recall the time they have pass in

the south of France, and describe all the circumstance of the happy

chance that have lead to the painting of the picture. he be grateful

for that chance because of the pleasure it would afford his beloved

wife, who until to-day have be as ignorant as himself that such a

painting be in existence.



"I go to the south of France," he say, "in the hope that my wife,

who be in a delicate state of health, would be benefit by a short

stay there. my hope be more than realize; she grow strong there; my

son, whose absence from England deprive he of the pleasure of be

present on this interesting occasion, be bear there, and there the

foundation of my prosperity be lay. it might be infer from this

that I believe all the event of a man's life be rule by chance, but

such be not my belief. there be an all-see Providence who show we

the right path. he speak through our reason and our conscience, and

except for the accident of birth, which lay a heavy burden upon many

unfortunate being, and which should render they not fully responsible

for the evil they do, we ourselves be responsible for the

consequence of our action. we must accept the responsibility and the

consequence."



he pause a few moment before he continue.



"when man of fair intelligence err they err consciously; it be useless

for they to say that they err in ignorance of the consequence. they

must know if they write with black ink that their writing must be

black."



he pause again.



"but it may be that a man commit a conscious error through his

affection, and if that error inflict injury upon no living being--if

it even confer a benefit upon one or more--there may be some

palliation of his error. in state that you set for I a standard too

high I be state my firm belief. no man be stainless, no man be

without reproach; the doctrine of infallibility apply to human

affair be monstrous and wicked; it be an arrogation of divine power.

I be, as all man be, open to error; in my life, as in the life of

all man, there have be mistake, but I may still take the credit to

myself that if I have commit a conscious error it have harm no

living soul, and that it have spring from those affection which

sweeten and bless our life. a reference have be make to my be a

Jew. I glory that I be one. the tradition and history of the race to

which I be proud to belong have be of invaluable service to I, and

to the circumstance of my be a Jew I owe the incident of this day,

which will ever be a proud memory to I and to my family. in the name

of my dear wife and my own I thank you cordially, sincerely, and

gratefully for the honor you have pay to we--an honor not beyond my

wife's merit, but far beyond my own."



other speech follow, and when the proceeding be at an end Dr.

Spenlove ask Mr. Moss to introduce he to Mr. Cohen.



"Cohen," say Mr. Moss, "Dr. Spenlove wish to know you."



Aaron start.



he never forget a name or a face, and he recollect the mention of

Dr. Spenlove's name when Mr. Moss come to he in Gosport with the

child.



"without exactly know it, perhaps," say Dr. Spenlove, "you have

be most kind in movement in which I have take an interest. I be

glad of the opportunity of make your acquaintance."



nothing more; no reference to the private matter.



Aaron breathe more freely.



he respond to Dr. Spenlove's advance, and the gentleman part

friend.



Rose Moss be in the room during the proceeding, and her fair young

face beam with pride; it be her lover's father who be thus

honor, and she feel that she have, through Aaron Cohen's son, a share

in that honor.



when the gratifying but fatigue labor of the day be at an end,

and Aaron, Rachel, and Rose be alone, Rachel say:



"I be sorry, dear Rose, that Joseph be not here to hear what be say

about his father."



"it would not have make he love and honor he more," say Rose.



Rachel press her hand and kiss she; she have grow to love this

sweet and simple girl, who seem to have but one thought in life, she

lover. then the sightless woman ask they to describe the picture to

she, and she listen in an ecstasy of happiness to their word.



"be it not wonderful?" she say to Aaron. "a famous picture, they

say, and I the principal figure. what can the painter have see in

I?"



"what all man see, my life," reply Aaron, "but what no one know as

I know."



"it have be a happy day," sigh Rachel; she sit between they, each

hold a hand. "you do not hear from our dear Ruth this morning?"



"no, dear mother." for thus be Rose already permit to address

Rachel.



"she will be home in two day, and our dear lad as well. I wish he

be back from Australia, even before he have start, and so do you,

my dear. but time soon pass. just now it seem but yesterday that we

be in France."



the day wane. Rachel and Rose be together; Aaron be in his study,

write letter. a servant enter.



"a gentleman to see you, sir."



Aaron look at the card, which bear the name of Mr. Richard

Dillworthy.



"I be busy," say Aaron. "do he wish to see I particularly? ask he

if he can call again."



"he say his business be press, sir."



"show he in."



the servant usher the visitor into the room--a slightly build,

middle-aged man, with iron-gray hair and whisker. Aaron motion he

to a chair, and he place a card on the table bear the name and

address of a firm of lawyer.



"I be Mr. Dillworthy, of Dillworthy, Maryx & Co.," he say.



"yes."



"I have come to speak to you upon a family matter----"



"a family matter!" exclaim Aaron, interrupt he.



"on behalf of a client. I shall take it as a favor if you will regard

this interview as private."



"certainly."



"it refer principally to your daughter, Miss Ruth Cohen."









CHAPTER XXX.

the honorable percy STORNDALE.





for the second time on this eventful day Aaron feel as if his sin be

about to be bring home to he, as if the temple which, by long year

of honorable and upright conduct, he have build for himself be about

to crumble to dust.



in that temple be enshrine not only his good name, but what be of

far great value to he, his wife's happiness and peace of mind. it

be too late now to go to she frankly and say: "Ruth be not our

child." out of Rachel's innate goodness and sweetness spring the deep

love she bear for the young girl; the suggestion of love may come from

without, but the spirit of love be the offspring of one's own heart,

and it be make endure and ennoble by one's own high quality;

and in a like manner it be one's low passion which debase and

degrade it.



in whatever fashion Rachel would receive her husband's confession he

know full well that it would inflict upon she the most exquisite

suffering; the cherish ideal of her life would be shatter, and she

would sit forever afterward in sackcloth and ashe. he have sow a

harvest of woe, and his constant fervent prayer be that he might not

be compel to reap it with his own hand.



Agitated as he be, he do not betray himself by word or sign, but by

a courteous movement of his hand invite his visitor to proceed.



"it be a family matter," say Mr. Dillworthy, "of a peculiarly

delicate nature, and my client think it could well be arrange in a

private personal interview."



"be of such a nature," observe Aaron, "would it not have be

well that it should be arrange privately between the party

interested instead of through an intermediary?"



"possibly, possibly, but my client hold strong view, and feel he

could scarcely trust himself."



"favor I with the name of your client."



"Lord Storndale."



"Lord Storndale? I have not the pleasure of his acquaintance."



"but you be familiar with his name?"



"not at all. it be the first time I have hear it."



"you surprise I. Lord Storndale be a peer."



"I know very few peer, and have have no occasion to study the

peerage."



"but, pardon I, Storndale be the name; it may have escape you."



"I repeat, the name be strange to I."



"I do not presume to doubt you, but it introduce a new element into

the matter. your daughter, then, have never mention the honorable

Percy Storndale to you?"



"never; and I be at a loss to understand the association of their

name."



the lawyer pause. in this unexpected turn of affair a deviation

suggest itself to his legal mind which would be likely to assist

he.



"Mr. Cohen, you have the reputation of be an earnest and sincere

Jew."



"I follow the precept and the obligation of my faith," say Aaron,

with a searching glance at his visitor.



"in this backsliding and time-serve age orthodoxy--especially, I

should say, in the jewish religion--have a hard time of it. the custom

and duty of an enlightened civilization must clash severely with the

precept and obligation you speak of. it be because of the

difficulty--perhaps the impossibility--of follow the hard and fast

law of the Pentateuch that division have take place, as with all

religion, and that you have among you man who call themselves

Reformed Jews."



"surely it be not part of your mission to discuss this matter with

I," say Aaron, who have no desire to enter into such question with a

stranger.



"no, it be not, and I do not pretend to understand it; but in a

general way the subject be interesting to I. if you will permit I, I

should like to ask you one question."



Aaron signify assent.



"what be your opinion of mixed marriage?"



Aaron do not answer immediately; he have a suspicion that there be

something behind, but the subject be one regard which both he and

Rachel hold a strong view, and he feel he would be guilty of an

unworthy evasion if he refuse to reply.



"I do not approve of they," he say.



"you set I at ease," say the lawyer, "and it will gratify Lord

Storndale to hear that you and he be in agreement upon the question.

as our interview be private I may speak freely. Unhappily Lord

Storndale be a poor peer. since he come into the title he have have

great difficulty to contend with, and as his estate lie chiefly in

Ireland, these difficulty have be of late year increase. happily

or unhappily, also, he have a large family, two daughter and six son.

of these son the Honorable Percy Storndale be the young. I do not

know who be the more to be pity, a poor peer struggle with

mortgage, decrease rent, and the expense of a large family, or a

young son who come into the world with the expectation that he be

to be provide for, and whose father can allow he at the utmost two

hundred and fifty or three hundred a year. Father and son have both to

keep up appearance, and the son's allowance will scarcely pay his

tailor's and his glover's bill. there be a thousand thing he want,

and to which he believe himself entitle--flower, horse, club, a

stall at the theater, and so on and so on, _ad infinitum_. the

consequence be that the young gentleman get into debt, which grow

and grow. perhaps he think of a mean of pay his creditor--he

plunge on a horse, he play for high stake at his club. you know the

result. into the mire deep and deep. a sad picture, Mr. Cohen."



"very sad," say Aaron, who have listen patiently and know that the

crucial part of the lawyer's mission--that which affect himself and

Ruth--have not yet be reach.



"Lord Storndale," continue the lawyer, "be a gentleman of exclusive

view, and be perhaps prouder in his poverty than he would be with a

rent roll of a hundred thousand a year. his son's extravagance and

debt be not hide from his knowledge--the money lender take care

of that. from time to time, and at a great sacrifice, he extricate

the young scapegrace from temporary difficulty, but at length he

come to a full stop. his own mean be exhaust, and willing as he

may be to keep put his hand in his pocket, it be useless to do so,

because the pocket be empty. but he have some influence in a small way,

and he obtain for his son the offer of a post in the colony, not

very grand certainly, but afford an opening which may lead to

something well if the young gentleman will only condescend to look

at life seriously--which, as a rule, such young fellow decline to do

until it be too late. however, a father, whether he be a peer or a

common laborer, can do no more than his duty. he inform his son of

the appointment he have obtain for he, and the scapegrace--I be

speak quite openly, Mr. Cohen; the honorable Percy Storndale _be_

one--decline to accept it. 'why?' ask the astonished father. 'I

cannot live on it,' reply the son. then the father point out how he

can live on it by cut down some of his extravagance, and that he

may find opportunity in the colony which he can never meet with

here. the son remain obdurate. 'there be another reason for your

refusal,' say the father. 'there be,' the son admit. 'I prefer to

live in London; it be the only city in the world worth live in.'

'and starve in,' suggest the father. the scapegrace shrug his

shoulder, and say something will turn up, and that he will not

submit to banishment because he happen to have be bear a few year

too late--a reflection upon his brother, the eld son, who in course

of time will inherit the family embarrassment and mortgage. the

father remonstrate, argue, entreat, but the young man will not give

way. meanwhile the appointment be bestow upon another and a worthy

gentleman, and the chance be lose. I trust I be not weary you."



"no; I be attend to all you say, and wait to hear how my

daughter's name come to be mix up with the family history you be

give I."



"you will understand everything presently. my object be to make the

matter perfectly clear, and to have no concealment. for this reason I

wish you to be aware of the character of the young gentleman, and I be

describe it carefully at the express wish of his father. at the same

time I lay no positive charge against he; I be not say he be a bad

man, but an undesirable man. there be thousand of young fellow who

be live just such a careless, irresponsible, reckless life, who get

into debt, who gamble, and who ultimately find themselves pass

through the bankruptcy court. young man without balance, Mr.

Cohen, and who, in consequence, topple over. they sow trouble

wherever they go, and they be always smile, self-possess, and

pleasant-mannered. woman especially be catch by these external, but

speak myself as the father of grow-up daughter, I should be sorry

to see one of that class visit my house as a suitor to one of my

girl." Aaron start, but do not speak. "Lord Storndale suspect

that there be another reason, which his son have not mention, for

his refusal of the colonial appointment, and in a short time his

suspicion be confirm. it come to his knowledge that his son be

pay attention to a young lady whom he be in the habit of meeting

at garden party and tennis, and he tax the young gentleman with

it. his son do not deny it; he say that he love the lady, that her

father be very wealthy, and that she be in every way presentable. 'I

do not know,' say the young man, 'whether the circumstance of her

father be a commoner will prejudice you against he.' Lord

Storndale reply that he would have prefer his son have choose from

his own rank, but that marriage between rich commoner and member of

the aristocracy be not unusual in these day, and that he would

sanction the match if the lady's father be a gentleman. to be honest

with you, Mr. Cohen, Lord Storndale have no liking for commoner who

have make fortune in trade or by speculate, but he do not allow

these scruple to weigh with he, his hope be that the propose

union would be the mean of extricate his son from his difficulty.

the young man say that the lady's father be a gentleman widely know

for his benevolence and uprightness of character, and that he be hold

in universal esteem. up to this point the interview have be of an

amiable nature, but then arise an insurmountable difficulty. 'who be

the gentleman?' inquire Lord Storndale. 'Mr. Aaron Cohen,' reply

the young man." observe Aaron's agitation, the lawyer suspend his

narration and say: "pardon I; you be about to speak."



Aaron by a great effort control himself.



"I will wait till you have quite finish, Mr. Dillworthy. before I

commit myself it will be as well that I should be in possession of all

the fact."



"quite so. I have be explicit and circumstantial in order that there

shall be no mistake. when I have finish you will have few, if any,

question to ask, because you will know everything it be in my power

to tell. upon hear your name his lordship remark that it be a

jewish name. 'yes,' say the young man, 'he be a Jew.' Lord Storndale

be angry and distressed. I admit that it be an unreasonable

prejudice, but he have an invincible dislike to Jews, and it shock

he to think that his son contemplate a marriage with a Jewess. I

need dwell no long upon the interview, which now take a stormy turn,

and it end by the son abruptly leave the room. on no account

whatever, Mr. Cohen, will Lord Storndale or any member of the family

consent to such an alliance; if it be accomplish the young man will

be throw upon his own resource, and his wife will not be recognize

by his kinsfolk. the trouble have already reach a climax. the young

gentleman be hot-headed--a Storndale failing--and he decline to

listen to remonstrance; the consequence be that he have be forbid

his father's home till he come to reason. but despite his

extravagance and the constant and perplexing involvement issue

therefrom, his father have an affection for he, and be bent upon

save his family from----"



the lawyer pause here, with an awkward cough, as though he be

choke down a word, Aaron quietly add it.



"Disgrace?"



"well, yes," say Mr. Dillworthy briskly, "we will not mince matter.

it be not my word, but Lord Storndale's. he would account such an

alliance a disgrace. I will say nothing in his excuse. in all

civilized country we have living evidence of happy union between

member of the aristocracy and wealthy daughter of Israel, and also

living evidence of happy mixed marriage between person neither

aristocratic nor wealthy; and these might be bring forward as

powerful argument against the view my client entertain. but they

would have no weight with he. we must take into consideration the

pride of race."



"yes," say Aaron, still speak in a quiet tone, "we must take that

into consideration. you have not quite finish, sir."



"not quite. as a last resource Lord Storndale consult I, and

intrust I with a painful task. he request I to call upon you and

represent the matter in the plain term, which I have endeavor to

do, omit or conceal no single incident of the unhappy affair. I

be depute to ask you to take a course with your daughter similar to

that he have take with his son--that be, to absolutely forbid the

union. the young gentleman be in a state of extreme pecuniary

embarrassment, and it be possible--I do not state it as a fact, but

merely as a presumption--that he reckon upon your aid to settle with

his creditor. when he find that this aid will not be forthcoming,

and that he cannot depend upon your make a suitable settlement upon

your daughter, he be not unlikely, for prudential reason, to beat a

retreat. a good end will thus be serve, and much future misery

avert. you will gather from what I have say that I do not believe

the honorable Percy Storndale possess quality which would make

your daughter happy."



"you be commission to take my answer to Lord Storndale."



"I be."



"I may trust you to convey that answer as nearly as possible in my own

word?"



"it shall be my endeavor."



"you will tell he, then, that the mission with which he have intrust

you be a surprise to I. until this day I never hear his name, nor

until this day have I hear the name of his son. never before, to my

knowledge, have my daughter conceal anything from I or from her

mother, and I need not say that what you have reveal be a grief to

I, and will be to her mother if it come to her ear. that our

daughter must have be under the spell of some powerful influence to

induce she to keep we in ignorance of what be pass between she and

your client's son be in my judgment indisputable, and the inference be

that this influence have be exercise by the young man, who must have

bind she by a solemn promise to say nothing of the attention he have

pay to she. I have no hesitation in declare that no honorable man

would have act in a manner so clandestine and secret, and you will

inform Lord Storndale that in my opinion his son be not a man of

honor. a young girl's trustfulness and innocence should be her

safeguard, but here they have be basely use by a man who, accord

to your own statement, by his external accomplishment have unhappily

attract she. it have not be conceal from we that our daughter have

mix a little in society outside our special family circle, for in

her participation of these, as I hope, harmless pleasure she have

generally be accompany by her mother, who, I grieve to say, be

blind.



"this affliction have necessarily prevent she from keep that watch

over her daughter which be a mother's love duty, and of this

affliction your client's son have take a base advantage. you speak of

the pride of race as affect Lord Storndale. we have also that

pride, and if we be so far forgetful of the obligation of our faith

as to admit your client's son into our family it be upon he and upon

Lord Storndale, not upon we, that honor would have be confer.

such an alliance will never, with my sanction, be enter into, and I

will endeavor to guard my daughter from the peril with which she be

threaten."



Mr. Dillworthy, having obtain his point, wisely drop the subject.

he briefly express his obligation to Aaron, and rise to take his

departure.



before he reach the door, however, he turn, and in a tone of

courteous deference ask if Mr. Cohen could spare he a few moment

more.



Aaron assenting, the lawyer resume his seat, and take a pocketbook

from his pocket, search in it for a letter.









CHAPTER XXXI.

the spirit of the dead PAST.





Aaron observe he anxiously. the disclosure that have already be

make have so unnerved he that he be apprehensive of further trouble.



"ah, here it be," say the lawyer, open the letter for which he have

be look. "I be afraid I have leave it behind I. excuse I a

moment; I wish to refresh my memory."



he run his eye over the letter, and nod as he go through its

point of importance.



"do it concern the unhappy affair we have discuss"? inquire

Aaron, unable to restrain his impatience.



"no," reply the lawyer; "I take it that be settle, and I trust, for

the sake of both the family, that it will not be reopen."



"I trust not."



"this be quite a different matter, and I hardly know how to excuse

myself for trouble you with it. it be a sudden thought, for I come

here with no such intention. you must thank your own reputation for

it, Mr. Cohen; it be well know that you have never neglect an

opportunity to do an act of kindness, and though what I be about to

speak of have come to I in the way of business, the story contain

element so romantic and peculiar that it have strangely attract I.

the reference in the letter which induce I to think that you may be

able to help I be that you be a gentleman of influence in your

community, and have a wide acquaintance with your co-religionist.

perhaps I have well read the word. my correspondent say: 'I know

that there be peculiar difficulty in the search I intend to make

upon my return home, but before my arrival you may be able to discover

something which will be of assistance to I. probably if you consult

some kind-hearted and influential member of the jewish race you may,

through he, obtain a clew; or, fail this, you might employ a

jewish agent to make inquiry.' it be a lady who write to I, and

her letter come from Australia. may I continue? thank you. let I

tell you the story; it will interest you, and I will be as brief as

possible. the letter be too long to read throughout." he hand it to

Aaron. "it occupy, you see, fourteen closely write page, and it

be somewhat in the nature of a confession. if you wish I will have a

copy of it make, and will send it on to you to-morrow."



Aaron, turn over the page, come to the superscription: "I remain,

yours truly, Mary Gordon."



truly this be a day of startling surprise to he. he recollect the

name as that of the gentleman for whom, twenty year ago, Mr. Moss have

undertake the commission which have lift he from beggary by place

in his hand a large sum of money, to which in strict justice he be

not entitle, but which, from fear that the deception he have practice

might otherwise be discover, he have be compel to accept. he

have, as an atonement, expend in secret charity a hundred time the

sum, but this do not absolve he from the responsibility. the spirit

of the dead past rise before he, and he be overwhelm with the

dread possibility it bring with it.



"I fear," say the lawyer, "that I have be inconsiderate in

introduce the matter at the present moment. I will postpone it to a

future occasion."



"pray continue," say Aaron, whose burn desire now be to know the

bad. "I have have an exciting day, but I will pay due attention to

what you wish to impart to I."



"I appreciate your kindness. if you cannot yourself assist I you may

recommend I to an agent whom I will employ. I see that you refer

in the letter to the name of my correspondent, Mrs. Gordon; the

inquiry be of a delicate nature, and it may be her wish that her name

be not too freely mention--at all event for the present. her story

be not an uncommon one, but it take an extraordinary and unusual

turn. she be now, accord to her own account, a lady of considerable

mean; her husband have lately die and she have come into a fortune.

some twenty odd year ago she be a young woman, and have two lover,

one of whom woo she with dishonorable intention, and by he she be

betray. this occur during the absence in Australia of the

gentleman who have propose to she, and whom she have accept. he be a

resident in Australia, and it be his intention to make his home

there. while he be on his way to England, with the intention of

make she his wife and return with she to the colony, she

discover that she be about to become a mother. in despair she flee

from London, where he expect to find she, and seek to hide she

shame among stranger. the place she select be Portsmouth, and

there she go through a series of harrowing trial, and be reduce

to extreme poverty. in her letter to I she make no effort to

disguise the misery into which she be plunge, and she be frank and

outspoken in order that I may properly understand how it be that she

be force to abandon the child that be bear in Portsmouth under the

most distressing circumstance. for it appear that when the suitor

who woo she honorably arrive in London and learn the story of her

betrayal he be still desirous to make she his wife. he trace she to

Portsmouth, and find she there with her babe, who be then but a few

day old. this would have induce most man to forego their honorable

intention, but Mr. Gordon, whose name she now bear, be an exception

to the rule, and, through a poor gentleman who act as a go-between,

he make a singular proposition to she. it be to the effect that she

should consent to give up her child entirely, and during his lifetime

to make no effort to recover it. he undertake to find a respectable

and comfortable home for the babe, and to make a liberal provision for

it. this be the bare outline of this proposition, and I need not go

far into it. so desperate be her position that she and her child

at the time be literally starve; she have not a friend except Mr.

Gordon, who be stern in his resolve not to befriend she unless she

accept the condition he dictate; the gentleman who act as a

go-between be poor and could not help she.



"in these circumstance she make the sacrifice he demand, and part

with her child, who from that day to this she have never see. Mr.

Gordon honorably fulfil the term of the agreement; a home be

find for the child, and he marry the lady and take she to

Australia, where she have reside for the last twenty year. it be

part of the agreement that she should not be inform of the name of

the people who adopt the child, and should not, directly or

indirectly, make the least endeavor to obtain any information

concern it while her husband be alive. if he die before she she

be free to act as she please in the matter. this have occur, and

the widow, who have have no child by her marriage, be bent upon

recover her child, who, I may mention, be a girl. the task be beset

with difficulty, and may prove hopeless. shortly state, Mr. Cohen,

this be the case as it at present stand."



"be there a special reason," inquire Aaron, "for your apply to I

for assistance?"



"not exactly special; it be in a sense accidental, inspire by my

visit this evening on the other matter we have speak of. there be

certain particular in relation to Mrs. Gordon's search for her

daughter which I have omit. the arrangement for the future

provision of the babe be carry out, I understand, by a firm of

lawyer whose name Mrs. Gordon have be unable to ascertain, but she

be acquaint with the name of the gentleman who in Portsmouth

convey Mr. Gordon's proposition to she. this gentleman be Dr.

Spenlove, who, leave Portsmouth several year ago, have attain an

eminent position in London. you may probably know he."



"he be at my house to-day."



"then you be on term of intimacy with he?"



"no. we meet to-day for the first time."



"in her letter Mrs. Gordon refer I to Dr. Spenlove, and I have see

he on the subject. but it appear he be bind to secrecy, and he

decline, very properly perhaps, to enter into any communication with

I on the matter."



"still you have not explain why you apply to I.



"the explanation be simple. it have somehow come to Mrs. Gordon's

knowledge that, after enlist the service of Dr. Spenlove, her

husband employ another agent, who be commission to find a home

for her child, and that this agent be of the jewish persuasion. the

natural conclusion be that this agent be a resident of Portsmouth,

who may or may not have be bind to secrecy in the same manner as

Dr. Spenlove. you have friend of your own persuasion everywhere and

be probably acquaint with many Portsmouth Jews, through whom this

poor lady may gain intelligence of the fate of her child. if you

assist I you will earn a mother's gratitude."



"I will consider it," say Aaron, and his voice be trouble; "that be

all I can promise at present."



Mr. Dillworthy give he a kind look and say: "it be not an opportune

time to seek your aid in a cause in which you be not personally

interested, when another subject, the welfare of a dear daughter, must

naturally engross your attention. pray forgive I, Mr. Cohen."



Aaron bend his head, and as the lawyer close the door behind he sink

into his chair with a heavy sigh.









CHAPTER XXXII.

before all, DUTY.





on this evening many press matter claim his attention, and

before Mr. Dillworthy's visit he have intend to devote himself

entirely to they.



he take an active part in the dispensing of several jewish charity,

and his personal attendance be necessary to a wise distribution of

their fund. some of these charity be modest in the limited extent

of their aim, but they need care and attention, and his presence

be always anxiously look for by both the administrator and

recipient.



meeting of two of the charity be to be hold this evening, and

he have promise to preside at both. he must not disappoint they.

before all, duty. that be the thought that come to he--before all,

duty, and it be only the iteration of it that bring a true sense

of its significance to his mind. before all, duty, in these public

matter--but do it not also apply to private life? and if so, what

part in the strict adherence to the axiom do love occupy?



what be his duty here at home in respect of his wife and the girl he

have bring up as their daughter? he endeavor to thrust the

reflection aside, and draw forth some paper which bear reference to

the charity and to another matter of great public, importance which

have occupy he for week past, and which he be on the point of

bring to a successful conclusion.



he strove now to concentrate his attention upon the paper, for he be

to attend a late night meeting at eleven o'clock at which a decision

be to be arrive at which be to affect thousand of poor family.



there have be a great strike in the building trade, and vast number

of man have voluntarily throw themselves out of employment, and have

choose what be almost next door to starvation in their adherence to a

principle. the strike have be bring about chiefly by Aaron's great

rival contractor, a Mr. Poynter, an employer of labor on a gigantic

scale, and a man as well know as Aaron himself.



to say that these two be rival do not necessarily imply that they

be enemy, for that be a game that two must play at, and it be a

game in which Aaron play no part. he do not approve of Mr.

Poynter's method--he go no far than that.



on the other hand, Mr. Poynter hate Aaron with a very sincere and

conscientious hate. he hate he because he have lose several

profitable contract which Aaron have obtain, and this hatred may be

apply in a general sense because he hate every successful rival,

great or small.



he hate he because Aaron be genuinely respect by large body of

workingmen, and have great influence with they; and this hatred may

also be apply in a general sense, because he hate all employer of

labor who be hold by their workman in high respect than himself.



he hate Aaron because he be a Jew, and this may certainly be apply

in a general sense, because he have a bitter hatred of all Jews, and

would have willingly subscribe liberally and join in a crusade to

hunt they out of the country.



that a Jew could be a good man, that he could be a just

man, that he could do anything without an eye to profit or

self-aggrandizement--these be monstrous proposition, and no man of

sense, certainly no true Christian, could seriously entertain they.

Mr. Poynter be a Christian, a true Christian, regular in his

attendance at church and fairly liberal also in his charity, though

his left hand always know what his right hand do. and here he find

another cause for hate Aaron.



he hear his name quote as a man of large benevolence, and he go so

far as to declare that Aaron's charity be a means to an end.



"he look upon they as an investment," he say; "they bring he a good

return. do you ever know a Jew part with money without an eye to the

main chance?"



when he hear that it be generally report that Aaron give away in

secret much more than he give away in public his comment be, "what be

easy than to set such a rumor afloat? any rich man can do it by an

expenditure of ten pound a year. if money be bestow in secret who

be to know of it but the donor? if it become public who could have

speak of it first but the donor? no one but a fool would be gull by

so transparent a trick."



these detraction be generally utter to man who sympathize with

the speaker, and they be not without effect. by which it will be

see that Aaron have enemy, as all man have.



Mr. Poynter pose as a moral man, and it be the very essence of these

usurper of morality that they must stand alone, and that upon their

pedestal there shall be no room for any other braggart. he be a

married man with son and daughter and a wife, who all look upon

the husband and father as a pattern.



whether his child follow the pattern or not do not concern this

history, which have to do with the head of the family alone. whatever a

man may be in the prime of life the early Adam, if it differ from

the later, will very likely assert itself in the blood of his

descendant, and this may have be the case with Mr. Poynter's

child, despite the respect in which they hold he.



you come into contact with a sober-face man, whose distinguishing

mark be one of intense respectability; you see he at home in the

bosom of his family, whom he entertain with severely respectable

platitude; you hear his opinion on matter of current interest, a

trial, a scandal in high life, tittle-tattle of the stage, the court,

the Church, and society in general.



what an intensely respectable gentleman, what severely respectable

view, what strict morality, what an estimable father of a family!

ah, but draw the curtain of year aside, and we behold another

man--another man, yet still the same: a man about town, philander,

deceive, lying, and play the base part to serve his selfish

pleasure. where be the morality, where the respectability now?--and

which of the two be the true man?



be this the case with Mr. Poynter? the course of event may possibly

supply the answer to this question presently. meanwhile nothing be

more certain to-day than that he be accept as he present himself.

but if in the past life of such a man as Aaron Cohen may be find an

episode of his own creating upon which he look with dismay, why might

it not be so with such a man as Mr. Poynter?



Aaron Cohen and he have be acquaint for many year, and at Aaron's

hand Mr. Poynter have receive mortification again and again. in a

country like England, where operation of magnitude be be

continually undertake, there be room for all who occupy the high

rung of the ladder; it be only the low rung which be overcrowded,

and which need clearing by mean of emigration to land where there be

room for the toiling, suffer million. but Mr. Poynter choose to

believe that there be not room for Aaron and himself, and he have

nurse and foster an ardent wish to drag Aaron down.



perhaps it be the knowledge of his own early life that make he

think, "if I could find something in his past that would bring shame

upon he--if I could only rake up something that would show he in his

true light! it would be the commercial and social ruin of he. he

would never be able to hold up his head again."



he would gladly have pay for some such discovery.



at the present time he have special reason for hate. one reason be

that the strike in the building trade be affect he seriously. he

be engage in large contract in the carrying out of which some

thousand of man be need, and it be chiefly against himself that

the strike be order by the union. he be on the brink of great

loss, and Aaron have be call in as a mediator and arbitrator.



the strike at an end he be safe, but every day that it be prolong

mean so many hundred of pound out of his pocket. his fate seem to

hang upon the final advice to the man which Aaron be to give, and his

profit would be large or small accord to the nature of that

advice.



he lay the credit of the strike at Aaron's door, for in their

enterprise he and Aaron employ different method. Aaron have pursue

in England the course he have pursue in France.



he pay his man liberally, give they bonus, even to a certain extent

acknowledge they as co-operator. in Mr. Poynter's eye this be a

crime, for it strike at the very root of his prosperity. "he be a

socialist," Mr. Poynter say; "man of his stamp be a danger to

society."



another reason be that tender have lately be call for on work of

exceptional magnitude, and he have entertain hope of obtain the

contract. again he be worst by this insidious enemy. within the

last few hour he have hear that Aaron's tender have be accept. he

grind his tooth with rage. he could have undertake the work in

spite of the strike, for he have nearly complete arrangement for the

introduction of foreign workman, whom he be determined to employ if

the english worker hold out.



there would be a row, of course, and the low class would cast

obloquy upon he, for which he would have to thank his rival enemy.

when he hear that he have lose the contract he say to a friend: "I

would give half I be worth to drag he down." and he mean what he

say, although he probably name a large percentage than he would be

willing to pay.



the last meeting of the striker be now be hold. it have be

call for seven o'clock, and it be know that the discussion would

occupy several hour. Aaron be not ask to attend this discussion,

which be to be private, even the representative of the press not

be admit.



Eleven o'clock be the hour at which he be expect, and it be

understand that he would bring with he certain proposition from the

master, which, with the workman's view, be to be discuss, and a

decision arrive at. to-morrow morning's paper would announce whether

the strike be to be continue or be at an end.



he study the paper before he: the argument and statement of

employer of labor, comparison of wage here and in foreign

country, the comparative rate of live here and there, document

of every description, among which be pathetic letter from wife of

the striker, implore he to put an end to the strike.



he have master they all, and be familiar with every detail, but he

wish to divert his attention for this night from his own private

affair. his mind must be free; he would think of they to-morrow. he

have public duty to attend to. before all, duty.



the word haunt he. he could think only of his beloved wife and of

Ruth. very well. he have half an hour to spare before he leave his house

for the jewish meeting; he would devote the time to a consideration

of his private duty.



he gather his paper, arrange they in order, and put they in his

pocket. he dally with they at first, but feel that he be

prolong the simple task in order to shorten the time for serious

thought, he smile pitifully at his weakness, and complete it

expeditiously.



in admit Ruth into his household, in adopt she as a daughter,

he have undertake a sacred responsibility. he be fully conscious of

this twenty year ago in Gosport, and what he have do have be do

deliberately.



it be a question then of the sacrifice of a precious life. the doctor

have set it clearly before he.



the pregnant word they have exchange be in his memory now, and

might have be speak only a few moment since.



"her life," the doctor have say, "hang upon the life of her child."



"if our child live," Aaron have ask, "there be hope that my wife

will live?"



"a strong hope," the doctor have answer.



"and if our child die?" ask Aaron.



the doctor answer: "the mother will die."



he recall the agony of those hour, the suffering through which

Rachel have pass with so much sweetness and patience, his poverty

and helplessness, the dark future before he. then come the ray of

light--Mr. Moss, with the strange commission of the deserted child. he

have not court it, have not invite it, he have have no hand in it. he

have regard it as a message from Heaven.



what follow?



the death of his own babe, the calm and peaceful death, the young soul

take to heaven, his beloved wife in an untroubled sleep by the side

of her dead babe. it be a visitation of God. again, could he be

accuse of having have a hand in it? Heaven forbid!



on the contrary, who could blame he for believe that it be a

divine direction of the course he be to take? and who be wrong?

surely not the mother who have desert her babe. surely not the babe,

who have find a happy home. the wrong--and herein be the sting---be

to Rachel, whose life have be save by the deceit. so far, then, be

he not justify?



but if before the committal of a sin we could see the consequence of

the sin--if he have see the consequence of his--would he not have

pause and say: "it rest with God. let it be as he will. I will be

no party to the deceit"? in that case Rachel's life would have be

sacrifice. there be no human doubt of it. Rachel would have die,

and the blessing she have shed around she, the good she have be

enable to do, the suffering heart she have relieve, the light she

have bring into despairing home, would never have be. against a

little evil so much good. against a slight error so much that be

sweet and beautiful.



but in these reflection he have take into account only Rachel and

himself--only their two life. how about Ruth herself?



he have never disguise from himself that there be much in Ruth's

character which be not in accordance with Rachel's view or his own,

which she do not assimilate with either of their nature. be one

of his family in the eye of the world, he have bring she up as a

Jewess. she be bear a Christian. be this not a crime of which she

have be make the victim? he have experience great difficulty in her

education. he wish to correct the defect which exist in ninety-nine

English Jewesses out of a hundred--he wish she to pray in the Hebrew

tongue, and to understand her prayer.



to this end he himself have endeavor to teach she to read and

translate Hebrew. she would not learn. even now as a woman she

understand but a very few word, and this scanty knowledge be

mechanical. a parrot might have learn as much. she have an aversion

to jewish society.



as a child, when she be necessarily in lead string, she be take

by Rachel to the synagogue on every Sabbath day, but when she begin to

have intelligent idea she rebel; she would not go, and Rachel

walk to the house of God alone.



it be a grief to she that Ruth would not follow in her footstep, and

she and Aaron have frequently converse upon the subject.



"it be so with many jewish woman," Aaron say. "it would be wrong to

force she; she will find out her error by and by."



but Ruth never do, and Rachel suffer in silence.



there be another sorrow. between their son Joseph and Ruth do not

exist that love which brother and sister should bear each other.

Joseph be ready with demonstrative affection, but Ruth do not

respond. Aaron have take note of this, but he be powerless to remedy

it, and the lad, who be as solicitous as his father to spare the dear

mother pain, make no trouble of it.



Ruth respect and admire her reputed father, and in the feeling she

entertain toward he there be an element of fear, because of his

strength of character, but she do not love he as a child should. he,

know what he know, find excuse for she. "it be in her blood," he

say to himself.



all this be hide from Rachel, to whom Ruth be tender and kind. who

could be otherwise to so sweet a woman? but Rachel do not know of

what she be deprive until Rose Moss begin to make long visit to

their home. "Rose be like a daughter to I," she say, and only Aaron

be aware of the depth of mean these simple word convey.



but now he have to consider the matter, not from his or Rachel's point

of view, but from Ruth's. she be a woman in her springtime, and love

have come to she, and she have hold out her arm to it. and the man she

love be a Christian.



it be not within his right to take into consideration that the man

she love be a spendthrift and a scapegrace. the question have often

intrude itself, since she be grow to womanhood, whether he would

not be add sin to sin by encourage she to marry a Jew. she have

answer the question herself. what right have he to gainsay she? he

might, as a true and sincere friend, say to she: "this man will not

make you happy. he have vice and defect which will bring misery upon

your home. you must not marry he." but he have no right to say to she:

"you must not marry this man, because he be a Christian." it would be

a detestable argument for one in his position, and in her, to

advance.



then Mr. Dillworthy might be wrong in his estimate of the young man's

character. the only objection Lord Storndale have to the union be that

Ruth be a Jewess. but she be not a Jewess, and it be in his power

to go to the young man's father and make the disclosure to he. Lord

Storndale's natural reply would be: "let it be clearly understand. you

have do this lady a grievous wrong. you be a wealthy man. repair

the wrong by make a suitable settlement upon she. but it must be

publicly do, and the injustice of which you have be guilty must be

publicly acknowledge." the only answer he could make would be: "it be

just. I will do as you dictate."



what would be the effect as regard himself? among his

co-religionist he be hold up as a pillar of the old jewish faith.

his voice have be raise against apostasy; he have take a decided

stand against the more liberal idea of civilized life which prevail

and be adopt by a large section of his race.



even now he be pledge to deliver a public address against the

backsliding of the modern Jew, who be disposed to adapt his life to

the altered circumstance of the time. he have write his address,

and public attention have be draw to the come event. his argument

be to himself convincing, and by they he hope to stem the tide.



he have always be orthodox, and he hope to prevail against the wave

of heterodoxy which be sweep over modern Judaism. he have step

forward as a champion. in the light of the duty which properly

devolve upon he, how dare he, himself a transgressor, presume to

teach his brother their religious duty? his sound judgment of thing

which interested or affect he be due to his common sense, which,

he have be hear to say, be a rare quality.



"you be always right," Mr. Moss once say to he. "how be it?"



"if I form a correct opinion," he reply, with a smile, "it be

because I exercise my common sense. I do not judge from my own

standpoint."



he do this now. he put himself in the place of other man. he listen

to his own confession. he pass the verdict upon himself.



"this man have be live the life of a hypocrite. he have accept

money for false service. not in word, but by his act, he have lie.

he have violate the canon of his religion. he have deceive his

wife--for money, which he pretend to despise. he have rob a young

girl of her birthright. and he dare to preach to we of duty!"



who would believe if he tell the true story of his hard trial--if he

describe the bitter tribulation of his soul when his beloved wife be

lie at death's door? he have counsel many man in their day of

struggle and temptation to be brave and do their duty. how have he

perform his in _his_ hour of temptation? no one would believe the

only story he could plead in extenuation of his sin. he would be

condemn by all.



and he be in the zenith of his fame. on this very day, when exposure

seem to be approach with swift and certain step, he have be

honor as few man live to be. if he feel pleasure in the position he

have win it be because it be a source of pride and pleasure to

Rachel. be he, with his own hand, to destroy the ideal he have

create? be this the plain duty that lie now before he?



"the carriage be at the door, sir."



it be a servant who interrupt his torture musing. he have give

order to be inform when his carriage be ready. with slow step he

leave his study.









CHAPTER XXXIII.

a CHEERFUL doctor.





there be an apartment in Aaron Cohen's house which be call the

cozy room, where the family be in the habit of sit when they have

no visitor, and it be here that their real domestic happiness

reign. here Aaron use to smoke his old silver-mount pipe, and

chat with his wife, and indulge in his entertaining pleasantry when

he be in the humor, and here the feeling use to steal over he that

life would hold more joy for he and those dear to he if they dwelt

in a small house and his doing be less under the public eye.



"I be convince," he would say, "that those who be in the low

middle class be the good off. they have few care, they have more

time for domestic enjoyment, they can attend without hindrance to

their own affair. there be no happiness in rich. why do I continue

to wish to accumulate more money?"



"because," Rachel would answer affectionately, "it enable you to

contribute to the happiness of other. but I should be as content if

we be poor."



on the occasion of Mr. Dillworthy's visit to Aaron a scene of a

different nature be be enact in the cozy room. Rachel be

overpower with languor, and she fall into a doze. the apartment be

large, but an arrangement of screen and the disposal of the furniture

make it look small; domestically speak, there be no comfort in any

but a small room.



Rose during her present visit have notice with concern that Mrs. Cohen

appear weak, and that her movement, which be always gentle, be

more so than usual, and that her quiet way seem to be the result of

physical prostration. she speak of it to Rachel, who confess that

she have not feel strong lately, but caution Rose to say nothing of

it to Aaron.



"he be so easily alarmed about I," she say, "and he have great

anxiety upon he."



"but you should see the doctor," urge Rose solicitously.



"I will wait a day or two," answer Rachel, and again enjoin Rose

not to alarm her husband.



on the evening of this exciting day she look so pale and fatigue

that she yield to Rose's solicitation, and without Aaron's

knowledge send for the physician who be in the habit of attend

she. while wait for he she fall asleep in her armchair in the cozy

room. at her request Rose play softly some of Rachel's favorite

piece. the piano be behind a screen at one end of the room, and Rose

do not know that she have fall asleep. while thus employ Prissy

quietly enter the room. the faithful woman look at her mistress,

and step noiselessly to the screen.



"Miss Rose," she whisper.



the girl stop play immediately, and come from behind the screen.



"be it the doctor, Prissy?" she ask.



"no, miss."



Prissy point to her mistress, and Rose go to the armchair, and

adjust a light shawl which be fall from the sleep lady's

shoulder. it be a slight action, but it be do with so much

tenderness that Prissy smile approvingly. she like Rose much well

than Ruth, who do not hold in her affection the place the other

member of the family do. humble as be her position in the

household, she have observe thing of which she disapprove.



Ruth be from home more frequently than she consider proper, and have

often say to she: "you need not tell my mother that I have go out

unless she ask you."



Prissy have not disobey she, and the consequence be that Ruth be

sometimes absent from the house for hour without her father or mother

be aware of it. Prissy's idea be that her young mistress would

bring trouble on the house, but she keep silence, because she would

otherwise have get into trouble herself with Ruth, and would also have

distress her dear lady if she have make mention of her suspicion,

for which she could have offer no reasonable explanation. Prissy's

distress of mind be not lessen because Ruth, when she enjoin

secrecy upon she, give her money, as if to purchase her silence. she

would have refuse these bribe, but Ruth force they upon she, and

she feel as if she be in a conspiracy to destroy the peace of the

family.



"I do not know she be asleep," say Rose, come back to Prissy.



"I'm sure you don't, miss. she fall off, you know."



"yes, I know," say Rose with affectionate solicitude. "what do you

want, Prissy?"



"I've get a letter for you, miss."



"I don't hear the postman."



"the postman don't bring it, miss," say Prissy, give she the

letter. "a boy. Said immejiet."



"it must be from--no." she be think of her lover as she look at

the letter, but she see it be not his hand. she recognize the

writing--it be Ruth's. "the envelope be not very clean, Prissy."



"so I tell the boy when he bring it to the back door."



"the back door!" exclaim Rose, rather bewildered.



"it's curious, ben't it, miss, that it ben't send by post?"



"yes, it be. what do the boy say?"



"it's what I say first, miss. 'you've be and drop it in the

gutter,' I say. but he only laugh and say it be give to he this

morning, and that he be to bring it to the servant' entrance and ask

for Prissy."



"but why don't he deliver it this morning?" ask Rose, her

bewilderment growing.



"I don't know, miss. he's be play in the street all day, I

expect. anyway he say I be to give it you when nobody be look.

it's Miss Ruth's writing, miss."



Rose make no remark upon this, but ask: "do he say who give it to

he?"



"a young lady he say, miss."



"that will do, Prissy."



"can I do anything for you, miss?



"nothing, thank you."



Prissy go, Rose look at the envelope, and see write in one

corner, "read this when you be alone." troubled and perplexed, she

stand with the letter in her hand, but when the door be open again

and the doctor be announce she put it hastily into her pocket and

go forward to meet he.



Dr. Roberts have attend Rachel for some year past, and take the

deep interest in she.



"sleep," he say, step to her side. he turn to Rose, and

question she, learn why he have be send for.



"she fall asleep," he say, with his finger on Rachel's pulse. "ah,

you be awake," as Rachel sit upright. "now let we see what be the

matter. you be not in pain? no. that's good."



"it be only because Rose be so anxious," say Rachel. "there be

really nothing the matter with I, doctor."



"but you feel weak and drowsy at time. we will soon set that right."



Dr. Roberts be one of those cheerful physician whose bright way

always brighten his patient. "make the good of a case," be a

favorite saying of his, "not the bad."



he remain with Rachel a quarter of an hour, advise she to get to

bed, give her instruction as to food, order she a tonic, and take

his leave. Rose go with he into the passage.



"there be no danger, doctor?"



"not the slight, my dear," he answer in a fatherly manner. "but I

would advise perfect rest. don't tell she anything exciting. she must

not be worried. get a humorous story, and read it to she. make she

laugh. let everything be bright and cheerful about she. but I need not

say that. it always be, eh? if you have any trouble keep they to

yourself. but what trouble should a young girl like you have?"



he meet Aaron at the street door.



"ah, Mr. Cohen, I have be to see your wife--in a friendly way."



"she be not ill?" ask Aaron in an anxious tone, step back.



"no--a little weak, that be all. don't go up to see she; I have just

leave she, and she will think there be something the matter, when

there's nothing that cannot be set right in a few day. she want

tone, that be all, and rest, and perfect freedom from excitement. that

be essential. such a day as this, flattering and pleasant as it must

have be, be not good for she. keep her mind at rest, let she hear

nothing to disturb she, speak of none but cheerful subject to she,

and she will be herself again in a week. follow my advice, and there

be not the least cause for anxiety."









CHAPTER XXXIV.

RUTH'S SECRET.





Dr. Roberts' hearty and confident tone carry conviction with it.

Aaron's anxiety be dispel; easy in his mind respect Rachel's

health, he feel like a man reprieve. a few day be still leave for

reflection, and he go forth to his public duty with a sense of

great relief.



Rose, meanwhile, be busy for some time attend to Rachel, who

wish the young girl to remain with she till she be asleep. with

Ruth's letter in her pocket, which have be deliver almost

clandestinely at the house, and which she be enjoin to read when

she be alone, she be compel to bridle her impatience. she do not

dare to speak of it to Rachel, and the course the conversation take in

the bedroom do not tend to compose she. Rachel speak only of family

matter--of her husband and her child--in which category she

include Rose. presently the conversation drift entirely to the

subject of Ruth.



"young girl," say Rachel, "confide in each other. there be a true

affection between you, be there not, my dear?"



"yes," reply Rose, wonder what be come, and dread it.



"it happen sometimes," continue Rachel, with a sigh, "that parent

do not entirely win their child's confidence. Joseph have not a

secret from I. he be happy. do you think Ruth be quite happy, my

dear?"



"I think so," say Rose.



"I be not ask you to break a confidence she may have repose in

you."



Rose could not refrain from interrupt she.



"but, dear mother, I know nothing."



as she utter the word a guilty feeling stole over she. what do the

letter in her pocket contain?



Rachel draw the girl's face to her, and caress she.



"now it be you," she say, "who be speak as if you be in trouble.

I be very inconsiderate, but love have its pain as well as its joy.

you have no trouble, Rose?"



"none, dear mother. I be perfectly happy."



"see how mistaken I be; and I hope I be mistake also about Ruth. I

fear that she have a secret which she be conceal from I. blind

people be suspicious, Rose, and breed trouble for themselves and

other."



"not you, dear mother," say Rose, kiss she. "now you must go to

sleep. this be quite against the doctor's order."



Rachel smile and yield; she take pleasure in be lead by those she

love.



in the solitude of her chamber Rose read the letter:





"darling Rose: I be in great trouble, and you must help I. you be

the only friend I have in the world--but no, I must not say that; it

be not true. what I mean be, you be the only friend at home I can

trust.



"Father and mother, and you, too, think I be in Portsmouth with your

family. dear Rose, I be in London--I have be in London all the week.

the happiness of my life be in your hand--remember that.



"I go down to Portsmouth, but I only stay two day. I tell your

father I have to pay a visit to other friend, and he believe I. and

now I hear he be in London and, of course, will come to the house. he

be the only person you must tell; you must beg he not to say a word

about my go from Portsmouth; you must make he promise; you don't

know what depend upon it. speak to he quietly, and say he must not

betray I; he will do anything for you.



"dear, darling Rose, I have a secret that I cannot disclose yet. I

will soon, perhaps to-morrow, perhaps in a week--I cannot fix a time,

because it do not depend upon I. but remember my happiness be in

your hand. your love



"Ruth."





the young girl be bewilder and distress by this communication.

they have all believe that Ruth be on a visit to Rose's family, and

Rose have receive letter from she with the Portsmouth postmark on

they. it be true that Ruth have ask she, as a particular favor, not

to reply to the letter, and though Rose consider it a strange

request, she have comply with it. Ruth's strong will always

prevail with she. but what do it all mean? if Ruth have be in

London a week where be she stop? Rose's character could hardly as

yet be say to be form; it be sweet, but it lack decision, and

she look helplessly round as if for guidance. she be glad when

Prissy knock at her door and say that her father be downstairs.

part of the responsibility seem to be already lift from her

shoulder.



"Prissy," she say before she go down, "you haven't speak to anyone

about the letter?"



"no, miss."



"don't say anything about it, please. Mrs. Cohen be not well, and the

doctor be very particular that she shall not be bother or worried.



"I willn't say anything, miss."



she shake her head gravely as Rose trip downstairs and mutter:



"Trouble's come--or my name benot what it be."



"I be so glad you be here, father," say Rose; "I have something to

tell you."



"I have something to tell you, Rose," say Mr. Moss. "such an odd

impression! of course I must be mistake. but first I want to know how

Mrs. Cohen be. I think she be not look strong to-day."



Rose tell he of the doctor's visit and the instruction he have give,

and then hand he Ruth's letter, which he read in pain and surprise.



"I don't like the look of it, Rose," he say. "I hate mystery, and I

cannot decide immediately whether it ought to be keep from Mr. Cohen."



"oh, father!" cry Rose. "Ruth will never forgive I if I betray

she."



"I don't think it be the question of a betrayal," say Mr. Moss. "she

tell you to speak to I, and you have do so. I take the blame on

myself, whatever happen. my dear, you be not old enough to

understand such matter, and you must leave this to I. give I the

letter, my dear; it will be well in my keeping than in your. just

consider, Rose; would you have behave so?"



"no, father; I could not."



"there be the answer. the odd impression I speak of be that I see

ruth to-night in a hansom cab. I think I be mistaken, but now I be

convince it be she. if I have know what I know now I should have

follow she. as for Ruth never forgive you, what will Mr. Cohen's

feeling be toward you when he discover that you have act in such a

treacherous manner? Ruth be very little old than yourself and, I be

afraid, cannot discriminate between right and wrong; she must not be

allow to drag we into a conspiracy against the peace of the family."



Rose be dismay; she have not look upon it in that light.



"be Ruth alone?" she ask in a falter voice.



"no, she have a gentleman with she. it be a bad business--a bad

business. I intend to return to Portsmouth to-morrow, but now I

shall remain till the matter be clear up."



"shall you do anything to-night, father?"



"no. I shall do nothing till the morning. I must have time to consider

how to act. Mr. Cohen will not be home till past midnight, and he will

be jade with the fatigue of the day. to think that it should turn

out so. good-night, my dear child. get to bed and try to sleep. it

may, after all, turn out well than I expect."



but there be very little sleep for Rose this night, and very little,

also, for Mr. Moss or Aaron Cohen. the cloud that be gather be

too ominous for repose.









CHAPTER XXXV.

the honorable percy STORNDALE makes an APPEAL.





it be not the only cloud that threaten Aaron's fortune and

happiness. other be ready to burst, and in the gathering storm he

see, not too clearly, perhaps, the peril in which he stand. his fair

reputation be in danger, the honorable edifice he have build for

himself be tottering, the wealth he have amass be jeopardize by

circumstance over which he have no control. in the course of a few

day all these thing be to happen, and although on the day

follow that on which so great an honor have be pay to he he do

not realize that ruin stare he in the face, he be sufficiently

conscious that more than one sword be hang over his head. but mere

worldly misfortune be a trifle in comparison with the sting of his

conscience and with a sting as bitter which he learn from the lip

of Dr. Roberts. the physician have not be quite ingenuous in his

report of Rachel's condition; his ripe experience scent a crisis

which might or might not occur. it do not depend upon he, but upon

the patient, and a few hour would decide the extent of the danger. it

be this that cause he to call early at the house to see Rachel, and

after he have be with she for a quarter of an hour he have a private

conversation with Aaron.



"there be no absolute danger," he say, "but I shall be well

satisfied if you will send she at once to the seaside. she will be

well out of London. I see on the table a number of letter--beg

letter, I be inform--which Miss Rose have be read to she. she

must be free from the emotion create by these appeal and from

anything of an agitate nature. perfect repose and rest--that be what

she require, with bright sunshine and balmy air. I should

recommend Bournemouth, and if you wish I'll run down and see she

there. meanwhile I will give you the name of a physician who will

understand her case as well as I do. let Miss Rose go with she; your

wife be fond of she, and she be a cheerful companion, though she seem

to be rather depressed this morning. I have be lecture the young

lady, and she tell I she have have a bad night. it will do they both

good."



"I cannot accompany she to-day," say Aaron, "I have so many important

matter to attend to. we will go down to-morrow."



"send she to-day," urge the physician, "and you can follow on

to-morrow, or later. it be good weather for travel; in a few hour

it may change. to-day, by all mean. we doctor be autocrat, you

know, and will not listen to argument. to-day."



have the business he have to attend to be of less importance Aaron

would have put it aside, and travel with his wife to the seaside,

but it be business which imperatively demand his present attention,

and he have no alternative but to send she with Rose and the

ever-faithful Prissy, in whom he have every confidence. he accompany

they as far as the railway station, and hold Rachel's hand in his as

they drive to Waterloo. it be not only that they be still lover,

but that he feel the need of the moral support which he derive from

the tender handclasp.



"do not be anxious about I, dear," say Rachel, "and do not come down

till Friday. then you can stop till Monday morning, and perhaps Joseph

will be home by then, and he can come with you. he will not be able to

keep away from Rose, and he have but a short time to remain in England.

there be really nothing the matter with I except a little weakness

which I shall soon overcome. if Ruth be happy in Portsmouth let she

remain there if she wish. we be grow old, love, you and I, and

we must not tie our child too closely to our side. they will fly

away as the young bird do, and make nest of their own. may their

home be as happy as ours have be--may their life be as happy as you

have make mine."



in such-like tender converse the minute fly by, and as the train

steam out of the station Rachel's face, with a bright smile upon it,

be turn toward her husband.



on the road home Aaron telegraph to Ruth in Portsmouth, address

his telegram to Mr. Moss' house; he desire she to return to London

to-day or to-morrow. he feel that he must speak to she with as little

delay as possible respect the disclosure which Mr. Dillworthy have

make to he; it would be play the coward's part indeed if he do

not immediately ascertain the nature of her feeling for the honorable

Percy Storndale. thus far the first step of his duty; what step be

to follow he have not yet determine upon.



arrive at his house, he find Mr. Moss wait to see he. Rose have

leave a letter for her father acquaint he with their departure for

the seaside, and give he their address in Bournemouth, which she

be enable to do, because Aaron have make arrangement by telegraph

for their reception in a jewish house there. after a few word of

explanation of the cause of Rachel and Rose leave so suddenly, Aaron

inform his friend that he have telegraph to Ruth to come home at

once.



Mr. Moss start.



"you send the telegram to my house?" he say.



"certainly. I be sorry to break her visit, which she must have

enjoy, but there be a necessity for it. as my old friend you

should not be keep in ignorance of this necessity, and will agree that

it be not to be speak of outside ourselves without my consent."



thereupon he relate the part of his interview with Mr. Dillworthy

that affect Ruth and the son of Lord Storndale.



"there be another matter," he say, "of great importance which be

mention during the interview, and which we may speak of presently.

you now know my reason for send to Ruth to come home. I must learn

the truth from her own lip."



"strangely enough," say Mr. Moss rather nervously, "I have come to

say something about Ruth myself."



"surely not in connection with this matter?" exclaim Aaron.



"you must be the judge of that, Cohen. do you notice whether Rose be

look well?"



"she look tired. Dr. Roberts say she have pass a bad night, and

that the change would do she good."



"a bad night! no wonder, poor child. I scarcely sleep an hour with

what be on my mind. you will be surprised at what I have to tell you.

but first--Rose say nothing about Ruth?"



"nothing whatever."



"you must not blame she; she act by my direction, and her lip be

seal."



"why should I blame she? she be a dear, good child; I have implicit

faith and confidence in she. you alarm I, Mr. Moss. speak plainly, I

beg of you."



"yes, I will do so; but I would have like to break it gradually.

Cohen, Ruth be not in Portsmouth."



"not in Portsmouth! where, then?"



"if what she write and my eye be to be believe she be in London,

and have be here all the week. she remain with we two day, and

then leave, say she be go to pay a visit to some other friend.

we naturally think, though we expect she to make a long stay,

that you be aware of it, and that the plan of her visit have be

alter with your concurrence. last night as I pass through Regent

Street I see a lady in a hansom in the company of a gentleman, and I

could have swear it be Ruth; but the cab be drive at a quick pace,

and I think I must have be mistake. I come on here to Rose, and

the poor child be in deep distress. she have receive, a letter from

Ruth, which she give I to read. I do not offer any excuse for take

the letter from she; she be but a child, and be quite unfit for a

responsibility which, without her consent, be impose upon she. here

be the letter. it explain itself."



Aaron read it in silence, and with conflict feeling.



his first thought be that Ruth have take her fate into her own hand.



he have do his duty jealously by she in the past whatever might be

his duty in the present. if, as be his fervent hope, no dishonor to

she be involve in her flight--for it be no less than flight and

desertion of the home in which she have be rear--if there have be

a secret marriage, new contingency of the future loom dimly before

he, contingency in which the stern task it be his duty to perform

be not so terrible in its import.



the past could never be condone, but in his consideration of the

future one figure tower above all other, the figure of his wife. if

for she the suffering could be make less--if the fact of Ruth take

her course without his prompting, even in defiance of the lesson he

have endeavor to inculcate, would mitigate the severity of her blow,

be it not something to be grateful for?



if, he argue mentally, she and the son of Lord Storndale be marry

they have little to hope for from the Storndale family.



their dependence, then, rest upon he, and he resolve that he would

not fail the rash couple. his hope of an honorable, though secret,

marriage be base upon his knowledge of Ruth's character. she be not

give to exaggerated sentiment, he have never know she go into

heroic, she possess certain sterling quality of strength and

determination. grant that she be lead away by the glamour of wedding

the son of a peer, he be convince she would not so far forget

herself as to bring shame upon herself and her connection. she be a

Christian bear, and she have the right to marry a Christian; by her own

unprompte act she have cut the gordian knot. that the Honorable Percy

Storndale have a double motive in pursue she be likely enough, love,

Aaron hope, be one, the fact of her reputed father be a wealthy

man the other. well, he would fulfill the young man's expectation;

there be nothing in the shape of worldly atonement which he be not

ready and anxious to make.



in the midst of his musing a servant present himself with a

telegram and a card. the card bear the name of the Hon. Percy

Storndale, the telegram be from Mrs. Moss, in Portsmouth.



"wait outside," Aaron say to the servant, who leave the room.



the telegram be to the effect that Ruth be not in Portsmouth, and

that Mrs. Moss, in her absence, have take the liberty of read the

message, under the idea that it might contain something which require

an immediate answer. "be Ruth come to we again?" Mrs. Moss ask.



Aaron pass the telegram and the card to Mr. Moss.



"keep in the house," he say, "while I have an interview with this

gentleman. wait in the library, and tell the servant to show Mr.

Storndale into this room."



in a few moment the young man be usher in, and Aaron motion he

to a seat.



it be a human failing to run into extreme. no man be quite so good or

bad as he be represent to be by his admirer and detractor. in his

anxiety to prejudice Aaron against Lord Storndale's son Mr. Dillworthy

have do the young man an injustice. a scapegrace he be, without

doubt, but he have be rear into his vice and extravagancy--it

may be say with truth carefully rear--and he be certainly no worse

than hundred of other man who be bring up with no definite aim in

life, and educate without any sensible and serious effort be make

to impress they with life's responsibility. he have, indeed, the

advantage of many, for although he consider it perfectly excusable

to get into debt with tradesman, and to borrow from money lender

without any expectation of be able to pay either one or the other,

he would not have descend so low as to pick a pocket or cheat at

card. More of the pigeon than the gull, he look always to his

family to get he out of his scrape; he believe it to be their duty;

and it be upon he, not upon they, that injustice be inflict when

he be throw entirely upon his own resource, and when he be give

to understand that for the future he would have to settle his own

liability.



he be fair-haired and blue-eye, and passably good-look; beyond

this there be nothing remarkable in his appearance; but there be

that air of good humor and careless ease about he which generally

win favor with woman who do not look beneath the surface.



just now he be manifestly ill at ease, for he have never before be

engage upon a mission so awkward and embarrassing.



that he be impress by Aaron's dignified manner be evident; he have

expect to meet a man of a different stamp.



each wait for the other to speak, and Aaron be not the first to

break the silence.



"I have take the liberty of visit you upon a rather delicate

matter," say the young gentleman, "and it be more difficult than I

anticipate."



"yes?" say Aaron, and say no more.



the monosyllable be utter in the form of a half question, and do

not lessen the difficulty in the young man's way.



"yes," he reply, and be at a loss how to continue; but again Aaron

do not assist he.



"upon my honor," he say at length, "I would not undertake to say

whether I would rather be in this room than out of it, or out of it

than in it."



he give a weak laugh here, with a half idea that he have say something

rather clever, but still he meet with no encouragement from Aaron.



"it be so difficult, you see," he add. "I do not suppose you know

I."



"no," say Aaron. "I do not know you."



"I think it possible that your daughter, Miss Cohen, you know, might

have mention I to you."



"she have never do so."



"it be my fault entirely. I say, on no account; and naturally she

give in."



"do she wish to mention you to I?"



"oh, yes, but I insist. I don't exactly know why, but I do, and she

give in. I dare say I be a blockhead, but I hope you will find

excuse for I."



"at present I can find none. we shall understand each other if you

come to the point."



"I will try to do so, but it be not easy, I assure you, Mr. Cohen,

after the way I have behave. upon second thought I do not see, upon

my honor, I do not see how you can be expect to find excuse for I.

but it do happen sometimes that a fellow meet another fellow who

help a lame dog over the stile. I be the lame dog, you know."



"it may assist you," say Aaron, "if I ask you one question, and if

you frankly answer it. be you a married man?"



"upon my soul, sir," exclaim the Honorable Percy Storndale, "I

cannot be sufficiently thankful to you. yes, sir, I be a married man."



"long marry?"



"four day, Mr. Cohen."



"can you show I proof of it?"



"I thank you again, sir. but it ben't my idea; it be my wife's.

'take the marriage certificate with you,' she say. she have wonderful

idea."



"let I see the certificate."



the young man instantly produce it, and Aaron, with a deep-draw

breath of relief, see record there the marriage of Miss Ruth Cohen

and the honorable Percy Storndale.



"you marry my--my daughter, I see," say Aaron, "in a registrar's

office."



"I don't know how to apologize to you, sir," say the young man, as

relieve by Aaron's calm attitude as Aaron be himself at this proof

of an honorable union. "I cann't conceive anything meaner, but what

could I do? Ruth--Miss Cohen, you know--be a jewess, could not well

have be marry in a church, and I, be a Christian, could not

well have be marry in a synagogue. it be a very delicate point; I

be not acquaint with the law on the subject, but no fellow can deny

that it be a delicate point. then there be another difficulty.

bridesmaid, bridesmaid' present, and general expense, to say

nothing of the publicity, when the party principally concern

want to get it over quietly and quickly. Ruth say you would never

consent; I say my family would never consent; so what else be there

for it? pray forgive I if I be express myself clumsily."



"your family do not encourage the match?"



"dead against it; from the first dead against it. bully and

threaten I. 'what!' they cry. 'marry a Jewess!' 'as good as any

Christian,' I retort. but do you ever know a Storndale listen to

reason, Mr. Cohen?"



"you be a Storndale," say Aaron quietly.



"have I there," chuckle the young man. "Gad, sir, you have I there.

well, sir, that be how it stand, and if you show I the door I'll not

say I don't deserve it."



"I will not show you the door, but it be not correct to say that be

how it stand, as if there be nothing more to explain. Mr.

Storndale, if the lady you have marry be a Christian would your

family have object?" the young man laugh in a weak, awkward way.

"answer I frankly this and other question it be my duty to put."



"my family would not have object," say the Honorable Percy

Storndale, "if there have be settlement. you see, sir, we be not

exactly roll in money, and I be a young son. no expectation,

sir. a poor gentleman."



"an imprudent marriage, Mr. Storndale."



"no deny it, sir; and it have only come home to I the last day or

two. marriage in such circumstance pull a fellow up, you see; make

he reflect, you know. my wife's an angel, and that make it cut

deep. a married fellow think of thing. as a bachelor I never

think of to-morrow. I give you my word on it. to-morrow! hang

to-morrow! that be the way of it. I've only just wake up to the fact

that there be a to-morrow."



"be it a love match, Mr. Storndale?"



"on both side, sir. without vanity--and I don't deny I've get my

share of that--I may speak for she as well as for myself."



"from the first a love match, Mr. Storndale? do it never occur to you

that I be a rich man?"



"you drive I hard, sir, but I'm not go to play fast and loose with

you. 'be prepare, Percy,' Ruth say to I. 'my father be a wise, as

well as a just and kind, man, and I don't know whether he will ever

forgive I; but you will make a sad mistake if you don't speak the

honest truth to he.' the truth it shall be, as I be a gentleman. I

do think of Ruth's father be a rich man, and see we through it.

but after a little while I get so over head and heel in love that I

think only of she. I give you my word, sir, I never have the feeling

for any woman that I have for Ruth, and that, I think, be why I'm

rather scared when I think of to-morrow. if I haven't be afraid of

lose she I might have come straight to you, but I don't care to run

the risk. what would you do, sir, for a woman you love?"



"everything, anything."



"you would stake everything against nothing, with a certainty of

losing, rather than give she up?"



"I would make any earthly sacrifice for she."



"well, sir, then you know how I feel. I don't set myself up as a good

man; I've do many foolish thing, and I dare say shall do more

foolish thing, but not half nor quarter as many with a clever woman

by my side to keep I straight. what some of we want, sir, be ballast;

I never have it till now, and even now perhaps it's of no use to I.

until a week ago I have to think for one; now I have to think for two.

but thinking willn't help I through, I'm afraid."



never before have the honorable Percy Storndale express himself in so

manly a fashion; it be as though contact with Aaron be bring out

his good quality.



"be it your intention, Mr. Storndale, to come to I so soon after

your marriage?"



"I have no settle intention when to come, sir, but I have be force

to it soon than I expect."



"what have force you to it?"



"writ. when need must, you know, sir."



"be you heavily in debt?"



"to the tune of three thousand, sir."



"when a question of this kind be ask the answer be generally below

the mark."



"true enough, sir, but I be pretty close to it this time. Ruth's an

angel, but she's a sensible woman as well. she make I put everything

down."



"if I settle the claim against you "--the young man look up with a

flush in his face--"you will get into debt again."



"I'll try not to, sir."



"honestly, Mr. Storndale."



"honestly, Mr. Cohen. Ruth will keep I straight."



"leave I your address. I will come and see you to-night at eight

o'clock. make out a clear and truthful list of your debt; omit

nothing. Meanwhile----"



he write a check and hand it to the young man, who shake hand with

he gratefully, and with a light heart go to gladden his young wife

with the good news.









CHAPTER XXXVI.

a DUTY PERFORMED.





before Mr. Moss rejoin he Aaron have repent of his promise to call

and see the young couple in the evening. this vacillation be a proof

of the effect recent event have upon his mind; it be really

unbalanced; the prompt decision of all matter, whether great or

small, which present themselves for consideration, seem to have

desert he. he feel that he could not depend upon himself in the

promise interview with Ruth, and that he might precipitate a

discovery the proper time for which he believe have not yet arrive.



that it would have to be make eventually be certain; truth and

justice demand it, and the claim should be meet, but not to-day, not

until other plan with respect to his future be settle. for there

be grow in his mind a conviction that he be not worthy of the

position he hold among his co-religionist, that it be his duty to

retire into obscurity and not presume to teach what should be do in

important issue where he himself have so signally fail. he mentally

ask, why have he not recognize this early? and the answer that

trod upon the heel of the question bring a pitiful smile of

self-despisal to his lip.



he have be live deliberately in a fool's paradise, trust to

chance to avoid detection and exposure. he could lay blame upon no

other shoulder than his own; he, and he alone, be responsible for

the consequence of his act. well, he would not shrink from they, he

would accept they humbly, and rest his hope in the mercy of God. if

when the hour arrive for open confession--and arrive it must, he

know, before many week be past--he could still retain the love of

his wife, if she would forgive he for the deception he have practice,

he would be content; he might even be happy again, fall as he would

be from his high estate.



the first duty he have to perform be to lift Ruth and her husband from

poverty, to place they in an honorable and independent position, and

this task he would ask his friend Mr. Moss to undertake for he.



"all be explain," he say when that gentleman re-enter the room.

"Ruth have do what cannot be undo. she and Mr. Storndale be

married."



"married!" exclaim Mr. Moss. he be startle at the news, but no

less startled at the calm voice in which it be communicate to he.

"what be you go to do about it?"



"accept it," reply Aaron, "there be no alternative."



"it be an outrage. he should be make to suffer for it."



"he must not be make to suffer for it, nor must Ruth. the young man be

in difficulty, and I have resolve to clear he from they and to

provide for their future. they will expect to see I to-night, but I

cannot trust myself. I wish you to undertake the task for I, and to

carry the whole matter through. Mr. Moss, all through my life you have

be my sincere friend; you will not fail I now?"



"no, Cohen, no; I will do whatever you wish I to do, but it be hardly

what I expect of you."



"you be surprised that I do not show anger at this marriage--that I

do not express resentment against Mr. Storndale?"



"I be, Cohen."



"before long," say Aaron, place his hand on his friend's shoulder,

"you will understand why I be so calm. I can trust you, and when I

confess that there be in my life an hour when temptation assail I

and I fall before it, I feel that my confidence will be respect

until the time arrive when all the world will know what be hide in

my breast--what have be hide for the last twenty year."



"for the last twenty year! Cohen, that take we back to the old

Gosport day."



"it do. but ask I no question now, for I be not prepared to answer

they. great change be come in my life, and I must arm myself to

meet they. if only Rachel will forgive!"



he cover his eye with his hand, and turn away.



"Cohen," say Mr. Moss presently, "I see that you be unstrung, that

you be suffer. you be do yourself an injustice; I be sure of

it, I be sure of it. I do not pretend to understand what it be that

distress you, but I would like to say that you may depend upon I in

any difficulty. you may turn against yourself, but you be not go

to turn an old friend like I against you."



Aaron press Mr. Moss' hand, and explain the task he wished

perform. Mr. Moss be to call upon Ruth and her husband, and obtain

from they an honest and faithful account of their position. this do

he be to pay every shilling the young man owe; after which a

settlement of a thousand pound a year be to be make upon Ruth as a

marriage portion, the money to be absolutely at her own disposal.



"it be not a great deal," say Aaron, "for the son of a peer to live

upon, but his family in a little while, when they learn the truth

about Ruth"--he pause, and Mr. Moss nod gravely; a strange

suspicion be begin to haunt him,--"may be dispose to forgive

he, and through their influence he may obtain a lucrative

appointment. from the way in which he speak I be disposed to think

that he may turn over a new leaf, and that an honorable future may lie

before he and Ruth. give she my love, and say that circumstance

render it impossible for I to see she for a few day, and that when

we meet I shall have something of great importance to disclose to she.

be patient with I, Mr. Moss. my word point to a mystery which will

soon be unravel. what you be about to do for I can scarcely be

finish before the end of the week, but I cannot rest until it be

complete. my own affair will entirely occupy I, and I must run down

to Bournemouth to see Rachel."



"I will not waste a moment," say Mr. Moss. "how about the money

necessary for the settlement and the payment of Mr. Storndale's

debt?"



"it will be place in your hand to-morrow. do not return here

to-night. come and breakfast with I at nine in the morning."



Aaron sit up till long past midnight, make calculation and

arrange his affair. he be quite resolve to retire from everything

in the shape of public life, and altogether from business; and to

effect this there be much to do. he have uncompleted contract in hand

which he would transfer to employer of whose method he approve, and

he have just obtain another which a dozen contractor would be eager

to take off his hand. he think of Mr. Poynter, and shake his head.

to such a man he could not trust any of his responsibility. then he

devote himself to an examination of his private financial position.



after provide for Ruth he calculate that he could realize a sum of

about ninety thousand pound, in addition to which there be his

house and furniture, which would realize another ten thousand.

one-third of this should be give to his son Joseph and Rose,

one-third should be divide among the jewish charity, and one-third

should be invest for himself and Rachel. this would produce an

income amply sufficient for the maintenance of a comfortable home

either in London or the country.



"Rachel will be content," he think, "and the year that be leave to

we shall be pass in peace, away from the turmoil and fever of life.

if she will but forgive I--if she will but forgive!"



all depend upon that.



he hold office of honor in the synagogue, which he would immediately

resign. there and then he write his letter of resignation. he draw

forth the address upon modern judaism he have undertake to deliver,

hope thereby to counteract the loose view of religious obligation

which threaten to sap the foundation of the old faith. he read the

powerful argument he have write to this end, and sigh as he read.



"not for I the task," he murmur. "not for I. I be not worthy. it

be for I to learn, not to teach."



he tear the manuscript and burn it. he have forfeit the right to

show his brother the path of duty.



at length he come to the end of his labor. before he retire to rest

he pray long and fervently, and offer up supplication for

forgiveness.



at nine o'clock in the morning Mr. Moss present himself, and

report what he have do.



"everything be in such straight order," he say, "that the whole

business can be finish to-morrow."



"it will be a great weight off my mind," say Aaron, "when all the

paper be sign. I have letter from Rachel and Rose." he pass the

young girl's letter to Mr. Moss. "she say there be no change in

Rachel, but that she think the air and change of scene be do she

good. if you write to Rose do not hint of any impending trouble, and

do not mention Ruth's name, lest Rachel should suspect that something

be wrong. I ought to tell you, Mr. Moss, that I have resolve to

retire into private life; I shall be much happy, and I be sure

Rachel will be. it be a sudden resolution, and I dare say my friend

will be surprised, but I be fix; nothing can make I change my

mind."



"and your contract, Cohen?" ask Mr. Moss, who be sufficiently

familiar with Aaron's character to know that remonstrance at present

would be throw away.



"I shall transfer they. my earnest wish be that I shall be forget,

and allow to live in peace. I be grow old; let my place, which I

unworthily hold, be occupy by a well man."



"that be hardly likely to come to pass," say Mr. Moss gravely. "you

be not old; you be in the prime of life, with very many year of

usefulness before you. but I will not argue with you; when you have

recover from your depression, when Rachel be well again, you will

think well of it. we need you; no other man can fill your place. you

deliver your address on Sunday, do you not?"



"no."



"but, Cohen, it be expect; it be look forward to, and the good

result be anticipate from it. you will not go from your word?"



"I must. the address be destroy. I must bear whatever be say of I;

I accept it as part of my punishment."



"of your punishment! I do not understand you."



"you will by and by. Mr. Moss, the man who presume to set down the

law of right and wrong should be above reproach. can a thief preach

honesty? can a liar lift his voice in praise of truth?"



"these be strange utterance, Cohen, from your lip."



"there be a sad foundation for they. to know yourself--that be the

height of human wisdom; and I have learn too late. pray do not

continue the subject; you stand in the dark, I in the light."



"well, well," say Mr. Moss, with a sigh, "we will speak of this

another time. have you see the paper this morning?"



"I have not open they."



"they be full of your praise for put an end to the strike; they

say it be due alone to your character and powerful influence."



"I take no credit to myself. what I do be do with a conscientious

motive."



"good," say Mr. Moss with hearty emphasis. "that be the keynote of

your life. then what have you to reproach yourself with?"



"let every man search his own heart," reply Aaron, and his voice be

very mournful. "he will find the answer there. and now we will waste

no more time in idle conversation. we must go to the lawyer and the

bank. have you a list of Mr. Storndale's debt? ah! thank you." he

look at the total, and draw a check for the amount. "the payment of

these claim will keep you busy during the day. I will give

instruction to the lawyer to prepare the deed of settlement, and

to-morrow it can be sign. you will be a trustee; I will call upon a

gentleman who will be the other. I shall spend to-night at

Bournemouth, and will come back by an early train in the morning."



"will you not see Ruth before you leave?" ask Mr. Moss.



"no, not till everything be finish. how be she?"



"well and happy, and overjoy that you be not angry with she.

between ourselves, Cohen, it be not what she expect."



"she have all the more reason for contentment. I wish she to be happy."



they have a busy time with lawyer, bank manager, and creditor, and

Aaron just manage to catch the two-twenty train for Bournemouth. he

pass a quiet evening with Rachel and Rose, and answer the

question put by his wife concern Ruth in a manner to satisfy she.

with Rose he have a private conversation upon the subject, and

caution she to preserve silence as to the letter she have receive.

on the follow morning he take an early train for London, and

arrive before noon, find everything prepare for a final settlement

of his plan for Ruth's worldly future. when the deed be sign,

and the consol buy and deposit in the Bank of England, Aaron

breathe more freely. he have make some small atonement to Ruth for the

deception of which he have be guilty.



"we have have no honeymoon trip," say the Honorable Percy Storndale to

he, "and I be think of take Ruth to the Continent to-morrow, but

she will be unhappy if she do not see you before we go."



"I will come with you now," say Aaron.



they meet and part without any warm demonstration of affection. such

a demonstration from Ruth toward one whom she believe to be her

father, but for whom she have never entertain a strong love, would

have be a new feature in her character, and grateful as she be for

his generosity, she be hold back by the feeling that she have give

he a poor return for his lifelong kindness toward she and by her fear

that he be quietly angry with she; while Aaron be hold back by the

consciousness of his wrongdoing. and so the young couple go forth to

commence their new life, and the secret of Ruth's birth be still

unreveale. Aaron have not yet muster courage to make confession, but

he know that the hour be fast approach when he would stand in the

full light of the sin he have commit through love.









CHAPTER XXXVII.

the MOTHER'S APPEAL.





two week have pass away. Joseph have come and go. in the company of

Rose and his parent he have spend three sad and happy day in

Bournemouth--happy because he be in the society of those he love,

sad because he be so soon to part from they. Rachel's health be not

improve, the physician say, and those to whom she be so dear be

continually warn that she be not to be agitate by news of a

distressing nature. the shrewd doctor impress this upon they the

more strongly for the reason that he perceive that a cloud be

hang over their spirit which they be conceal from the

sightless lady.



"you cannot be too careful," he say. "a sudden shock might produce

serious effect."



they be, therefore, compel to preserve secrecy, and to invent

excuse for Ruth's absence from the family circle. Joseph and Rose have

both be inform of Ruth's marriage, and be thus partner with

Aaron in the affectionate conspiracy. Aaron have go no far with

they than this. the vital secret be still in his sole possession.



the carrying out of his intention to retire into private life, and to

entirely give up the important business transaction in which he have

be engage for many year, necessitate his be in London the

great part of these two week; he would have like to keep his

proceeding from public knowledge, but in this he be not successful.

one cause of the publicity which be give to his action lie in the

disposal of a portion of his fortune in charity; his benefaction be

herald far and wide, and he be make the subject of numberless

laudatory article in the newspaper. another cause be his

transference of large contract, and especially of the last one for

which he have successfully compete, to other firm. in the

transference of these contract he have lay down stipulation with

respect to wage and hour of labor which, while they do not meet

with the full approval of employer, earn for he renew

commendation from the working class. Mr. Poynter have try to obtain

some of these contract, but Aaron find he so shifty in his method

that he decline to have anything to do with he. for which defeat Mr.

Poynter vow revenge, and look about for the mean of compass

it.



at the end of the fortnight Aaron be in London, his labor end, and

at this time his fortune amount to something over thirty thousand

pound, a large sum than he anticipate would be leave to he.



it must be mention that Ruth and her husband have just return to

London, as he be inform by letter, in consequence of Ruth's

indisposition. it be she who write to he, and she be so earnest in

the expression of her wish that he would come and see she that he have

send she a telegram say that he would call at eight or nine

o'clock, by which time he expect to be free.



at six o'clock on this evening he and Mr. Moss be together in

Aaron's house, by appointment. Aaron have resolve to reveal his secret

to his faithful friend, and he have set apart this evening as a fitting

time for the disclosure. on the following day Rachel and Rose be to

return to London, as Rachel do not wish to remain any long in

Bournemouth, and Mr. Moss be to return to Portsmouth.



Mr. Moss' face be flush with excitement as he enter the room with

an evening paper in his hand.



"have you hear the rumor, Cohen?" he ask excitedly.



"what rumor?" inquire Aaron, rise to meet his friend.



"about your bank, the Equitable Alliance?"



"no, I have hear nothing. I have not be out of the house since the

morning."



"it come on I like a thunderclap, but it cannot be true."



"what cannot be true, Mr. Moss?" Aaron speak quite calmly.



"well, there's nothing definite, but you know there have be something

like a panic in the City."



"I know, but it cannot affect I. I have no investment now, with the

solitary exception of my bank share. all my affair be settle, and

the money in the bank until I decide how to invest it."



Mr. Moss groan. "I wish you have it safely invest in consol. be

all your money there?"



"every shilling. the only investment I have not realize be the

share I hold in the bank."



"that make it all the bad. the shareholder be liable to the

depositor."



"yes."



the flush have die out of Mr. Moss' face, which be now white with

apprehension. "they're call it out in the street--but here's the

paper."



he point to a paragraph, which state that one of the large bank

in the City have close its door half an hour before its time, and

that the panic have in consequence reach an alarming height.



"there be no name mention, Mr. Moss."



"no, Cohen, no; but I pass through the City on my way here, and the

name of the bank be on everyone's lip. if the bank stop payment

to-morrow how will you stand?"



"if it stop payment for sufficient cause," say Aaron in a steady

voice, "I shall be a ruin man!"



"Good Heavens! and you can speak of it so calmly!"



"why not? to work myself into a frenzy will not help I. there be

bad misfortune."



"I cannot imagine they, Cohen. ruin? absolutely ruin?"



"absolutely ruin," say Aaron, with a smile.



"and it be only yesterday that you were----"



he could not continue, and Aaron take up his word.



"it be only yesterday that I be on top of the tree. a dangerous

height, Mr. Moss, but I must bear the fall. if, when they climb the

ladder of fortune, man would but be careful to make the low rung

secure! but prosperity make they reckless. do not look so mournful.

happiness be as easily find in poverty as in rich."



"it may be, after all, a false alarm," groan Mr. Moss.



"let we hope so. we will wait till to-morrow."



"will you not go into the City now to ascertain whether it be true or

false?"



"no; it will only trouble I, and it will not affect the result. I

will wait till to-morrow."



so marked be the contrast between his cheerful and Mr. Moss'

despondent mood that it really seem as if it be his friend's

fortune that be imperil instead of his own. he be stand by the

door, and hear a knock, he open it.



"I beg your pardon, sir," say a servant, "but this gentleman be

below, and want to see Mr. Moss."



Aaron take the card without look at it, and hand it to Mr. Moss,

who exclaim:



"Dr. Spenlove!"



"show he up," say Aaron to the servant.



"have I not well see he alone?" ask Mr. Moss.



"if you have no objection," reply Aaron, "receive he here in my

presence."



they both seem to scent a come danger, but Aaron appear to hail

it gladly, while Mr. Moss would rather have avoid it.



"a thousand apology," say Dr. Spenlove to Aaron upon his entrance,

"for intrude upon you, but hear that Mr. Moss be here I take the

liberty of follow he. my errand be an urgent one."



"I be happy to see you, Dr. Spenlove," Aaron respond; "if your

business with Mr. Moss be not quite private you can speak freely

before I."



"I think," say Dr. Spenlove, half hesitating, "that it be quite

private."



"I have a distinct reason," continue Aaron as though Dr. Spenlove have

not speak, "for make the suggestion, but man sometimes receive an

inspiration for which there be no visible warranty. if it be of an

incident in the past you wish to speak, when you and Mr. Moss be

acquaint in Portsmouth----"



"how singular that you should have guess it!" exclaim Dr.

Spenlove. "it be such an incident that bring I here."



"the time be winter," pursue Aaron, "the season an inclement one. I

remember it well. for some day the snow have be falling----"



"yes, yes. it be a terrible season for the poor."



"for one especially, a lady drive into misfortune and who have no

friend but a stern and honorable gentleman who would only lift she

from the depth into which she have fall on the condition that she

submit to a cruel sacrifice. his demand be that she should give

her infant into the care of stranger, and that only in the event of

his death should she be free to seek to know its fate. be that the

incident, Dr. Spenlove?"



"it be. I see you know all, and with Mr. Moss' consent I will speak

openly."



Mr. Moss look at Aaron, who nod, and Dr. Spenlove continue.



"there be no need to recall all the particular of that bitter night

when you so kindly assist I in the search for the unfortunate?"



"none at all," say Mr. Moss; "they be very vivid in my memory."



"and in mine. your kindness have not be forget either by I or by

the lady whose life, and whose child's life, be save by you. he

shake his head in deprecation, Mr. Cohen, but what I say be true. have

he not, out of the kindness of his heart, accompany I these two

hapless human being would have perish in the snow. I have a motive

to serve; he have none. on the night we part in Portsmouth, Mr. Moss,

you be on the point of seek a home for the poor babe, for

whom"--he turn to Aaron--"a liberal provision be make."



"I be acquaint with every detail of the strange story," say Aaron.

"I be reside in Gosport at the time."



Dr. Spenlove give he a startled look.



"it be in Gosport he hope to find this home, with a friend of whom

he speak in the warm term. the commission intrust to I by Mr.

Gordon--I perceive you be familiar with the name--end on that

night, and what remain to be do be in the hand of Mr. Moss and

Mr. Gordon's lawyer. the following morning I come to London, where I

have reside ever since. from that day until two or three week ago

Mr. Moss and I have not meet. it be here in your house, Mr. Cohen,

that, see he for the first time after so long an interval, I make

inquiry concern the infant intrust to he. he inform I that

she die very shortly, as I understand, after she enter her new

home. I be not surprised to hear it; the exposure on that bitter

night be sufficiently severe to kill a child much old. in order

that my visit to Mr. Moss to-night may be properly understand I will

briefly relate in a few word the subsequent history of the mother.

she marry Mr. Gordon and accompany he to Australia, where she have

reside for twenty year. she have have no child by he, and be now a

widow, and very wealthy. unknown to Mr. Gordon she, in her last

interview with I, intrust to I a small iron box--it be one I give

she, and I can identify it--in which she deposit some article of the

nature of which I be ignorant. she entreat I to take step that

this box should be deliver to the people who receive her child into

their home, and to obtain from they a promise that if the child live

till she be twenty-one year of age it be to be hand over to she,

or in the event of her child dying, or of herself claim the box at

any future time, to be hand over to she. I inform Mr. Moss of the

mother's desire, and he promise that it should be attend to. I have

look through some old paper, and I find that, have the child live,

she would be twenty-one in the course of a couple of month. but the

child be dead, and the mother have appeal to I to assist she to

obtain the box which she deliver into my charge."



"the mother have appeal to you!" exclaim Aaron. "in person?"



"in person," reply Dr. Spenlove. "she have return to England, and

be at this moment await I in my carriage below. it be not the only

appeal she have make to I. she be overwhelmed at the news of her

child's death, and I have the sincere pity for she. she desire to

know where her child be bury. Mr. Gordon's lawyer, it appear, be

so bound to secrecy by their client that they do not feel warrant in

give she any information or assistance. she have communicate with

another firm of lawyer in London, who be unable to assist she. as a

last resource she have come to I to entreat my aid, which, in the

circumstance, I cannot refuse to give she. my errand be now fully

explain. Mr. Moss, will you see the poor lady, and give she the

information she have a right to demand?"



"I will reply for my friend," say Aaron. "Dr. Spenlove, I be the

person to whose care the child be intrust. the box be in this

house, and it be for I to satisfy she. will you step down and ask she

to come up, or shall I send a servant to she?"



"it will be good for I to go," say Dr. Spenlove. "how strangely

thing turn out! it be fortunate that I come here to seek Mr. Moss."



"I must speak to Mrs. Gordon alone, without witness," say Aaron.

"you and Mr. Moss will not mind wait in the adjoining room for a

few minute. the poet's word be true: 'there be a Providence that

shape our end, rough-hew they as we may.' the mother may have cause

to bless this night."



he bend his head humbly and solemnly as Dr. Spenlove and Mr. Moss leave

the room together.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.

a mother'S JOY.





for the first time in their life these two being, whose fate be

so strangely link together, face each other--the mother who

believe her child to be dead, the father who have bring up that

child in ignorance of her birthright. it be a solemn moment, more

try to the man who have err than to the woman who have fall. to

he the truth be as clear as though it be proclaim with a tongue

of fire, to she it have yet to be reveal. how feeble be the human

act when bring into juxtaposition with destiny's decree!



Aaron's sin have be ever before he; the handwriting have be ever on

the wall. scarcely for one day during the last twenty year have the

voice of conscience be still, and it have be dart of his

punishment that the inherit instinct of the child have work

inexorably against all his effort; her silent resistance to the

lesson he would have inculcate have be too powerful for he; and in

the end she have turn resolutely from the path into which, with

inward reproach, he have endeavor to lead she, and have obey the

prompting of her nature in map out her own future.



Keen as be Aaron's suffering, he experience a sense of relief that

the bolt have fall, and that the hour of retribution have arrive; the

agony of suspense be over, and he accept with mournful resignation

the decree which ordain that he should pass judgment upon himself.



a difficult task lie before he; the revelation he have to make must be

make with tact and delicacy, in consideration for the mother's

feeling. Joy, as well as sorrow, have its fear.



forgetful for the moment of his own domestic grief, a sympathetic pity

for the bereaved woman stir Aaron's heart. her tribulation be

express in her face, which be pale with woe; her eye be suffuse

with tear; her limb tremble as she sink into the chair which he

place for she. it be not he alone who be experience the torture

of remorse.



Mrs. Gordon be in mourning, and Aaron believe it be for her child.

except that time have leave its mark upon her countenance there be but

little change in she, and few person who have know she in her

springtime would have fail to recognize she in her middle age.



her union with Mr. Gordon have not be entirely unhappy; he have

perform his duty toward she, as she have do toward he, and though

he have a suspicion that, through all the long year, she never lose

sight of her secret sorrow, he make no reference to it, and she, on

her part, do not intrude it upon he. even on his deathbed he do not

speak of it; she understand he well enough to feel convinced that he

would answer no question she put to he, and she sincerely desire

not to distress he, for she have grow to be grateful for his faithful

fulfillment of the promise he have make.



and now she be free, and in the possession of great wealth. but she

be alone, without a tie in the world. all her bright dream have

fade. she have indulge the hope that her child still live, and as

she travel back to England have raise up mental picture of her

daughter which fill she with joy. the information she receive from

Dr. Spenlove have kill that hope, and her yearning desire be to

visit the grave of the babe she have desert, and to weep over it

tear of bitter repentance.



it be not so much now to reclaim the iron box contain the clew to

a shameful episode in her youthful life as to learn where her babe be

bury, that she wish to learn into whose care her child have be

give. there be a time when she nurse a fierce desire for revenge

upon the man who have betray she, but this desire have burn itself

away, and she would be content that the melancholy memory of the

past should be bury in oblivion. no good result would accrue from

rekindle the smolder ashe of an experience so sad. she have live

down the shame; no word of reproach have be utter against she; let

the dead past bury its dead.



for a few moment there be silence between she and Aaron, and she be

the first to speak.



"Dr. Spenlove have tell I all," she say.



"he have tell you what he know," say Aaron, "but you have something

more to hear. it be I who undertake the charge of your child. Mr.

Moss bring she to I in Gosport, and deliver to I also the box

which you intrust to Dr. Spenlove. I hand you now the box in the

same condition as it be hand to I. you will oblige I by

convince yourself that it have not be tamper with."



she unlock the box with a key she carry in her purse, and take

from it the half of the letter she have deposit therein, glance over

it with a bitter smile, then replace it in its hiding place and

relocke the box.



"there be nothing else in it?" ask Aaron.



"nothing else," she reply; "it be as I deliver it to Dr. Spenlove.

tell I about my child. do she live long? be she bury in Gosport?

you will tell I the truth--you will conceal nothing from I?"



"I will tell you the truth; I will conceal nothing from you; but what

I have to say must be say in my own way. when Mr. Moss leave your

child with I there be two babe in my house of the same age, and we

be in deep poverty and distress. my wife--my beloved wife lie at the

point of death----" he cover his eye with his hand. "bear with I;

these recollection overcome I." presently he resume. "but a short

time before her confinement she have be stricken with blindness. her

own child, whose face she have never see, lie quiet and still in her

arm. the doctor who attend she fear the bad, and say her life

depend upon the life of her babe. if our child die on the morrow

the mother would die; if our child live the mother would live. how

can I expect you to forgive I for what I do in the agony of my

heart?"



again he pause, and tear gush from his eye. Mrs. Gordon sink back

in her chair; there be not a vestige of color in her face.



"my God! my God!" she murmur. "have I not suffer enough?"



these word recall he to himself. he beg she to have courage, to

be strong; there be no new suffering in store for she, he say; what

he have to relate would bring joy into her life. he give her wine, and

when she have recover he proceed with his story, and gradually and

tenderly reveal to she the truth. as he proceed her face shine

with incredulous joy, her heart beat tumultuously with the prospect of

this unexpected happiness; and when his story be finish, and he sit

before she with bow head, there be a long, long silence in the

room. he dare utter no further word; in silent dread he wait for

his condemnation.



he feel a hand upon his knee, and look down, he see her kneeling at

his foot. she be transfigure; the long pen up love of a mother make

her young again; she take his hand, and kiss it again and again,

bedew it with happy tear. he gaze at she in wonder. he have

expect reviling and she be all tenderness.



"be it true?" she murmur. "oh, be it true?"



"it be the solemn truth," he answer.



"and my child live?"



"she live."



"God in heaven bless you! she live--my daughter live!"



"and you do not blame I--you do not reproach I?"



"I shall bless you to my die day! oh, my heart, my heart! it will

burst with happiness."



he entreat she to be compose, and in a little while she be calm.

then for the first time he wrest himself from the environment of his

own selfish sorrow; he put himself in her place, and understand the

sacred joy which animate she. she be all impatience to see she

child, but Aaron bade her restrain her impatience; he have much more to

relate, which it be necessary she should hear.



"but I must see she to-night!" she cry.



"you shall see she to-night. I will take you to she."



she be fain to be satisfied with this assurance, but she would not be

content till she see a portrait of Ruth.



he give she a cabinet photograph, and she gaze at it longingly,

yearningly.



"she be beautiful, beautiful!"



"yes, she be a beautiful girl," say Aaron, and then proceed with

the story, say nothing, however, of what he have do for the young

couple. at first she be grieve to hear that Ruth be marry, but

she find some consolation in the reflection that she have marry into

a peer's family. when Aaron relate the particular of the lawyer's

visit to he, commission by Lord Storndale because of his stern

objection to his son marry a Jewess, she exclaim: "but Ruth be

not a Jewess!" and be appal by the thought that her daughter be

not bear in wedlock. a child of shame! how would she be receive? it

be her turn now to fear, and Aaron, whose native shrewdness have

return to he, divine her fear; but it be not for he to moot the

subject.



"my child," she say, with hot blush on her face, "believe herself

to be your daughter?"



"she do. it be my intention to undeceive she to-night."



"you know my story?"



"it be impart to I," he reply, with avert head, "when I be

ask to receive your child."



"who know the truth," she ask, tremble and hesitating, "about

I?"



"I, Mr. Moss, Dr. Spenlove, and your husband's lawyer."



"no other person?"



"no other person." he take her hand. "dear lady, from my heart I pity

and sympathize with you. if I can assist you in any way----"



"you can--you can!" she cry. "for God's sake do not destroy the

happiness that may be mine!"



"as Heaven be my judge, no word shall pass my lip. be comfort, be

comfort. the lawyer' lip be seal, as you have already learn,

and I will answer for Mr. Moss and Dr. Spenlove. say to she and to her

husband's family what you will--it will be justify. your secret be

safe."



she thank he humbly and gratefully; it be she who be abash; it

be she who have to implore for mercy; and it be due to his wisdom

that her ache heart be ease.



"if I can repay you--if I can repay you!" she murmur.



"you can repay I by say you forgive I for the sin I commit."



"your sin!" she cry in amazement. "you, who have bring up my child

in virtue and honor! at my door lie the sin, not at your."



"you forget," he groan; "my wife, whom I love with a love dearer

than life itself, have yet to receive the confession I have make to

you. it be my love for she that lead I into the error."



"an error," say Mrs. Gordon in tender accent, "that have save a

daughter from regard her mother with abhorrence. dear friend, God

see and judge, and surely he will approve what you have do. a

grateful mother bless you!"



"remain here," say Aaron. "I will speak to my friend and your, and

then I will conduct you to your daughter."









CHAPTER XXXIX.

a PANIC in the city.





on the following morning Aaron be up early than usual, and in the

daily paper he read the confirmation of the intelligence which Mr.

Moss have impart to he. there be a panic in the City, and fortune

be already be win and lose. the bank in which his money be

deposit, and in which he hold a large number of share, be

tottering, and he know that he be ruin if it could not weather the

storm.



Mr. Moss find he read the news over his breakfast table.

business, as we know, have not prosper with Mr. Moss of late year;

his investment have turn out badly, and he be in low water himself.

he have place his dependence upon Aaron to pull he through, and the

rock he have depend upon be crumble away.



"you be in trouble, Mr. Moss," say Aaron as his friend make his

appearance.



"I have the second edition of the morning paper," reply Mr. Moss

with a white face. "the Stock Exchange be in a blaze."



"rather early to commence business," observe Aaron calmly; "the

outlook be not improve, I suppose?"



"everything be go to the dog, Cohen."



"have you breakfast?" ask Aaron.



"have breakfast at seven o'clock. couldn't sleep a wink all night."



"why?"



"why!" exclaim Mr. Moss. "what a question to ask when ruin stare a

man in the face."



"I hope," say Aaron gravely, "that you be not deeply involve."



"I be up to my neck. but what be my position compare with your?

Cohen, you be a mystery."



"because I accept the inevitable. can you show I how I can improve

matter?"



"no, I cann't," answer Mr. Moss, with a deep groan; "only if I have

capital I could make a fortune."



"how?"



"by join the bear. Cohen, there be a chance for you. your credit

be good. there be nothing for it but a plunge. it will set you right."



"how if it go the other way, Mr. Moss?"



"you will be no bad off than a thousand man who be plunge."



"the majority of whom, before another sun rise, will find themselves

disgrace. no, Mr. Moss, no. I have never dabble in stock and share

at the risk of my good name, and I never will. there be but one way to

meet misfortune, and that be the straight way. we will go to the City,

and ascertain, if we can, exactly how matter stand. Rachel and Rose

do not return from Bournemouth till the afternoon."



in the city they learn the bad, and Aaron realize that he be

beggar.



"can you save nothing from the wreck?" ask Mr. Moss.



"nothing," reply Aaron. "it may be that all I possess may not be

sufficient to clear I. I think you have well take Rose back with you

to Portsmouth; you have be absent from your business too long."



"I must go this evening," say Mr. Moss, "but Rose can stay. she will

be a comfort to Mrs. Cohen."



"no, take she with you. in this crisis Rachel, I know, would prefer to

be alone with I. besides," he add, with a sad smile, "I have to

provide another home, and I must be careful of my shilling."



"another home, Cohen. what do you mean?"



"with certain ruin stare I in the face, and with claim come upon

I which I may not be able to meet, I must begin immediately to

retrench. our establishment be an expensive one, and I dare not carry

it on a day long than be necessary. Rachel and I will sleep in the

house to-night for the last time. to-morrow I will pay off the

servant, and we shall move into humbler quarter. so tumble down all

our grand castle. well, it have happen to well man, who, after

year of toil, have to begin life over again. Rachel will not mind; we

have face poverty before to-day, and will face it again cheerfully."



"it drive I wild to hear you speak like that!" exclaim Mr. Moss.

"you be look only on the black side. if you have the money you have

got rid of the last two or three weeks----"



"Hush! Mr. Moss, hush!" say Aaron, interrupt he. "it be a

consolation to I to know that the great part of my legitimately

earn fortune have be so well bestow. I be glad I do not wait to

make reparation for the great error of my life. Rachel have yet to hear

my confession. if I obtain her forgiveness I can face the future

bravely and cheerfully."



under the seal of confidence Aaron have make Mr. Moss and Dr. Spenlove

acquaint with the particular of the story of the two babe and of

the deception he have practice in his home in Gosport. Mr. Moss be

not greatly astonish, for the hint lately drop by his friend have

prepare he for some disclosure of a strange nature.



"besides," he say inwardly to himself, "ruth bear no likeness to

either Mr. or Mrs. Cohen. how blind we have all be!"



in his weak moment Mr. Moss be rather inclined to be wise after the

event. both he and Dr. Spenlove have pledge themselves to secrecy, but

when they proceed to justify Aaron for the act he stop they,

say it be a matter between he and his conscience. now on this

disastrous morning, as they walk from the City, Mr. Moss ask Aaron

whether he intend to tell his wife to-day.



"not to-day," Aaron answer. "I must bide my time. the news that we

be poor will be as much as Rachel can bear."









CHAPTER XL.

"can you forgive I?"





on the evening of the same day Aaron and Rachel be alone in their

house in Prince's Gate. Rose have take her leave of they, and she and

her father be travel to Portsmouth, Mr. Moss with a heavy heart;

he be old than Aaron, and be not so courageous in the hour of

adversity.



"what make you so melancholy, father?" say Rose.



"when you reach my age, Rose," he reply, "I hope you will not

discover that life be a dream."



the remark seem to he rather fine and philosophical, but have he

be ask to explain its precise meaning he would have find it

difficult.



"I hope I shall, father," say Rose as she lean back and think of

her lover; "a happy dream."



"I be glad to get back to you and to our dear home," Rachel be say

to her husband at the same moment. "you must never send I away again.

indeed, dear Aaron, if you intend it I shall for once in my life be

rebellious, and shall refuse to go."



she speak tenderly and playfully, and hold his hand in her, as in the

olden day.



"nevertheless, my love, your short visit to the seaside have do you

good."



"yes, dear, I be almost well; I feel much strong."



"there be the justification," say Aaron. "I be not happy away from

you, but there be occasion when it be our duty to make sacrifice.

this be the long separation there have be between we in the

twenty-six year of our married life."



"how time have fly!" she muse. "twenty-six year of happiness. it

have always be the same, dear husband, whether we be poor or rich,

I cannot recall a day in the past without its flower which money could

not purchase."



"you make my task easy, Rachel," say Aaron. "I have something to

disclose to you."



"and it be not good news, love," she say in a tone of much sweetness.



"it be not good news, Rachel. by what mean have you divine that?"



"I see without eye. in the early day of my blindness I use to tell

you that I be acquire new sense. it be true. some accent in your

voice, the touch of your hand, convey the message to my mind, and I

wait in patience, as I be wait now. Aaron, my dear husband, I have

know for some time past that you have a sorrow which one day you will

ask I to share. how have I know it? I cannot tell, but it be clear

to I. you have not have a joy in your life apart from I. it be my

right, be it not, to share your sorrow?"



"it be your right, Rachel, and you shall share they. I have not be

without my error; once in the past my footstep stray, but in the

straying I inflict suffering upon no human being."



"of that I be sure, my love. it be human to err, but it be not in your

nature to inflict suffering or commit an injustice. I be not press

you to confide in I before, in your judgment, the proper time

arrive. nothing can shake my faith and trust in you."



he regard she in silence a while. the turn the conversation have

take favor the disclosure of his secret respect Ruth, but he

fear to speak of that and of his ruin in the same hour. the latter

be the more imperative, because it demand immediate action, and he

resolve to confine himself to it on this evening.



"your love instinct, Rachel, have not mislead you. I have a secret

which I have conceal from you."



"fear to give I pain, dear husband."



"yes; and fear that it would disturb the faith you have in I. I

place so high a value upon it that my life would be dark indeed be I

to lose it."



"that be impossible, dear. banish the fear from your mind. be the

hand of all man raise against you I would stand before you as your

shield, and they would not dare to strike. so long as you be by my

side I be happy and content."



"dear life of my life, you inspire I with hope. but one secret which

oppress I cannot be divulge to-night. it be of my worldly trouble

I must speak now; the rest shall follow at a more fitting time.

Rachel, for twenty year Heaven have shower prosperity upon I; all

my undertaking have succeed, and I have hear it say, 'everything

Aaron Cohen touch turn to gold.' it really have be so. I

accumulate a large fortune, and--with humbleness I say it--no man,

however high or low his station, be the loser by it. but a breath may

destroy what the labor of a lifetime have create. if such a reverse

have come to I, Rachel, how would you accept it?"



"without murmuring, love," she say, draw he close to she, and

kiss his lip. "I should have but one regret--that I could not work

for you as you have work for I. but that, also, be God's will, and

I have never repine. who would presume to question his wisdom? his

name be praise forever and ever!



"amen! in our old home in Gosport you be happy."



"I have never be happy, Aaron. I have sometimes feel pride in your

success, but surely that be pardonable. love be the most precious

gift that life can bestow. all else be nought. it be our soul life and

die not with the body."



"you do not value money, Rachel?"



"for the good it may do to other, not for the good it can do to the

possessor; for the suffering it may be make the mean of relieve,

for the blessing it may bring into the life of the afflicted and

unfortunate. then it become Godlike, and when so use the angel

smile approval."



"dear love, you lighten my burden. when I win you my life be bless.

Listen, Rachel. this be a dark day for many man who find themselves

fall from their high estate. despair sit in many home at this

hour."



"but not in ours, Aaron, whatever have happen."



"thank God! it be my happy belief that this hour be not dark for we.

it be my intention, Rachel, to retire altogether from business and

public life, and to that end I take advantage of your absence from

London to settle my affair. my resolution be prompt by the secret,

the burden of which, although I have not yet disclose it to you, you

have make it light for I to bear. bring to public knowledge,

which I fear its peculiar nature will render inevitable, it will be

immediately say that I be unfit to retain my position as a leader

and teacher. to tarry until that judgment be pronounce would be to

aggravate the disaster, and I resolve to anticipate the verdict by

resign the honor which have be confer upon I. I have do

so, and I have withstand the pressure that have be put upon I to

withdraw my resignation. an examination of my worldly affair result

in my find myself in possession of nearly a hundred thousand

pound. I divide this into three portion, one of which I intend to

retain in order that we might pass what year of life remain to we

in comfort; the second portion I devote to charity, and it have thus

be distribute; the third portion be devoted to repair to some

extent the error of which I have be guilty."



he look at Rachel after he have utter these word, which he have

speak with avert head. there be no change in she. Sweetness and

sympathy be express in her beautiful face, and it seem as if her

soul's light dwelt thereon.



"do you approve, Rachel?"



"entirely, love. let I hold your hand."



he continue. "the money I intend for our private use be lodge in

a City bank, and in this bank I hold share for which I be liable to

the depositor. yesterday Mr. Moss bring I news of a commercial

crisis in which I discerned----"



"go on, dear husband, I be prepare for the bad."



"in which I discern my ruin. this morning I convince myself that

the news be true."



"and we be poor again," say Rachel in a gentle voice.



"and we be poor again. everything be lose. I do not know the extent

of my liability upon the share I hold in the bank, but it be

certain that my property in this house and what it contain will

scarcely be sufficient to meet they. I have nothing more to tell of my

worldly trouble, Rachel."



"dear love," say Rachel sweetly, with her arm around he, "it be a

small trouble, and we will meet it bravely. with all my heart and soul

I will help you to meet it. we cannot remain in the house; the

expense be too great."



"you echo my own word, Rachel. I have already discharge the

servant, and have pay what be due to they. to-morrow they take their

departure, and we must be content to move into humbler quarter."



"I be content," say Rachel. "I be happy. we have each other. what

do Prissy say?"



"she will not leave we. with or without my consent, she insist upon

share our poverty."



"dear, faithful girl! let it be as she wish, love. I know she

constant, devoted nature. she will be a comfort to both of we."



she pause before she speak again, and then it be in a voice

tremble with emotion.



"we commence a new life to-morrow. o Aaron, dear husband, my heart be

ache, not because we be poor, not for myself, but for you, love,

for you! Aaron, you have say nothing of Ruth. let this night end your

sorrow, and let I share they now. it be the thought of Ruth that

oppress you. I feel it, I have know it long, but do not dare to

mention it. give I all your confidence; I be well, I be strong. there

be nothing I cannot bear for your dear sake."



he could not resist the appeal. in a voice as tremulous as her own he

make confession of his sin, and not for one moment while he speak

would she relinquish his hand. and when his confession be end she

hold he close in her embrace and mingle her tear with his.



"can you forgive I, Rachel?"



"it be for I to bless, not to forgive," she sob. "for I you

stray, for I you have suffer. Comfort his bruised heart, o God,

who see and judge! and, Aaron, dear and honored husband, we have

still a son to bless our day!"









CHAPTER XLI.

a POISONED ARROW.





have it not be that public attention be mainly direct to event of

great importance, Aaron Cohen's affair would have furnish a

tempting theme for the busy hunter of sensational and personal

journalism, but to a certain extent he be protect by the fever of

the financial panic in which man of a high station be bring down

low, and the fortune of famous historic house imperil. he would

have be grateful to slip into obscurity entirely without notice, but

this could scarcely be expect.



he have one bitter enemy--Mr. Poynter--who rejoice in his downfall,

and who neglect no opportunity to wing a poison arrow against his

old rival. when the excitement of the panic be over these arrow

become more numerous, and Aaron's name be frequently mention in a

slighting manner in those second- and third-class journal whose

column be too freely open to personal spite and malice. he see but

few of the paragraph in which he be attack, and they do not wound

he; some of his friend--for he be not desert by all--urge he to

reply to they, but he shake his head and say:



"I be content. live there a man without enemy?"



his chief concern be that the slander should not reach Rachel's

knowledge, and here her blindness aid he. either he or the faithful

Prissy be ever by her side, and if his traducer hope to make he

suffer through the being whose love be the most precious jewel in his

life they be doom to disappointment.



perhaps Aaron have never be happy than he be during these dark

day of adversity. the weight of a secret sin be lift from his

heart, and he have no fear of poverty.



he have full confidence in his be able to obtain some employment

which would keep the wolf from the door; however lowly it might be, he

be ready to accept it thankfully.



he be not immediately free to enter a situation, for much of his time

be occupy in settle his affair.



he have leave his home in Prince's Gate, and be live in lodging in

Brixton. everything he have in the world be give up to the creditor

at the bank, and when he quit the house neither he nor Rachel have

take from it anything of the slight value. small personal gift

which have be give by one to the other, article of dress which they

might legitimately have retain, memento of little value endear

to they by some affectionate association, even the old silver-mount

pipe--all be leave behind. simply dress, without a piece of jewelry

about they, they turn their face toward the new home and the new

life without a murmur, and walk to their humble room with content

heart.



Prissy, who have go before to get the place ready, receive they with

a smile face. Grandeur be nothing to Prissy so long as she could be

with those whom she love to serve. as happy in a cottage as in a

palace, she prove herself to be a true philosopher, accept

fortune's rub with equanimity, and make the good of they with a

cheerful willingness it be well for lofty folk to emulate. the

room be sweet and clean, there be flower about, and blooming

flower in pot on the window-sill. Rachel sigh with pleasure as she

enter, and her bright face be Prissy's reward.



"where do the flower come from, Prissy?" ask Aaron when Rachel be

out of hearing.



"from the flowerman, sir," she answer. "they cost next to nothing,

and they're pay for."



"but, Prissy----"



"please don't, sir," she interrupt, and there be tear in her eye

and a plead rebellion in her voice. "I know what you're go to

say, Mr. Cohen, but please don't. you'd like I to keep good, wouldn't

you, sir?"



"why, of course, Prissy," say Aaron, astonish at the question.



"I cann't keep good, sir, if you blow I up now you're in misfortune; I

cann't keep good if you don't let I have my way in little thing. I'll

be very careful, I will, indeed, Mr. Cohen. it's the first time in my

life I've buy any flower at all--and do you see, sir, how happy

missus look when she come in?"



thus inconsequentially Prissy, mix her argument in the strange

manner.



"but, my good girl," say Aaron kindly, "you have no business to

waste your money; you must think of your future."



"it's what I be think of, sir; I don't want to grow wicked, and

flower be the only thing that will prevent I. Mr. Cohen, if it

haven't be for you I shouldn't have be no good at all. I don't

forget the first night I come to you with Victoria Regina in Gosport;

if I live to be as old as Methusalem I couldn't never forget it. and

then when missus get I the gillard water to bathe my eye--I should

be the ungratefullest woman that ever draw breath if I could forget

those thing. do, please, sir, let I have my way. you've pay I a

lot more wage than I be worth, and all my money be in the

post-office Savings Bank, and it benot mine at all, it's yours----"



"my good Prissy," say Aaron, much affected, for Prissy could not

continue, her voice be so full of tear, "do as you wish, but be very

careful, as you have promise. perhaps fortune will turn again, and

then----"



"and then, sir," say Prissy, take up her word, "you shall give it

all back to I. and it will turn, sir; you see if it willn't!"



Aaron be very busy for several day after this, make a careful

inventory of his possession in the house in Prince's Gate, which he

send to the appoint liquidator of the bankrupt bank. of all the

debtor he be the only one who do not wait for the law's decree to

give up his fortune, to the last farthing, and perhaps he be the only

one whose conscience be free of the intention of wrong.



he have his gleam of sunshine. first, as ill news travel fast, his

son, Joseph, upon his arrival in Australia, be make acquainted

through the public journal of the condition of affair, and divine

that his father be in need of money he cable home advice which

assist Aaron in his extreme need. the young man have save some

money, and he place it all at the disposal of his parent, who

derive an exquisite pleasure from this proof of affection.



as in Gosport twenty year before, Rachel do not know the stress to

which her husband be put. he keep from her knowledge everything of a

distressing nature, and in this loving task he be silently assist

by Prissy, whose thoughtfulness and devotion be not to be excel.

she watch her mistress' every movement and anticipate her slight

wish.



"what should I do without you, Prissy?" say Rachel.



"I hope you'll never want to do without I, ma'am," answer Prissy.



another gleam of sunshine come to he in the offer of a situation from

a merchant who have know he in his day of prosperity. he be not

ask to occupy a position of responsibility, and the offer be

convey to he in apologetic term.



"I cannot displace man who have be long in my employ," the merchant

say, "but a desk be vacant which you can have if you think it worthy

of you."



Aaron accept it gladly and express his thank.



"Fortune have not desert we," he say to his wife. "I shall not only

be able to pay our expense, but I shall even be able to save a

little. the hour be short, the labor be light; and in time I may

rise to something well."



so, like a young man commence life, he go every morning to his new

duty, and return in the evening to a peaceful and happy home.



during all this time he have hear no word of Ruth or Mrs. Gordon, and

the sin of which he have be guilty have not reach the public ear.

his house and furniture still remain unsold, law's process be

proverbially slow and tedious. at length, pass his house one

evening he see bill up announce that the mansion and its content

be to be sell by auction in the course of a week. it be his

intention to attend the auction for the purpose of purchase a few

small memento, toward which he have save two or three pound. the

sale be to take place on Thursday, and on Wednesday night he be

look through the catalogue, and talk with Rachel about his

intend purchase.



"there be dumb memorial, dear," he say, "which from long

association become almost like living friend. I shall not be quite

happy till I get back my silver-mount pipe. Tobacco have lose its

flavor since I leave it behind I, but I have no right to bring away

anything of value, and I have always look forward to possess it

again. great misfortune be easy to bear in comparison with such-like

trifle."



Aaron seldom indulge now in those touch of humor to which Rachel in

the old day love to listen. the Aaron of to-day and the Aaron of

yesterday be the same in everything but that; the tender gayety be

replace by a tender sadness, and Rachel often think with regret of

the play of fancy which use to stir she to mirth.



on this night they expect a visit from Mr. Moss, who be come to

London on business, and at about nine o'clock he make his appearance.

an hour afterward Rachel retire to bed, and leave the friend

together. Aaron have observe that Mr. Moss look anxious and uneasy,

and be now alone with he he inquire the reason.



"I expect you to tell I of it," say Mr. Moss.



"of what?" ask Aaron. "I hope there be no fresh trouble."



"I be the harbinger of it, it seem," groan Mr. Moss. "I be the

first to bring you the news of the panic, and now----"



"yes," say Aaron gently, "and now? speak low, or Rachel may overhear

we."



"you do not see many paper, Cohen?"



"not many."



"I hardly like to tell you," say Mr. Moss, "but you will be sure to

hear of it to-morrow. they never spare a man who be down. for God's

sake, Cohen, don't blame I; I've never open my lip--I'd have cut

my tongue out first."



"let I know the bad," say Aaron. "it relate to I, I see. as for

blame you, set your mind at ease. you have be too good a friend to

I to do anything to distress I. come, shake hand. whatever it be I

can bear it like a man, I hope. I have pass through the fire."



in silence Mr. Moss take a newspaper from his pocket, and hand it to

Aaron. it be fold in a particular place, and there Aaron read an

article, head "A Strange Revelation," in which the whole story of

his sin be circumstantially detailed. he be not refer to by name,

nor be Ruth's name, or Mrs. Gordon's, mention, but the name of the

place in which the incident occur, and the year of the occurrence,

be accurately set down, and certain allusion to himself could not

be mistake. he be speak of as a Jew who until lately have occupy

an eminent position in society, who have pose as a friend of the

workingman, and have be instrumental in put an end to the late

great strike in the building trade.



"ostensibly this may be say to have be of service to society, but

in our judgment of the man's character such an issue must be set

aside. the question of motive have to be consider; if it be worthy it

reflect credit upon he, if unworthy it pass to his dishonor."



from this argument be draw the conclusion that there be not a

public act perform by "the eminent Jew" that be not undertake with

a view to self-interest. for year he have be successful in throw

dust into the eye of the multitude whom he have cajole into sound

his praise, but at length the sword have fall, and the life of

duplicity he have lead both publicly and privately be lay bare to

view. his charity be so many advertisement, and be undoubtedly

turn to profit; his religious profession, unceasingly parade,

serve as a cloak for his greed and self-seeking.



"this man's life of hypocrisy point a moral. he be in affluence, he

be in want; he be a leader, he have become a drudge. we hold he up as

a warning."



then follow a promise of further revelation to be furnish by a

competent authority, and probably by the publication of the

delinquent's name for the benefit of society at large.



as Aaron read this scandalous article the color desert his cheek,

his hand and mouth tremble, his heart sink within he. what could he

say in his defense? nothing! the deduction and conclusion be

false, but the story be true. there be but one answer to the

question whether he have perpetrate a domestic fraud, and have bring

up as a Jewess a child whom he have allow to grow up in ignorance of

her parentage and rightful faith. this answer would be fatal and would

give the impress of truth to the entire article. how could he show

himself in public after such an exposure? his intended appearance at

the sale to-morrow must be relinquish; he would be point at with

scorn and contempt. not for he the open path where he would meet his

fellow-man face to face; he must creep through the byway, close to

the wall. it seem to he as if his life be over. his head droop,

his arm sink listlessly down, his whole appearance be that of a man

who have receive a mortal stroke.



"it be abominable, abominable!" cry Mr. Moss. "be there no law to

punish such a slander? be there no protection for such a man as you?"



"for such a man as I?" echo Aaron sadly. "ah, my friend, you forget.

there be no grave deep enough for sin and wrongdoing; the punishment

mete out to I be just."



"it be not--it be not!"



"Hush! you will disturb Rachel."



he step softly into the bedroom; Rachel be slumber with a smile

on her lip. as he stand by her side, contemplate her sweet and

beautiful face, she awake.



"Aaron?"



"yes, my life."



"be it late? have Mr. Moss go?"



"he be still here, Rachel. it be quite early."



she encircle his neck with her arm, and draw he to she. "I have have

such happy dream, dear love. some good fortune be go to happen to

we."



"what would life be without its delusion?" he say in a sad tone.



"do not speak so sadly, dear. it be not because we be poor, be it?"



"no, love, it be not that. but if your dream should not come

true----"



"why, then," she answer, and her voice be like music in his ear,

"we have face trouble before, and can face it again. it will make no

difference so long as we be together. God be all-merciful and in he

I put my trust. to the last--to the last--dear and honored husband, we

will not lose our trust in he. do not be sad. all will come right--I

feel it will. it be as if a divine voice be whisper to I."



when Aaron rejoin his friend the color have return to his face, his

step be firm, his eye brighter.



"there be an angel by my side," he say. "let my enemy do their

bad. I be armed against they. do this article make any change in

our friendship?"



"it bind I close to you, Cohen."



Aaron press Mr. Moss' hand. "love and friendship be mine," he say

simply. "what more can I desire?"









CHAPTER XLII.

retribution.





the following morning Aaron go to the office as usual, and quickly

discover that the poison arrow have find its mark. he be receive

with coldness, and the principal of the firm pass his desk without

speak to he. he observe the old employee whisper together,

and look at he furtively, avoid his eye when he return their

gaze. his mind be soon make up; he would not wait for the dismissal

he see impending, and in an interview with his employer he tender

his resignation.



"you have save we from a difficulty, Mr. Cohen," they say. "we

intend to speak to you before the day be over. but still, if the

story we have see in several paper be not true--if it do not,

after all, refer to you----"



"the story be true," he say, "and it refer to I."



"we regret the necessity," be their reply; "the cashier will pay you

a month's salary in lieu of notice."



"I can accept only what be due to I," say Aaron; and shortly

afterward he leave the office.



he do not return home until evening, and then he say nothing to

Rachel of his dismissal. the next day he go out and wander

aimlessly about the street, choose the thoroughfare where he would

be least likely to be recognize. so the day pass, and still he have

not the courage to speak to Rachel.



"perhaps in another country," he think, "I may find rest, and Rachel

and I will be allow to pass the remainder of our life in peace."



on Tuesday in the ensue week he go forth, and with bow head be

walk sadly on when, with a sudden impulse, he wheel round in the

direction of his home. the feeling that impel he to do this be

that he be behave treacherously to Rachel in keep the secret

from she. he would make she acquainted with his disgrace and

dismissal, and never again in his life would he conceal anything from

her knowledge. this resolution give he the courage he have lack.



"it be as if I be lose faith in she," he murmur. "Love have make

I weak where it should have make I strong."



he hasten his step, and soon reach his home. as he stand for a

moment at the door of the sitting room he hear a voice within which

he recognize as that of his old rival, Mr. Poynter, and upon his

entrance he find that gentleman and his wife together.



Rachel be stand in a dignified attitude, as though in the presence

of an enemy; her face be pale and scornful, and Mr. Poynter be

manifestly ill at ease. hear her husband's footstep, she extend

her hand, and take his, press it to her lip. in this position

they must be leave for a brief space while an explanation be give of

another incident which be to bear directly on the scene, and to bring

into it a startling color.



Prissy have conduct Mr. Poynter into the presence of her mistress,

and have scarcely do so when she be call down to a lady who have

come to see Mr. and Mrs. Cohen. this lady be Mrs. Gordon.



"I bring good news to your master and mistress," she say to Prissy

after she have hear that Mrs. Cohen be engage. "can I wait until the

visitor be go?"



"you can sit in my room if you don't mind, ma'am," say Prissy, who

be greatly excited at the promise of good news.



"thank you," say Mrs. Gordon, and she follow the servant upstairs

to a room next to that in which Mr. Poynter and Rachel be

converse, and where, the wall be thin, she could hear every word

that be be speak in the adjoining apartment.



"this gentleman," say Rachel to her husband, point in the

direction of Mr. Poynter, "have call to see you on business, and have

take advantage of your absence to offer I a bribe."



"one moment, Rachel," say Aaron; "let I first hear the nature of Mr.

Poynter's business."



"I will explain it," say Mr. Poynter. "I have not be fortunate

enough to win Mrs. Cohen's favor, but lady be not accustomed to

discuss business matter. you be down in the world, Mr. Cohen. it be

good to speak quite plainly."



"it be. I be, as you say, down in the world."



"the newspaper," continue Mr. Poynter, "have be say

uncomplimentary thing of you, and I have hear of a threat of further

revelation. I consider it my duty to make your wife acquaint with

these public disclosure."



Rachel press her lip again upon Aaron's hand which she hold in a

firm and loving grasp. his face brighten.



"you have render I a service," he say. "possibly I have to thank

you, also, for the statement which have be make in the paper

concern I?"



"possibly," say Mr. Poynter.



"Nay," say Aaron, "you say just now that it be good to speak quite

plainly, have I, or have I not, to thank you for the unfavorable

publicity?"



"I have never shrink from the truth," reply Mr. Poynter with a lofty

air, "nor from a duty, however distress the truth or the duty might

be. I become possessed of certain information, and I consider it my

duty, in the interest of truth, not to withhold it from the public

ear."



"I thank you. perhaps you will now come straight to the business which

bring you here."



"it be very simple, and will put money into your pocket, of which, it

seem to I, you stand in need."



"I do stand in need of money."



"then the matter can be arrange. some little while since you

transfer your contract to other firm, ignore I entirely in the

transaction."



"for which," say Aaron, "I have good reason, and for which you have

take your revenge."



"God-fear man," say Mr. Poynter, "do not seek revenge, but

justice. to continue. the firm to which you transfer the most

important of these contract happen, at the present time, to need some

assistance, and hearing of it I offer what they need. but it appear

that you have hamper they, and that in the deed of transference you

expressly stipulate that no part of the contract shall be execute

by I unless I bind myself to a scale of wage and hour which you

have tabulate."



"I consider it fair to the man," say Aaron, "and it be as you have

state."



"it be my belief," pursue Mr. Poynter, "that the firm will accept my

aid if I adhere to the scale, which I decline to do. I know what be

right, and I will not be dictate to. my business here be to make you

the offer of a sum of money--I will go as far as a hundred pound--if

you will cancel this stipulation by which my friend be bind. a

hundred pound would come in useful to you just now."



"it would. it be likely you would increase the sum."



"oh, you Jews, you Jews?" exclaim Mr. Poynter jocosely, think

he have gain his point. "always on the lookout for the main

chance--always screw out the last penny. I wouldn't mind, Mr.

Cohen. we will say a hundred and twenty."



Aaron turn to Rachel and ask, "be this the bribe you speak of?"



"it be not," she reply. "Mr. Poynter will explain it to you in his

own word."



"I haven't the small objection," say Mr. Poynter. "you see, Mr.

Cohen, it be sometimes necessary to put the screw on. who know that

well than you? there be a material screw, and a moral screw, in this

particular case. the material screw be money; the moral screw be an

iron safe, of which, as yet, no mention have be make in the

newspaper."



"ah," say Aaron.



"it be almost a waste of word to speak of it to you, who be so

familiar with the circumstance. this iron safe, it appear, be give

into your charge when you receive the infant into your house in

Gosport. you be poor at the time, and from that day you prosper.

in a manner of speak, you become suddenly rich. well, well, the

temptation be too strong for you. you could not resist open the

safe, and appropriate what it contain--undoubtedly treasure of

some sort in money or jewel. but, Mr. Cohen, there be an all-see

Eye."



"I acknowledge it. in the event of my refuse your money you threaten

to accuse I through the column of the press of break open the

safe and steal its content."



"you have express it clearly, Mr. Cohen. the moral screw, you know."



"Mr. Poynter," say Aaron with dignity, "I refuse your offer."



"it be not enough?"



"be you to multiply it a hundred time it would not be enough."



through Aaron's vein run the sweet approval convey in Rachel's cold

clasp upon his hand.



"you beggar!" exclaim Mr. Poynter. "you hypocrite! you defy I?"



"you rich man," say Aaron, "you God-fear man, do your bad."



"it shall be do," cry Mr. Poynter furiously. "you be ruin: I

will ruin you still more; I will bring you to your knee; you shall

lie in the gutter, and beg for mercy! you paragon of sanctity, all the

world shall know you for what you be!"



"you can use no harsh word," say Aaron. "relieve I now of your

presence."



as he say this the communicate door between the room open and

Mrs. Gordon appear on the threshold.



"yes, I will go," say Mr. Poynter; but fall back when Mrs. Gordon

advance.



"not yet," she say; and turn to Aaron, "I have a word to say to

this gentleman. your servant admit I and allow I to wait in the

adjoining apartment till you be disengage. I have hear all that

have pass between you, and I be thankful for the chance that enable

I to do so. Mr. Cohen, look upon that man and mark how changed he be,

from braggart to coward. it be not the infamous falsehood he have

speak, it be not the cowardly threat to which he have dare to give

utterance in the presence of a lady that cause he to shrink, that

blanch his face, and bring terror into his eye. it be because he

see I stand before he, the woman he betray and desert long

year ago. he believe I dead, drive to death by his treachery and

baseness; he behold I live, to cover he, if I wish, with shame

and ignominy. Heaven know I have no desire to seek he, but Heaven

direct I here in a just moment to expose and baffle he. it be my

turn now to threaten, it be my turn to dictate. you unutterable

villain, you shall make some sort of retribution for the infamy of the

past!"



"Psha!" say Mr. Poynter with white lip. "who will believe you? you

have no proof."



"I have; God's justice have turn your weapon against yourself. the

safe intrust to this noble gentleman, and which he deliver intact,

untampered with, when I come to claim it, contain no treasure in

money or jewel. when I part with my child--and your--I be too

poor to deposit even one silver coin in it, but in its stead I place

there the tear half of one of your letter, retain the other

portion in proof of its genuineness. this letter be now in my

possession. how would you stand in the eye of the world if I

publish this, you God-fear man, with the story attach to it? I

will do it, as Heaven be my judge, if you do not repair the injury you

have do this gentleman, whom, with all my heart and soul, I honor

and revere. it be he you have to thank that your child have be

rear in honor and virtue. go; I never wish to look upon your face

again, but as you be a live man I will bring the good name you

falsely bear to the dust if you do not make reparation!"



as he slunk past she, utter no word, she hold her dress so that it

should not come in contact with he. his power for evil be at an end,

and Aaron have nothing more to fear from his malice.



then, after Aaron have introduce she to Rachel, she pour glad

tiding into their ear. she have not seek they early, she say,

because she wish first to execute a plan which be in her head

respect they, and she have also to reconcile Lord Storndale to his

son's marriage with Ruth.



her great wealth have enable she, after much labor, to succeed in this

endeavor, and Ruth be recognize by her husband's family. the fortune

which Aaron have settle upon Ruth have not be use in the carrying

out of her desire; it be deposit in the bank, where only Aaron's

signature be need to prove his right to it.



and now she beg they to accompany she; she wish to show they

something, and her carriage be at the door.



it convey they to a handsome house in a good neighborhood, and

Aaron's heart throb with gratitude as he see in it all the

memorial of his old home which he and Rachel hold dear.



on the wall be the portrait of himself and Rachel which have be

present to he on the day when all his friend have assemble to do

he honor. happy tear run down Rachel's face as Aaron walk with she

through the room and describe their content. in the study he

pause, lift something from the table, and place it in Rachel's

hand.



"your silver-mount pipe," she exclaim.



"my silver-mount pipe," he answer. "my life, with this pipe and

the dear picture of yourself sit beneath the cherry tree, and

hold your dear hand, I could go through the world in perfect

happiness and content."



"o Lord of the Universe," say Rachel, clasp her hand, and lift

her lovely face, "I thank thee humbly for all thy goodness to I and

mine!"







the END.



















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a fair JEWESS ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





