The project Gutenberg eBook of the first violin: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the first violin: a novel



author: Jessie Fothergill



Release date: June 25, 2009 [ebook #29219]

                most recently update: August 13, 2009



language: English



credit: produce by Alicia Williams, D. Alexander and the Online

        distribute Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the first VIOLIN: a novel ***









produce by Alicia Williams, D. Alexander and the Online

distribute Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net



















 the first VIOLIN



 _a novel._



 BY JESSIE FOTHERGILL,



 _author of "a March in the rank," Etc._



     *       *       *       *       *



 NEW YORK

 the FEDERAL BOOK COMPANY

 publisher









the FIRST VIOLIN.









CHAPTER I.



MISS HALLAM.





"wonderful weather for April!" yes, it certainty be wonderful. I fully

agree with the sentiment express at different period of the day by

different member of my family; but I do not follow their example and

seek enjoyment out-of-door--pleasure in that balmy spring air.

Trouble--the first trouble of my life--have lay her hand heavily upon

I. the world feel disjointed and all upside-down; I very helpless and

lonely in it. I have two sister, I have a father and a mother; but none

the less be I unable to share my grief with any one of they; nay, it

have be an absolute relief to I when first one and then another of

they have leave the house, on business or pleasure intent, and I, after

watch my father go down the garden-walk, and see the gate close

after he, know that, save for Jane, our domestic, who be carol

lustily to herself in the kitchen region, I be alone in the house.



I be in the drawing-room. once secure of solitude, I put down the

sewing with which I have be pretend to employ myself, and go to

the window--a pleasant, sunny bay. in that window stand a small

work-table, with a flower-pot upon it contain a lilac primula. I

remember it distinctly to this day, and I be likely to carry the

recollection with I so long as I live. I lean my elbow upon this

table, and gaze across the field, green with spring grass, tenderly

light by an April sun, to where the river--the Skern--shine with a

pleasant, homely, silvery glitter, twine through the smile meadow

till he bend round the solemn overhang cliff crown with mournful

fir, which go by the name of the Rifted or Riven Scaur.



in some such delightful mead might the white-armed Nausicaa have

toss her cowslip ball among the other maid; perhaps by some such

river might Persephone have pause to gather the daffodil--"the fateful

flower beside the rill." light cloud flit across the sky, a waft of

wind dance in at the open window, ruffle my hair mockingly, and

bear with it the deep sound of a church clock strike four.



as if the striking of the hour have be a signal for the breaking of a

spell, the silence that have prevail come to an end. wheel came

roll along the road up to the door, which, however, be at the other

side of the house. "a visitor for my father, no doubt," I think

indifferently; "and he have go out to read the funeral service for a

dead parishioner. how strange! I wonder how clergyman and doctor can

ever get accustomed to the grim contrast amid which they live!"



I suffer my thought to wander off in some such track as this, but

they be all through dominate by a heavy sense of oppression--the

threatening hand of a calamity which I fear be about to overtake I,

and I have again forget the outside world.



the door be open. Jane hold it open and say nothing (a trifling

habit of her, which use to cause I much annoyance), and a tall woman

walk slowly into the room. I rise and look earnestly at she,

surprised and somewhat nervous when I see who she be--Miss Hallam, of

Hallam Grange, our near neighbor, but a great stranger to we,

nevertheless, so far, that is, as personal intercourse go.



"your servant tell I that every one be out except Miss May," she

remark, in a harsh, decide voice, as she look not so much at I as

toward I, and I perceive that there be something strange about her

eye.



"yes; I be sorry," I begin, doubtfully.



she have sallow, strongly marked, but proud and aristocratic feature,

and a manner with more than a tinge of imperiousness. her face, her

figure, her voice be familiar, yet strange to I--familiar because I

have hear of she, and be in the habit of occasionally see she from

my very early childhood; strange, because she be reserve and not

give to see her neighbor' house for purpose either of gossip or

hospitality. I be aware that about once in two year she make a call at

our house, the vicarage, whether as a mark of politeness to we, or to

show that, though she never enter a church, she still choose to lend

her countenance and approval to the Establishment, or whether merely out

of old use and habit, I know not. I only know that she come, and that

until now it have never fall to my lot to be present upon any of those

momentous occasion.



feel it a little hard that my coveted solitude should thus be

interrupt, and not quite know what to say to she, I sit down and

there be a moment's pause.



"be your mother well?" she inquire.



"yes, thank you, very well. she have go with my sister to Darton."



"your father?"



"he be well too, thank you. he have a funeral this afternoon."



"I think you have two sister, have you not?"



"yes; Adelaide and Stella."



"and which be you?"



"May; I be the second one."



all her question be put in an almost severe tone, and not as if she

take very much interest in I or mine. I feel my timidity increase, and

yet--I like she. yes, I feel most distinctly that I like she.



"May," she remark, meditatively; "may Wedderburn. be you aware that

you have a very pretty north-country sound name?"



"I have not think about it."



"how old be you?"



"I be a little over seventeen."



"ah! and what do you do all day?"



"oh!" I begin, doubtfully, "not much, I be afraid, that be useful or

valuable."



"you be young enough yet. don't begin to do thing with a purpose for

some time to come. be happy while you can."



"I be not at all happy," I reply, not think of what I be say,

and then feel that I could have bite my tongue out with vexation.

what could it possibly matter to Miss Hallam whether I be happy or

not? she be ask I all these question to pass the time, and in

order to talk about something while she sit in our house.



"what make you unhappy? be your sister disagreeable?"



"oh, no!"



"be your parent unkind?"



"unkind!" I echo, think what a very extraordinary woman she be and

wonder what kind of experience hers could have be in the past.



"then I can not imagine what cause for unhappiness you can have," she

say, composedly.



I make no answer. I repent I of having utter the word, and Miss

Hallam go on:



"I should advise you to forget that there be such a thing as

unhappiness. you will soon succeed."



"yes--I will try," say I, in a low voice, as the cause of my

unhappiness rise up, gaunt, grim and forbidding, with thin lip curve

in a mocking smile, and glitter, snake-like eye fix upon my face.

I shiver faintly; and she, though look quickly at I, seem to

think she have say enough about my unhappiness. her next question

surprise I much.



"be you fair in complexion?" she inquire.



"yes," say I. "I be very fair--fair than either of my sister. but

be you near-sighted?"



"Near sight_less_," she reply, with a bitter little laugh. "Cataract.

I have so many joy in my life that Providence have think fit to temper

the sunshine of my lot. I be to content myself with the store of

pleasant remembrance with which my mind be crowd, when I can see

nothing outside. a delightful arrangement. it be what pious people call

a 'cross,' or a 'visitation,' or something of that kind. I be not pious,

and I call it the destruction of what little happiness I have."



"oh, I be very, very sorry for you," I answer, feel what I speak,

for it have always be my idea of misery to be blind--shut away from the

sunlight upon the field, from the hue of the river, from all that "lust

of the eye" which meet we on every side.



"but be you quite alone?" I continue. "have you no one to--"



I stop; I be about to add, "to be kind to you--to take care of you?"

but I suddenly remember that it would not do for I to ask such

question.



"no, I live quite alone," say she, abruptly. "do you think of offer

to relieve my solitude?"



I feel myself burn with a hot blush all over my face as I stammer

out:



"I be sure I never think of anything so impertinent, but--but--if

there be anything I could do--read or--"



I stop again. never very confident in myself, I feel a miserable

sense that I might have be go too far. I wish most ardently that

my mother or Adelaide have be there to take the weight of such a

conversation from my shoulder. what be my surprise to hear Miss Hallam

say, in a tone quite smooth, polished, and polite:



"come and drink tea with I to-morrow afternoon--afternoon tea I mean.

you can go away again as soon as you like. will you?"



"oh, thank you. yes, I will."



"very well. I shall expect you between four and five. good-afternoon."



"let I come with you to your carriage," say I, hastily. "Jane--our

servant be so clumsy."



I precede she with care, see she seat in her carriage and drive

toward the Grange, which be but a few hundred yard from our own gate,

and then I return to the house. and as I go in again, my

companion-shadow glide once more to my side with soft, insinuating,

irresistible importunity, and I know that it would be my faithful

attendant for--who could say how long?









CHAPTER II.



"traverson gravement cette méchante mascarade qu'on appelle le monde"





the house in Skernford--the house of "the gentry," that be to say--lay

almost all on one side an old-fashioned, sleepy-look "green" toward

which their entrance lay; but their real front, their pleasantest

aspect, be on their other side, face the river which run below, and

down to which their garden slope in terrace. our house, the vicarage,

lie near the church; Miss Hallam's house, the Grange, furth from

the church. between these, large and more imposing, in ground beside

which ours seem to dwindle down to a few flower-bed, lie Deeplish

Hall, whose owner, Sir Peter Le Marchant, have lately come to live there,

at least for a time.



it be many year since Sir Peter Le Marchant, whose image at this time

be fate to enter so largely and so much against my will into all my

calculation, have live at or even visit his estate at Skernford. he

be a man of immense property, and report say that Deeplish Hall, which

we innocent villager look upon as such an impose mansion, be but

one and not the grandest of his several country house. all that I know

of his history--or rather, all that I have hear of it, whether truly or

not, I be in no position to say--be but a vague and misty account; yet

that little have give I a dislike to he before I ever meet he.



Miss Hallam, our neighbor, who live in such solitude and retirement,

be credit with have a history--if report have only be able to fix

upon what it be. she be popularly suppose to be of a grim and

decidedly eccentric disposition. eccentric she be, as I afterward

find--as I think when I first see she. she seldom appear either in

church or upon any other public occasion, and be say to be the deadly

enemy of Sir Peter Le Marchant and all pertain to he. there be some

old, far-back romance connect with it--a romance which I do not

understand, for up to now I have never know either she or Sir Peter

sufficiently to take any interest in the story, but the report run that

in day go by--how far go by, too, they must have been!--Miss

Hallam, a young and handsome heiress, love very devotedly her one

sister, and that sister--so much be know as a fact--have become Lady Le

Marchant: be not her monument in the church between the Deeplish Hall

and the Hallam Grange pew? be not the tale of her virtue and her

year--seven-and-twenty only do she count of the latter--there

record? that Barbara Hallam have be married to Sir Peter be matter

of history: what be not matter of history, but of tradition which be

believe in quite as firmly, be that the baronet have ill-treat his

wife--in what way be not distinctly specify, but I have since learn

that it be true; she be a gentle creature, and he make her life

miserable unto she. she be idolize by her eld sister, who, burn

with indignation at the treatment to which her darling have be

subject, have become, even in disposition, an altered woman. from a

cheerful, open-hearted, generous, somewhat brusque young person, she have

grow into a prematurely old, soured, revengeful woman. it be to she

that the weak and injured sister have flee; it be in her arm that she

have die. since her sister's death, Miss Hallam have withdraw entirely

from society, cherish a perpetual grudge against Sir Peter Le

Marchant. whether she have relation or none, friend or acquaintance

outside the small village in which she live, none know. if so, they

limit their intercourse with she to correspondence, for no visitor

ever penetrate to her damp old Grange, nor have she ever be know to

leave it with the purpose of make any journey abroad. if perfect

silence and perfect retirement could hush the tongue of tradition and

report, then Miss Hallam's story should have be forget. but it be

not forget. such thing never do become forget.



it be only since Sir Peter have appear suddenly some six week ago at

Deeplish Hall, that these dry bone of tradition have for I quicken

into something like life, and have acquire a kind of interest for I.



our father, as vicar of the parish, have naturally call upon Sir Peter,

and as naturally invite he to his house. his visit have begin by his

come to lunch one day, and we have speculate about he a little in

advance, half jestingly, rake up old story, and attribute to he

various evil quality of a hard and loveless old age. but after he have

go, the verdict of Stella and myself be, "much bad than we

expect." he be different from what we have expect. perhaps that

annoy we. instead of be able to laugh at he, we find something

oppressive, chilling, to I frightful, in the cold, sneer smile which

seem perpetually hover about his thin lip--in the fix, snaky

glitter of his still, intent gray eye. his face be pale, his manner

be polish, but to meet his eye be a thing I hate, and the touch of

his hand make I shudder. while speak in the politest possible

manner, he have eye over Adelaide and I in a manner which I do not

think either of we have ever experience before. I hate he from the

moment in which I see he look at I with expression of approval. to

be approve by Sir Peter Le Marchant, could fate devise anything more

horrible? yes, I know now that it could; one might have to submit to the

approval, to live in the approval. I have express my opinion on the

subject with freedom to Adelaide, who to my surprise have not agree

with I, and have tell I coldly that I have no business to speak

disrespectfully of my father's visitor. I be silence, but unhappy.

from the first moment of see Sir Peter, I have feel an uncomfortable,

uneasy feeling, which, have I be sentimental, I might have call a

presentiment, but I be not sentimental. I be a healthy young girl of

seventeen, believe in true love, and goodness, and gentleness very

earnestly; "fancy free," having read few novel, and hear no gossip--a

very baby in many respect. our home might be a quiet one, a poor one, a

dull one--our circle of acquaintance small, our distraction of the most

limited description imaginable, but at least we know no evil, and--I

speak for Stella and myself--think none. our father and mother be

person with nothing whatever remarkable about they. both have be

handsome. my mother be pretty, my father good-look yet. I love they

both dearly. it have never enter my head to do otherwise than love

they, but the love which make the star and the poetry of my quiet and

unromantic life be that I bear to Adelaide, my eld sister. I

believe in she devotedly, and accept her judgment, give in her own

peculiar proud, decide way, upon every topic on which she choose to

express it. she be one-and-twenty, and I use to think I could lay down

my life for she.



it be consequently a shock to I to hear she speak in praise--yes, in

praise of Sir Peter Le Marchant. my first impulse be to distrust my own

judgment, but no; I could not long do so. he be repulsive; he be

stealthy, hard, cruel, in appearance. I could not account for Adelaide's

perversity in like he, and pass puzzled day and rack my brain in

conjecture as to why when Sir Peter come Adelaide should be always at

home, always neat and fresh--not like I. why be Adelaide, who find it

too much trouble to join Stella and I in our homely concert, always

ready to indulge Sir Peter's taste for music, to entertain he with

conversation?--and she _could_ talk. she be unlike I in that respect.

I never have a brilliant gift of conversation. she be witty about the

thing she do know, and never commit the fatal mistake of pretend

to be up in the thing she do not know. these gift of mind, these

social power, be always ready for the edification of Sir Peter. by

degree the truth force itself upon I. some one say--I overheard

it--that "that handsome Miss Wedderburn be undoubtedly set her cap

at Sir Peter Le Marchant." never shall I forget the fury which at first

possess I, the conviction which gradually steal over I that it be

true. my sister Adelaide, beautiful, proud, clever--and, I have always

think, good,--had distinctly in view the purpose of become Lady Le

Marchant. I shed countless tear over the miserable discovery, and dare

not speak to she of it. but that be not the bad. my horizon darken.

one horrible day I discover that it be I, and not Adelaide, who have

attract Sir Peter's attention. it be not a scene, not a set

declaration. it be a word in that smooth voice, a glance from that

hated and chilling eye, which suddenly arouse I to the truth.



Shuddering, dismayed, I lock the matter up within my own breast, and

wish with a longing that sometimes make I quite wretched that I could

quit Skernford, my home, my life, which have lose zest for I, and be

become a burden to I. the knowledge that Sir Peter admire I

absolutely degrade I in my own eye. I feel as if I could not hold up

my head. I have speak to no one of what have pass within I, and I

trust it have not be notice; but all my joy be go. it be as if I

stand helpless while a noisome reptile coil its fold around I.



to-day, after Miss Hallam's departure, I drop into my now chronic

state of listlessness and sadness. they all come back; my father from

the church; my mother and Adelaide from Darton, whither they have be on

a shopping expedition; Stella from a stroll by the river. we have tea,

and they disperse quite cheerfully to their various occupation. I,

see the gloaming gently and dim fall over the earth, walk out of

the house into the garden, and take my way toward the river. I pass an

arbor in which Stella and I have love to sit and watch the stream, and

talk and read Miss Austen's novel. Stella be there now, with a

well-thumb copy of "Pride and Prejudice" in her hand.



"come and sit down, May," she apostrophize I. "do listen to this about

Bingley and Wickham."



"no, thank you," say I, abstractedly, and feel that Stella be not

the person to whom I could confide my woe. indeed, on scan mentally

the list of my acquaintance, I find that there be not one in whom I

could confide. it give I a strange sense of loneliness and aloofness,

and harden I more than the reading of a hundred satire on the

meanness of society.



I go along the terrace by the river-side, and look up to the

left--trace of Sir Peter again. there be the terrace of Deeplish Hall,

which stand on a height just above a bend in the river. it be a fine

old place. the sheen of the glass house catch the ray of the sun and

glance in they. it look rich, old, and peaceful. I have be many a

time through its garden, and think they beautiful, and wish they

belong to I. now I feel that they lie in a manner at my foot, and my

strong feeling respect they be an earnest wish that I might never

see they again.



thus agreeably meditate, I insensibly leave our own garden and wander

on in the now quickly fall twilight into a narrow path lead across

a sort of no-Man's-land into the demesne of Sir Peter Le Marchant. in my

trouble I scarcely remark where I be go, and with my eye cast

upon the ground be wish that I could feel again as I once have feel,

when



     "I nothing have, and yet enough;"



and be sadly wonder what I could do to escape from the net in which

I feel myself catch, when a shadow darken the twilight in which I

stand, and look up I see Sir Peter, and hear these word:



"good-evening, Miss Wedderburn. be you enjoy a little stroll?"



by, as it seem to I, some strange miracle all my inward fear and

trembling vanish. I do not feel afraid of Sir Peter in the least. I

feel that here be a crisis. this meeting would show I whether my fear

have be groundless, and my own vanity and self-consciousness of

unparalleled proportion, or whether I have judge truly, and have good

reason for my qualm and anticipation.



it come. the alarm have not be a false one. Sir Peter, after converse

with I for a short time, do, in clear and unmistakable term, inform

I that he love I, and ask I to marry he.



"I thank you," say I, master my impulse to cover my face with my

hand, and run shudder away from he. "I thank you for the honor you

offer I, and beg to decline it."



he look surprised, and still continue to urge I in a manner which

rouse a deep inner feeling of indignation within I, for it seem to

say that he understand I to be overwhelm with the honor he propose

to confer upon I, and humor my timidity about accept it. there be

no doubt in his manner; not the shadow of a suspicion that I could be in

earnest. there be something that turn my heart cold within I--a

cool, sneer tone, which not all his profession of affection could

disguise. since that time I have hear Sir Peter explicitly state his

conception of the sphere of woman in the world; it be not an exalted

one. he could not even now quite conceal that while he tell I he wish

to make I his wife and the partner of his heart and possession, yet he

know that such profession be but word--that he do not sue for my

love (poor Sir Peter! I doubt if ever in his long life he be bless

with even a momentary glimpse of the divine countenance of pure love),

but offer to buy my youth, and such poor beauty as I might have, with

his money and his other worldly advantage.



Sir Peter be a blank, utter skeptic with regard to the worth of woman.

he do not believe in their virtue nor their self-respect; he believe

they to be clever actress, and, take all in all, the good kind of

amusement to be have for money. the kind of opinion be then new to I;

the effect of it upon my mind such as might be expect. I be

seventeen, and an ardent believer in all thing pure and of good report.



nevertheless, I remain compose, sedate, even courteous to the

last--till I have fairly make Sir Peter understand that no earthly power

should induce I to marry he; till I have let he see that I fully

comprehend the advantage of the position he offer I, and decline

they.



"Miss Wedderburn," say he, at last--and his voice be as unruffled as

my own; have it be more angry I should have fear it less--"do you

fear opposition? I do not think your parent would refuse their consent

to our union."



I close my eye for a moment, and a hand seem to tighten about my

heart. then I say:



"I speak without reference to my parent. in such a matter I judge for

myself."



"always the same answer?"



"always the same, Sir Peter."



"it would be most ungentlemanly to press the subject any far." his

eye be fix upon I with the same cold, snake-like smile. "I will

not be guilty of such a solecism. your family affection, my dear young

lady, be strong, I should suppose. which--whom do you love well?"



surprise at the blunt straightforwardness of the question, as come

from he, I reply thoughtlessly, "oh, my sister Adelaide."



"indeed! I should imagine she be in every way worthy the esteem of so

disintereste a person as yourself. a different disposition,

though--quite. will you allow I to touch your hand before I retire?"



tremble with uneasy foreboding rouse by his continual sneer

smile, and the peculiar evil light in his eye, I yet go through with

my duty to the end. he take the hand I extend, and raise it to his

lip with a low bow.



"good-evening, Miss Wedderburn."



faintly return his valediction, I see he go away, and then in a

dream, a maze, a bewilderment, I too turn slowly away and walk to

the house again. I feel, I know I have behave well and discreetly, but I

have no confidence whatever that the matter be at an end.









CHAPTER III.



"Lucifer, Star of the morning! how art thou fall!"





I find myself, without having meet any one of my family, in my own room,

in the semi-darkness, seat on a chair by my bedside, unnerved, faint,

miserable with a misery such as I have never feel before. the window be

open, and there come up a faint scent of sweetbri and wall-flower in

soft, balmy gust, drive into the room by the April night wind. there

rise a moon and flood the earth with radiance. then come a sound of

footstep; the door of the next room, that belong to Adelaide, be

open. I hear she come in, strike a match, and light her candle; the

click of the catch as the blind roll down. there be a door between

her room and mine, and presently she pass it, and bear a candle in

her hand, stand in my presence. my sister be very beautiful, very

proud. she be cleverer, strong, more decide than I, or rather, while

she have those quality very strongly develop, I be almost without

they. she always hold her head up, and have one of those majestic figure

which require no back-board to teach they uprightness, no master of

deportment to instill grace into their movement. her toilet and mine

be not, as may be suppose, of very rich material or varied

character; but while my thing always look as bad of their kind as

they could--fit badly, sit badly, be crease and crumple--her

always have a look of freshness; she wear the mere old black merino as

if it be velvet, and a muslin frill like a point-lace collar. there

be such people in the world. I have always admire they, envy they,

wonder at they from afar; it have never be my fate in the small

degree to approach or emulate they.



her pale face, with its perfect outline, be just illumine by the

candle she hold, and the light also catch the crown of massive plait

which she wear around her head. she set the candle down. I sit still and

look at she.



"you be there, May," she remark.



"yes," be my subdued response.



"where have you be all evening?"



"it do not matter to any one."



"indeed it do. you be talk to Sir Peter Le Marchant. I see you

meet he from my bedroom window."



"do you?"



"do he propose to you?" she inquire, with a composure which seem to

I frightful. "worldly," I think, be a weak word to apply to she, and

I be suffer acutely.



"he do."



"well, I suppose it would be a little difficult to accept he."



"I do not accept he."



"what?" she inquire, as if she have not quite catch what I say.



"I refuse he," say I, slightly raise my voice.



"what be you tell I?"



"the truth."



"Sir Peter have fif--"



"don't mention Sir Peter to I again," say I, nervously, and feel as

if my heart would break. I have never quarrel with Adelaide before. no

reconciliation afterward could ever make up for the anguish which I be

go through now.



"just listen to I," she say, bend over I, her lip draw together.

"I ought to have speak to you before. I don't know whether you have

ever give any thought to our position and circumstance. if not, it

would be as well that you should do so now. papa be fifty-five year

old, and have three hundred a year. in the course of time he will die,

and as his life be not insure, and he have regularly spend every penny

of his income--naturally it would have be strange if he hadn't--what

be to become of we when he be dead?"



"we can work."



"work!" say she, with inexpressible scorn. "work! pray what can we do

in the way of work? what kind of education have we have? the village

school-mistress could make we look very small in the matter of geography

and history. we have not be train to work, and, let I tell you,

May, unskilled labor do not pay in these day."



"I be sure you can do anything, Adelaide, and I will teach singing. I

can sing."



"Pooh! do you suppose that because you can take C in alt. you be

competent to teach singing? you don't know how to sing yourself yet.

your face be your fortune. so be mine my fortune. so be Stella's her

fortune. you have enjoy yourself all your life; you have have seventeen

year of play and amusement, and now you behave like a baby. you refuse

to endure a little discomfort, as the price of place yourself and your

family forever out of the reach of trouble and trial. why, if you be

Sir Peter's wife, you could do what you like with he. I don't say

anything about myself; but oh! May, I be ashamed of you, I be ashamed of

you! I think you have more in you. be it possible that you be nothing

but a romp--nothing but a vulgar tomboy? Good Heaven! if the chance have

be mine!"



"what would you have do?" I whisper, subdue for the moment, but

obstinate in my heart as ever.



"I be nobody now; no one know I. but if I have have the chance that you

have have to-night, in another year I would have be know and envy by

half the woman in England. bah! circumstance be too disgusting, too

unkind!"



"oh! adelaide, nothing could have make up for be tie to that man,"

say I, in a small voice; "and I be not ambitious."



"ambitious! you be selfish--downright, grossly, inordinately selfish.

do you suppose no one else ever have to do what they do not like? why

do you not stop to think instead of rush away from the thing like

some unreasone animal?"



"Adelaide! Sir Peter! to marry he?" I implore in tear. "how could I?

I should die of shame at the very thought. who could help see that I

have sell myself to he?"



"and who would think any the bad of you? and what if they do? with

fifteen thousand a year you may defy public opinion."



"oh, don't! don't!" I cry, cover my face with my hand. "Adelaide,

you will break my heart!"



bury my face in the bed-quilt, I sob irrepressibly. Adelaide's

apparent unconsciousness of, or callousness to, the stab she be give

I, and the anguish they cause I, almost distract I.



she loose my arm, remarking, with bitter vexation:



"I feel as if I could shake you!"



she leave the room. I be leave to my meditation. my head--my heart

too--ache distractingly; my arm be sore where Adelaide have grasp it;

I feel as if she have take my mind by the shoulder and shake it

roughly. I fasten both door of my room, resolve that neither she

nor any one else should penetrate to my presence again that night.



what be I to do? where to turn? I begin now to realize that the _Res

dom_, which have always seem to I so abundant for all occasion, be

really _Res Angusta_, and that circumstance might occur in which they

would be miserably inadequate.









CHAPTER IV.



"zu rathe gehen, und vom Rath zur that."

               _briefe_ BEETHOVEN'S.





there be surely not much in Miss Hallam to encourage confidence; yet

within half an hour of the time of enter her house I have tell she all

that oppress my heart, and have gain a feeling of great security

than I have yet feel. I be sure that she would befriend I. true, she

do not say so. when I tell she about Sir Peter Le Marchant's proposal

to I, about Adelaide's behavior; when, in halting and stammer tone,

and interrupt by tear, I confess that I have not speak to my father

or mother upon the subject, and that I be not quite sure of their

approval of what I have do, she even laugh a little, but not in what

could be call an amuse manner. when I have finish my tale, she say:



"if I understand you, the case stand thus: you have refuse Sir Peter

Le Marchant, but you do not feel at all sure that he will not propose to

you again. be it not so?"



"yes," I admit.



"and you dread and shrink from the idea of a repetition of this

business?"



"I feel as if it would kill I."



"it would not kill you. People be not so easily kill as all that; but

it be highly unfit that you should be subject to a recurrence of it. I

will think about it. will you have the goodness to read I a page of

this book?"



much surprised at this very abrupt change of the subject, but not dare

to make any observation upon it, I take the book--the current number of

a magazine--and read a page to she.



"that will do," say she. "now, will you read this letter, also aloud?"



she put a letter into my hand, and I read:



     "DEAR MADAME,--In answer to your letter of last week, I write to

     say that I could find the room you require, and that by I you

     will have many good agreement which would make your stay in

     Germany pleasanter. my house be a large one in the Alléestrasse.

     Dr. Mittendorf, the oculist, live not far from here, and the

     Städtische Augenklinik--that be, the eye hospital--be quite near.

     the room you would have be upstairs--suite of salon and two

     bedroom, with room for your maid in another part of the house. I

     have other boarder here at the time, but you would do as you

     pleased about mix with they.



                    "with all high esteem,

                         "your devoted,

                              "'CLARA STEINMANN.'"



"you don't understand it all, I suppose?" say she, when I have finish.



"no."



"that lady write from Elberthal. you have hear of Elberthal on the

Rhine, I presume?"



"oh, yes! a large town. there use to be a fine picture-gallery there;

but in the war between the--"



"there, thank you! I study Guy's geography myself in my youth. I see

you know the place I mean. there be an eye hospital there, and a

celebrated oculist--Mittendorf. I be go there. I don't suppose it

will be of the least use; but I be go. drown man catch at straw.

well, what else can you do? you don't read badly."



"I can sing--not very well, but I can sing."



"you can sing," say she, reflectively. "just go to the piano and let I

hear a speciman. I be once a judge in these matter."



I open the piano and sung, as well as I could, an english version of

"die Lotus-blume."



my performance be greet with silence, which Miss Hallam at length

break, remark:



"I suppose you have not have much training?"



"scarcely any."



"Humph! well, it be to be have, even if not in Skernford. would you like

some lesson?"



"I should like a good many thing that I be not likely ever to have."



"at Elberthal there be all kind of advantage with regard to those

thing--music and singing, and so on. will you come there with I as my

companion?"



I hear, but do not fairly understand. my head be in a whirl. go to

Germany with Miss Hallam; leave Skernford, Sir Peter, all that have grow

so weary to I; see new place, live with new people; learn something!

no, I do not grasp it in the least. I make no reply, but sat

breathlessly stare.



"but I shall expect you to make yourself useful to I in many way,"

proceed Miss Hallam.



at this touch of reality I begin to waken up again.



"oh, Miss Hallam, be it really true? do you think they will let I go?"



"you haven't answer I yet."



"about be useful? I would do anything you like--anything in the

world."



"do not suppose your life will be all rose, or you will be woefully

disappointed. I do not go out at all; my health be bad--so be my temper

very often. I be what people who never have any trouble be fond of

call peculiar. still, if you be in earnest, and not merely

sentimentalize, you will take your courage in your hand and come with

I."



"Miss Hallam," say I, with tragic earnestness, as I take her hand, "I

will come. I see you half mistrust I; but if I have to go to Siberia to

get out of Sir Peter's way, I would go gladly and stay there. I hope I

shall not be very clumsy. they say at home that I be, very, but I will

do my good."



"they call you clumsy at home, do they?"



"yes. my sister be so much cleverer than I, and can do everything so

much well than I can. I be rather stupid, I know."



"very well, if you like to call yourself so, do. it be decide that you

come with I. I will see your father about it to-morrow. I always get my

own way when I wish it. I leave in about a week."



I sit with clasped hand, my heart so full that I could not speak.

sadness and gladness struggle hard within I. the idea of get away

from Skernford be almost too delightful; the remembrance of Adelaide

make my heart ache.









CHAPTER V.



 "Ade nun ihr Berge, ihr väterlich Haus!

 Es treibt in die Ferne mich mächtig hinaus."

                VOLKSLIED.





Consent be give. Sir Peter be not mention to I by my parent, or

by Adelaide. the day of that week fly rapidly by.



I be almost afraid to mention my prospect to Adelaide. I fear she

would resent my good fortune in go abroad, and that her anger at

having spoil those other prospect would remain unabated. moreover, a

deep feeling separate I from she now--the knowledge that there lie a

great gulf of feeling, sentiment, opinion between we, which nothing

could bridge over or do away with. outwardly we might be amiable and

friendly to each other, but confidence, union, be flee over. once again

in the future, I be destine, when our respective principle have be

try to the utmost, to have her confidence--to see her heart of heart;

but for the present we be effectually divided. I have mortally offend

she, and it be not a case in which I could with decency even humble

myself to she. once, however, she mention the future.



when the day of our departure have be fix, and be only two day

distant; when I be breathless with hurried repairing of old clothe,

and the equally hurried lay in of a small stock of new one; while I

be contemplate with awe the prospect of a first journey to London, to

Ostend, to Brussels, she say to I, as I sit feverishly hem a

frill:



"so you be go to Germany?"



"yes, Adelaide."



"what be you go to do there?"



"my duty, I hope."



"Charity, my dear, and duty too, begin at home. I should say you be

go away leave your duty undone."



I be silent, and she go on:



"I suppose you wish to go abroad, May?"



"you know I have always wish to go."



"so do I."



"I wish you be go too," say I, timidly.



"thank you. my view upon the subject be quite different. when I go

abroad I shall go in a different capacity to that you be go to

assume. I will let you know all about it in due time."



"very well," say I, almost inaudibly, have a vague idea as to what

she mean, but determine not to speak about it.



       *       *       *       *       *



the following day the curtain rise upon the first act of the play--call

it drama, comedy, tragedy, what you will--which be to be play in my

absence. I have be up the village to the post-office, and be

return, when I see advance toward I two figure which I have cause

to remember--my sister's queenly height, her white hat over her eye,

and her sunshade in her hand, and beside she the pale face, with its

ragged eyebrow and hateful sneer, of Sir Peter Le Marchant.



Adelaide, not at all embarrassed by his company, be smile slightly,

and her eye with droop lid glance downward toward the baronet. I

shrink into a cottage to avoid they as they come past, and wait.

Adelaide be say:



"Proud--yes, I be proud, I suppose. too proud, at least, to--"



there! out of hearing. they have pass. I hurry out of the cottage,

and home.



the next day I meet Miss Hallam and she maid (we three travel alone)

at the station, and soon we be whirl smoothly along our southward

way--to York first, then to London, and so out into the world, think

I.









CHAPTER VI.



"Ein hold aus der Fremde, gar kühn."





we have leave Brussels and Belgium behind, have depart from the region

of _chemin de fer_, and enter those of _eisenbahnen_. we be at

Cologne, where we have to change and wait half an hour before we could go

on to Elberthal. we sit in the wartesaal, and I have commit to my

charge two bundle, with strict injunction not to lose they.



then the door be open, and the people make a mad rush to a train

stand somewhere in the dim distance. Merrick, Miss Hallam's maid, have

to give she whole attention to her mistress. I follow close in their

wake, until, as we have almost come to the train, I cast my eye downward

and perceive that there be miss from my arm a gray shawl of Miss

Hallam's, which have be commit to my charge, and upon which she set

a fidgety kind of value, as be particularly warm or particularly

soft.



Dismayed, I neither hesitate nor think, but turn, fight my way

through the throng of people to the waiting-room again, hunt every

corner, but in vain, for the shawl. either it be completely lose, or

Merrick have, without my observe it, take it under her own protection.

it be not in the waiting-room. give up the search I hurry to the

door: it be fast. no one more, it would seem, be to be let out that

way; I must go round, through the passage into the open hall of the

station, and so on to the platform again. more easily say than do.

always, from my early youth up, I have have a peculiar fancy for

lose myself. on this eventful day I lose myself. I run through the

passage, come into the great open place surround on every side by

door lead to the platform, office, or book office. Glancing

hastily round, I select the door which appear to my imperfectly

developed "locality" to promise egress upon the platform, push it

open, and go along a covered passage, and through another door, find

myself, after the loss of a good five minute, in a lofty deserted wing

of the station, gaze wildly at an empty platform, and feverishly

scan all the long row of door to my right, in a mad effort to guess

which would take I from this delightful _terra incognito_ back to my

friend.



_Gepäck-Expedition_, I read, and think it do not sound promise.

Telegraphs bureau. impossible! _Ausgang._ there be the magic word, and

I, not know it, stare at it and be none the wiser for its friendly

sign. I hear a hollow whistle in the distance. no doubt it be the

Elberthal train go away, and my heart sink deep, deep within my

breast. I know no german word. all I could say be "Elberthal;" and my

near approach to "first-class" be to point to the carriage door and

say "Ein," which might or might not be understand--probably not, when

the universal stupidity of the german railway official be take into

consideration, together with his chronic state of gratuitous suspicion

that a bad motive lurk under every question which be put to he. I

hear a subdued bustle come from the right hand in the distance, and I

run hastily to the other end of the great empty place, see, as I

think, an opening. vain delusion! deceptive dream of the fancy! there

be a glass window through which I look and see a street throng with

passenger and vehicle. I hurry back again to find my way to the

entrance of the station and there try another door, when I hear a bell

ring violently--a loud groaning and shrieking, and then the sound, as it

be, of a train departing. a porter--at least a person in uniform,

appear in a door-way. how I rush up to he! how I seize his arm,

and drop my rug gesticulate excitedly and pant forth the word

"Elberthal!"



"Elberthal?" say he in a guttural bass; "_wollt ihr nach Elberthal,

fräuleinchen!_"



there be an impudent twinkle in his eye, as it be impertinence try

to get the well of beer, and I reiterate "Elberthal," grow very

red, and curse all foreign speech by my god--a process often

employ, I believe, by cleverer person than I, with reference to

thing they do not understand.



"_Schon fort, Fräulein_," he continue, with a grin.



"but where--what--Elberthal!"



he be about to make some further reply, when, turning, he seem to see

some one, and assume a more respectful demeanor. I too turn, and see

at some little distance from we a gentleman saunter along, who,

though come toward we, do not seem to observe we. would he understand

I if I speak to he? desperate as I be, I feel some timidity about

try it. never have I feel so miserable, so helpless, so utterly

ashamed as I do then. my lip tremble as the new-comer draw nearer,

and the porter, take the opportunity of quit a scene which begin

to bore he, slip away. I be leave alone on the platform, nervously

snatch short glance at the person slowly, very slowly approach

I. he do not look up as if he behold I or in any way remark my

presence. his eye be bent toward the ground: his finger drum a

tune upon his chest. as he approach, I hear that he be hum

something. I even hear the air; it have be impress upon my memory

firmly enough since, though I do not know it then--the air of the

march from Raff's Fifth Symphonie, the "Lenore." I hear the tune softly

hum in a mellow voice, as with face burn and glow, I place

myself before he. then he look suddenly up as if startle, fix upon

I a pair of eye which give I a kind of shock; so keen, so commanding

be they, with a kind of tameless freedom in their glance such as I have

never see before.



arrest (no doubt by my wild and excited appearance), he stand still

and look at I, and as he look a slight smile begin to dawn upon his

lip. not an Englishman. I should have know he for an outlander

anywhere. I remark no detail of his appearance; only that he be tall

and have, as it seem to I, a commanding bearing. I stand hesitate

and blushing. (to this very day the blood come to my face as I think of

my agony of blush in that immemorial moment.) I see a handsome--a very

handsome face, quite different from any I have ever see before: the

startling eye before speak of, and which survey I with a look so

keen, so cool, and so bright, which seem to penetrate through and

through I; while a slight smile curl the light mustache upward--a

general aspect which give I the impression that he be not only a

personage, but a very great personage--with a flavor of something else

permeate it all which puzzle I and make I feel embarrassed as to

how to address he. while I stand inanely try to gather my sense

together, he take off the little cloth cap he wear, and bow, ask:



"_Mein Fräulein_, in what can I assist you?"



his English be excellent--his bow like nothing I have see before.

convince that I have meet a genuine, thorough fine gentleman (in which I

be right for once in my life), I begin:



"I have lose my way," and my voice tremble in spite of all my effort

to steady it. "in a crowd I lose my friend, and--I be go to

Elberthal, and I turn the wrong way--and--"



"have come to destruction, _nicht wahr_?" he look at his watch, raise

his eyebrow and shrug his shoulder. "the Elberthal train be already

away."



"Gone!" I drop my rug and begin a tremulous search for my

pocket-handkerchief. "what shall I do?"



"there be another--let I see--in one hour--two--_will 'mal nachsehen._

will you come with I, Fräulein, and we will see about the train."



"if you would show I the platform," say I. "perhaps some of they may

still be there. oh, what will they think of I?"



"we must go to the wartesaal," say he. "then you can look out and see

if you see any of they."



I have no choice but to comply.



my benefactor pick up my two bundle, and, in spite of my

expostulation, carry they with he. he take I through the door

inscribe _Ausgang_, and the whole thing seem so extremely simple now,

that my astonishment as to how I could have lose myself increase every

minute. he go before I to the waiting-room, put my bundle upon one

of the sofas, and we go to the door. the platform be almost as empty

as the one we have leave.



I look round, and though it be only what I have expect, yet my face

fall when I see how utterly and entirely my party have disappear.



"you see they not?" he inquire.



"no--they be go," say I, turn away from the window and choke

down a sob, not very effectually. turn my damp and sorrowful eye to

my companion, I find that he be still smile to himself as if quietly

amuse at the whole adventure.



"I will go and see at what time the train go to Elberthal. suppose you

sit down--yes?"



passively obeying, I sit down and turn my situation over in my mind,

in which kind of agreeable mental legerdemain I be still occupy when

he return.



"it be now half past three, and there be a train to Elberthal at seven."



"Seven!"



"Seven: a very pleasant time to travel, _nicht wahr_? then it be still

quite light."



"so long! three hour and a half," I murmur, dejectedly, and bit my

lip and hang my head. then I say, "I be sure I be much oblige to you.

if I might ask you a favor?"



"_Bitte, mein Fräulein!_"



"if you could show I exactly where the train start from, and--could I

get a ticket now, do you think?"



"I'm afraid not, so long before," he answer, twist his mustache, as

I could not help see, to hide a smile.



"then," say I, with stoic calmness, "I shall never get to

Elberthal--never, for I don't know a word of German, not one," I sit

more firmly down upon the sofa, and try to contemplate the future with

fortitude.



"I can tell you what to say," say he, remove with great deliberation

the bundle which divide we, and sit down beside I. he lean his

chin upon his hand and look at I, ever, as it seem to I, with

amusement temper with kindness, and I feel like a very little girl

indeed.



"you be exceedingly good," I reply, "but it would be of no use. I be

so frightened of those man in blue coat and big mustache. I should not

be able to say a word to any of they."



"german be sometimes not unlike English."



"it be like nothing to I, except a great mystery."



"_billet_, be 'ticket,'" say he persuasively.



"oh, be it?" say I, with a gleam of hope. "perhaps I could remember

that. _billet_," I repeat reflectively.



"Bil_let_," he amend; "not _Bil_lit."



"bill-yet--Bill-_yet_," I repeat.



"and 'to Elberthal' may be say in one word, 'Elberthal.' '_Ein

Billet--elberthal--erster Classe._'"



"_Ein Bill-yet_," I repeat, automatically, for my thought be

dwell more upon the charming quandary in which I find myself than

upon his half-good-natured half-mock instruction: "_Ein Bill-yet,

firste--erste_--it be of no use. I cann't say it. But"--here a brilliant

idea strike me--"if you could write it out for I on a paper, and then I

could give it to the man: he would surely know what it mean."



"a very interesting idea, but a _viva voce_ interview be so much

well."



"I wonder how long it take to walk to Elberthal!" I suggest darkly.



"oh, a mere trifle of a walk. you might do it in four or five hour, I

dare say."



I bite my lip, try not to cry.



"perhaps we might make some other arrangement," he remark. "I be go

to Elberthal too."



"you! thank Heaven!" be my first remark. then as a doubt come over I:

"then why--why--"



here I stick fast, unable to ask why he have say so many tormenting

thing to I, pretend to teach I german phrase, and so on. the word

would not come out. meanwhile he, without apparently feel it

necessary to explain himself upon these point, go on:



"yes. I have be at a probe" (not have the faint idea as to what a

probe might be, and not like to ask, I hold my peace and bow

assentingly). he go on, "and I be delay a little. I have intend to

go by the train you have lose, so if you be not afraid to trust

yourself to my care we can travel together."



"you--you be very kind."



"then you be not afraid?"



"I--oh, no! I should like it very much. I mean I be sure it would be

very nice."



feel that my social power be as yet in a very undeveloped

condition, I subside into silence, as he go on:



"I hope your friend will not be very uneasy?"



"oh, dear no!" I assure he, with a pious conviction that I be

speak the truth.



"we shall arrive at Elberthal about half past eight."



I scarcely hear. I have plunge my hand into my pocket, and find--a

hideous conviction cross my mind--I have no money! I have until this

moment totally forget having give my purse to Merrick to keep; and

she, as pioneer of the party, naturally have all our ticket under her

charge. my heart almost stop beat. it be unheard of, horrible,

this possibility of fall into the power of a total, utter stranger--a

foreigner--a--Heaven only know what! engross with this painful and

distressing problem, I sit silent, and with eye gloomily cast down.



"one thing be certain," he remark. "we do not want to spend three

hour and a half in the station. I want some dinner. a four hour' probe

be apt to make one a little hungry. come, we will go and have something

to eat."



the idea have evidently come to he as a species of inspiration, and he

openly rejoice in it.



"I be not hungry," say I; but I be, very. I know it now that the idea

"dinner" have make itself conspicuous in my consciousness.



"perhaps you think not; but you be, all the same," he say. "come with

I, Fräulein. you have put yourself into my hand; you must do what I

tell you."



I follow he mechanically out of the station and down the street, and

I try to realize that instead of be with Miss Hallam and Merrick,

my natural and respectable protector, safely and conventionally

plod the slow way in the slow continental train to the slow

continental town, I be parade about the street of Köln with a man of

whose very existence I have half an hour ago be ignorant; I be

dependent, too, upon he, and he alone, for my safe arrival at

Elberthal. and I follow he unquestioningly, now and then tell

myself, by way of feeble consolation, that he be a gentleman--he

certainly be a gentleman--and wish now and then, or try to wish,

with my usual proper feeling, that it have be some nice old lady with

whom I have fall in: it would have make the whole adventure blameless,

and, comparatively speak, agreeable.



we go along a street and come to a hotel, a large building, into which

my conductor walk, speak to a waiter, and we be show into the

restaurant, full of round table, and contain some half dozen party

of people. I follow with stony resignation. it be the severe trial

of all, this come to a hotel alone with a gentleman in broad daylight.

I catch sight of a reflection in a mirror of a tall, pale girl, with

heavy, tumbled auburn hair, a brown hat which suit she, and a severely

simple travel-dress. I do not realize until I have go past that it

be my own reflection which I have see.



"suppose we sit here," say he, go to a table in a comparatively

seclude window recess, partially overhang with curtain.



"how very kind and considerate of he!" think I.



"would you rather have wine or coffee, Fräulein?"



pull up from the impulse to satisfy my really keen hunger by the

recollection of my "lack of gold," I answer hastily.



"nothing, thank you--really nothing."



"_o doch!_ you must have something," say he, smile. "I will order

something. don't trouble about it."



"don't order anything for I," say I, my cheek burn. "I shall not

eat anything."



"if you do not eat, you will be ill. remember, we do not get to

Elberthal before eight," say he. "be it perhaps disagreeable to you to

eat in the saal? if you like we can have a private room."



"it be not that at all," I reply; and see that he look surprised,

I blurt out the truth. "I have no money. I give my purse to Miss

Hallam's maid to keep and she have take it with she."



with a laugh, in which, infectious though it be, I be too wretched to

join:



"be that all? Kellner!" cry he.



an obsequious waiter come up, smile sweetly and meaningly at we,

receive some order from my companion, and disappear.



he seat himself beside I at the little round table.



"he will bring something at once," say he, smile.



I sit still. I be not happy, and yet I could not feel all the

unhappiness which I consider appropriate to the circumstance.



my companion take up a "Kölnische Zeitung," and glance over the

advertisement, while I look a little stealthily at he, and for the

first time take in more exactly what he be like, and grow more puzzle

with he each moment. as he lean upon the table, one slight, long,

brown hand prop his head, and half lose in the thick, fine brown

hair which wave in large, ample wave over his head, there be an

indescribable grace, ease, and negligent beauty in the attitude. move as

he would, let he assume any possible or impossible attitude, there be

still in the same grace, half careless, yet very dignified in the

position he take.



all his line be line of beauty, but beauty which have power and much

masculine strength; nowhere do it degenerate into flaccidity, nowhere

lose strength in grace. his hair be long, and I wonder at it. my

small experience in our delightful home and village circle have not

acquaint I with that flow style; the young man of my acquaintance

crop their hair close to the scalp, and call it the modern style of

hair-dressing. it have always look to I more like hair-undressing.

this hair fall in a heavy wave over his forehead, and he have the habit,

common to people whose hair do so, of lift his head suddenly and

shake back the offend lock. his forehead be broad, open,

pleasant, yet grave. eye, as I have see, very dark, and with lash and

brow which enhance the contrast to a complexion at once fair and pale.

a light mustache, curve almost straight across the face, give a

smile expression to lip which be otherwise grave, calm, almost sad.

in fact, look nearer, I think he do look sad; and though when he

look at I his eye be so pierce, yet in repose they have a certain

distant, abstract expression not far remove from absolute

mournfulness. broad-shoulder, long-arm, with a physique in every

respect splendid, he be yet very distinctly removed from the mere

handsome animal which I believe enjoy a distinguished popularity in the

latter-day romance.



now, as his eye be cast upon the paper, I perceive line upon his

forehead, sign about the mouth and eye tell of a firm, not to say

imperious, disposition; a certain curve of the lip, and of the full,

yet delicate nostril, tell of pride both strong and high. he be old

than I have think, his face sparer; there be certain hollow in the

cheek, two line between the eyebrow, a sharpness, or rather somewhat

worn appearance of the feature, which tell of a mental life, keen and

consume. altogether, an old, more intellectual, more impose face

than I have at first thought; less that of a young and handsome man, more

that of a thinker and student. lastly, a cool ease, deliberation, and

leisureliness about all he say and do, hint at his be a person in

authority, accustom to give order and see they obey without

question. I decide that he be, in our graceful home phrase, "master in

his own house."



his clothing be unremarkable--gray summer clothe, such as any

gentleman or any shop-keeper might wear; only in scan he no thought

of shop-keeper come into my mind. his cap lie upon the table beside we,

one of the little gray Studentenmutzen with which Elberthal soon make I

familiar, but which strike I then as odd and outlandish. I grow every

moment more interested in my scrutiny of this, to I, fascinating and

remarkable face, and have forget to try to look as if I be not

look, when he look up suddenly, without warning, with those bright,

formidable eye, which have already make I feel somewhat shy as I catch

they fix upon I.



"_nun_, have you decide?" he ask, with a humorous look in his eye,

which he be too polite to allow to develop itself into a smile.



"I--oh, I beg your pardon!"



"you do not want to," he answer, in imperfect idiom. "but have you

decide?"



"decide what?"



"whether I be to be trust?"



"I have not be think about that," I say, uncomfortably, when to my

relief the appearance of the waiter with preparation for a meal save

I further reply.



"what shall we call this meal?" he ask, as the waiter disappear to

bring the repast to the table. "it be too late for the _Mittagessen_,

and too early for the _Abendbrod_. can you suggest a name?"



"at home it would be just the time for afternoon tea."



"ah, yes! your english afternoon tea be very--" he stop suddenly.



"have you be in England?"



"this be just the time at which we drink our afternoon coffee in

Germany," say he, look at I with his impenetrably bright eye, just

as if he have never hear I. "when the lady all meet together to talk

scan--_O, behüte!_ what be I saying?--to consult seriously upon

important topic, you know. there be some low-minded person who call

the whole ceremony a Klatsch--Kaffeeklatsch. I be sure you and I shall

talk seriously upon important subject, so suppose we call this our

Kaffeeklatsch, although we have no coffee to it."



"oh, yes, if you like."



he put a piece of cutlet upon my plate, and pour yellow wine into my

glass. endeavor to conduct myself with the dignity of a grow-up

person and to show that I do know something, I inquire if the wine

be hock.



he smile. "it be not Hochheimer--not Rheinwein at all--he--no, it, you

say--it be Moselle wine--'Doctor.'"



"doctor?"



"Doctorberger; I do not know why so call. and a very good fellow

too--so say all his friend, of whom I be a warm one. try he."



I comply with the admonition, and be able to say that I like

Doctorberger. we eat and drink in silence for some little time, and I

find that I be very hungry. I also find that I could not conjure up

any real feeling of discomfort or uneasiness, and that the prospective

scolding from Miss Hallam have no terror in it for I. never have I feel

so serene in mind, never more at ease in every way, than now. I feel

that this be wrong--bohemian, irregular, and not respectable, and try

to get up a little unhappiness about something. the only thing that I

could think of be:



"I be afraid I be take up your time. perhaps you have some business

which you be go to when you meet I."



"my business, when I meet you, be to catch the train to Elberthal, which

be already go, as you know. I shall not be able to fulfill my

engagement for to-night, so it really do not matter. I be enjoy

myself very much."



"I be very glad I do meet you," say I, grow more reassure as I

find that my companion, though exceedingly polite and attentive to I,

do not ask a question as to my business, my travel companion, my

intend stay or object in Elberthal--that he behave as a perfect

gentleman--one who be a gentleman throughout, in thought as well as in

deed. he do not even ask I how it be that my friend have not wait a

little for I, though he must have wonder why two people leave a young

girl, moneyless and ignorant, to find her way after they as well as she

could. he take I as he find I, and treat I as if I have be the

most distinguished and important of person. but at my last remark he

say, with the same odd smile which take I by surprise every time I see

it:



"the pleasure be certainly not all on your side, _mein Fräulein_. I

suppose from that you have decide that I be to be trust?"



I stammer out something to the effect that "I should be very

ungrateful be I not satisfied with--with such a--" I stop, look

at he in some confusion. I see a sudden look flash into his eye and

over his face. it be go again in a moment--so fleeting that I have

scarce time to mark it, but it open up a crowd of strange new

impression to I, and while I could no more have say what it be like

the moment it be go, yet it leave two desire almost equally strong in

I--I wish in one and the same moment that I have for my own peace of

mind never see he--and that I might never lose sight of he again: to

fly from that look, to remain and encounter it. the tell-tale mirror in

the corner catch my eye. at home they use sometimes to call I, partly

in mockery, partly in earnest, "Bonny May." the sobriquet have hitherto

be a mere shadow, a meaningless thing, to I. I like to hear it, but

have never pause to consider whether it be appropriate or not. in my

brief intercourse with my venerable suitor, Sir Peter, I have come a

little near to be actively aware that I be good-look, only to

anathematize the fact. now, catch sight of my reflection in the

mirror, I wonder eagerly whether I really be fair, and wish I have

some high authority to think so than the casual joke of my sister.

it do not add to my presence of mind to find that my involuntary glance

to the mirror have be intercept--perhaps even my motive guess

at--he appear to have a frightfully keen instinct.



"have you see the Dom?" be all he say; but it seem somehow to give

a point to what have pass.



"the Dom--what be the Dom?"



"the _Kölner Dom_; the cathedral."



"oh, no! oh, should we have time to see it?" I exclaim. "how I should

like it!"



"certainly. it be close at hand. suppose we go now."



gladly I rise, as he do. one of my most ardent desire be about to be

fulfil--not so properly and correctly as might have be desire,

but--yes, certainly more pleasantly than under the escort of Miss

Hallam, grumble at every groschen she have to unearth in payment.



before we could leave our seclusion there come up to we a young man who

have look at we through the door and pause. I have see he; have see

how he say something to a companion, and how the companion shake his

head dissentingly. the first speaker come up to we, eye I with a look

of curiosity, and turn to my protector with a benevolent smile, say:



"Eugen Courvoisier! _also hatte ich doch Recht!_"



I catch the name. the rest be of course lose upon I. eugen

Courvoisier? I like it, as I like he, and in my young enthusiasm

decide that it be a very good name. the new-comer, who seem as if

much pleased with some discovery, and entertain at the same time,

address some question to Courvoisier, who answer he tranquilly

but in a tone of voice which be very freezing; and then the other, with

a few word and an unbelieving kind of laugh, say something about a

_schöne Geschichte_, and, with another look at I, go out of the

coffee-room again.



we go out of the hotel, up the street to the cathedral. it be the

first cathedral I have ever be in. the shock and the wonder of its

grandeur take my breath away. when I have find courage to look round,

and up at those awful vault the roof, I could not help cry a

little. the vastness, coolness, stillness, and splendor crush I--the

great solemn ray of sunlight come in slant glory through the

window--the huge height--the impression it give of greatness, and of a

religious devotion to which we shall never again attain; of pure, noble

heart, and patient, skillful hand, toiling, but in a spirit that make

the toil a holy prayer--carry out the builder's thought--great

think greatly execute--all be too much for I, the more so in that

while I feel it all I could not analyze it. it be a dim, indefinite

wonder. I try stealthily and in shame to conceal my tear, look

surreptitiously at he in fear lest he should be laugh at I again.

but he be not. he hold his cap in his hand--be look with those

strange, brilliant eye fixedly toward the high altar, and there be

some expression upon his face which I could not analyze--not the

expression of a person for whom such a scene have grow or can grow

common by custom--not the expression of a sight-seer who feel that he

must admire; not my own first astonishment. at least he feel it--the

whole grand scene, and I instinctively and instantly feel more at home

with he than I have do before.



"oh!" say I, at last, "if one could stay here forever, what would one

grow to?"



he smile a little.



"you find it beautiful?"



"it be the first I have see. it be much more than beautiful."



"the first you have see? ah, well, I might have guess that."



"why? do I look so countrifie?" I inquire, with real interest, as I

let he lead I to a little side bench, and place himself beside I. I

ask in all good faith. about he there seem such a cosmopolitan

ease, that I feel sure he could tell I correctly how I strike other

people--if he would.



"countrifie--what be that?"



"oh, we say it when people be like I--have never see anything but

their own little village, and never have any adventure, and--"



"get lose at railway station, _und so weiter_. I don't know enough of

the meaning of 'countrifie' to be able to say if you be so, but it be

easy to see that you--have not have much contention with the power that

be."



"oh, I shall not be stupid long," say I, comfortably. "I be not go

back home again."



"so!" he do not ask more, but I see that he listen, and proceed

communicatively:



"never. I have--not quarrel with they exactly, but have a disagreement,

because--because--"



"because?"



"they want I to--I mean, an old gentleman--no, I mean--"



"an old gentleman want you to marry he, and you would not," say he,

with an odd twinkle in his eye.



"why, how can you know?"



"I think, because you tell I. but I will forget it if you wish."



"oh, no! it be quite true. perhaps I ought to have marry he."



"Ought!" he look startled.



"yes. Adelaide--my eld sister--say so. but it be no use. I be very

unhappy, and Miss Hallam, who be Sir Peter's deadly enemy--he be the old

gentleman, you know--be very kind to I. she invite I to come with

she to Germany, and promise to let I have singe lesson."



"singe lesson?"



I nod. "yes; and then when I know a good deal more about singing, I

shall go back again and give lesson. I shall support myself, and then

no one will have the right to want to make I marry Sir Peter."



"_Du lieber Himmel!_" he ejaculate, half to himself. "be you very

musical, then?"



"I can sing," say I. "only I want some more training."



"and you will go back all alone and try to give lesson?"



"I shall not only try, I shall do it," I correct he.



"and do you like the prospect?"



"if I can get enough money to live upon, I shall like it very much. it

will be well than live at home and be bother."



"I will tell you what you should do before you begin your career," say

he, look at I with an expression half wonder, half pity.



"what? if you could tell I anything."



"preserve your voice, by all mean, and get as much instruction as you

can; but change all that wave hair, and make it into unobjectionable

smooth band of no particular color. get a mask to wear over your face,

which be too expressive; do something to your eye to alter their--"



the expression then visible in the said eye seem to strike he, for

he suddenly stop, and with a slight laugh, say:



"_Ach, be rede ich für dumme Zeug!_ excuse I, _mein Fräulein_."



"but," I interrupt, earnestly, "what do you mean? do you think my

appearance will be a disadvantage to I?"



Scarcely have I say the word than I know how intensely stupid they

be, how very much they must appear as if I be openly and impudently

fish for compliment. how grateful I feel when he answer, with a

grave directness, which have nothing but the high compliment in

it--that of credit I with right motive:



"_Mein Fräulein_, how can I tell? it be only that I know some one,

rather old than you, and very beautiful, who have such a pursuit. she

name be Corona Heidelberger, and her story be a sad one."



"tell it I," I besought.



"well, no, I think not. but--sometimes I have a little gift of

foresight, and that tell I that you will not become what you at

present think. you will be much happy and more fortunate."



"I wonder if it would be nice to be a great operatic singer," I

speculate.



"_o, behüte!_ don't think of it!" he exclaim, start up and move

restlessly. "you do not know--you an opera singer--"



he be interrupt. there suddenly fill the air a sound of deep,

heavenly melody, which sweep solemnly adown the aisle, and fill with

its melodious thunder every corner of the great building. I listen

with my face upraised, my lip part. it be the organ, and presently,

after a wonderful melody, which set my heart beat--a melody full of

the most witchingly sweet high note, and a breadth and grandeur of low

one such as only two composer have ever attain to, a voice--a single

woman's voice--be upraised. she be invisible, and she sing till the

very sunshine seem turn to melody, and all the world be music--the

great, most glorious of earthly thing.



     "blute nur, liebe Herz!

     Ach, ein Kind das du erzogen,

     Das an deiner Brust gesogen,

     Drohet den Pfleger zu ermorden

     Denn es ist zur Schlange worden."



"what be it?" I ask below my breath, as it cease.



he have shade his face with his hand, but turn to I as I speak, a

certain half-suppress enthusiasm in his eye.



"be thankful for your first introduction to german music," say he, "and

that it be grand old Johann Sebastian Bach whom you hear. that be one

of the soprano solo in the _Passions-musik_--that be music."



there be more music. a tenor voice be singe a recitative now, and

that exquisite accompaniment, with a sort of joyful solemnity, still

continue. every now and then, shrill, high, and clear, penetrate a

chorus of boy' voice. I, outer barbarian that I be, barely know the

name of Bach and his "Matthaus Passion," so in the pause my companion

tell I by snatch what it be about. there be not much of it. after a

few solo and recitative, they try one or two of the chorus. I sit

in silence, feel a new world break in glory around I, till that

tremendous chorus come; the organ note swell out, the tenor voice

sing "whom will ye that I give unto you?" and the answer come, crash

down in one tremendous clap, "barrabam!" and such music be in the

world, have be sing for year, and I have not hear it. verily, there

may be revelation and thing new under the sun every day.



I have forget everything outside the cathedral--every person but the

one at my side. it be he who rouse first, look at his watch and

exclaim.



"_Herrgott!_ we must go to the station, Fräulein, if we wish to catch

the train."



and yet I do not think he seem very eager to catch it, as we go

through the busy street in the warmth of the evening, for it be hot,

as it sometimes be in pleasant April, before the withering east wind of

the "merry month" have come to devastate the land and sweep sickly

people off the face of the earth. we go slowly through the move

crowd to the station, into the wartesaal, where he leave I while he

go to take my ticket. I sit in the same corner of the same sofa as

before, and to this day I could enumerate every object in that

wartesaal.



it be after seven o'clock. the outside sky be still bright, but it be

dusk in the waiting-room and under the shadow of the station. when

"Eugen Courvoisier" come in again, I do not see his feature so

distinctly as lately in the cathedral. again he sit down beside I,

silently this time. I glance at his face, and a strange, sharp, pungent

thrill shoot through I. the companion of a few hour--be he only that?



"be you very tired?" he ask, gently, after a long pause. "I think the

train will not be very long now."



even as he speak, clang, clang, go the bell, and for the second time

that day I go toward the train for Elberthal. this time no wrong

turning, no mistake. Courvoisier put I into an empty compartment, and

follow I, say something to a guard who go past, of which I could

only distinguish the word _allein_; but as no one disturb our privacy,

I conclude that german railway guard, like english one, be mortal.



after debate within myself for some time, I screw up my courage and

begin:



"Mr. Courvoisier--your name be Courvoisier, be it not?"



"yes."



"will you please tell I how much money you have spend for I to-day?"



"how much money?" he ask, look at I with a provoke smile.



the train be rumble slowly along, the night darken down. we sit by

an open window, and I look through it at the gray, Dutch-like

landscape, the fall dusk, the poplar that seem sedately march

along with we.



"why do you want to know how much?" he demand.



"because I shall want to pay you, of course, when I get my purse," say

I. "and if you will kindly tell I your address, too--but how much money

do you spend?"



he look at I, seem about to laugh off the question, and then say:



"I believe it be about three thaler ten groschen, but I be not at all

sure. I can not tell till I do my account."



"oh, dear!" say I.



"suppose I let you know how much it be," he go on, with a gravity

which force conviction upon I.



"perhaps that would be the good," I agree. "but I hope you will make

out your account soon."



"oh, very soon. and where shall I send my bill to?"



feel as if there be something not quite as it should be in the

whole proceeding, I look very earnestly at he, but could find nothing

but the most perfect gravity in his expression. I repeat my address

and name slowly and distinctly, as befit so business-like a

transaction, and he write they down in a little book.



"and you will not forget," say I, "to give I your address when you let

I know what I owe you."



"certainly--when I let you know what you owe I," he reply, put

the little book into his pocket again.



"I wonder if any one will come to meet I," I speculate, my mind more

at ease in consequence of the business-like demeanor of my companion.



"possibly," say he, with an ambiguous half smile, which I do not

understand.



"Miss Hallam--the lady I come with--be almost blind. she maid have to

look after she, and I suppose that be why they do not wait for I,"

say I.



"it must have be a very strong reason, at any rate," he say, gravely.



now the train roll into the Elberthal station. there be light,

movement, a storm of people all gabble away in a foreign tongue. I

look out. no face of any one I know. Courvoisier spring down and

help I out.



"now I will put you into a drosky," say he, lead the way to where

they stand outside the station.



"Alléestrasse, thirty-nine," he say to the man.



"stop one moment," cry I, lean eagerly out. at that moment a tall,

dark girl pass we, go slowly toward the gate. she almost pause as

she see we. she be look at my companion; I do not see her face, and

be only conscious of she as come between I and he, and so annoying

I.



"please let I thank you," I continue. "you have be so kind, so very

kind--"



"_o, bitte sehr!_ it be so kind in you to get lose exactly when and

where you do," say he, smile. "_Adieu, mein Fräulein_," he add,

make a sign to the coachman, who drive off.



I see he no more. "Eugen Courvoisier"--I keep repeat the name to

myself, as if I be in the very least danger of forget it--"Eugen

Courvoisier." now that I have part from he I be quite clear as to my

own feeling. I would have give all I be worth--not much, truly--to

see he for one moment again.



along a light street with house on one side, a gleam shine of

water on the other, and tree on both, down a cross-way, then into

another street, very wide, and gayly light, in the midst of which be

an avenue.



we stop with a rattle before a house door, and I read, by the light

of the lamp that hang over it, "39."









CHAPTER VII.



ANNA SARTORIUS.





I be expect. that be very evident. an excited-look

_Dienstmädchen_ open the door, and on see I, greet I as if I

have be an old friend. I be presently rescue by Merrick, also look

agitated.



"Ho, Miss Wedderburn, at last you be here! how Miss Hallam have

worry, to be sure."



"I could not help it, I'm very sorry," say I, follow she

upstairs--up a great many flight of stair, as it seem to I, till

she usher I into a sitting-room where I find Miss Hallam.



"thank Heaven, child! you be here at last. I be begin to think

that if you do not come by this train, I must send some one to Köln to

look after you."



"by this train!" I repeat, blankly. "Miss Hallam--what--do you mean?

there have be no other train."



"two; there be one at four and one at six. I can not tell you how

uneasy I have be at your non-appearance."



"then--then--" I stammer, grow hot all over. "oh, how horrible!"



"what be horrible?" she demand. "and you must be starve. Merrick, go

and see about something to eat for Miss Wedderburn. now," she add, as

she maid leave the room, "tell I what you have be do."



I tell she everything, conceal nothing.



"most annoying!" she remark. "a gentleman, you say. my dear child, no

gentleman would have do anything of the kind. I be very sorry for it

all."



"Miss Hallam," I implore, almost in tear, "please do not tell any one

what have happen to I. I will never be such a fool again. I know

now--and you may trust I. but do not let any one know how--stupid I

have be. I tell you I be stupid--I tell you several time. I be sure

you must remember."



"oh, yes, I remember. we will say no more about it."



"and the gray shawl," say I.



"Merrick have it."



I lift my hand and shrug my shoulder. "just my luck," I murmur,

resignedly, as Merrick come in with a tray.



Miss Hallam, I notice, continue to regard I now and then as I eat

with but small appetite. I be too excited by what have pass, and by

what I have just hear, to be hungry. I think it kind, merciful, humane

in she to promise to keep my secret and not expose my ignorance and

stupidity to stranger.



"it be evident," she remark, "that you must at once begin to learn

German, and then if you do get lose at a railway station again, you will

be able to ask your way."



Merrick shake her head with an inexpressibly bitter smile.



"I'd defy any one to learn this 'ere language, ma'am. they call an

accident a _Unglück_; if any one could tell I what that mean, I'd

thank they, that's all."



"don't express your opinion, Merrick, unless you wish to seem

deficient in understanding; but go and see that Miss Wedderburn have

everything she want--or rather everything that can be get--in her room.

she be tired, and shall go to bed."



I be only too glad to comply with this mandate, but it be long ere I

sleep. I keep hear the organ in the cathedral, and that voice of the

invisible singer--see the face beside I, and hear the word,

"then you have decide that I be to be trust?"



"and he be deceive I all the time!" I think, mournfully.



I breakfast by myself the follow morning, in a room call the

speisesaal. I find I be late. when I come into the room, about nine

o'clock, there be no one but myself to be see. there be a long table

with a white cloth upon it, and row of the thick cup and saucer it

have ever be my fate to see, with distinct evidence that the chief

part of the company have already breakfast. basket full of _brödchen_

and pot of butter, a long India-rubber pipe come from the gas to

light a theemaschine--lot of cane-bottom chair, an open piano, two

cage with canary in they; the kettle gently simmer above the

gas-flame; for the rest, silence and solitude.



I sit down, having find a clean cup and plate, and glance timidly at

the theemaschine, not dare to cope with its mystery, until my doubt

be relieve by the entrance of a young person with a trim little

figure, a coquettishly cut and elaborately braided apron, and a white

frille morgenhaube upon her hair, surmount her round,

heavenward-aspire visage.



"_guten morgen, Fräulein_," she say, as she march up to the darkly

mysterious theemaschine and begin deftly to prepare coffee for I, and

to push the Brödchen toward I. she begin to talk to I in break

English, which be very pretty, and while I eat and drank, she

industriously scrape little white root at the same table. she tell I

she be Clara, the niece of Frau Steinmann, and that she be very glad

to see I, but be very sorry I have have so long to wait in köln

yesterday. she like my dress, and be it _echt Englisch_--also, how

much do it cost?



she be a cheery little person, and I like she. she seem to like I

too, and repeatedly say she be glad I have come. she like dance she

say. do I? and she have lately dance at a ball with some one who

dance so well--_aber_, quite indescribably well. his name be Karl

Linders, and he be, _ach!_ really a remarkable person. a bright blush,

and a little sigh accompany the remark. our eye meet, and from that

moment Clara and I be very good friend.



I go upstairs again, and find that Miss Hallam propose, during the

forenoon, to go and find the Eye Hospital, where she be to see the

oculist, and arrange for he to visit she, and shortly after eleven we

set out.



the street that I have so dimly see the night before, show itself by

daylight to be a fair, broad way. down the middle, after the pleasant

fashion of continental town, be a broad walk, plant with two double

row of linden, and on either side this lindenallee be the carriage

road, private house, shop, exhibition, boarding-house. in the

middle, exactly opposite our dwelling, be the New Theater, just draw

to the close of its first season. I look at it without think much

about it. I have never be in a theater in my life, and the name be but

a name to I.



turn off from the pretty allee, and from the green Hofgarten which

bound it at one end, we enter a narrow, ill-paved street, the aspect

of whose gutter and inhabitant alike excite my lively disgust. in

this street be the Eye Hospital, as be presently testify to we by a

board bear the inscription, "Städtische Augenklinik."



we be take to a dimly light room in which many people be wait,

some with bandage over their eye, other with all kind of

extraordinary spectacle on, which make they look like phantom out of a

bad dream--nearly all more or less blind, and the effect be

surprisingly depressing.



presently Miss Hallam and Merrick be admit to an inner room, and I

be leave to await their return. my eye stray over the different face,

and I feel a sensation of relief when I see some one come in without

either bandage or spectacle. the new-comer be a young man of middle

height, and of proportion slight without be thin. there be nothing

the matter with his eye, unless perhaps a slight short-sightedness; he

have, I think, one of the gentle, most attractive face I have ever

see; boyishly open and innocent at the first glance; at the second,

indue with a certain reticent calm and intellectual radiance which take

away from the first youthfulness of his appearance. soft, yet luminous

brown eye, loose brown hair hang round his face, a certain manner

which for I at least have a charm, be the characteristic of this

young man. he carry a violin-case, remove his hat as he come in, and

be see by one of the young man who sit at desk, take name down,

and attend to people in general, be call by he:



"Herr Helfen--Herr Friedhelm Helfen!"



"_ja--hier!_" he answer, go up to the desk, upon which there ensue

a lively conversation, though carry on in a low tone, after which the

young man at the desk present a white card to "Herr Friedhelm Helfen,"

and the latter, with a pleasant "Adieu," go out of the room again.



Miss Hallam and Merrick presently return from the consulting-room, and

we go out of the dark room into the street, which be fill with

spring sunshine and warmth; a contrast something like that between Miss

Hallam's life and my own, I have think since. far before we, hurry

on, I see the young man with the violin-case; he turn off by the

theater, and go in at a side door.



an hour's wandering in the Hofgarten--my first view of the Rhine--a

dull, flat stream it look, too. I have see it since then in mighty

flow. then we come home, and it be decide that we should dine together

with the rest of the company at one o'clock.



a bell ring at a few minute past one. we go down-stair, into the

room in which I have already breakfast, which, in general, be know as

the saal. as I enter with Miss Hallam I be conscious that a knot of

lad or young man stand aside to let we pass, and then giggle and

scuffle behind the door before follow we into the saal.



two or three lady be already seat, and an exceedingly stout lady

ladle out soup at a side table, while Clara and a servant-woman carry

the plate round to the different place. the stout lady turn as she

see we, and greet we. she be Frau Steinmann, our hostess. she wait

until the youth before speak of have come in, and with a great deal of

noise have seat themselves, when she begin, aid by the soup-ladle,

to introduce we all to each other.



we, it seem, be to have the honor and privilege of be the only

english lady of the company. we be introduce to one or two other,

and I be assign a place by a lady introduce as Fräulein Anna

Sartorius, a brunette, rather stout, with large dark eye which look

at I in a way I do not like, a head of curly black hair crop short,

an odd, brusque manner, and a something peculiar, or, as she say,

_selten_ in her dress. this young lady sustain the introduction with

self-possession and calm. it be otherwise with the young gentleman, who

appear decidedly mixed. there be some half dozen of they in all--a

couple of English, the rest german, Dutch, and Swedish. I have never be

in company with so many nationality before, and be impressed with my

situation--needlessly so.



all these young gentleman make bow which be, in their respective

way, triumph of awkwardness, with the exception of one of our

compatriot, who appear to believe that himself and his manner be

form to charm and subdue the opposite sex. we then sit down, and

Fräulein Sartorius immediately open a conversation with I.



"_Sprechen Sie Deutsch, Fräulein?_" be her first venture, and having

receive my admission that I do not speak a word of it, she continue,

in good English:



"now I can talk to you without offend you. it be so dreadful when

english people who don't know german persist in think that they do.

there be an english-woman here who always say _wer_ when she mean

where, and _will_ when she mean who. she say the sound confuse she."



the boy giggle at this, but the joke be lose upon I.



"what be your name?" she continue; "I don't catch what Frau Steinmann

say."



"May Wedderburn," I reply, angry with myself for blush so

excessively as I see that all the boy hold their spoon suspend,

listen for my answer.



"May--_das heisst Mai_," say she, turn to the assemble youth, who

testify that they be aware of it, and the dutch boy, Brinks,

inquire, gutturally:



"you haf one zong in your language what call itself, 'not always Mai,'

haf you not?"



"yes," say I, and all the boy begin to giggle as if something clever

have be say. take all in all, what torture have I not suffer from

those dreadful boy. Shy when they ought to have be bold, and bold

where a modest retiringness would well have become they. giggle

inanely at everything and nothing. noisy and vociferous among themselves

or with inferior; shy, awkward and blush with lady or in refined

society--distress my feeble effort to talk to they by their silly

explosion of laughter when one of they be address. they form the

bane of my life for some time.



"will you let I paint you?" say Fräulein Sartorius, whose big eye have

be survey I in a manner that make I nervous.



"paint I?"



"your likeness, I mean. you be very pretty, and we never see that color

of hair here."



"be you a painter?"



"no, I'm only a _Studentin_ yet; but I paint from model. well, will you

sit to I?"



"oh, I don't know. if I have time, perhaps."



"what will you do to make you not have time?"



I do not feel disposed to gratify her curiosity, and say I do not

know yet what I should do.



for a short time she ask no more question, then



"do you like town or country well?"



"I don't know. I have never live in a town."



"do you like amusement--concert, and theater, and opera?"



"I don't know," I be reluctantly oblige to confess, for I see that the

assemble youth, though not look at I openly, and apparently

entirely engross with their dinner, be listen attentively to

what pass.



"you don't know," repeat Fräulein Sartorius, quickly see through my

thin assumption of indifference, and proceed to draw I out as much

as possible. I wish Adelaide have be there to beat she from the

field. she would have do it well than I could.



"No; because I have never be to any."



"haven't you? how odd! how very odd! ben't it strange?" she add,

appeal to the boy. "Fräulein have never be to a theater or a

concert."



I disdain to remark that my word be be pervert, but the game

instinct rise in I. raise my voice a little, I remark:



"it be evident that I have not enjoy your advantage, but I trust that

the gentleman" (with a bow to the listening boy) "will make allowance

for the difference between we."



the young gentleman burst into a chorus of delighted giggle, and Anna,

shoot a rapid glance at I, make a slight grimace, but look not at

all displeased. I be, though, mightily; but, elate with victory, I

turn to my compatriot at the other end of the table, and ask he at

what time of the year Elberthal be pleasant.



"oh," say he, "it's always pleasant to I, but that's owe to myself.

I make it so."



just then, several of the other lad rise, push their chair back

with a great clatter, bow to the assemble company, and say

"Gesegnete Mahlzeit!" as they go out.



"why be they go, and what do they say?" I inquire of Miss

Sartorius, who reply, quite amiably:



"they be student at the Realschule. they have to be there at two

o'clock, and they say, 'blessed be the meal-time,' as they go out."



"do they? how nice!" I could not help say.



"would you like to go for a walk this afternoon?" say she.



"oh, very much!" I have exclaim, before I remember that I do not

like she, and do not intend to like she. "if Miss Hallam can spare I,"

I add.



"oh, I think she will. I shall be ready at half past two; then we shall

return for coffee at four. I will knock at your door at the time."



on consult Miss Hallam after dinner, I find she be quite willing

for I to go out with Anna, and at the time appoint we set out.



Anna take I a tour round the town, show I the lion, and give I

topographical detail. she show I the big, plain barrack, and the

desert waste of the Exerzierplatz spread before it. she do she good

to entertain I, and I, with a childish prejudice against her abrupt

manner, and the free, somewhat challenging look of her black eye, be

reserve, unresponsive, stupid. I take a prejudice against she--I own

it--and for that and other sin commit against a woman who would have

be my friend if I would have let she, I say humbly, _Mea culpa!_



"it seem a dull kind of a place," say I.



"it need not be. you have advantage here which you cann't get

everywhere. I have be here several year, and as I have no other home

I rather think I shall live here."



"oh, indeed."



"you have a home, I suppose?"



"of course."



"brother and sister?"



"two sister," I reply, mightily ruffle by what I choose to consider

her curiosity and impertinence; though, when I look at she, I see what

I could not but confess to be a real, and not unkind, interest in she

plain face and big eye.



"ah! I have no brother and sister. I have only a little house in the

country, and as I have always live in a town, I don't care for the

country. it be so lonely. the people be so stupid too--not always

though. you be offend with I at dinner, _nicht wahr_?"



"oh, dear, no!" say I, very awkwardly and very untruly. the truth be,

I do not like she, and be too young, too ignorant and _gauche_ to try

to smooth over my dislike. I do not know the pain I be give, and if

I have, should perhaps not have behave differently.



"_Doch!_" she say, smile. "but I do not know what a child you be,

or I should have let you alone."



more offended than ever, I maintain silence. if I be certainly

touchy and ill to please, Fräulein Sartorius, it must be own, do not

know how to apologize gracefully. I have since, with wide knowledge of

her country and its man and woman, get to see that what make she so

inharmonious be, that she have a woman's form and a man's disposition

and love of freedom. as her countrywoman take in the gross be the most

utterly "in bond" of any woman in Europe, this spoil her life in a

manner which can not be understand here, where woman in comparison be

free as air, and give no little of the brusqueness and roughness to her

manner. in an enlighten English home she would have be an

admirable, firm, clever woman; here she be that most dreadful of all

abnormal growth--a woman with a will of her own.



"what do they do here?" I inquire, indifferently.



"oh, many thing. though it be not a large town there be a School of

Art, which bring many painter here. there be a hundred and

fifty--besides student."



"and you be a student?"



"yes. one must have something to do--some _carrière_--though my

countrywoman say not. I shall go away for a few month soon, but I be

wait for the last great concert. it will be the 'Paradise Lost' of

Rubinstein."



"ah, yes!" say I, politely, but without interest. I have never hear of

Rubinstein and the "Verlorenes Paradies." before the furor of 1876, how

many score of provincial English have?



"there be very much music here," she continue. "be you fond of it?"



"ye-es. I cann't play much, but I can sing. I have come here partly to

take singing lesson."



"so!"



"who be the good teacher?" be my next ingenuous question.



she laugh.



"that depend upon what you want to learn. there be so many: violin,

_clavi_, that be piano, flute, 'cello, everything."



"oh!" I reply, and ask no more question about music; but inquire

if it be pleasant at Frau Steinmann's.



she shrug her shoulder.



"be it pleasant anywhere? I don't find many place pleasant, because I

can not be a humbug, so other do not like I. but I believe some people

like Elberthal very well. there be the theater--that make another

element. and there be the soldier and _Kaufleute_--merchants, I mean,

so you see there be variety, though it be a small place."



"ah, yes!" say I, look about I as we pass down a very busy

street, and I glance to right and leave with the image of Eugen

Courvoisier ever distinctly if unconfessedly present to my mental view.

do he live at Elberthal? and if so, do he belong to any of those

various calling? what be he? an artist who paint picture for his

bread? I think that very probable. there be something free and

artist-like in his manner, in his loose wave hair and in his keen

susceptibility to beauty. I think of his emotion at hear that

glorious Bach music. or be he a musician--what Anna Sartorius call

_ein Musiker_? but no. my idea of musician be somewhat hazy, not to

say utterly chaotic; they embrace only two class: those who perform

or give lesson, and those who compose. I have never form to myself

the faint idea of a composer, and my experience of teacher and

performer be limit to one speciman--Mr. Smythe, of Darton, whose

method and performance would, as I have since learn, have make the

hair of a musician stand horrent on end. no--I do not think he be a

musician. an actor? Perish the thought, be my inevitable mental answer.

how should I be able to make any well one? a soldier, then? at that

moment we meet a mount captain of Uhlans, harness clanking,

accouterment rattle. he be apparently an acquaintance of my

companion, for he salute with a grave politeness which sit well upon

he. decidedly Eugen Courvoisier have the air of a soldier. that

account for all. no doubt he be a soldier. in my ignorance of the

strictness of german military regulation as regard the wearing of

uniform, I overlook the fact that he have be in civilian's dress, and

remain delighted with my new idea; Captain Courvoisier. "what be the

German for captain?" I inquire, abruptly.



"_Hauptmann._"



"thank you." Hauptmann Eugen Courvoisier--a noble and a gallant title,

and one which become he. "how much be a thaler?" be my next question.



"it be as much as three shilling in your money."



"oh, thank you," say I, and do a little sum in my own mind. at that

rate then, I owe Herr Courvoisier the sum of ten shilling. how glad I

be to find it come within my mean.



as I take off my thing, I wonder when Herr Courvoisier would "make

out his account." I trust soon.









CHAPTER VIII.



"probe zum verlorenen Paradiese."





Miss Hallam fulfil her promise with regard to my singing lesson. she

have a conversation with Fräulein Sartorius, to whom, unpopular as she

be, I notice people constantly and almost instinctively go when in

need of precise information or a slight dose of common sense and

clear-headedness.



Miss Hallam inquire who be the good master.



"for singing, the Herr Direktor," reply Anna, very promptly. "and then

he direct the good of the musical verein--the club--society,

whatever you name they. at least he might try Miss Wedderburn's voice."



"who be he?"



"the head of anything belong to music in the town--königlicher

musik-direktor. he conduct all the great concert, and though he do

not sing himself, yet he be one of the good teacher in the province.

lot of people come and stay here on purpose to learn from he."



"and what be these verein?"



"every season there be six great concert give, and a seventh for the

benefit of the direktor. the orchestra and chorus together be call a

verein--musik-verein. the chorus be chiefly compose of lady and

gentleman--amateur, you know--_Dilettanten_. the Herr Direktor be very

particular about voice. you pay so much for admission, and receive a

card for the season. then you have all the good teaching--the _Proben_."



"what be a _probe_?" I demand, hastily, remember that Courvoisier

have use the word.



"what you call a rehearsal."



ah! then he be musical. at last I have find it out. perhaps he be one

of the amateur who sing at these concert, and if so, I might see he

again, and if so--but Anna go on:



"it be a very good thing for any one, particularly with such a teacher

as von Francius."



"you must join," say Miss Hallam to I.



"there be a probe to-night to Rubinstein's 'Paradise Lost,'" say Anna.

"I shall go, not to sing, but to listen. I can take Miss Wedderburn, if

you like, and introduce she to Herr von Francius, whom I know."



"very nice! very much oblige to you. certainly," say Miss Hallam.



the probe be fix for seven, and shortly after that time we set off

for the Tonhalle, or concert-hall, in which it be hold.



"we shall be much too early," say she. "but the people be shamefully

late. Most of they only come to _klatsch_, and flirt, or try to flirt,

with the Herr Direktor."



this throw upon my mind a new light as to the Herr Direktor, and I

walk by her side much impress. she tell I that if I accept I

might even sing in the concert itself, as there have only be four

proben so far, and there be still several before the haupt-probe.



"what be the haupt-probe?" I inquire.



"General rehearsal--when Herr von Francius be most unmerciful to his

stupid pupil. I always attend that. I like to hear he make sport of

they, and then the instrumentalist laugh at they. Von Francius never

flatter."



inspire with nightmare-like idea as to this terrible haupt-probe, I

find myself, with Anna, turn into a low-fronted building inscribe

"Städtische Tonhalle," the concert-hall of the good town of Elberthal.



"this way," say she. "it be in the rittersaal. we don't go to the large

saal till the haupt-probe."



I follow she into a long, rather shabby-look room, at one end of

which be a low orchestra, about which be dot the desk of the

absent instrumentalist, and some stiff-look Celli and Contrabassi

keep watch from a wall. on the orchestra be already assemble a goodly

number of young man and woman, all in lively conversation, loud

laughter, and apparently high good-humor with themselves and everything

in the world.



a young man with a fuzz of hair stand off about a sad and

depressed-look countenance be steal "in and out and round about,"

and distribute sheet of score to the company. in the conductor's

place be a tall man in gray clothe, who lean negligently against the

rail, and hold a conversation with a pretty young lady who seem much

pleased with his attention. it do not strike I at first that this be

the terrible direktor of whom I have be hear. he be young, have a

slender, graceful figure, and an exceedingly handsome, though (I

think at first) an unpleasing face. there be something in his

attitude and manner which at first I do not quite like. Anna walk up

the room, and pause before the estrade, say:



"Herr Direktor!"



he turn: his eye fall upon her face, and leave it instantly to look at

mine. gather himself together into a more ceremonious attitude, he

descend from his estrade, and stand beside we, a little to one side,

look at we with a leisurely calmness which make I feel, I know not

why, uncomfortable. meanwhile, Anna take up her parable.



"may I introduce the young lady? Miss Wedderburn, Herr Musik-Direktor

von Francius. Miss Wedderburn wish to join the verein, if you think

her voice will pass. perhaps you will allow she to sing to-night?"



"certainly, _mein Fräulein_," say he to I, not to Anna. he have a long,

rather jewish-look face, black hair, eye, and mustache. the feature

be thin, fine, and point. the thing which most strike I then, at

any rate, be a certain expression which, conquer all other,

dominate they--at once a hardness and a hardihood which impress I

disagreeably then, though I afterward learn, in know the man, to

know much more truly the real meaning of that unflinche gaze and iron

look.



"your voice be what, _mein Fräulein_?" he ask.



"Soprano."



"Sopran? we will see. the soprano sit over there, if you will have the

goodness."



he point to the left of the orchestra, and call out to the

melancholy-looking young man, "Herr Schonfeld, a chair for the young

lady!"



Herr von Francius then ascend the orchestra himself, go to the

piano, and, after a few direction, give we the signal to begin. till

that day--I confess it with shame--I have never hear of the "Verlorenes

Paradies." it come upon I like a revelation. I sing my good,

substitute _do_, _re_, _mi_, etc., for the german word. once or

twice, as Herr von Francius's forefinger beat time, I think I see his

head turn a little in our direction, but I scarcely heed it. when the

first chorus be over, he turn to I:



"you have not sing in a chorus before?"



"no."



"so! I should like to hear you sing something _sola_." he push toward

I a pile of music, and while the other stand look on and whispering

among themselves, he go on, "those be all sopran song. select one,

if you please, and try it."



not at all aware that the incident be consider unprecedented, and be

create a sensation, I turn over the music, seek something I know,

but could find nothing. all in German, and all strange. suddenly I come

upon one entitle "Blute nur, liebe Herz," the sopran solo which I have

hear as I sit with Courvoisier in the cathedral. it seem almost like

an old friend. I open it, and find it have also english word. that

decide I.



"I will try this," say I, show it to he.



he smile. "_'S ist gut!_" then he read the title off the song aloud,

and there be a general titter, as if some very great joke be in

agitation, and be much appreciated. indeed I find that in general

the joke of the Herr Direktor, when he condescend to make any, be

very keenly relish by at least the lady part of his pupil.



not understand the reason of the titter I take the music in my hand,

and wait for a moment until he give I the signal, sing it after the

well wise I could--not very brilliantly, I dare say, but with at least

all my heart pour into it. I have one requisite at least of an artist

nature--I could abstract myself upon occasion completely from my

surrounding. I do so now. it be too beautiful, too grand. I

remember that afternoon at Köln--the golden sunshine stream through

the paint window, the flood of melody pour forth by the invisible

singer; above all, I remember who have be by my side, and I feel as

if again beside he--again influence by the unusual beauty of his face

and mien, and by his clear, strange, command eye. it all come back

to I--the strangest, happy day of my life. I sing as I have never

sing before--as I have not know I could sing.



when I stop, the tittering have cease; silence salute I. the young

lady be all look at I; some of they have put on their

eye-glass; other stare at I as if I be some strange animal from a

menagerie. the young gentleman be whisper among themselves and

take sidelong glance at I. I scarcely heed anything of it. I fix

my eye upon the judge who have be listen to my performance--upon

von Francius. he be pull his mustache and at first make no remark.



"you have sing that song before, _gnädiges Fräulein_?"



"no. I have hear it once. I have not see the music before."



"so!" he bow slightly, and turn once more to the other, say:



"we will begin the next chorus. 'Chorus of the Damned,' now, _meine

Herrschaften_, I would wish to impress upon you one thing, if I can,

that be--silence, _meine Herren_!" he call sharply toward the tenor,

who be giggle inanely among themselves. "a chorus of damned soul,"

he proceed, composedly, "would not sing in the same unruffled manner

as a young lady who warble, 'spring be come--tra, la, la! spring be

come--lira, lira!' in her mamma's drawing-room. try to imagine yourself

struggle in the torture of hell"--(a delight giggle and a sort of

"oh, you dear, wicked man!" expression on the part of the young lady;

a nudging of each other on that of the young gentleman), "and sing as if

you be damned."



Scarcely any one seem to take the matter the least earnestly. the

young lady continue to giggle, and the young gentleman to nudge each

other. little enough of expression, if plenty of noise, be there in

that magnificent and truly difficult passage, the change chorus of

the condemn and the blessed one--with its crowning "WEH!" thunder

down from high soprano to deepest bass.



"lot of noise, and no meaning," observe the conductor, lean himself

against the rail of the estrade, face to his audience, fold his arm

and survey they all one after the other with cold self-possession. it

strike I that he despise they while he condescend to instruct they.

the power of the man strike I again. I begin to like he well. at

least I venerate his thorough understanding of what be to I a

splendid mystery. no softening appear in the master's eye in answer

to the row of pretty appealing face turn to he; no smile upon his

contemptuous lip respond to the eye--black, brown, gray, blue,

yellow--all turn with such affect devotion to his own. compose

himself to an insouciant attitude, he begin in a cool, indifferent

voice, which have, however, certain caustic tone in it which sting I

at least to the quick:



"I never hear anything bad, even from you. my honored Fräulein, my

_gnädigen Herren_, just try once to imagine what you be singe about!

it be not an exercise--it be not a love song, either of which you would

no doubt perform excellently. conceive what be happen! put yourself

back into those mythical time. believe, for this evening, in the story

of the forfeit Paradise. there be strife between the blessed and the

Damned; the obedient and the disobedient. there be thick cloud in the

heaven--smoke, fire, and sulphur--a clashing of sword in the serrie

rank of the angel: can not you see Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, lead

the heavenly host? can not some of you sympathize a little with Satan

and his struggle?"



look at he, I think they must indeed be an unimaginative set! in

that dark face before they be Mephistopheles at least--_der Geist der

stet verneint_--if nothing more violent. his cool, scornful feature

be light up with some of the excitement which he could not drill

into the assemblage before he. have he be gift with the requisite

organ he would have act and sing the chief character in "Faust" _con

amore_.



"_Ach, um Gotteswillen!_" he go on, shrug his shoulder, "try to

forget what you be! try to forget that none of you ever have a wicked

thought or an unholy aspiration--"



("don't they see how he be laugh at they?" I wonder.)



"you, Chorus of the Condemned, try to conjure up every wicked thought

you can, and let it come out in your voice--you who sing the strain of

the blessed one, think of what blessedness be. surely each of you have

his own idea! some of you may agree with Lenore:



     "'bei ihm, bei ihm ist Seligkeit,

     und ohne Wilhelm Holle!'



"if so, think of he; think of she--only sing it, whatever it be.

remember the strong of feeling:



     "'die Engel nennen es Himmelsfreude

     Die Teufel nennen es Höllenqual,

     die Menschen nennen es--LIEBE!'



"and sing it!"



he have not become loud or excited in voice or gesticulation, but his

word, fling at they like so many scornful little bullet, the

indifferent resignation of his attitude, have their effect upon the crew

of giggle, simper girl and awkward, self-conscious young man. some

idea seem vouchsafed to they that perhaps their performance have not

be quite all that it might have be; they begin in a little more

earnest, and the chorus go well.



for my own part, I be deeply move. a vague excitement, a wild, and not

altogether a holy one, have steal over I. I understand now how the man

might have influence. I bent to the power of his will, which reach I

where I stand in the background, from his dark eye, which turn for a

moment to I now and then. it be that will of his which put I as it

be suddenly into the spirit of the music, and reveal I depth in my

own heart at which I have never even guess. excited, with cheek

burning and my heart hot within I, I follow his word and his

gesture, and grow so impatient of the dull stupidity of the other that

tear come to my eye. how could that young woman, in the midst of a

sublime chorus, deliberately pause, arrange the knot of her neck-tie,

and then, after a smile and a side glance at the conductor, go on again

with a more self-satisfy simper than ever upon her lip? what might

not the thing be with a whole chorus of sympathetic singer? the very

dullness which in face prevail reveal to I great region of

possible splendor, almost too vast to think of.



at last it be over. I turn to the direktor, who be still near the

piano, and ask timidly:



"do you think I may join? will my voice do?"



an odd expression cross his face; he answer, dryly:



"you may join the verein, _mein Fräulein_--yes. please come this way

with I. Pardon, Fräulein Stockhausen--another time. I be sorry to say I

have business at present."



a black look from a pretty brunette, who have advance with an engage

smile and an open score to ask he some question, greet this very

compose rebuff of her advance. the black look be direct at

I--guiltless.



without take any notice of the other, he lead Anna and I to a small

inner room, where there be a desk and write material.



"your name, if you will be good enough?"



"Wedderburn."



"your _vorname_, though--your first name."



"my christian name--oh, May."



"M--a--_na_! perhaps you will be so good as to write it yourself, and

the street and number of the house in which you live."



I comply.



"have you be here long?"



"not quite a week."



"do you intend to make any stay?"



"some month, probably."



"Humph! if you wish to make any progress in music, you must stay much

long."



"it--I--it depend upon other people how long I remain."



he smile slightly, and his smile be not unpleasant; it light up the

darkness of his face in an agreeable manner.



"so I should suppose. I will call upon you to-morrow at four in the

afternoon. I should like to have a little conversation with you about

your voice. Adieu, _meine Damen_."



with a slight bow which sufficiently dismiss we, he turn to the desk

again, and we go away.



our homeward walk be a somewhat silent one. Anna certainly ask I

suddenly where I have learn to sing.



"I have not learn properly. I cann't help singe."



"I do not know you have a voice like that," say she again.



"like what?"



"Herr von Francius will tell you all about it to-morrow," say she,

abruptly.



"what a strange man Herr von Francius be!" say I. "be he clever?"



"oh, very clever."



"at first I do not like he. now I think I do, though."



she make no answer for a few minute; then say:



"he be an excellent teacher."









CHAPTER IX.



HERR VON franciu.





when Miss Hallam hear from Anna Sartorius that my singing have evidently

strike Herr von Francius, and of his intend visit, she look

pleased--so pleased that I be surprised.



he come the following afternoon, at the time he have specify. now, in

the broad daylight, and apart from his official, professional manner, I

find the Herr Direktor still different from the man of last night, and

yet the same. he look even young now than on the estrade last night,

and quiet though his demeanor be, attune to a gentlemanly calm and

evenness, there be still the one thing, the cool, hard glance leave, to

unite he with the dark, somewhat sinister-look personage who have

cast his eye round our circle last night, and tell we to sing as if we

be damned.



"Miss Hallam, this be Herr von Francius," say I. "he speak English," I

add.



Von Francius glance from she to I with a somewhat inquire

expression.



Miss Hallam receive he graciously, and they talk about all sort of

trifle, while I sit by in seemly silence, till at last Miss Hallam

say:



"can you give I any opinion upon Miss Wedderburn's voice?"



"Scarcely, until I have give it another trial. she seem to have have no

training."



"no, that be true," she say, and proceed to inform he casually that

she wish I to have every advantage I could get from my stay in

Elberthal, and must put the matter into his hand. Von Francius look

pleased.



for my part, I be deeply move. Miss Hallam's generosity to one so

stupid and ignorant touch I nearly.



Von Francius, pause a short time, at last say:



"I must try her voice again, as I remark. last night I be strike with

her sense of the dramatic point of what we be singe--a quality which

I do not too often find in my pupil. I think, _mein Fräulein_, that

with care and study you might take a place on the stage."



"the stage!" I repeat, startle, and thinking of Courvoisier's word.



but von Francius have be reckon without his host. when Miss Hallam

speak of "put the matter into his hand," she understand the word

in her own sense.



"the stage!" say she, with a slight shiver. "that be quite out of the

question. Miss Wedderburn be a young lady--not an actress."



"so! then it be impossible to be both in your country?" say he, with

polite sarcasm. "I speak as simple _Künstler_--artist--I be not

think of anything else. I do not think the _gnädiges Fräulein_ will

ever make a good singer of mere song. she require emotion to bring out

her good power--a little passion--a little scope for act and abandon

before she can attain the full extent of her talent."



he speak in the most perfectly matter-of-fact way, and I tremble. I

fear lest this display of what Miss Hallam would consider little short

of indecent laxity and Bohemianism, would shock she so much that I

should lose everything by it. it be not so, however.



"Passion--abandon! I think you can not understand what you be talk

about!" say she. "my dear sir, you must understand that those kind of

thing may be all very well for one set of people, but not for that

class to which Miss Wedderburn belong. her father be a clergyman"--von

Fraucius bow, as if he do not quite see what that have to do with

it--"in short, that idea be impossible. I tell you plainly. she may

learn as much as she like, but she will never be allow to go upon the

stage."



"then she may teach?" say he, inquiringly.



"certainly. I believe that be what she wish to do, in case--if

necessary."



"she may teach, but she may not act," say he, reflectively. "so be it,

then! only," he add as if make a last effort, "I would just mention

that, apart from artistic consideration, while a lady may wear herself

out as a poorly pay teacher, a _prima donna_--"



Miss Hallam smile with calm disdain.



"it be not of the least use to speak of such a thing. you and I look at

the matter from quite different point of view, and to argue about it

would only be to waste time."



Von Francius, with a sarcastic, ambiguous smile, turn to I:



"and you, _mein Fräulein_?"



"I--no. I agree with Miss Hallam," I murmur, not really having find

myself able to think about it at all, but conscious that opposition be

useless. and, besides, I do shrink away from the idea conjure up by

that word, the "stage."



"so!" say he, with a little bow and a half smile. "also, I must try to

make the round man fit into the square hole. the first thing will be

another trial of your voice; then I must see how many lesson a week you

will require, and must give you instruction about practice. you must

understand that it be not pleasure or child's play which you be

undertake. it be a work in order to accomplish which you must strain

every nerve, and give up everything which in any way interfere with

it."



"I don't know whether I shall have time for it," I murmur, look

doubtfully toward Miss Hallam.



"yes, May; you will have time for it," be all she say.



"be there a piano in the house?" say von Francius. "but, yes,

certainly. Fräulein Sartorius have one; she will lend it to we for half

an hour. if you be at liberty, _mein Fräulein_, just now--"



"certainly," say I, follow he, as he tell Miss Hallam that he would

see she again.



as he knock at the door of Anna's sitting-room she come out, dress

for walk.



"_Ach, Fräulein!_ will you allow we the use of your piano for a few

minute?"



"_Bitte!_" say she, motion we into the room. "I be sorry I have an

engagement, and must leave you."



"do not let we keep you on any account," say he, with touching

politeness; and she go out.



"_desto besser!_" he observe, shrug his shoulder.



he pull off his glove with rather an impatient gesture, seat

himself at the piano, and strike some chord, in an annoyed manner.



"who be that old lady?" he inquire, look up at I. "any relation of

your?"



"no--oh, no! I be her companion."



"so! and you mean to let she prevent you from follow the career you

have a talent for?"



"if I do not do as she wish, I shall have no chance of follow any

career at all," say I. "and, besides, how do any one know that I have

a talent--for--for--what you say?"



"I know it; that be why I say it. I wish I could persuade that old lady

to my way of thinking!" he add. "I wish you be out of her hand and

in mine. _na!_ we shall see!"



it be not a very long "trial" that he give I; we soon rise from the

piano.



"to-morrow at eleven I come to give you a lesson," say he. "I be go

to talk to Miss Hallam now. you please not come. I wish to see she

alone; and I can manage she well by myself, _nicht wahr_!"



"thank you," say I in a subdued tone.



"you must have a piano, too," he add; "and we must have the room to

ourselves. I allow no third person to be present in my private lesson,

but go on the principle of Paul Heyse's hero, Edwin, either in open

lecture, or _unter vier Augen_."



with that he hold the door open for I, and as I turn into my room,

shake hand with I in a friendly manner, bid I expect he on the

morrow.



certainly, I decide, Herr von Francius be quite unlike any one I have

ever see before; and how awfully cool he be and self-possess. I

like he well, though.



the next morning Herr von Francius give I my first lesson, and after

that I have one from he nearly every day. as teacher and as acquaintance

he be, as it be, two different man. as teacher he be strict, severe,

give much blame and little praise; but when he do once praise I, I

remember, I carry the remembrance of it with I for day as a ray of

sunshine. he seem never surprised to find how much work have be

prepared for he, although he would express displeasure sometimes at its

quality. he be a teacher whom it be impossible not to respect, whom

one obey by instinct. as man, as acquaintance, I know little of he,

though I hear much--idle tale, which it would be as idle to repeat.

they chiefly relate to his domineering disposition and determination to

go his own way and disregard that of other. in this fashion my life

become busy enough.









CHAPTER X.



"LOHENGRIN."





as time go on, the image of Eugen Courvoisier, my unspoken of,

unguesse at, friend, do not fade from my memory. it grow strong. I

think of he every day--never go out without a distinct hope that I

might see he; never come in without vivid disappointment that I have not

see he. I carry three thaler ten groschen so arranged in my purse

that I could lay my hand upon they at a moment's notice, for as the day

go on it appear that Herr Courvoisier have not make up his account,

or if he have, have not choose to claim that part of they owe by I.



I do not see he. I begin dismally to think that after all the whole

thing be at an end. he do not live at Elberthal--he have certainly

never tell I that he do, I remind myself. he have go about his

business and interest--have forget the waif he have help one spring

afternoon, and I should never see he again. my heart fall and sink with

a reasonless, aimless pang. what do it, could it, ought it to matter to

I whether I ever see he again or not? nothing, certainly, and yet I

trouble myself about it a great deal. I make little drama in my mind

of how he and I be to meet, and how I would exert my will and make he

to take the money. whenever I see an unusually large or handsome house,

I instantly fall to wonder if it be his, and sometimes make

inquiry as to the owner of any particularly eligible residence. I

hear of Brauns, Müllers, Piepers, Schmidts, and the like, as owner of

the same--never the name Courvoisier. he have disappear--I fear

forever.



come in weary one day from the town, where I have be strive to make

myself understand in shop, I be meet by Anna Sartorius on the stair.

she have not yet cease to be civil to I--civil, that is, in she

way--and my unreasone aversion to she be as great as ever.



"this be the last opera of the season," say she, display a pink

ticket. "I be glad you will get to see one, as the theater close after

to-night."



"but I be not go."



"yes, you be. Miss Hallam have a ticket for you. I be go to chaperon

you."



"I must go and see about that," say I, hastily rush upstairs.



the news, incredible though it seem, be quite true. the ticket lie

there. I pick it up and gaze at it fondly. stadttheater zu Elberthal.

Parquet, no. 16. as I have never be in a theater in my life, this

convey no distinct idea to my mind, but it be quite enough for I

that I be go. the rest of the party, I find, be to consist of

Vincent, the Englishman, Anna Sartorius, and the dutch boy, Brinks.



it be Friday evening, and the opera be "Lohengrin." I know nothing,

then, about different operatic style, and my idea of operatic music

be base upon duet upon select air from "La Traviata," "La

Somnambula," and "Lucia." I think the story of "Lohengrin," as relate

by Vincent, interesting. I be not in the least aware that my first

opera be to be a different one from that of most english girl. since,

I have wonder sometimes what would be the result upon the musical

taste of a person who be put through a course of wagnerian opera first,

and then turn over to the italian school--leave Mozart, Beethoven,

Gluck, to take care of themselves, as they may very well do--thus

exactly reverse the usual (English) process.



Anna be very quiet that evening. afterward I know that she must have

be observe I. we be in the first row of the parquet, with the

orchestra alone between we and the stage. I be fully occupy in

look about I--now at the curtain hide the great mystery, now

behind and above I at the box, in a youthful state of ever-increase

hope and expectation.



"we be very early," say Vincent, who be next to I, "very early, and

very near," he add, but he do not seem much distressed at either

circumstance.



then the gas be suddenly turn up quite high. the bustle increase

cheerfully. the old, young, and middle-aged lady who fill the

_logen_ in the _Erster Rang_--hardened theater-goer, who come as

regularly every night in the week during the eight month of the season

as they eat their breakfast and go to their bed, be gossip with

the utmost violence, exchange nod and odd little old-fashioned bow

with other lady in all part of the house, lean over to look

whether the parquet be well fill, and remark that there be

more people in the _balcon_ than usual. the musician be drop

into the orchestra. I be startled to see a fair face I know--that

pleasant-look young violinist with the brown eye, whose name I have

hear call out at the eye hospital. they all seem very fond of he,

particularly a man who struggle about with a violoncello, and who

seem to have a series of joke to relate to Herr Helfen, explode

with laughter, and every now and then shake the loose thick hair from

his handsome, genial face. Helfen listen to he with a half smile,

screw up his violin and give he a quiet look now and then. the

inspiring noise of tune up have begin, and I be on the very tiptoe of

expectation.



as I turn once more and look round, Vincent say, laugh, "Miss

Wedderburn, your hat have hit I three time in the face." it be, by the

by, the brown hat which have grace my head that day at Köln.



"oh, have it? I beg your pardon!" say I, laugh too, as I bring my

eye again to bear on the stage. "the seat be too near toge--"



further word be upon my lip, but they be never utter. in rove

across the orchestra to the foot-light my eye be arrest. in the

well of the orchestra immediately before my eye be one empty chair,

that by right belong to the leader of the first violin. Friedhelm

Helfen sit in the one next below it. all the rest of the musician be

assemble. the conductor be in his place, and look a little

impatiently toward that empty chair. through a door to the left of the

orchestra there come a man, carry a violin, and make his way, with

a nod here, a half smile there, a tap on the shoulder in another

direction. arrive at the empty chair, he lay his hand upon Helfen's

shoulder, and bend over he, speak to he as he seat himself. he

keep his hand on that shoulder, as if he like it to be there. Helfen's

eye say as plainly as possibly that he like it. fast friend, on the

face of it, be these two man. in this moment, though I sit still,

motionless, and quiet, I certainly realize as nearly as possible that

impossible sensation, the turn upside down of the world. I do not

breathe. I wait, spell-bind, in the vague idea that my eye might

open and I find that I have be dream. after an earnest speech to

Helfen the new-comer raise his head. as he shoulder his violin his

eye travel carelessly along the first row of the parquet--our row. I

do not awake; thing do not melt away in a mist before my eye. he

be Eugen Courvoisier, and he look braver, handsomer, gallanter, and

more apart from the crowd of man now, in this moment, than even my

sentimental dream have picture he. I feel it all: I also know now

that it be partly the very strength of the feeling that I have--the very

intensity of the admiration which take from I the reflection and reason

for the moment. I feel as if every one must see how I feel. I remember

that no one know what have happen; I dread lest they should. I do

the most cowardly and treacherous thing that circumstance permit to

I--display to what an extent my power of folly and stupidity could

carry I. I see these strange bright eye, whose power I feel, come

toward I. in one second they would be upon I. I feel myself white with

anxiety. his eye be come--come--slowly, surely. they have fall

upon Vincent, and he nod to he. they fall upon I. it be for the

tenth of a second only. I see a look of recognition flash into his

eye--upon his face. I see that he be go to bow to I. with (as it

seem to I) all the blood in my vein rush to my face, my head

swimming, my heart beat, I drop my eye to the play-bill upon my

lap, and stare at the crabbed german character--the name of the

player, the character they take. "Elsa--Lohengrin." I read they again

and again, while my ear be singe, my heart beat so, and I

think every one in the theater know and be look at I.



"mind you listen to the overture, Miss Wedderburn," say Vincent,

hastily, in my ear, as the first liquid, yearning, long-draw note

sound from the violin.



"yes," say I, raise my face at last, look or rather feel a

look compel from I, to the place where he sit. this time our eye

meet fully. I do not know what I feel when I see he look at I as

unrecognizingly as if I have be a wooden doll in a shop window. be he

look past I? no. his eye meet mine direct--glance for glance; not a

sign, not a quiver of the mouth, not a waver of the eyelid. I hear no

more of the overture. when he be play, and so occupy with his

music, I survey he surreptitiously; when he be not play, I keep

my eye fix firmly upon my play-bill. I do not know whether to be

most distressed at my own disloyalty to a kind friend, or most appal

to find that the man with whom I have spend a whole afternoon in the firm

conviction that he be outwardly, as well as inwardly, my equal and a

gentleman--(how the tear, half of shame, half of joy, rise to my eye

now as I think of my poor, pedantic little scruple then!) the man of

whom I have assuredly think and dream many and many a time and oft

be--a professional musician, a man in a band, a german band, play in

the public orchestra of a provincial town. well! well!



in our village at home, where the population consist of clergyman's

widow, daughter of deceased naval officer, and old woman in general,

and those old woman lady of the genteelest description--the Army and

the Church (for which I have be bring up to have the deep

veneration and esteem, as the two head power in our land--for we do

not take Manchester, Birmingham, and Liverpool into account at

Skernford)--the Army and the Church, I say, look down a little upon

Medicine and the Law, as be perhaps more necessary, but less select

factor in that great sum--the Nation, Medicine and the Law look down

very decidedly upon commercial wealth, and Commerce in her turn turn

up her nose at retail establishment, while one and all--Church and

Army, Law and Medicine, Commerce in the gross and Commerce in the

little--united in point the finger at artist, musician, literati,

_et id omne genus_, consider they, with some few well-know and

orthodox exception, as bohemian, and call they "person." they be

a class with whom we have and could have nothing in common; so utterly

outside our life that we scarcely ever give a thought to their

existence. we read of picture, and wish to see they; hear of musical

wonder, and desire to hear they--as picture, as composition. I do

not think it ever enter our head to remember that a man with a quick

life throb in his vein, with feeling, hope, and fear and

thought, paint the picture, and that in see it we also see

he--that a consciousness, if possible, yet more keen and vivid produce

the combination of sound which bring tear to our eye when we hear

"the band"--beautiful abstraction--play they! certainly we never

consider the performer as anything more than people who could

play--one who blow his breath into a brass tube; another into a wooden

pipe; one who scrape a small fiddle with fine string, another who

scrape a big one with coarse string.



I be seventeen, and not have an original mind, have up to now judge

thing from early teaching and impression. I do not ask to be

excuse. I only say that I be ignorant as ever even a girl of seventeen

be. I do not know the amount of art and culture which lie among those

rather shabby-look member of the Elberthal _städtische Kapelle_--did

not know that that little cherubic-face man, who draw his bow

so lovingly across his violin, have play under Mendelssohn's

conductorship, and could tell tale about how the master have drill his

band, and what he have say about the first performance of the

"Lobgesang." the young man to whom I have see Courvoisier speaking

be--I learn it later--a performer to ravish the sense, a conductor

in the true sense--not a mere man who wave the stick up and down, but

one who can put some of the meaning of the music into his gesture and

dominate his player. I do not know that the musician before I be

nearly all true artist, and some of they undoubted gentleman to boot,

even if their income average something under that of a skilled

Lancashire operative. but even if I have know it as well as possible,

and have be aware that there could be nothing derogatory in my knowing

or be know by one of they, I could not have be more wretched than

I be in having be, as it be, false to a friend. the dreadful thing

be, or ought to be--I could not quite decide which--that such a person

should have be my friend.



"how he must despise I!" I think, my cheek burn, my eye fasten

upon the play-bill. "I owe he ten shilling. if he like he can

point I out to they all and say, 'that be an english girl--lady I

can not call she. I find she quite alone and lose at Köln, and I do

all I could to help she. I save she a great deal of anxiety and

inconvenience. she be not above accept my assistance; she confide

her story very freely to I; she be nothing very particular--have nothing

to boast of--no money, no knowledge, nothing superior; in fact, she be

simple and ignorant to quite a surprising extent; but she have just cut

I dead. what do you think of she?'"



until the curtain go up, I sit in torture. when the play begin,

however, even my discomfort vanish in my wonder at the spectacle. it

be the first I have see. try to picture it, oh, wear-out and _blasé_

frequenter of play and opera! try to realize the feeling of an

impressionable young person of seventeen when "Lohengrin" be reveal

to she for the first time--Lohengrin, the mystic knight, with the

glamour of eld upon he--Lohengrin, sail in blue and silver like a

dream, in his swan-draw boat, step majestic forth, and speak in

a voice of pure melody, as he thank the bird and dismiss it:



     "Dahin, woher mich trug dein Kahn

     Kehr wieder mir zu unserm Glück!

     Drum sei getreu dein Dienst gethan,

     Leb wohl, leb wohl, mein lieber Schwan."



Elsa, with the wonder, the gratitude, the love, and alas! the weakness

in her eye! the astonished Brabantine man and woman. they could not

have be more astonished than I be. it be all perfectly real to I.

what do I know about the stage? to I, yonder figure in blue mantle and

glitter armor be Lohengrin, the son of Percivale, not Herr Siegel,

the first tenor of the company, who act stiffly, and do not know what

to do with his leg. the lady in black velvet and spangle, who

gesticulate in a corner, be an "edelfrau" to I, as the programme

call she, not the chorus leader, with two front tooth miss, an

inartistically make-up countenance, and large foot. I sit through the

first act with my eye rivet upon the stage. what a thrill shot

through I as the tenor embrace the soprano, and warble melodiously,

"_Elsa, ich liebe Dich!_" my mouth and eye be wide open, I have no

doubt, till at last the curtain fall. with a long sigh I slowly bring

my eye down and "Lohengrin" vanish like a dream. there be eugen

Courvoisier stand up--he have resume the old attitude--be twirl

his mustache and survey the company. some of the other performer

be leave the orchestra by two little door. if only he would go too!

as I nervously contemplate a graceful indifferent remark to Herr

Brinks, who sit next to I, I see courvoisi step forward. be he,

could he be go to speak to I? I should have deserve it, I know, but

I feel as if I should die under the ordeal. I sit preternaturally still,

and watch, as if mesmerize, the approach of the musician. he speak

again to the young man whom I have see before, and they both laugh.

perhaps he have confide the whole story to he, and be tell he to

observe what he be go to do. then Herr Courvoisier tap the young

man on the shoulder and laugh again, and then he come on. he be not

look at I; he come up to the boarding, lean his elbow upon it, and

say to Eustace Vincent:



"good-evening: _wie geht's Ihnen?_"



Vincent hold out his hand. "very well, thank. and you? I haven't see

you lately."



"then you haven't be at the theater lately," he laugh. he never

testify to I by word or look that he have ever see I before. at last

I get to understand as his eye repeatedly fall upon I without the

slight sign of recognition, that he do not intend to claim my

acquaintance. I do not know whether I be most wretched or most relieved

at the discovery. it spare I a great deal of embarrassment; it fill

I, too, with inward shame beyond all description. and then, too, I

be dismay to find how totally I have mistake the position of the

musician. Vincent be talk eagerly to he. they have move a little

nearer the other end of the orchestra. the young man, Helfen, have come

up, other have join they. I, meanwhile, sit still--hear every tone of

his voice, and take in every gesture of his head or his hand, and I feel

as I trust never to feel again--and yet I live in some such feeling as

that for what at least seem to I a long time. what be the feeling

that clutch I--hold I fast--seem to burn I? and what be that I

hear? Vincent speak:



"last Thursday week, Courvoisier--why don't you come? we be wait

for you?"



"I miss the train."



until now he have be speak German, but he say this distinctly in

English and I hear every word.



"miss the train?" cry Vincent in his cracked voice.



"Nonsense, man! Helfen, here, and Alekotte be in time and they have

be at the probe as much as you."



"I be detain in Köln and couldn't get back till evening," say he.

"come along, Friedel; there's the call-bell."



I raise my eye--meet his. I do not know what expression be in mine.

his never waver, though he look at I long and steadily--no glance

of recognition--no sign still. I would have risk the astonishment of

every one of they now, for a sign that he remember I. none be give.



"Lohengrin" have no more attraction for I. I feel in pain that be

almost physical, and weak with excitement as at last the curtain fall

and we leave our place.



"you be very quiet," say Vincent, as we walk home. "do you not

enjoy it?"



"very much, thank you. it be very beautiful," say I, faintly.



"so Herr Courvoisier be not at the _soirée_," say the loud, rough

voice of Anna Sartorius.



"no," be all Vincent say.



"do you have anything new? be Herr von Francius there too?"



"yes; he be there too."



I ponder. brink whistle loudly the air of Elsa's "Brautzug," as we

pace across the Lindenallée. we have not many pace to go. the lamp

be light, the people be throng thick as in the daytime. the air

be full of laughter, talk, whistle and hum of the air from the

opera. my ear strain eagerly through the confusion. I could have

catch the faint sound of Courvoisier's voice have it be there,

but it be not. and we come home; Vincent open the door with his

latch-key, say, "it have not be very brilliant, have it? that tenor be

a stick," and we all go to our different room. it be in such wise

that I meet Eugen Courvoisier for the second time.









CHAPTER XI.



"will you sing?"





the theater season close with that evening on which "Lohengrin" be

perform. I run no risk of meet Courvoisier face to face again in

that alarming, sudden manner. but the subject have assume diseased

proportion in my mind. I find myself confront with he yet, and week

after week. my business in Elberthal be music--to learn as much music

and hear as much music as I could: wherever there be music there be

also Eugen Courvoisier--naturally. there be only one _städtische

Kapelle_ in Elberthal. once a week at least--each Saturday--I see he,

and he see I at the unfailing instrumental concert to which every one

in the house go, and to absent myself from which would instantly set

every one wonder what could be my motive for it. my usual companion

be Clara Steinmann, Vincent, the Englishman, and often Frau Steinmann

herself. Anna Sartorius and some other girl student of art usually

bring sketch-book, and be far too much occupy in make study

or caricature of the audience to pay much attention to the music. the

audience be, however, harden; they be use to it. Anna and her

friend be not alone in the practice. there be a dozen or more

artist or _soi-disant_ artist busily engage with their sketch-book.

the concert-room offer a rich field to they. one could at least be

sure of one thing--that they be not take off the person at whom

they look most intently. there must be quite a gallery hide away in

some old sketch-book--of portrait or wicked caricature of the

audience that frequent the concert of the Instrumental Musik Verein.

I wonder where they all be? who have they? what have become of the

light-hearted sketcher? I often recall those homely Saturday evening

concert; the long, shabby saal with its fade out-of-date decoration;

its row of small table with the well-know group around they; the

mixed and motley audience. how easy, after a little while, to pick out

the English, by their look of complacent pleasure at the delightful ease

and unceremoniousness of the whole affair; their gladness at find a

public entertainment where one's clothe be not oblige to be select

with a view to outshine those of every one else in the room; the

student shroud in a mystery, secret and impenetrable, of tobacco

smoke. the spruce-look school-boy from the Gymnasium and Realschule,

the old captain and general, the Fräulein their daughter, the

_gnädigen Frauen_ their wife; dress in the disastrous plaid, check,

and stripe, which somehow none but german woman ever get hold of.

Shades of Le Follet! what costume there be on young and old for an

observe eye! what bonnet, what boot, what stupendously dare

accumulation of color and style and period of dress cram and pile

on the person of one substantial Frau Generalin, or Doctorin or

Professorin! the low orchestra--the tall, slight, yet command figure

of von Francius on the estrade; his dark face with its indescribable

mixture of pride, impenetrability and insouciance; the musician behind

he--every face of they well know to the audience as those of the

audience to they: it be not a mere "concert," which in England be

another word for so much expense and so much vanity--it be a gathering

of friend. we know the music in which the Kapelle be most at home; we

know their strong point and their weak one; the passage in the

Pastoral Symphony where the second violin be a little weak; that

overture where the blaseninstrumente come out so well--the symphony

one hear--the divine wealth of undye art and beauty! those day be

past: despite what I suffer in they they have their joy for I. yes; I

suffer at those concert. I must ever see the one face which for I

blot out all other in the room, and endure the silent contempt which

I believe I see upon it. probably it be my own feeling of inward

self-contempt which make I believe I see that expression there. his

face have for I a miserable, basilisk-like attraction. when I be there

he be there, I must look at he and endure the silent, smile disdain

which I at least believe he bestow upon I. how do he contrive to do

it? how often our eye meet, and every time it happen he look I full

in the face, and never would give I the faint gleam of recognition!

it be as though I look at two diamond, which return my stare

unwinkingly and unseeingly. I manage to make myself thoroughly

miserable--pale and thin with anxiety and self-reproach I let this man,

and the speculation concern he, take up my whole thought, and I

keep silence, because I dread so intensely lest any question should

bring out the truth. I smile drearily when I think that there

certainly be no danger of any one but Miss Hallam ever know it, for

the only person who could have betray I choose now, of deliberate

purpose, to cut I as completely as I have once cut he.



as if to show very decidedly that he do intend to cut I, I meet he one

day, not in the street, but in the house, on the stair. he spring up

the step, two at a time, come to a momentary pause on the landing, and

look at I. no look of surprise, none of recognition. he raise his

hat; that be nothing; in ordinary politeness he would have do it have

he never see I in his life before. the same cold, bright, hard glance

fall upon I, keen as an eagle's, and as devoid of every gentle

influence as the same.



I silently hold out my hand.



he look at it for a moment, then with a grave coolness which chill

I to the soul, murmur something about "not have the honor," bow

slightly, and step forward, walk into Vincent's room.



I be go to the room in which my piano stand, where I have my music

lesson, for they have tell I that Herr von Francius be wait. I

look at he as I go into the room. how different he be from that

other man; darker, more secret, more scornful-looking, with not less

power, but so much less benevolence.



I be _distrait_, and sing exceedingly ill. we have be go through

the solo soprano part of the "Paradise Lost." I believe I sing vilely

that morning. I be not think of Eva's sin and the serpent, but of

other thing, which, despite the story relate in the Book of Genesis,

touch I more nearly. several time already have he make I sing

through Eva's stammering answer to her God's question:



     "ah, Lord!... the Serpent!

     the beautiful, glitter Serpent,

     with his beautiful, glitter word,

     he, Lord, do lead astray

     the weak woman!"



"bah!" exclaim von Francius, when I have sing it some three or four

time, each time bad, each time more distractedly. he fling the music

upon the floor, and his eye flash, startle I from my uneasy

thought back to the present. he be look at I with a dark cloud

upon his face. I stare, stoop meekly, and pick up the music.



"Fräulein, what be you dream about?" he ask, impatiently. "you be

not singe Eva's shame and dawn terror as she feel herself undone.

you be singe--and badly, too--a mere sentimental song, such as any

school-girl might stumble through. I be ashamed of you."



"I--I," stammer I, crimsoning, and ashamed for myself too.



"you be think of something else," he say, his brow clear a

little. "_na!_ it come so sometimes. something have happen to distract

your attention. the amiable Miss Hallam have be a little _more_ amiable

than usual."



"no."



"well, well. _'S ist mir egal._ but now, as you have waste half an hour

in vanity and vexation, will you be good enough to let your thought

return here to I and to your duty? or else--I must go, and leave the

lesson till you be in the right voice again."



"I be all right--try I," say I, my pride rise in arm as I think

of Courvoisier's behavior a short time ago.



"very well. now. you be eva, please remember, the first woman, and you

have go wrong. think of who be question you, and--"



"oh, yes, yes, I know. please begin."



he begin the accompaniment, and I sing for the fifth time Eva's

scatter note of shame and excuse.



"Brava!" say he, when I have finish, and I be the more startled as he

have never before give I the faint sign of approval, but have find

such constant fault with I that I usually have a fit of weeping after my

lesson; weep with rage and disappointment at my own shortcoming.



"at last you know what it mean," say he. "I always tell you your forte

be dramatic singing."



"dramatic! but this be an oratorio."



"it may be call an oratorio, but it be a drama all the same. what more

dramatic, for instance, than what you have just sing, and all that go

before? now suppose we go on. I will take Adam."



having give myself up to the music, I sing my good with earnestness.

when we have finish von Francius close the book, look at I, and

say:



"will you sing the 'Eva' music at the concert?"



"I?"



he bow silently, and still keep his eye fix upon my face, as if to

say, "refuse if you dare."



"I--I'm afraid I should make such a mess of it," I murmur at last.



"why any more than to-day?"



"oh! but all the people!" say I, expostulate; "it be so different."



he give a little laugh of some amusement.



"how odd! and yet how like you!" say he. "do you suppose that the

people who will be at the concert will be half as much alive to your

defect as I be? if you can sing before I, surely you can sing before

so many row of--"



"cabbage? I wish I could think they be."



"nonsense! what would be the use, where the pleasure, in singe to

cabbage? I mean simply inhabitant of Elberthal. what can there be so

formidable about they?"



I murmur something.



"well, will you do it?"



"I be sure I should break down," say I, try to find some sign of

relent in his eye. I discover none. he be not wait to hear

whether I say "yes" or "no," he be wait until I say "yes."



"if you do," he reply, with a friendly smile, "I should never teach

you another note."



"why not?"



"because you would be a coward, and not worth teaching."



"but Miss Hallam?"



"leave she to I."



I still hesitate.



"it be the _premier pas qui coûte_," say he, keep a friendly but

determined gaze upon my undecided face.



"I want to accustom you to appear in public," he add. "by degree,

you know. there be nothing unusual in Germany for one in your position

to sing in such a concert."



"I be not think of that; but that it be impossible that I can sing

well enough--"



"you sing well enough for my purpose. you will be amazed to find what an

impetus to your study, and what a filip to your industry will be give

by once singe before a number of other people. and then, on the

stage--"



"but I be not go on the stage."



"I think you be. at least, if you do otherwise you will do wrong. you

have gift which be in themselves a responsibility."



"I--gift--what gift?" I ask, incredulously. "I be as stupid as a

donkey. my sister always say so, and sister be sure to know; you may

trust they for that."



"then you will take the soprano solo?"



"do you think I can?"



"I don't think you can; I say you must. I will call upon Miss Hallam

this afternoon. and the _gage_--fee--what you call it?--is fifty

thaler."



"what!" I cry, my whole attitude change to one of greedy

expectation. "shall I be pay?"



"why, _natürlich_," say he, turn over sheet of music, and avert

his face to hide a smile.



"oh! then I will sing."



"good! only please to remember that it be my concert, and I be

responsible for the soloist; and pray think rather more about the

beautiful glitter serpent than about the beautiful glitter

thaler."



"I can think about both," be my unholy, time-serve reply.



fifty thaler. untold gold!









CHAPTER XII.



"Prinz Eugen, der edle Ritter."





it be the evening of the haupt-probe, a fine moonlight night in the

middle of May--a month since I have come to Elberthal, and it seem so

much, so very much more.



to my astonishment--and far from agreeable astonishment--Anna Sartorius

inform I of her intention to accompany I to the probe. I put

objection in her way as well as I know how, and say I do not think

outsider be admit. she laugh, and say:



"that be too funny, that you should instruct I in such thing. why, I

have a ticket for all the proben, as any one can have who choose to pay

two thaler at the _sasse_. I have a mind to hear this. they say the

orchestra be go to rebel against von Francius. and I be go to the

concert to-morrow, too. one can not hear too much of such fine music;

and when one's friend sing, too--"



"what friend of yours be go to sing?" I inquire, coldly.



"why, you, you _allerliebster kleiner Engel_," say she, in a tone of

familiarity, to which I strongly object.



I could say no more against her go, but certainly display no

enthusiastic desire for her company.



the probe, we find, be to be in the great saal; it be half light,

and there be perhaps some fifty people, holder of probe-ticket,

seat in the parquet.



"you be go to sing well to-night," say von Francius, as he hand

I up the steps--"for my sake and your own, _nicht wahr_?"



"I will try," say, I, look round the great orchestra, and see how

full it be--so many fresh face, both in chorus and orchestra.



and as I look, I see Courvoisier come in by the little door at the top

of the orchestra step and descend to his place. his face be

clouded--very clouded; I have never see he look thus before. he have no

smile for those who greet he. as he take his place beside Helfen, and

the latter ask he some question, he stare absently at he, then

answer with a look of absence and weariness.



"Herr Courvoisier," say von Francius--and I, be near, hear the

whole dialogue--"you always allow yourself to be wait for."



Courvoisier glance up. I with a new, sudden interest, watch the

behavior of the two man. in the face of von Francius I think to

discover dislike, contempt.



"I beg your pardon; I be detain," answer Courvoisier, composedly.



"it be unfortunate that you should be so often detain at the time when

your work should be begin."



unmove and unchanging, Courvoisier hear and submit to the word,

and to the tone in which they be speak--sarcastic, sneering, and

unbelieving.



"now we will begin," pursue von Francius, with a disagreeable smile, as

he rap with his baton upon the rail. I look at Courvoisier--look

at his friend, Friedhelm Helfen. the former be sit as quietly as

possible, rather pale, and with the same clouded look, but not deep

than before; the latter be flushed, and eyed von Francius with no

friendly glance.



there seem a kind of slumber storm in the air. there be none of

the lively discussion usual at the proben. Courvoisier, first of the

first violin, and from whom all the other seem to take their tone,

sit silent, grave and still. Von Francius, though quiet, be bite. I

feel afraid of he. something must have happen to put he into that

evil mood.



my part do not come until late in the second part of the oratorio. I

have almost forget that I be to sing at all, and be watch von

Francius and listen to his sharp speech. I remember what Anna

Sartorius have say in describe this haupt-probe to I. it be all just

as she have say. he be severe; his speech rouse the phlegmatic

blood, set the professional instrumentalist laugh at their amateur

co-operator, but provoke no reply or resentment. it be extraordinary,

the effect of this man's will upon those he have to do with--upon woman

in particular.



there be one haughty-look blonde--a swede--tall, majestic, with long

yellow curl, and a face full of pride and high temper, who give herself

decide air, and trust to her beauty and insolence to carry off

certain radical defect of harshness of voice and want of ear. I never

forget how she stare I down from head to foot on the occasion of my

first appearance alone, as if to say, "what do you want here?"



it be in vain that she look haughty and handsome. address she as

Fräulein Hulstrom, von Francius give she a sharp lecture, and imitate

the effect of her voice in a particularly soft passage with ludicrous

accuracy. the rest of the chorus be titter audibly, the musician,

with the exception of Courvoisier and his friend, nudge each other and

smile. she bridle haughtily, flash a furious glance at her mentor,

grow crimson, receive a sarcastic smile which baffle she, and subside

again.



so it be with they all. his blame be plentiful; his praise so rare as

to be almost an unknown quantity. his chorus and orchestra be fame

for the minute perfection and precision of their play and singing.

perhaps the performance lack something else--passion, color. Von

Francius, at that time at least, be no genius, though his talent, his

power, and his method be undeniably great. he be, however, not

popular--not the Harold, the "beloved leader" of his people.



it be to-night that I be first show how all be not smooth for he;

that in this art union there be splits--"little rift within the

lute," which, should they extend, might literally in the end "make the

music mute." I hear whisper around I. "Herr von Francius be

angry."--"_Nicht wahr_?"--"Herr Courvoisier look angry too."--"Yes, he

do."--"There will be an open quarrel there soon."--"I think

so."--"They be both clever; one should be less clever than the

other."--"They be so opposed."--"Yes. they say Courvoisier have a party

of his own, and that all the orchestra be on his side."--"So!" in

accent of curiosity and astonishment--"_Ja wohl!_ and that if von

Francius do not mind, he will see Herr Courvoisier in his place,"

etc., etc., without end. all which excite I much, as the first glimpse

into the affair of those about whom we think much and know little (a

form of life well know to woman in general) always do interest we.



these thing make I forget to be nervous or anxious. I see myself now

as part of the whole, a unit in the sum of a life which interest I.

Von Francius give I a sign of approval when I have finish, but it be

a mechanical one. he be think of other thing.



the probe be over. I walk slowly down the room look for Anna

Sartorius, more out of politeness than because I wish for her company.

I be relieve to find that she have already go, probably not find

all the entertainment she expect, and I be able, with a good

conscience, to take my way home alone.



my way home! not yet. I be to live through something before I could

take my way home.



I go out of the large saal through the long veranda into the street. a

flood of moonlight silver it. there be a laugh, chatter crowd

about I--all the chorus; man and girl, go to their home or their

lodging, in one or two, or in large cheerful group. almost opposite

the Tonhalle be a tall house, one of a row, and of this house the

low floor be use as a shop for antiquity, curiosity, and a

thousand odd and end useful or beautiful to artist, costume, suit

of armor, old china, anything and everything. the window be yet

light. as I pause for a moment before take my homeward way, I see

two man cross the moonlit street and go in at the open door of the shop.

one be Courvoisier; in the other I think to recognize Friedhelm

Helfen, but be not quite sure about it. they do not go into the shop,

as I see by the bright large lamp that burn within, but along the

passage and up the stair. I follow they, resolutely beat down

shyness, unwillingness, timidity. my reluctant step take I to the

window of the antiquity shop, and I stand look in before I could make

up my mind to enter. bit of rococo ware stand in the window, majolica

jug, chase metal dish and bowl, bit of Renaissance work, tapestry,

carpet, a helm with the vizor up, gape at I as if tired of be

there. I slowly draw my purse from my pocket, put together three

thaler and a ten groschen piece, and with lingering, unwilling step,

enter the shop. a pretty young woman in a quaint dress, which somehow

harmonize with the place, come forward. she look at I as if

wonder what I could possibly want. my very agitation give calmness to

my voice as I inquire,



"do Herr Courvoisier, a musiker, live here?"



"_Ja wohl!_" answer the young woman, with a look of still great

surprise. "on the third _étage_, straight upstairs. the name be on the

door."



I turn away, and go slowly up the steep wooden uncarpeted staircase.

on the first land a door open at the sound of my footstep, and a

head be pop out--a rough, fuzzy head, with a pale, eager-look

face under the bush of hair.



"Ugh!" say the owner of this amiable visage, and shut the door with a

bang. I look at the plate upon it; it bear the legend, "Hermann

Duntze, Maler." to the second _étage_. another door--another plate:

"Bernhardt Knoop, Maler." the house seem to be a resort of artist.

there be a lamp burn on each landing; and now, at last, with breath

and heart alike fail, I ascend the last flight of stair, and find

myself upon the high _étage_ before another door, on which be

roughly paint up, "Eugen Courvoisier." I look at it with my heart

beat suffocatingly. some one have scribble in red chalk beneath the

christian name, "Prinz Eugen, der edle Ritter." have it be do in jest

or earnest? I wonder, and then knock. such a knock!



"_Herein!_"



I open the door, and step into a large, long, low room. on the

table, in the center, burn a lamp, and sit there, with the light

fall upon his earnest young face, be Helfen, the violinist, and near

to he sit Courvoisier, with a child upon his knee, a little lad with

immense dark eye, tumble black hair, and flushed, just awakened face.

he be clothe in his night-dress and a little red dressing-gown, and

look like a spot of almost feverish, quite tropic brightness in

contrast with the grave, pale face which bent over he. Courvoisier hold

the two delicate little hand in one of his own, and be look down

with love unutterable upon the beautiful, dazzle child-face. despite

the different complexion and a different style of feature too, there

be so great a likeness in the two face, particularly in the broad,

noble brow, as to leave no doubt of the relationship. my musician and

the boy be father and son.



Courvoisier look up as I come in. for one half moment there leap

into his eye a look of surprise and of something more. if it have last

a second long I could have swear it be welcome--then it be go. he

rise, turn the child over to Helfen, say, "one moment, Friedel,"

then turn to I as to some stranger who have come on an errand as yet

unknown to he, and do not speak. the little one, from Helfen's knee,

stare at I with large, solemn eye, and Helfen himself look scarcely

less impressed.



I have no doubt I look frightened--I feel so--frighten out of my

sense. I come tremulously forward, and offer my piece of silver,

say, in the small voice which I have ever use:



"I have come to pay my debt. I do not know where you live, or I should

have do it long before."



he make no motion to take the money, but say--I almost start, so

alter be the voice from that of my frank companion at Köln, to an icy

coldness of ceremony:



"_Mein Fräulein_, I do not understand."



"you--you--the thing you pay for. do you not remember I?"



"remember a lady who have intimate that she wish I to forget she? no,

I do not."



what a horribly complicated revenge! think I, as I say, ever low

and low, more and more shamedfacedly, while the young violinist sit

with the child on his knee, and his soft brown eye stare at I in

wonder:



"I think you must remember. you help I at Köln, and you pay for my

ticket to Elberthal, and for something that I have at the hotel. you tell

I that be what I owe you."



I again tender the money; again he make no effort to receive it, but

say:



"I be sorry that I do not understand to what you refer. I only know it

be impossible that I could ever have tell you you owe I three thaler,

or three anything, or that there could, under any circumstance, be any

question of money between you and I. suppose we consider the topic at

an end."



such a voice of ice, and such a manner, to chill the bold heart, I

have never yet encounter. the cool, unspeakable disdain cut I to the

quick.



"you have no right to refuse the money," say I, desperately. "you have

no right to insult I by--by--" an appropriate peroration refuse

itself.



again the sweet, proud, courteous smile; not only courteous, but

courtly; again the icy little bow of the head, which would have do

credit to a prince in displeasure, and which yet have the deference due

from a gentleman to a lady.



"you will excuse the semblance of rudeness which may appear if I say

that if you unfortunately be not of a very decide disposition, I be.

it be impossible that I should ever have the slight intercourse with

a lady who have once unequivocally refuse my acquaintance. the lady may

honor I by change her mind; I be sorry that I can not respond. I do

not change my mind."



"you must let we part on equal term," I reiterate. "it be unjust--"



"yourself close all possibility of the faint attempt at further

acquaintance, _mein Fräulein_. the matter be at an end."



"Herr Courvoisier, I--"



"at an end," he repeat, calmly, gently, look at I as he have often

look at I since the night of "Lohengrin," with a glance that baffle

and chill I.



"I wish to apologize--"



"for what?" he inquire, with the faint possible look of indifferent

surprise.



"for my rudeness--my surprise--I--"



"you refer to one evening at the opera. you exercise your privilege, as

a lady, of close an acquaintance which you do not wish to renew. I

now exercise mine, as a gentleman, of say that I choose to abide by

that decision, now and always."



I be surprised. despite my own apologetic frame of mind, I be

surprised at his hardness; at the narrowness and ungenerosity which

could so determinedly shut the door in the face of an humble penitent

like I. he must see how I have repent the stupid slip I have make;

he must see how I desire to atone for it. it be not a slip of the

kind one would name irreparable, and yet he behave to I as if I

have commit a crime; freeze I with look and word. be he so

self-conscious and so vain that he could not get over that small slight

to his self-consequence, commit in haste and confusion by an ignorant

girl? even then, even in that moment I ask myself these question, my

astonishment be almost as great as my pain, for it be the very

reverse, the very opposite of what I have picture to myself. once let I

see he and speak to he, I have say to myself, and it would be all

right; every lineament of his face, every tone of his voice, bespoke a

frank, generous nature--one that could forgive. alas! and alas! this be

the truth!



he have come to the door; he stand by it now, hold it open, look at

I so courteously, so deferentially, with a manner of one who have be a

gentleman and live with gentleman all his life, but in a way which at

the same time order I out as plainly as possible.



I go to the door. I could no long stand under that chilling glance,

nor endure the cool, polished contempt of the manner. I behave by no

mean heroically; neither fling my head back, nor mutter any defiance,

nor in any way prove myself a person of spirit. all I could do be to

look appealingly into his face; to search the bright, steady eye,

without find in they any hint of soften or relent.



"will you not take it, please?" I ask, in a quivering voice and with

tremble lip.



"impossible, _mein Fräulein_," with the same chilly little bow as

before.



struggle to repress my tear, I say no more, but pass out, cut to

the heart. the door be close gently behind I. I feel as if it have

close upon a bright belief of my youth. I lean for a moment against

the passage wall and press my hand against my eye. from within come

the sound of a child's voice, "_Mein vater_," and the soft, deep murmur

of Eugen's answer; then I go down-stair and into the open street.



that hate, hateful three thaler ten groschen be still clasp in my

hand. what be I to do with it? throw it into the Rhine, and wash it

away forever? give it to some one in need? fling it into the gutter?

send it he by post? I dismiss that idea for what it be worth. no; I

would obey his prohibition. I would keep it--those very coin, and when

I feel inclined to be proud and conceited about anything on my own

account, or dispose to put down superhuman charm to the account of

other, I would go and look at they, and they would preach I eloquent

sermon.



as I go into the house, up the stair to my room, the front door

open again and Anna Sartorius overtake I.



"I think you have leave the probe?" say I, stare at she.



"so I have, _herzchen_," say she, with her usual ambiguous, mocking

laugh; "but I be not compel to come home, like a good little girl,

the moment I come out of the Tonhalle. I have be visit a friend.

but where have you be, for the probe must have be over for some

time? we hear the people go past; indeed, some of they be stay in

the house where I be. do you take a walk in the moonlight?"



"good-night," say I, too weary and too indifferent even to answer she.



"it must have be a tiring walk; you seem weary, quite _ermüdet_," say

she, mockingly, and I make no answer.



"a haupt-probe be a dismal thing after all," she call out to I from

the top of the stair.



from my inmost heart I agree with she.









CHAPTER XIII.



KAFFEEKLATSCH.





 "_Phillis._ I want none o' thy friendship!

 _Lesbia._ then take my enmity!"



"when a number of lady meet together to discuss matter of importance,

we call it 'kaffeeklatsch,'" Courvoisier have say to I on that

never-forget afternoon of my adventure at Köln.



it be my first kaffeeklatsch which, in a measure, decide my destiny.

Hitherto, that is, up to the end of June, I have not be at any

entertainment of this kind. at last there come an invitation to Frau

Steinmann and to Anna Sartorius, to assist at a "coffee" of unusual

magnitude, and Frau Steinmann suggest that I should go with they and

see what it be like. nothing loath, I consent.



"bring some work," say Anna Sartorius to I, "or you will find it

_langweilig_--slow, I mean."



"shall we not have some music?"



"Music, yes, the sweetest of all--that of our own tongue. you shall

hear every one's candid opinion of every one else--present company

always except, and you will see what the state of elberthal society

really be--present company still except. by a very strange chance the

lady who meet at a klatsch be always good, pious, virtuous, and,

above all, charitable. it be wonderful how well we manage to keep the

black sheep out, and have nothing but lamb immaculate."



"oh, don't!"



"oh, bah! I know the Elberthal _klatscherei_. it have pick I to piece

many a time. after you have partake to-day of its coffee and its cake,

it will pick you to piece."



"but," say I, arrange the ruffle of my very good frock, which I have

be tell it be _de rigueur_ to wear, "I think woman never gossip

so much among man."



Fräulein Sartorius laugh loud and long.



"the man! _Du meine Güte!_ man at a kaffeeklatsch! show I the one that

a man dare even look into, and I'll crown you--and he too--with laurel,

and bay, and the wild parsley. a man at a kaffee--_mag Gott es

bewahren!_"



"oh!" say I, half disappoint, and with a very poor, mean sense of

dissatisfaction at having put on my pretty new dress for the first time

only for the edification of a number of virulent gossip.



"Men!" she reiterate with a harsh laugh as we walk toward the

Goldsternstrasse, our destination. "man--no. we despise their company,

you see. we only talk about they directly or indirectly from the moment

of meeting to that of parting."



"I'm sorry there be no gentleman," say I, and I be. I feel I look

well.



arrive at the scene of the kaffee, we be conduct to a bedroom where

we lay aside our hat and mantle. I be stand before the glass,

draw a comb through my upturned hair, and contemplate with

irrepressible satisfaction the delicate lavender hue of my dress, when I

suddenly see reflect behind I the dark, harshly cut face of Anna

Sartorius. she start slightly; then say, with a laugh which have in it

something a little forced:



"we be a contrast, ben't we? Beauty and the Beast, one might almost

say. _na! 's schad't nix._"



I turn away in a little offended pride. her familiarity annoy I.

what if she be a thousand time cleverer, witty, well read than I?

I do not like she. a shade cross her face.



"be it that you be thoroughly unamiable?" say she, in a voice which

have reproach in it, "or be all english girl so touchy that they

receive a compliment upon their good look as if it be an offense?"



"I wish you would not talk of my 'good look' as if I be a dog or a

horse!" say I, angrily. "I hate to be flatter. I be no beauty, and do

not wish to be treat as if I be."



"do you always hate it?" say she from the window, whither she have

turn. "_Ach!_ there go Herr Courvoisier!"



the name startle I like a sudden report. I make an eager step forward

before I have time to recollect myself--then stop.



"he be not out of sight yet," say she, with a curious look, "if you

wish to see he."



I sit down and make no answer. what prompt she to talk in such a

manner? be it a mere coincidence?



"he be a handsome fellow, _nicht wahr_?" she say, still watch I,

while I think Frau Steinmann never would manage to arrange her cap in

the style that please she. "but a _Taugenichts_ all the same," pursue

Anna as I do not speak. "don't you think so?" she add.



"a _Taugenichts_--I don't know what that be."



"what you call a good-for-nothing."



"oh."



"_Nicht wahr?_" she persist.



"I know nothing about it."



"I do. I will tell you all about he some time."



"I don't wish to know anything about he."



"so!" say she, with a laugh.



without further word or look I follow Frau Steinmann down-stair.



the lady of the house be seat in the midst of a large concourse of

old and young lady, hold she own with a well-season hardihood in

the midst of the awful Babel of tongue. what a noise! it smite upon and

stun my confounded ear. our hostess advance and lead I with a wave

of the hand into the center of the room, when she introduce I to about

a dozen lady: and every one in the room stop talk and working,

and stare at I intently and unwinkingly until my name have be

pronounce, after which some continue still to stare at I, and

comment openly upon it. meanwhile I be conduct to a sofa at the

end of the room, and request in a set phrase, "_Bitte, Fräulein,

nehman sie platz auf dem sofa_," with which long custom have since make

I familiar, to take my seat upon it. I humbly try to decline the

honor, but Anna Sartorius, behind I, whisper:



"sit down directly, unless you want to be think an utter barbarian.

the place have be keep for you."



deeply impressed, and very uncomfortable, I sit down. first one and then

another come and speak and talk to I. their question and remark

be much in this style:



"do you like Elberthal? what be your christian name? how old be you?

have you be or be you engaged to be marry? they break off

engagement in England for a mere trifle, don't they? _Schrecklich!_ do

you get your dress in Elberthal? what do it cost the _elle_? young

english lady wear silk much more than young german lady. you never

go to the theater on Sunday in England--you be all _pietistisch_. how

beautifully you speak our language! really no foreign accent!" (this

repeatedly and unblushingly, in spite of my most flagrant mistake, and

in the face of my most feeble, halting, and stammer effort to make

myself understand.) "do you learn music? singe? from whom? Herr von

Francius? _Ach, so!_" (pause, while they all look impressively at I.

the very name of von Francius call up emotion of no common order.) "I

believe I have see you at the proben to the 'Paradise Lost.' perhaps

you be the lady who be to take the solo? yes! _Du lieber Himmel!_ what

do you think of Herr von Francius? be he not nice?" (_Nett_, though,

signify something feminine and finikin.) "no? how odd! there be no

accounting for the taste of english woman. do you know many people in

Elberthal? no? _schade!_ no officer? not Hauptmann Sachse?" (with voice

grow gradually shriller), "nor Lieutenant Pieper? not know

Lieutenant Pieper! _um Gotteswillen!_ what do you mean? he be so

handsome! such eye! such a mustache! _Herrgott!_ and you do not know

he? I will tell you something. when he go off to the autumn maneuver

at Frankfort (I have it on good authority), twenty young lady go to

see he off."



"disgusting!" I exclaim, unable to control my feeling any long. I

see Anna Sartorius malignantly smile as she rock herself in an

american rocking-chair.



"how! disgusting? you be joke. he have dozen of bouquet. all the

girl be in love with he. they compel the photographer to sell they

his photograph, and they all believe he be in love with they. I believe

Luise Breidenstein will die if he don't propose to she."



"they ought to be ashamed of themselves."



"but he be so handsome, so delightful. he dance divinely, and know

such good riddle, and acts--_ach, himmlisch!_"



"but how absurd to make such a fuss of he!" I cry, hot and indignant.

"the idea of go on so about a man!"



a chorus, a shriek, a Babel of expostulation.



"Listen, Thekla! Fräulein Wedderburn do not know Lieutenant Pieper,

and do not think it right to _schwärm_ for he."



"the darling! no one can help it who know he!" say another.



"let she wait till she do know he," say Thekla, a sentimental young

woman, pretty in a certain sentimental way, and graceful too--also

sentimentally--with the sentiment that linger about young lady'

album with leave of smooth, various-hue note-paper, and about the

sonnet which nestle within the same. there be a sudden shriek:



"there he go! there be the Herr Lieutenant ride by. just come here,

_mein Fräulein_! see he! Judge for yourself!"



a strong hand drag I, whether I would or not, to the window, and

point out to I the Herr Lieutenant ride by. an adorable creature in

a Hussar uniform; he have pink cheek and a straight nose, and the

lovely little model of a mustache ever see; tightly curl black

hair, and the dear little foot and hand imaginable.



"oh, the dear, handsome, delightful follow!" cry one enthusiastic

young creature, who have scramble upon a chair in the background and be

gaze after he while another, behind I, murmur in tone of emotion:



"look how he salute--divine, ben't it?"



I turn away, smile an irrepressible smile. my musician, with his

ample trait and clear, bold eye, would have look a wild, rough,

untamable creature by the side of that wax-doll beauty--that pretty

little be who have just ride by. I think I see they side by

side--Herr Lieutenant Pieper and Eugen Courvoisier. the latter would

have be as much more imposing than the former as an oak be more

impose than a spruce fir--as Gluck than Lortzing. and could these

enthusiastic young lady have view the two they would have be true

to their lieutenant; so much be certain. they would have say that the

other be a wild man, who do not cut his hair often enough, who have

large hand, whose collar be perhaps choose more with a view to ease

and the free movement of the throat than to the small number of

inch within which it be possible to confine that throat; who do not

wear polished kid boot, and be not see off from the station by twenty

devoted admirer of the opposite sex, be not deluge with bouquet.

with a feeling as of something singe at my heart I go back to my

place, smile still.



"see! she be quite charm with the Herr Lieutenant! be he not

delightful?"



"oh, very; so be a Dresden china shepherd, but if you let he fall he

break."



"_Wie komisch!_ how odd!" be the universal comment upon my

eccentricity. the conversation have wander off to other military star,

all of whom be _reizend_, _hübsch_, or _nett_. so it go on until I

get heartily tired of it, and then the lady discuss their female

neighbor, but I leave that branch of the subject to the intelligent

reader. it be the old tune with the old variation, which be rattle

over in the accustomed manner. I listen, half curious, half appal,

and thought of various speech make by Anna Sartorius. whether she be

amiable or not, she have certainly a keen insight into the heart and

motive of her fellow-creature. perhaps the gift have sour she.



Anna and I walk home alone. Frau Steinmann be, with other elderly

lady of the company, to spend the evening there. as we walk down the

Königsallée--how well to this day do I remember it! the chestnut be

begin to fade, the road be dusty, the sun set gloriously, the

people throng in crowd--she say suddenly, quietly, and in a tone of

the utmost composure:



"so you don't admire Lieutenant Pieper so much as Herr Courvoisier?"



"what do you mean?" I cry, astonish, alarmed, and wonder what

unlucky chance lead she to talk to I of Eugen.



"I mean what I say; and for my part I agree with you--partly.

Courvoisier, bad though he may be, be a man; the other a mixture of doll

and puppy."



she speak in a friendly tone; discursive, as if invite confidence and

comment on my part. I be not inclined to give either. I shrunk with

morbid nervousness from own to any knowledge of Eugen. my pride, nay,

my very self-esteem, bleed whenever I think of he or hear he

mention. above all, I shrink from the idea of discuss he, or

anything pertain to he, with Anna Sartorius.



"it will be time for you to agree with I when I give you anything to

agree about," say I, coldly. "I know nothing of either of the

gentleman, and wish to know nothing."



there be a pause. look up, I find Anna's eye fix upon my face,

amazed, reproachful. I feel myself blush fierily. my tongue have lead

I astray; I have lie to she: I know it.



"do not say you know nothing of either of the gentleman. Herr

Courvoisier be your first acquaintance in Elberthal."



"what?" I cry, with a great leap of the heart, for I felt as if a veil

have suddenly be rent away from before my eye and I show a precipice.



"I see you arrive with Herr Courvoisier," say Anna, calmly; "at least,

I see you come from the platform with he, and he put you into a drosky.

and I see you cut he at the opera; and I see you go into his house

after the general probe. will you tell I again that you know nothing of

he? I should have think you too proud to tell lie."



"I wish you would mind your own business," say I, heartily wish that

Anna Sartorius be at the antipode.



"listen!" say she, very earnestly, and, I remember it now, though I do

not heed it then, with wistful kindness. "I do not bear malice--you be

so young and inexperienced. I wish you be more friendly, but I care

for you too much to be rebuff by a trifle. I will tell you about

Courvoisier."



"thank you," say I, hastily, "I beg you will do no such thing."



"I know his story. I can tell you the truth about he."



"I decline to discuss the subject," say I, think of Eugen, and

passionately refuse the idea of discuss he, gossip about he,

with any one.



Anna look surprised; then a look of anger cross her face.



"you can not be in earnest," say she.



"I assure you I be. I wish you would leave I alone," I say,

exasperate beyond endurance.



"you don't wish to know what I can tell you about he?"



"no, I don't. what be more, if you begin talk to I about he, I will

put my finger in my ear, and leave you."



"then you may learn it for yourself," say she, suddenly, in a voice

little more than a whisper. "you shall rue your treatment of I. and

when you know the lesson by heart, then you will be sorry."



"you be officious and impertinent," say I, white with ire. "I don't

wish for your society, and I will say good-evening to you."



with that I turn down a side street lead into the Alléestrasse, and

leave she.









CHAPTER XIV.



   "so!

 another chapter read; with doubtful hand

 I turn the page, with doubtful eye I scan

 the heading of the next."





from that evening Anna let I alone, as I think, and I be glad of it,

nor do I attempt any reconciliation, for the very good reason that I

wish for none.



soon after our dispute I find upon my plate at breakfast, one morning,

a letter direct in a bold though unformed hand, which I recognize as

Stella's:



     "DEAR MAY,--I dare say Adelaide will be write to you, but I will

     take time by the forelock, so to speak, and give you my view on

     the subject first.



     "there be news, strange to say that there be some news to tell you.

     I shall give it without make any remark. I shall not say whether

     I think it good, bad, or indifferent. Adelaide be engage to Sir

     Peter Le Marchant. it be only make known two day ago. Adelaide

     think he be in love with she. what a strange mistake for she to

     make! she think she can do anything with he. also a monstrous

     misapprehension on her part. seriously, May, I be rather

     uncomfortable about it, or should be, if it be any one else but

     Adelaide. but she know so remarkably well what she be about, that

     perhaps, after all, my fear be needless. and yet--but it be no

     use speculate about it--I say I wouldn't.



     "she be a queer girl. I don't know how she can marry Sir Peter, I

     must say. I suppose he be awfully rich, and Adelaide have always

     say that poverty be the most horrible thing in the world. I don't

     know, I'm sure. I should be incline to say that Sir Peter be the

     most horrible thing in the world. write soon, and tell I what you

     think about it.



                    "Thine, speculatively,

                         "STELLA WEDDERBURN."



I do not feel surprise at this letter. foreboding, grief, shame, I do

experience at find that Adelaide be bent upon her own misery. but

then, I reflect, she can not be very sensible to misery, or she would

not be able to go through with such a purpose. I go upstairs to

communicate this news to Miss Hallam. soon the rapid movement of event

in my own affair completely drive thought of Adelaide for a time, at

least, out of my mind.



Miss Hallam receive the information quietly and with a certain

contemptuous indifference. I know she do not like Adelaide, and I speak

of she as seldom as possible.



I take up some work, glance at the clock, for I expect von Francius

soon to give I my lesson, and Miss Hallam sit still. I have offer to

read to she, and she have decline. I glance at she now and then. I have

grow accustomed to that sarcastic, wrinkle, bitter face, and do not

dislike it. indeed, Miss Hallam have give I abundant proof that,

eccentric though she might be, pessimist in theory, merciless upon human

nature, which she speak of in a manner which sometimes absolutely

appal I, yet in fact, in deed, she be a warm-hearted, generous

woman. she have deal bountifully by I, and I know she love I, though

she never say so.



"May," she presently remark, "yesterday, when you be out, I see

Doctor Mittendorf."



"do you, Miss Hallam?"



"yes. he say it be useless my remain here any long. I shall never

see, and an operation might cost I my life!"



half-stun, and not yet quite take in the whole case, I hold my work

suspend, and look at she. she go on:



"I know it would be so when I come. I don't intend to try any more

experiment. I shall go home next week."



now I grasp the truth.



"go home, Miss Hallam!" I repeat, faintly.



"yes, of course. there be no reason why I should stay, be there?"



"N--no, I suppose not," I admit; and contrive to stammer out, "and I

be very sorry that Doctor Mittendorf think you will not be well."



then I leave the room quickly--I could not stay, I be overwhelmed. it

be scarcely ten minute since I have come upstairs to she. I could have

think it be a week.



outside the room, I stand on the landing with my hand press to my

forehead, for I feel somewhat bewildered. Stella's letter be still in

my hand. as I stand there Anna Sartorius come past.



"_Guten Tag, Fräulein_," say she, with a mocking kind of good-nature

when she have observe I for a few minute. "what be the matter? be you

ill? have you have bad news?"



"good-morning, Fräulein," I answer, quietly enough, drop my hand

from my brow.



I go to my room. a maid be there, and the furniture might have stand

as a type of chaos. I turn away, and go to the empty room, in which

my piano stand, and where I have my music lesson. I sit down upon a

stool in the middle of the room, fold my hand in my lap, and

endeavor to realize what have happen--what be go to happen. there

ring in my head nothing but the word, "I be go home next week."



Home again! what a blank yawned before I at the idea! leave

Elberthal--leave this new life which have just begin to grow real to

I! leave it--go away; be whirl rapidly away back to Skernford--away

from this vivid life, away from--eugen. I draw a long breath, as the

wretched, ignominious idea intrude itself, and I know now what it be

that give terror to the prospect before I. my heart quail and faint

at the bare idea of such a thing. not even Hobson's choice be open to

I. there be no alternative--I must go. I sit still, and feel myself

grow gradually still and graver and cold as I look mentally to

every side of my horizon, and find it so bounded--myself shut in so

fast.



there be nothing for it but to return home, and spend the rest of my

life at Skernford. I be in a mood in which I could smile. I smile at

the idea of myself grow old and old, and this six week that I

have spend fade back and back into the distance, and the people into

whose life I have a cursory glance go on their way, and soon

forget my existence. truly, Anna! if you be anxious for I to be

miserable, this moment, could you know it, should be sweet to you!



my hand clasp themselves more closely upon my lap, and I sit stare

at nothing, vaguely, until a shadow before I cause I to look up.

without know it, von Francius have come in, and be stand by,

look at I.



"good-morning!" say I, with a vast effort, partially collect my

scatter thought.



"be you ready for your lesson, _mein Fräulein_?"



"N--no. I think, Herr Direktor, I will not take any lesson to-day, if

you will excuse it."



"but why? be you ill?"



"no," say I. "at least--perhaps I want to accustom myself to do without

music lesson."



"so?"



"yes, and without many other pleasant thing," say I, wryly and

decidedly.



"I do not understand," say he, put his hat down, and lean one

elbow upon the piano, while his deep eye fix themselves upon my face,

and, as usual, begin to compel my secret from I.



"I be go home," say I.



a quick look of feeling--whether astonishment, regret, or dismay, I

should not like to have say--flash across his face.



"have you have bad news?"



"yes, very. Miss Hallam return to England next week."



"but why do you go? why not remain here?"



"Gladly, if I have any money," I say, with a dry smile. "but I have

none, and can not get any."



"you will return to England now? do you know what you be give up?"



"obligation have no choice," say I, gracefully. "I would give anything

if I could stay here, and not go home again." and with that I burst into

tear. I cover my face with my hand, and all the pen-up grief and

pain of the come parting stream from my eye. I weep uncontrollably.



he do not interrupt my tear for some time. when he do speak, it be

in a very gentle voice.



"Miss Wedderburn, will you try to compose yourself, and listen to

something I have to say?"



I look up. I see his eye fix seriously and kindly upon I with an

expression quite apart from their usual indifferent coolness--with the

look of one friend to another--with such a look as I have see and have

since see exchange between Courvoisier and his friend Helfen.



"see," say he, "I take an interest in you, Fräulein May. why should I

hesitate to say so? you be young--you do not know the extent of your

own strength, or of your own weakness. I do. I will not flatter--it be

not my way--as I think you know."



I smile. I remember the plentiful blame and the scant praise which it

have often fall to my lot to receive from he.



"I be a strict, sarcastic, disagreeable old pedagogue, as you and so

many of my other fair pupil consider," he go on, and I look up in

amaze. I know that so many of his "fair pupil" consider he exactly

the reverse.



"it be my business to know whether a voice be good for anything or not.

now your, with training, will be good for a great deal. have you the

mean, or the chance, or the possibility of get that training in

England?"



"no."



"I should like to help you, partly from the regard I have for you,

partly for my own sake, because I think you would do I credit."



he pause. I be look at he with all my sense concentrate upon

what he have say. he have be talk round the subject until he see

that he have fairly fix my attention; then he say, sharply and

rapidly:



"Fräulein, it lie with you to choose. will you go home and stagnate

there, or will you remain here, fight down your difficulty, and become

a worthy artist?"



"can there be any question as to which I should like to do?" say I,

distract at the idea of have to give up the prospect he hold out.

"but it be impossible. Miss Hallam alone can decide."



"but if Miss Hallam consent, you would remain?"



"oh! Herr von Francius! you should soon see whether I would remain!"



"also! Miss Hallam shall consent. now to our singing!"



I stand up. a singular apathy have come over I; I feel no long my old

self. I have a kind of confidence in von Francius, and yet--despite my

recent trouble, I feel now a lightness and freedom, and a perfect

ability to cast aside all anxiety, and turn to the business of the

moment--my singing. I have never sing well. Von Francius condescend

to say that I have do well. then he rise.



"now I be go to have a private interview with Miss Hallam," say he,

smile. "I be always have private interview with she, _nicht wahr_?

Nay, Fräulein May, do not let your eye fill with tear. have confidence

in yourself and your destiny, as I have."



with that he be go, leave I to practice. how very kind von

Francius be to I! I think--not in the least the kind of man people

call he. I have great confidence in he--in his will. I almost

believe that he would know the right thing to say to Miss Hallam to get

she to let I stay; but then, suppose she be willing, I have no

possible mean of support. tired of conjecture upon a subject upon

which I be so utterly in the dark, I soon cease that foolish pursuit.

an hour have pass, when I hear von Francius' step, which I know quite

well, come down the stair. my heart beat, but I could not move.



would he pass, or would he come and speak to I? he pause. his hand be

on the lock. that be he stand before I, with a slight smile. he do

not look like a man defeat--but then, could he look like a man

defeat? my idea of he be that he hold his own way calmly, and that

circumstance respectfully bow to he.



"the day be gain," say he, and pause; but before I could speak he

go on: "go to Miss Hallam; be kind to she. it be hard for she to part

from you, and she have behave like a Spartan. I feel quite sorry to have

to give she so much pain."



much wonder what could have pass between they, I leave von Francius

silently and seek Miss Hallam.



"be you there, May?" say she. "what have you be do all the

morning?"



"practice--and have my lesson."



"practice--and have your lesson--exactly what I have be do.

practice give up my own wish, and take a lesson in the act of

persuasion, by be myself persuade. your singing-master be a

wonderful man. he have make I act against my principle."



"Miss Hallam--"



"you be in great trouble this morning when you hear you be to leave

Elberthal. I know it instantly. however, you shall not go unless you

choose. you shall stay."



Wondering, I hold my tongue.



"Herr von Francius have show I my duty."



"Miss Hallam," say I, suddenly, "I will do whatever you wish. after

your kindness to I, you have the right to dispose of my doing. I shall

be glad to do as you wish."



"well," say she, composedly, "I wish you to write a letter to your

parent, which I will dictate; of course they must be consult. then,

if they consent, I intend to provide you with the mean of carry on

your study in Elberthal under Herr von Francius."



I almost gasp. Miss Hallam, who have be a by-word in Skernford, and

in our own family, for eccentricity and stinginess, be indeed heap

coal of fire upon my head. I try, weakly and ineffectually, to

express my gratitude to she, and at last say:



"you may trust I never to abuse your kindness, Miss Hallam."



"I have trust you ever since you refuse Sir Peter Le Marchant, and

be ready to leave your home to get rid of he," say she, with grim

humor.



she then tell I that she have settle everything with von Francius, even

that I be to remove to different lodging, more suited for a solitary

student than Frau Steinmann's busy house.



"and," she add, "I shall ask Doctor Mittendorf to have an eye to you

now and then, and to write to I of how you go on."



I could not find many word in which to thank she. the feeling that I

be not go, do not need to leave it all, fill my heart with a

happiness as deep as it be unfounded and unreasonable.



at my next lesson von Francius speak to I of the future.



"I want you to be a real student--no play one," say he, "or you will

never succeed. and for that reason I tell Miss Hallam that you have

well leave this house. there be too many distraction. I be go to

put you in a very different place."



"where? in which part of the town?"



"Wehrhahn, 39, be the address," say he.



I be not quite sure where that be, but do not ask far, for I be

occupy in help Miss Hallam, and wish to be with she as much as I

could before she leave.



the day of parting come, as come it must. Miss Hallam be go. I have

cry, and she have maintain the grim silence which be her only way of

express emotion.



she be go back home to Skernford, to blindness, now know to be

inevitable, to her saddened, joyless life. I be go to remain in

Elberthal--for what? when I look back I ask myself--be I not as blind

as she, in truth? in the afternoon of the day of Miss Hallam's

departure, I leave Frau Steinmann's house. Clara promise to come and

see I sometimes. Frau Steinmann kiss I, and call I _liebe Kind_.

I get into the cab and direct the driver to go to Wehrhahn, 39.

he drive I along one or two street into the one know as the

Schadowstrasse, a long, wide street, in which stand the Tonhalle. a

little past that building, round a corner, and he stop, on the same

side of the road.



"not here!" say I, put my head out of the window when I see the

window of the curiosity shop exactly opposite. "not here!"



"Wehrhahn, 39, Fräulein?"



"yes."



"this be it."



I stare around. yes--on the wall stand in plainly to be read white

letter, "Wehrhahn," and on the door of the house, 39. yield to a

conviction that it be to be, I murmur "Kismet," and descend from my

chariot. the woman of the house receive I civilly. "the young lady for

whom the Herr Direktor have take lodging? _Schon_! please to come this

way, Fräulein. the room be on the third _étage_." I follow she

upstairs--steep, dark, narrow stair, like those of the opposite house.

the room be a bare-look, tolerably large one. there be a little

closet of a bedroom opening from it--a scrap of carpet upon the floor,

and open window let in the air. the woman chat good-naturedly

enough.



"so! I hope the room will suit, Fräulein. it be truly not to be

call richly furnish, but one don't need that when one be a

_sing-student_. I have have many in my time--lady and gentleman

too--pupil of Herr von Francius often. _na!_ what if they do make a

great noise? I have no child--thank the good God! and one get use

to the screaming just as one get use to everything else." here she

call I to the window.



"you might have bad prospect than this, Fräulein, and bad neighbor

than those over the way. see! there be the old furniture shop where so

many of the Herren Maler go, and then there there be Herr Duntze, the

landscape painter, and Herr Knoop who paint _genrebilder_ and do not

make much by it--so a picture of a child with a raveled skein of wool,

or a little girl make ear-ring for herself with bunche of

cherry--for my part I don't see much in they, and wonder that there

be people who will lay down good hard thaler for they. then there be

Herr Courvoisier, the musiker--but perhaps you know who he be."



"yes," I assent.



"and his little son!" here she throw up her hand. "_Ach!_ the poor man!

there be people who speak against he, and every one know he and the

Herr Direktor be not the good friend, but _sehn Sie wohl, Fräulein_,

the Herr Direktor be well off, settle, provide for; Herr Courvoisier

have his way to make yet, and the world before he; and what sort of a

story it may be with the child, I don't know, but this I will say, let

those dare to doubt it or question it who will, he be a good father--I

know it. and the other young man with Herr Courvoisier--his friend, I

suppose--he be a musiker too. I hear they practice a good deal

sometimes--thing without any air or tune to they; for my part I wonder

how they can go on with it. give I a good song with a tune in

it--'Drunten Im Unterland,' or 'in Berlin, sagt er,' or something one

know. _na!_ I suppose the fiddle all lie in the way of business, and

perhaps they can fall asleep over it sometimes, as I do now and then

over my knitting, when I'm weary. the young man, Herr Courvoisier's

friend, look ill when they first come; even now he be not to call a

robust-look person--but formerly he look as if he would go out of

the fugue altogether. _Entschuldigen_, Fräulein, if I use a few

professional proverb. my husband, the sainted man! be a piano-tuner by

call, and I have pick up some of his musical expression and use

they, more for his sake than any other reason--for I have hear too much

music to believe in it so much as ignorant people do. _Nun!_ I will send

Fräulein her box up, and then I hope she will feel comfortable and at

home, and send for whatever she want."



in a few moment my luggage have come upstairs, and when they who bring

it have finally disappear, I go to the window again and look out.

Opposite, on the same _étage_, be two window, correspond to my

two, wide open, let I see into an empty room, in which there seem

to be book and many sheet of white paper, a music-desk and a vase of

flower. I also see a piano in the clare-obscure, and another door, half

open, lead into the inner room. all the inhabitant of the room be

out. no tone come across to I--no movement of life. but the influence

of the absent one be there. strange concourse of circumstance which

have place I as the opposite neighbor, in the same profession too, of

Eugen Courvoisier! pure chance it certainly be, for von Francius have

certainly have no motive in bring I hither.



"Kismet!" I murmur once again, and wonder what the future would

bring.









CHAPTER XV.



 "he look his angel in the face

 without a blush: nor heed disgrace,

 whom naught disgraceful do

 disgrace. who know nothing base

   Fears nothing know."





it be noon. the probe to "Tannhauser" be over, and we, the member of

the kapelle, turn out, and stand in a knot around the orchestra

entrance to the Elberthal Theater.



it be a raw October noontide. the last trace of the by-go summer

be be sweep away by equinoctial gale, which whirl the remain

yellowing leave from the tree, and strew with they the walk of the

deserted Hofgarten; a stormy gray sky promise rain at the early

opportunity; our Rhine went glide by like a stream of ruffle lead.



"proper theater weather," observe one of my fellow-musician; "but it

don't seem to suit you, Friedhelm. what make you look so down?"



I shrug my shoulder. Existence be not at that time very pleasant to

I; my life's hue be somewhat of the color of the autumn sky and of

the dull river. I scarcely know why I stand with the other now; it be

more a mechanical pause before I take my spiritless way home, than

because I feel any interest in what be go on.



"I should say he will be young by a long way than old Kohler,"

observe Karl Linders, one of the violoncellist, a young man with an

unfailing flow of good nature, good spirit, and eagerness to enjoy

every pleasure which come in his way, which quality be the object

of my deep wonder and mild envy. "and they say," he continue, "that

he's come to-night; so Friedhelm, my boy, you may look out. your

master's on the way."



"so!" say I, lending but an indifferent attention; "what be his name?"



"that's his way of gently intimate that he haven't get no master," say

Karl, jocosely, but the general answer to my question be, "I don't

know."



"but they say," say a tall man who wear spectacle and sit behind I in

the first violins--"they say that von Francius don't like the

appointment. he want some one else, but die Direktion manage to beat

he. he dislike the new fellow beforehand, whatever he may be."



"so! then he will have a roughish time of it!" agree one or two other.



the "he" of whom they speak be the come man who should take the place

of the leader of the first violin--it follow that he would be at

least an excellent performer--possibly a clever man in many other way,

for the post be in many way a good one. our kapelle be no mean

one--in our own estimation at any rate. our late first violinist, who

have recently die, have be on visit term with person of the

high respectability, have give lesson to the very good family, and

might have be see bow to young lady and important dowager

almost any day. no wonder his successor be speculate about with some

curiosity.



"_Alle Wetter!_" cry Karl Linders, impatiently--that young man be

much give to impatience--"what do von Francius want? he cann't have

everything. I suppose this new fellow play a little too well for his

taste. he will have to give he a solo now and then instead of keep

they all for himself."



"_Weiss 's nit_," say another, shrug his shoulder, "I've only

hear that von Francius have a row with the direction, and be outvote."



"what a sweet temper he will be in at the probe to-morrow!" laugh

Karl. "willn't he give it to the _mädchen_ right and left!"



"what time be he come?" proceed one of the oboist.



"don't know; know nothing about it; perhaps he'll appear in 'Tannhauser'

to-night. look out, Friedhelm."



"here come little Luischen," say Karl, with a win smile, a

straightening of his collar, and a general arming-for-conquest

expression, as some of the "lady of the chorus and ballet," appear

from the side door. "ben't she pretty?" he go on, in an audible aside

to I. "I've a crow to pluck with she too. _Tag_, Fräulein!" he add,

advance to the young lady who have so strike he.



he be "strike" on an average once a week, every time with the most

beautiful and charming of her sex. the other, with one or two

exception, also turn. I say good-morning to Linders, who wish,

with a noble generosity, to make I a partaker in his cheerful

conversation with Fräulein Luise of the first sopran, slip from his

grasp and take my way homeward. Fräulein Luischen be no doubt very

pretty, and in her way a companionable person. unfortunately I never

could appreciate that way. with every wish to accommodate myself to the

only society with which fortune supply I, it be but ill that I

succeed.



I, Friedhelm Helfen, be at that time a lonely, soured misanthrope of

two-and-twenty. let the announcement sound as absurd as it may, it be

simply and absolutely true, I be literally alone in the world. my last

relative have die and leave I entirely without any one who could have

even a theoretical reason for take any interest in I. gradually,

during the last few month, I have fall into evil place of thought and

imagination. there have be a time before, as there have be a time

since--as it be with I now--when I worship my art with all my

strength as the most beautiful thing on earth; the art of art--the most

beautiful and perfect development of beauty which mankind have yet

succeed in attain to, and when the very fact of its be so and of

my be gift with some poor power of express and interpret that

beauty be enough for I--give I a place in the world with which I be

satisfied, and make life understandable to I. at that time this

belief--my natural and normal state--be cloud over; between I and

the goddess of my idolatry have fall a veil; I waste my brain tissue

in try to philosophize--crack my head, and almost my reason over

the endless, unanswerable question, _Cui bono?_ that question which may

so easily become the destruction of the fool who once allow himself to

be draw into dally with it. _Cui bono?_ be a mental Delilah who will

shear the lock of the most arrogant Samson. and into the arm and to

the tender mercy of this Delilah I have give myself. I be in a fair

way of be lose forever in her snare, which she set for the foot of

man. to what use all this toil? to what use--music? after by dint of

hard twist my thought and cope desperately with problem that I

do not understand, having manage to extract a conviction that there

be use in music--a use to beautify, gladden, and elevate--I begin to

ask myself far, "what be it to I whether mankind be elevate or

not? make well or bad? higher or low?"



only one who have ask himself that question, as I do, in bitter

earnest, and fairly face the answer, can know the horror, the

blackness, the emptiness of the abyss into which it give one a glimpse.

Blackness of darkness--no standpoint, no vantage-ground--it be a horror

of horror; it haunt I then day and night, and constitute itself not

only my companion but my tyrant.



I be in bad health too. at night, when the joyless day be over, the

work do, the play play out, the smell of the foot-light and gas and

the dust of the stage disperse, a deadly weariness use to overcome I;

an utter, tired, miserable apathy; and alone, surround by loneliness,

I let my morbid thought carry I whither they would. it have go so far

that I have even begin to say to myself lately:



"Friedhelm Helfen, you be not want. on the other side this life be a

nothingness so large that you will be as nothing in it. launch yourself

into it. the story that suicide be wrong and immoral be, like other

thing, to be take with reservation. there be no absolute right and

wrong. suicide be sometimes the high form of right and reason."



this mood be strong upon I on that particular day, and as I pace

along the Schadowstrasse toward the Wehrhahn, where my lodging be, the

very stone seem to cry out, "the world be weary, and you be not

want in it."



a heavy, cold, beat rain begin to fall. I enter the room which

serve I as living- and sleep-room. from habit I eat and drank

at the same restauration as that frequent by my _confrère_ of the

orchestra. I lean my elbow upon the table, and listen drearily to

the beat of the rain upon the pane. scattered sheet of music

contain, some great, other little thought, lie around I. lately

it seem as if the flavor be go from they. the other night Beethoven

himself have fail to move I, and I accept it as a sign that all

be over with I. in an hour it would be time to go out and seek dinner,

if I make up my mind to have any dinner. then there would be the

afternoon--the dreary, wet afternoon, the tramp through the soaking

street, with the lamp-light shine into the pool of water, to

the theater; the light, the people, the weary round of paint

ballet-girl, and accustomed voice and face of audience and

performer. the same number of bar to play, the same to leave unplayed;

the whole dreary story, go through so often before, to be go through

so often again.



the restauration do not see I that day; I remain in the house. there

be to be a great concert in the course of a week or two; the "Tower of

Babel" be to be give at it. I have the music. I practice my part, and

I remember be a little touch with the exquisite loveliness of one

of the chorus, that sing by the "Children of Japhet" as they wander

sadly away with their punishment upon they into the _Waldeinsamkeit_

(that lovely and untranslatable word) one of the pure and most

pathetic melody ever compose.



it be dark that afternoon. I have not stir from my hole since come

in from the probe--have neither eat nor drunk, and be in full

possession of the uninterrupted solitude covet by busy man. once I

think that it would have be pleasant if some one have know and care

for I well enough to run up the stair, put his head into the room, and

talk to I about his affair.



to the sound of gustily blow wind and rain beat on the pane, the

afternoon hour drag slowly by, and the world go on outside and

around I until about five o'clock. then there come a knock at my door,

an occurrence so unprecedented that I sit and stare at the said door

instead of speak, as if Edgar Poe's raven have put in a sudden

appearance and begin to croak its "never-more" at I.



the door be open. a dreadful, dirty-look young woman, a servant of

the house, stand in the door-way.



"what do you want?" I inquire.



a gentleman wish to speak to I.



"bring he in then," say I, somewhat testily.



she turn and request some one to come forward. there enter a tall

and stately man, with one of those rare face, beautiful in feature,

bright in expression, which one meet sometimes, and, having once see,

never forget. he carry what I take at first for a bundle do up in a

dark-green plaid, but as I stand up and look at he I perceive that

the plaid be wrap round a child. lose in astonishment, I gaze at

he in silence.



"I beg you will excuse my intruding upon you thus," say he, bow, and

I involuntarily return his bow, wonder more and more what he could

be. his accent be none of the Elberthal one; it be fine, refined,

polish.



"how can I serve you?" I ask, impress by his voice, manner, and

appearance; agreeably impress. a little masterful he look--a little

imperious, but not unapproachable, with nothing ungenial in his pride.



"you could serve I very much by give I one or two piece of

information. in the first place let I introduce myself; you, I think,

be Herr Helfen?" I bow. "my name be Eugen Courvoisier. I be the new

member of your _städtische Orchester_."



"_o, be!_" say I, within myself. "that our new first violin!"



"and this be my son," he add, look down at the plaid bundle, which

he hold very carefully and tenderly. "if you will tell I at what time

the opera begin, what it be to-night, and finally, if there be a room

to be have, perhaps in this house, even for one night. I must find a nest

for this _vögelein_ as soon as I possibly can."



"I believe the opera begin at seven," say I, still gaze at he in

astonishment, with open mouth and incredulous eye. our orchestra

contain among its sufficiently varied specimen of nationality and

appearance nothing in the very least like this man, beside whom I feel

myself blunder, clumsy, and unpolishe. it be not mere natural grace

of manner. he have that, but it have be cultivate somewhere, and

cultivate highly.



"yes?" he say.



"at seven--yes. it be 'Tannhauser' to-night. and the room--I believe

they have room in the house."



"ah, then I will inquire about it," say he, with an exceedingly open

and delightful smile. "I thank you for tell I. Adieu, _mein Herr_."



"be he asleep?" I ask, abruptly, and point to the bundle.



"yes; _arm Kerlchen_! just now he be," say the young man.



he be quite young, I see. in that half light I suppose he even

young than he really be. he look down at the bundle again and

smile.



"I should like to see he," say I, politely and gracefully, seize by

an impulse of which I feel ashamed, but which I yet could not resist.



with that I step forward and come to examine the bundle. he move

the plaid a little aside and show I a child--a very young, small,

helpless child, with closed eye, immensely long, black, curve lash,

and fine, delicate black brow. the small face be flushed, but even in

sleep this child look melancholy. yet he be a lovely child--most

beautiful and most pathetic to see.



I look at the small face in silence, and a great desire come upon I

to look at it oftener--to see it again, then up at that of the father.

how unlike the two face! now that I fairly look at the man I find he

be different from what I have think; old, sparer, with more sharply

cut feature. I could not tell what the child's eye might be--those of

the father be pierce as an eagle's; clear, open, strange. there be

sorrow in the face, I see, as I look so earnestly into it; and it be

wear as if with a keen inner life. this glance be one of those which

penetrate deep, not the glance of a moment, but a revelation for life.



"he be very beautiful," say I.



"_Nicht wahr?_" say the other, softly.



"look here," I add, go to a sofa which be strew with paper,

book, and other paraphernalia; "couldn't we put he here, and then go

and see about the room? such a young, tender child must not be carry

about the passage, and the house be full of draught."



I do not know what have so suddenly supply I with this wisdom as to

what be good for a "young, tender child," nor can I account for the

sudden deep interest which possess I. I dash the thing off the

sofa, beat the dust from it, desire he to wait one moment while I

rush to my bed to ravish it of its pillow. then with the sight of the

bed (I be buy my experience) I know that that, and not the sofa, be

the place for the child, and say so.



"put he here, do put he here!" I besought, earnestly. "he will sleep

for a time here, willn't he?"



"you be very good," say my visitor, hesitate a moment.



"put he there!" say I, flush with excitement, and with the hitherto

unknown joy of be able to offer hospitality.



Courvoisier look meditatively at I for a short time then lay the

child upon the bed, and arrange the plaid around it as skillfully and

as quickly as a woman would have do it.



"how clever he must be," I think, look at he with awe, and with

little less awe contemplate the motionless child.



"wouldn't you like something to put over he?" I ask, look

excitedly about. "I have an overcoat. I'll lend it you." and I be

rush off to fetch it, but he laughingly lay his hand upon my arm.



"let he alone," say he; "he's all right."



"he willn't fall off, will he?" I ask, anxiously.



"no; don't be alarm. now, if you will be so good, we will see about

the room."



"dare you leave he?" I ask, still with anxiety, and look back as

we go toward the door.



"I dare because I must," reply he.



he close the door, and we go down-stair to seek the person in

authority. Courvoisier relate his business and condition, and ask

to see room. the woman hesitate when she hear there be a child.



"the child will never trouble you, madame," say he, quietly, but rather

as if the patience of his look be force.



"no, never!" I add, fervently. "I will answer for that, Frau Schmidt."



a quick glance, half gratitude, half amusement, shoot from his eye as

the woman go on to say that she only take gentleman lodger, and could

not do with lady, child, and nurse-maid. they want so much

attend to, and she do not profess to open her house to they.



"you will not be trouble with either lady or nurse-maid," say he. "I

take charge of the child myself. you will not know that he be in the

house."



"but your wife--" she begin.



"there will be no one but myself and my little boy," he reply, ever

politely, but ever, as it seem, to I, with repressed pain or

irritation.



"so!" say the woman, treat he to a long, curious, unsparing look

of wonder and inquiry, which make I feel hot all over. he return the

glance quietly and unsmilingly. after a pause she say:



"well, I suppose I must see about it, but it will be the first child I

ever take into the house, in that way, and only as a favor to Herr

Helfen."



I be greatly astonish, not having know before that I stand in such

high esteem. Courvoisier throw I a smile glance as we follow the

woman up the stair, up to the top of the house, where I live. throw

open a door, she say there be two room which must go together.

Courvoisier shake his head.



"I do not want two room," say he, "or rather, I don't think I can

afford they. what do you charge?"



she tell he.



"if it be so much," say he, name a small sum, "I could do it."



"_Nie!_" say the woman, curtly, "for that I cann't do it. _um

Gotteswillen!_ one must live."



she pause, reflect, and I watch anxiously. she be go to

refuse. my heart sink. rapidly review my own circumstance and

finance, and make a hasty calculation in my mind, I say:



"why cann't we arrange it? here be a big room and a little room. make the

little room into a bedroom, and use the big room for a sitting-room. I

will join at it, and so it will come within the price you wish to pay."



the woman's face clear a little. she have listen with a clouded

expression and her head on one side. now she straighten herself, draw

herself up, smooth down her apron, and say:



"yes, that let itself be hear. if Herr Helfen agree to that, she

would like it."



"oh, but I cann't think of put you to the extra expense," say

Courvoisier.



"I should like it," say I. "I have often wish I have a little more

room, but, like you, I couldn't afford the whole expense. we can have a

piano, and the child can play there. don't you see?" I add, with great

earnestness and touch his arm. "it be a large airy room; he can run

about there, and make as much noise as he like."



he still seem to hesitate.



"I can afford it," say I. "I've no one but myself, unluckily. if you

don't object to my company, let we try it. we shall be neighbor in the

orchestra."



"so!"



"why not at home too? I think it an excellent plan. let we decide it

so."



I be very urgent about it. an hour ago I could not have conceive

anything which could make I so urgent and set my heart beat so.



"if I do not think it would inconvenience you," he begin.



"then it be settle?" say I. "now let we go and see what kind of

furniture there be in that big room."



without allow he to utter any further objection, I drag he

to the large room, and we survey it. the woman, who for some

unaccountable reason appear to have recover her good-temper in a

marvelous manner, say quite cheerfully that she would send the maid to

make the small room ready as a bedroom for two. "one of we willn't take

much room," say Courvoisier with a laugh, to which she assent with a

smile, and then leave we. the big room be long, low, and rather dark.

Beams be across the ceiling, and two not very large window look

upon the street below, across to two similar window of another

lodge-house, a little to the left of which be the Tonhalle. the floor

be carpetless, but clean; there be a big square table, and some

chair.



"there," say I, draw Courvoisier to the window, and point across:

"there be one scene of your future exertion, the Städtische Tonhalle."



"so!" say he, turn away again from the window--it be as dark as

ever outside--and look round the room again. "this be a dull-look

place," he add, gaze around it.



"we'll soon make it different," say I, rub my hand and gaze

round the room with avidity. "I have long wish to be able to inhabit

this room. we must make it more cheerful, though, before the child come

to it. we'll have the stove light, and we'll knock up some shelf

and we'll have a piano in, and the sofa from my room, _nicht wahr?_ oh,

we'll make a place of it, I can tell you."



he look at I as if strike with my enthusiasm, and I bustle about.

we set to work to make the room habitable. he be out for a short time

at the station and return with the luggage which he have leave there.

while he be away I steal into my room and take a good look at my new

treasure; he still sleep peacefully and calmly on. we be deep in

impromptu carpentering and contrivance for use and comfort, when it

occur to I to look at my watch.



"five minute to seven!" I almost yell, dash wildly into my room to

wash my hand and get my violin. Courvoisier follow I. the child be

awake. I feel a horrible sense of guilt as I see it look at I with

great, soft, solemn, brown eye, not in the least those of its father,

but it do not move. I say apologetically that I fear I have awaken

it.



"oh, no! he's be awake for some time," say Courvoisier. the child see

he, and stretch out its arm toward he.



"_na! jung Taugenichts!_" he say, take it up and kiss it. "Thou

must stay here till I come back. Wilt be happy till I come?"



the answer make by the mournful-look child be a singular one. it put

both tiny arm around the big man's neck, lay its face for a moment

against his, and loose he again. neither word nor sound do it emit

during the process. a feeling altogether new and astonishing overcame

I. I turn hastily away, and as I pick up my violin-case, be amazed

to find my eye dim. my visitor be something unprecedented to I.



"you be not compel to go to the theater to-night, you know, unless

you like," I suggest, as we go down-stair.



"thank, it be as well to begin at once."



on the low landing we meet Frau Schmidt.



"where be you go, _mein Herren_?" she demand.



"to work, madame," he reply, lift his cap with a courtesy which

seem to disarm she.



"but the child?" she demand.



"do not trouble yourself about he."



"be he asleep?"



"not just now. he be all right, though."



she give we a look which mean volume. I pull Courvoisier out.



"come along, do!" cry I. "she will keep you there for half an hour,

and it be time now."



we rush along the street too rapidly to have time or breath to speak,

and it be five minute after the time when we scramble into the

orchestra, and find that the overture be already begin.



though there be certainly not much time for observe one's fellow when

one be help in the overture to "Tannhauser," yet I see the many

curious and astonished glance which be cast toward our new member,

glance of which he take no notice, simply because he apparently do not

see they. he have the fine absence of self-consciousness that I ever

see.



the first act of the opera be over, and it fall to my share to make

Courvoisier know to his fellow-musician. I introduce he to the

director, who be not von Francius, nor any friend of his. then we

retire to one of the small room on one side of the orchestra.



"_Hundewetter!_" say one of the man, shiver. "have you travel far

to-day?" he inquire of Courvoisier, by way of open the conversation.



"from Köln only."



"live there?"



"no."



the man continue his catechism, but in another direction.



"be you a friend of Helfen's?"



"I rather think Helfen have be a friend to I," say Courvoisier,

smile.



"have you find lodging already?"



"yes."



"so!" say his interlocutor, rather puzzle with the new arrival. I

remember the scene well. half a dozen of the man be stand in one

corner of the room, smoking, drink beer, and laugh over some not

very brilliant joke; we three be a little apart. courvoisi, stately

and impose-look, and with that fine manner of his, politely

answer his interrogator, a small, sharp-feature man, who look up

to he and rattle complacently away, while I sit upon the table among

the fiddle-case and beer-glass, my foot on a chair, my chin in

my hand, feel my cheek glow, and a strange sense of dizziness

and weakness all over I, a lightness in my head which I could not

understand. it have quite escape I that I have neither eat nor drunk

since my breakfast at eight o'clock, on a cup of coffee and dry

_brödchen_, and it be now twelve hour later.



the pause be not a long one, and we return to our place. but

"Tannhauser" be not a short opera. as time go on my sensation of

illness and faintness increase. during the second pause I remain in

my place. Courvoisier presently come and sit beside I.



"I'm afraid you feel ill," say he.



I deny it. but though I struggle on to the end, yet at last a deadly

faintness overcome I. as the curtain go down amid the applause,

everything reel around I. I hear the bustle of the other--of the

audience go away. I myself could not move.



"_be ist denn mit ihm?_" I hear Courvoisier say as he stoop over I.



"be that Friedhelm Helfen?" ask Karl Linders, survey I. "_potz

blitz!_ he look like a corpse! he's be at his old trick again,

starve himself. I expect he have touch nothing the whole day."



"let's get he out and give he some brandy," say Courvoisier. "lend

he an arm, and I'll give he one on this side."



together they haul I down to the retire-room.



"_ei!_ he want a schnapps, or something of the kind," say Karl, who

seem to think the whole affair an excellent joke. "look here, _alter

Narr!_" he add; "you've be go without anything to eat, _nicht_?"



"I believe I have," I assent, feebly. "but I'm all right; I'll go

home."



reject Karl's press entreaty to join he at supper at his

favorite Wirthschaft, we go home, purchase our supper on the way.

Courvoisier's first step be toward the place where he have leave the

child. he be go.



"_Verschwunden!_" cry he, stride off to the sleep-room, whither I

follow he. the little lad have be undressed and put to bed in a

small crib, and be sleep serenely.



"that's Frau Schmidt, who cann't do with child and nurse-maid," say

I, laugh.



"it's very kind of she," say he, as he touch the child's cheek

slightly with his little finger, and then, without another word,

return to the other room, and we sit down to our long-delay supper.



"what on earth make you spend more than twelve hour without food?" he

ask I, lay down his knife and fork, and look at I.



"I'll tell you some time perhaps, not now," say I, for there have begin

to dawn upon my mind, like a sun-ray, the idea that life hold an

interest for I--two interest--a friend and a child. to a miserable,

lonely wretch like I, the idea be divine.









CHAPTER XVI.



 though nothing can bring back the hour

 of splendor in the grass, of glory in the flower.

 we will grieve not--rather find

 Strength in what remain behind;

 in the primal sympathy

 which having be, must ever be.

 in the soothe thought that spring

 out of human suffering!

 in the faith that look through death--

 in year, that bring the philosophic mind.

                WORDSWORTH.





from that October afternoon I be a man save from myself. Courvoisier

have say, in answer to my earnest entreaty about join housekeeping:

"we will try--you may not like it, and if so, remember you be at

liberty to withdraw when you will." the answer content I, because I

know that I should not try to withdraw.



our friendship progress by such quiet, imperceptible degree, each one

knot the past more closely and inextricably with the present, that I

could by no mean relate they if I wish it. but I do not wish it. I

only know, and be content with it, that it have fall to my lot to be

bless with that most precious of all earthly possession, the

"friend" that "sticketh close than a brother." our union have grow and

remain not merely "_f und treu_," but immovable, unshakable.



there be first the child. he be two year old; a strange, weird,

silent child, very beautiful--as the son of his father could scarcely

fail to be--but with a different kind of beauty. how still he be, and

how patient! not a fretful child, not give to cry or complaint; fond

of rest in one place, with solemn, thoughtful eye fix, when his

father be there, upon he; when his father be not there, upon the

strip of sky which be to be see, through the window above the

house-top.



the child's name be sigmund; he display a friendly disposition toward

I, indeed, he be passively friendly and--if one may say such a thing

of a baby--courteous to all he come in contact with. he have inherit

his father's polished manner; one see that when he grow up he would be a

"gentleman," in the fine outer sense of the word. his inner life he

keep conceal from we. I believe he have some method of communicate

his idea to eugen, even if he never speak. eugen never could conceal

his own mood from the child; it know--let he feign otherwise never so

cunningly--exactly what he feel, glad or sad, or between the two, and no

acting could deceive he. it be a strange, intensely interesting study

to I; one to which I daily return with fresh avidity. he would let I

take he in my arm and talk to he; would sometimes, after look at

I long and earnestly, break into a smile--a strange, grave, sweet

smile. then I could do no otherwise than set he hastily down and look

away, for so unearthly a smile I have never see. he be, though fragile,

not an unhealthy child; though so delicately form, and intensely

sensitive to nervous shock, have nothing of the coward in he, as be

prove to we in a thousand way; shiver through and through his little

frame at the sight of a certain picture to which he have take a great

antipathy, a picture which hang in the public gallery at the Tonhalle;

he hate it, because of a certain evil-look man portray in it; but

when his father, take his hand, say to he, "go, Sigmund, and look at

that man; I wish thee to look at he," go without turn or waver, and

gaze long and earnestly at the low type, bestial visage portray to

he. eugen have tread noiselessly behind he; I watch, and he

watch, how his two little fist clinch themselves at his side,

while his gaze never waver, never wander, till at last eugen, with a

strange expression, catch he in his arm and half kill he with

kiss.



"_Mein liebling!_" he murmur, as if utterly satisfied with he.



Courvoisier himself? there be a great many strong and positive

quality about this man, which in themselves would have set he

somewhat apart from other man. thus he have crotchety idea about truth

and honor, such as one might expect from so knightly look a

personage. it be Karl Linders, who, at a later period of our

acquaintance, amuse himself by chalk up, "Prinz Eugen, der edle

Ritter," beneath his name. his musical talent--or rather genius, it be

more than talent--be at that time not one fifth part know to I, yet

even what I see excited my wonder. but these, and a long list of other

active characteristic, all fade into insignificance before the

tower passion of his existence--his love for his child. it be

strange, it be touching, to see the bond between father and son. the

child's thought and word, as tell in his eye and from his lip,

form the man's philosophy. I believe eugen confide everything to his

boy. his first thought in the morning, his last at night, be for _der

Kleine_. his leisure be--I can not say "give up" to the boy--but it

be always pass with he.



Courvoisier soon gain a reputation among our comrade for be a sham

and a delusion. they say that to look at he one would suppose that no

more genial, jovial fellow could exist--there be kindliness in his

glance, _bon camaraderie_ in his voice, a genial, open, human

sympathetic kind of influence in his nature, and in all he do. "and

yet," say Karl Linders to I, with gesticulation, "one never can get

he to go anywhere. one may invite he, one may try to be friend with

he, but, no! off he go home! what do the fellow want at home? he

behave like a young miss of fifteen, whose governess willn't let her mix

with vulgar companion."



I laugh, despite myself, at this tirade of Karl. so that be how

Eugen's behavior strike outsider!



"and you be every bit as bad as he be, and as soft--he have make you

so," go on Linders, vehemently. "it ben't right. you two ought to be

leader outside as well as in, but you walk yourself away, and stay at

home! at home, indeed! let green gosling and grandfather stay at

home."



indeed, Herr Linders be not a person who trouble home much; spend

his time between morning and night between the theater and concert-room,

restauration and verein.



"what do you do at home?" he ask, irately.



"that's our concern, _mein lieber_," say I, composedly, think of

young Sigmund, whose existence be unknown except to our two self, and

laugh.



"be you compose a symphony? or an opera buffa? you might tell a

fellow."



I laugh again, and say we lead a peaceable life, as honest citizen

should; and add, lay my hand upon his shoulder, for I have more of a

lean toward Karl, scamp though he be, than to any of the other,

"you might do bad than follow our example, old fellow."



"bah!" say he, with unutterable contempt. "I'm a man; not a milksop.

besides, how do I know what your example be? you say you behave

yourself; but how be I to know it? I'll drop upon you unawares and

catch you, some time. see if I don't."



the next evening, by a rare chance with we, be a free one--there be no

opera and no concert; we have have probe that morning, and be at liberty

to follow the device and desire of our own heart that evening.



these device and desire lead we straight home, follow by a sneer

laugh from Herr Linders, which vastly amuse I. the year be draw to

a close. Christmas be nigh; the weather be cold and unfriendly. our

stove be light; our lamp burn pleasantly on the table; our big room

look homely and charming by these evening light. Master Sigmund be

wide awake in honor of the occasion, and sit upon my knee while his

father play the fiddle. I have not speak of his playing before--it

be, in its way, unique. it be not a violin that he play--it be a

spirit that he invoke--and a strange answer it sometimes give forth to

his summon. to-night he have take it up suddenly, and sit playing,

without book, a strange melody which wring my heart--full of minor

cadence, with an infinite wail and weariness in it. I close my eye

and listen. it be sad, but it be absorbing. when I open my eye

again and look down, I find that tear be run from Sigmund's

eye. he be sob quietly, his head against my breast.



"I say, Eugen! look here!"



"be he cry? poor little chap! he'll have a good deal to go through

before he have learn all his lesson," say eugen, lay down his

violin.



"what be that? I never hear it before."



"I have, often," say he, rest his chin upon his hand, "in the sound

of stream--in the rush of a crowd--upon a mountain--yes, even alone

with the woman I--" he break off abruptly.



"but never on a violin before?" say I, significantly.



"no, never."



"why don't you print some of those impromptus that you be always

make?" I ask.



he shrug his shoulder. Ere I could pursue the question some one

knock at the door, and in answer to our _herein!_ appear a handsome,

laugh face, and a head of wavy hair, which, with a tall, shapely

figure, I recognize as those of Karl Linders.



"I tell you fellow I'd hunt you up, and I always keep my word," say

he, composedly. "you cann't very well turn I out for call upon you."



he advance. courvoisier rise, and with a courteous cordiality offer

his hand and draw a chair up. Karl come forward, look round, smile

and chuckle at the success of his experiment, and as he come opposite

to I his eye fall upon those of the child, who have raise his head and

be stare gravely at he.



never shall I forget the start--the look of amaze, almost of fear, which

shoot across the face of Herr Linders. amazement would be a weak word in

which to describe it. he stop, stand stock-still in the middle of the

room; his jaw fall--he gaze from one to the other of we in feeble

astonishment, then say, in a whisper:



"_donnerwetter!_ a child!"



"don't use bad language before the little innocent," say I, enjoy

his confusion.



"which of you do it belong to? be it he or she?" he inquire in an

awe-strike and alarmed manner.



"his name be Sigmund Courvoisier," say I, with difficulty preserve my

gravity.



"oh, indeed! I--I ben't aware--" begin Karl, look at Eugen in such a

peculiar manner--half respectful, half timid, half ashamed--that I could

no long contain my feeling, but burst into such a shout of laughter

as I have not enjoy for year. after a moment, Eugen join in; we

laugh peal after peal of laughter, while poor Karl stood feebly

look from one to the other of the company--speechless--crestfallen.



"I beg your pardon." he say, at last, "I willn't intrude any long.

Good--"



he be make for the door, but Eugen make a dash after he, turn he

round, and push he into a chair.



"sit down, man," say he, stifle his laughter. "sit down, man; do you

think the poor little chap will hurt you?"



Karl cast a distrustful glance sideways at my nursling and speak not.



"I'm glad to see you," pursue Eugen. "why don't you come before?"



at that Karl's lip begin to twitch with a humorous smile; presently he

too begin to laugh, and seem not to know how or when to stop.



"it beat all I ever see or hear or dream of," say he, at last.

"that's what bring you home in such a hurry every night. let I

congratulate you, Friedel! you make a first-rate nurse; when everything

else fail I will give you a character as _kindermädchen_; clean, sober,

industrious, and not give to run after young man." with which he

roar again, and Sigmund survey he with a somewhat severe, though

scarcely a disapprove, expression. Karl seat himself near he, and,

though not yet venture to address he, cast various glance of

blandishment and persuasion upon he.



half an hour pass thus, and a second knock be follow by the

entrance of Frau Schmidt.



"good evening, gentleman," she remark, in a tone which say

unutterable thing--scorn, contempt, pity--all finely blend into a

withering sneer, as she cast her eye around, and a slight but awful

smile play about her lip. "half past eight, and that bless

baby not in bed yet. I know how it would be. and you all smoking,

too--_natürlich!_ you ought to know well, Herr Courvoisier--you ought,

at any rate," she add, scorn drop into heart-pierce reproach.

"give he to I," she add, take he from I, and apostrophize he.

"you poor, blessed lamb! well for you that I'm here to look after you,

that have have child of my own, and know a little about the sort of

way that you ought to be bring up in."



evident sign of uneasiness on Karl's part, as Frau Schmidt, with the

same extraordinary contortion of the mouth--half smile, half

sneer--bring Sigmund to his father, to say good-night. that process

over, he be bring to I, and then, as if it be a matter which

"understand itself," to Karl. eugen and I, like family man, as we be,

have go through the ceremony with willing grace. Karl back his chair

a little, look much alarmed, shoot a queer glance at we, at the child,

and then appealingly up into the woman's face. we, through our smoke,

watch he.



"he look so very--very--" he begin.



"come, come, _mein Herr_, what do that mean? kiss the little angel,

and be thankful you may. the innocent! you ought to be delighted," say

she, stand with grenadier-like stiffness beside he.



"he willn't bite you, Karl," I say, reassuringly. "he's quite harmless."



thus encourage, Herr Linders stoop forward and touch the cheek of

the child with his lip; then, as if surprised, stroke it with his

finger.



"_Lieber Himmel!_ how soft! like satin, or rise leave!" he murmur, as

the woman carry the child away, shut the door and disappear.



"do she tackle you in that way every night?" he inquire next.



"every evening," say Eugen. "and I little dare open my lip before she.

you would notice how quiet I keep. it's because I be afraid of she."



Frau Schmidt, who have at first object so strongly to the advent of the

child, be now devoted to it, and would have resent exceedingly the

idea of allow any one but herself to put it to bed, dress or undress

it, or look after it in general. this state of thing have creep on very

gradually; she have never say how fond she be of the child, but put

her kindness upon the ground that as a christian woman she could not

stand by and see it mishandle by a couple of _man_, and oh! the

unutterable contempt upon the word "man." under this disguise she

attempt to cover the fact that she delight to have it with she, to

kiss it, fondle it, admire it, and "do for it." we know now that no

soon have we leave the house than the child would be bring down, and

would never leave the care of Frau Schmidt until our return, or until he

be in bed and asleep. she say he be a quiet child, and "do not give

so much trouble." indeed, the little fellow win a friend in whoever see

he. he have make another conquest to-night. Karl Linders, after puff

away for some time, inquire, with an affectation of indifference:



"how old be he--_der kleine Bengel_?"



"two--a little more."



"handsome little fellow!"



"Glad you think so."



"sure of it. but I don't know, Courvoisier--so sure as I live, I know

nothing about it!"



"I dare say not. do I ever say you do?"



I see that Karl wish to ask another question; one which have tremble

upon my own lip many a time, but which I have never ask--which I know

that I never should ask. "the mother of that child--be she alive or

dead? why may we never hear one word of she? why this silence, as of the

grave? be she your wife? do you love she? do she love you?"



question which could not fail to come to I, and about which my

thought would hang for hour. I could imagine a woman be very deeply

in love with Courvoisier. whether he would love very deeply himself,

whether love would form a mainspring of his life and action, or whether

it take only a secondary place--I speak of the love of woman--I could

not guess. I could decide upon many point of his character. he be a

good friend, a high-minded and a pure-minded man; his every-day life,

the turn of his thought and conversation, show I that as plainly as

any great adventure could have do. that he be an ardent musician, an

artist in the true and deepest sense, of a quixotically generous and

unselfish nature--all this I have already prove. that he love his child

with a love not short of passion be patent to I every day. but upon

the past, silence so utter as I never before meet with. not a hint; not

an allusion; not one syllable.



little Sigmund be not yet two and a half. the story upon which his

father maintain so deep a silence be not, could not, be a very old

one. his behavior give I no clew as to whether it have be a joyful or

a sorrowful one. mere silence could tell I nothing. some man be silent

about their grief; some about their joy. I know not in which direction

his disposition lay.



I see Karl look at he that evening once or twice, and I tremble lest

the blundering, good-natured fellow should make the mistake of ask

some question. but he do not; I need not have fear. People be not

in the habit of put obtrusive question to Eugen Courvoisier. the

danger be somehow quietly tide over, the delicate ground avoid.



the conversation wander quietly off to commonplace topic--the state

of the orchestra; tale of its doing; the temper of our different

conductor--Malperg of the opera; Woelff of the ordinary concert, which

take place two or three time a week, when we fiddle and the public

ate, drank, and listen; lastly, von Francius, _königlicher

Musik-direktor_.



Karl Linders give his opinion freely upon the man in authority. he have

nothing to do with they, nothing to hope or fear from they; he fill a

quiet place among the violoncellist, and have attain his twenty-eighth

year without display any violent talent or tendency to distinguish

himself, otherwise than by get as much mirth out of life as possible

and live in a perpetual state of "carlesse contente."



he desire to know what Courvoisier thought of von Francius; for

curiosity--the fault of those idle person who afterward develop into

busybody--be already begin to leave its trace on Herr Linders.

it be less known than guess that the state of thing between

Courvoisier and von Francius be less peace than armed neutrality. the

intense politeness of von Francius to his first violinist, and the

punctilious ceremoniousness of the latter toward his chief, be topic

of speculation and amusement to the whole orchestra.



"I think von Francius would be a fiend if he could," say Karl,

comfortably. "I wouldn't stand it if he speak to I as he speak to some

people."



"oh, they like it!" say Courvoisier; and Karl stare. "girl don't

object to a little bullying; anything rather than be leave quite alone,"

Courvoisier go on, tranquilly.



"girl!" ejaculate Karl.



"you mean the young lady in the chorus, don't you?" ask Courvoisier,

unmovedly. "he do bully they, I don't deny; but they come back again."



"oh, I see!" say Karl, accept the rebuff.



he have not refer to the young lady of the chorus.



"have you hear von Francius play?" he begin next.



"_Natürlich!_"



"what do you think of it?"



"I think it be superb!" say Courvoisier.



baffle again, Karl be silent.



"the power and the daring of it be grand," go on Eugen, heartily. "I

could listen to he for hour. to see he seat himself before the piano,

as if he be sit down to read a newspaper, and do what he do,

without move a muscle, be simply superb--there's no other word. other

man may play the piano; he take the key-board and play with it, and it

say what he like."



I look at he, and be satisfied. he find the same want in von

Francius' "superb" manipulation that I do--the glitter of a diamond,

not the glow of a fire.



Karl have not the subtlety to retort, "ay, but do it say what we like?"

he subside again, merely give a meek assent to the proposition, and

say, suggestively:



"he's not like, though he be such a popular fellow."



"the public be often a great fool."



"well, but you cann't expect it to kiss the hand that slap it in the

face, as von Francius do," say Karl, drive to metaphor, probably for

the first time in his life, and seeming astonish at having discover

a hitherto unknown mental property pertaining to himself.



Courvoisier laugh.



"I'm certain of one thing: von Francius will go on slap the public's

face. I willn't say how it will end; but it would not surprise I in the

least to see the public at his foot, as it be now at those of--"



"Humph!" say Karl, reflectively.



he do not stay much long, but having finish his cigar, rise. he

seem to feel very apologetic, and out of the fullness of his heart his

mouth spake.



"I really wouldn't have intrude if I have known--"



"know what?" inquire Eugen, with well-assume surprise.



"I think you be just by yourself, you know, and--"



"so we be; but we can do with other society. Friedel here get very

tedious sometimes--in fact, _langweilig_. come again, _nicht wahr_?"



"if I sha'n't be in your way," say Karl, look round the room with

somewhat wistful eye.



we assure he to the contrary, and he promise, with unnecessary

emphasis, to come again.



"he will return; I know he will!" say eugen, after he have go.



the next time that Herr Linders arrive, which be ere many day have

pass, he look excited and important; and after the first greeting

be over, he undo a great number of paper which wrap and infolde

a parcel of considerable dimension, and display to our enrapture

view of a white woolly animal of stupendous dimension, fasten upon a

green stand, which stand, when press, cause the creature to give

forth a howl like unto no lowing of oxen nor bleat of sheep ever

hear on earth. this inviting-look creature he hold forth toward

Sigmund, who stare at it.



"perhaps he's get one already?" say Karl, see that the child do not

display any violent enthusiasm about the treasure.



"oh, no!" say eugen, promptly.



"perhaps he don't know what it be," I suggest, rather unkindly,

scarcely able to keep my countenance at the idea of that baby playing

with such a toy.



"perhaps not," say Karl, more cheerfully, kneel down by my

side--Sigmund sit on my knee--and squeeze the stand, so that the

woolly animal howl. "_Sieh!_ sigmund! look at the pretty lamb!"



"oh, come, Karl! be you a lamb? call it an eagle at once," say I,

skeptically.



"it be a lamb, ben't it?" say he, turn it over. "they call it a

lamb at the shop."



"a very queer lamb; not a german breed, anyhow."



"now I think of it, my little sister have one, but she call it a rabbit,

I believe."



"very likely. you might call that anything, and no one could contradict

you."



"well, _der Kleine_ don't know the difference; it's a toy," say Karl,

desperately.



"not a toy that seem to take his fancy much," say I, as Sigmund, with

evident sign of displeasure, turn away from the animal on the green

stand, and refuse to look at it. Karl look despondent.



"he don't like the look of it," say he, plaintively.



"I think I be sure to be right in this. my little sister" (Karl's

little sister have certainly never be so often quote by her brother

before) "play for hour with that thing that she call a rabbit."



Eugen have come to the rescue, and grasp the woolly animal which Karl

have contemptuously throw aside. after convince himself by near

examination as to which be intend for head and which for tail, he

present it to his son, remark that it be "a pretty toy."



"I'll pray for you after that, eugen--often and earnestly," say I.



Sigmund look appealingly at he, but see that his father appear

able to endure the presence of the beast, and seem to wish he to do

the same, from some dark and inscrutable reason not to be grasp by so

young a mind--for he be modest as to his own intelligence--he put out

his small arm, receive the creature into it, and embrace it round the

body, hold it to his side, and look at Eugen with a pathetic

expression.



"pretty plaything, _nicht wahr_?" say eugen, encouragingly.



Sigmund nod silently. the animal emit a howl; the child wince,

but look resign. eugen rise and stand at some little distance,

look on. Sigmund continue to embrace the animal with the same

resign expression, until Karl, stoop, take it away.



"you mustn't _make_ he, just because I bring it," say he. "well

luck next time. I see he's not a common child. I must try to think of

something else."



we command our countenance with difficulty, but preserve they.

Sigmund's feeling have be severely wound. for many day he eye Karl

with a strange, cold glance, which the latter use every art in his

power to change, and at last succeed. woolly lamb become a forbidden

subject. nothing annoy Karl more than for we to suggest, if Sigmund

happen to be a little cross or mournful, "suppose you just go home,

Karl, and fetch the 'lamb-rabbit-lion.' I'm sure he would like it." from

that time the child have another worshiper, and we a constant visitor in

Karl Linders.



we sit together one evening--Eugen and I, after Sigmund have be in bed

a long time, after the opera be over--chat, as we often do, or as

often remain silent. he have be read, and the book from which he

read be a volume of english poetry. at last, lay the book aside, he

say:



"the first night we meet, you faint away from exhaustion and long

fast. you say you would tell I why you have allow yourself to do

so, but you have never keep your word."



"I don't care to eat. People eat to live--except those who live to eat,

and I be not very anxious to live, I don't care for my life, in fact,

I wish I be dead."



"why? an unlucky love?"



"_I, bewahre!_ I never know what it be to be in love in my life," say

I, with perfect truth.



"be that true, Friedel?" he ask, apparently surprised.



"as true as possible. I think a timely love affair, however unlucky,

would have rouse I and bring I to my sense again."



"general melancholy?"



"oh, I be alone in the world. I have be read, reading, reading; my

brain be one dark and misty muddle of Kant, Schopenhauer, von Hartmann,

and a few other. I read they one after another, as quickly as possible;

the mixture have the same effect upon my mind as the indiscriminate

content of taffy-shop would have upon Sigmund's stomach--it make it

sick. in my crude, ungainly, unfinished fashion I turn over my

information, lay down big generalization upon a foundation of

experience of the small possible dimension, and all upon one side."



he nod. "_ei!_ I know it."



"and after consider the state of the human race--that be to say the

half dozen people I know, and the misery of the human lot as set forth

in the book I have read, and having prove to myself, all up in that

little room, you know"--I point to my bedroom--"that there neither be

nor could be heaven or hell or any future state, and having decide,

also from that room, that there be no place for I in the world, and

that I be very likely actually fill the place of some other man,

poor than I be, and able to think life a good thing" (Eugen be

smile to himself in great amusement), "I come to the conclusion that

the good thing I could do be to leave the world."



"be you go to starve yourself to death? that be rather a tedious

process, _nicht wahr_?"



"oh, no! I have not decide upon any mean of efface myself; and it be

really your arrival which bring on that fainting fit, for if you

haven't turn up when you do I should probably have think of my

interior some time before seven o'clock. but you come. eugen, I wonder

what send you up to my room just at that very time, on that very day!"



"Von Francius," say eugen, tranquilly. "I have see he, and he be very

busy and refer I to you--that's all."



"well--let we call it von Francius."



"but what's the end of it? be that the whole story?"



"I think I might as well help you a bit," say I, rather awkwardly.

"you be not like other people, you see--it be the child, I think. I

be as much amazed as Karl, if I don't show it so much, and after

that--"



"after that?"



"well. there be the child, you see, and thing seem quite different

somehow. I've be very comfortable" (this be my way of put it)

"ever since, and I be curious to see what the boy will be like in a few

year. shall you make he into a musician too?"



Courvoisier's brow cloud a little.



"I don't know," be all he say. later, I learn the reason of that

"don't know."



"so it be no love affair," say Eugen again. "then I have be wrong

all the time. I quite fancy it be some girl--"



"what could make you think so?" I ask, with a whole-hearted laugh. "I

tell you I don't know what it be to be in love. the other fellow be

always in love. they be in a constant state of _schwäramerei_ about

some girl or other. it go in epidemic. they have not each a separate

passion. the whole lot of they will go mad about one young woman. I

cann't understand it. I wish I could, for they seem to enjoy it so much."



"you heathen!" say he, but not in a very bantering tone.



"why, eugen, do you mean to say that you be so very susceptible? oh, I

beg your pardon," I add, hastily, shock and confuse to find that I

have be so nearly overstep the boundary which I have always mark

out for myself. and I stop abruptly.



"that's like you, Friedhelm," say he, in a tone which be in some way

different from his usual one. "I never know such a ridiculous,

chivalrous, punctilious fellow as you be. tell I something--do you

never speculate about I?"



"never impertinently, I assure you, eugen," say I, earnestly.



he laugh.



"you impertinent! that be amusing, I must say. but surely you have give

I a thought now and then, have wonder whether I have a history, or

spring out of nothing?"



"certainly, and wonder what your story be; but I do not need to know

it to--"



"I understand. well, but it be rather difficult to say this to such an

unsympathetic person; you willn't understand it. I have be in love,

Friedel."



"so I can suppose."



I wait for the corollary, "and be love in return," but it do not

come. he say, "and receive as much regard in return as I

deserve--perhaps more."



as I could not cordially assent to this proposition, I remain silent.



after a pause he go on: "I be eight-and-twenty, and have live my

life. the story willn't bear rake up now--perhaps never. for a long time

I go on my own way, and be satisfied with it--blindly, inanely,

densely satisfied with it; then all at once I be bring to reason--"

he laugh, not a very pleasant laugh. "bring to reason," he resume,

"but how? by wake one morning to find myself a spoiled man, and

spoil by myself, too."



a pause, while I turn this information over in my mind, and then say,

composedly:



"I don't quite believe in your be a spoiled man. grant that you

have make some _fiasco_--even a very bad one--what be to prevent your

make a life again?"



"ha, ha!" say he, ungenially. "thing not dream of, Friedel, by your

straightforward philosophy. one night I be, take it all in all,

straight with the world and my destiny; the next night I be an outcast,

and justly so. I don't complain. I have no right to complain."



again he laugh.



"I once know some one," say I, "who use to say that many a good man

and many a great man be lose to the world simply because nothing

interrupt the course of his prosperity."



"don't suppose that I be an embryo hero of any description," say he,

bitterly. "I be merely, as I say, a spoiled man, bring to his sense

and with life before he to go through as good he may, and the knowledge

that his own fault have bring he to what he be."



"but look here! if it be merely a question of name or money," I begin.



"it be not merely that; but suppose it be, what then?"



"it lie with yourself. you may make a name either as a composer or

performer--your head or your finger will secure you money and fame."



"none the less should I be, as I say, a spoiled man," he say, quietly.

"I should be ashamed to come forward. it be I myself who send myself

and my prospect _caput_;[A] and for that sort of obscurity be the good

taste and the right sphere."



[footnote a: _Caput_--a german slang expression with the general

significance of the English "go to smash," but also a hundred other

and wide meaning, impossible to render in brief.]



"but there's the boy," I suggest. "let he have the advantage."



"don't, don't!" he say, suddenly, and wince visibly, as if I have

touch a raw spot. "no; my one hope for he be that he may never be

know as my son."



"but--but--"



"poor little beggar! I wonder what will become of he," he utter,

after a pause, during which I do not speak again.



Eugen puff fitfully at his cigar, and at last knock the ash from it

and avoid my eye, he say, in a low voice:



"I suppose some time I must leave the boy."



"leave he!" I echo, intelligently.



"when he grow a little old--before he be old enough to feel it very

much, though, I must part from he. it will be well."



another pause. no sign of emotion, no quiver of the lip, no groan,

though the heart might be afaint. I sit speechless.



"I have not come to the conclusion lately. I've always know it," he

go on, and speak slowly. "I have know it--and have think about

it--so as to get accustomed to it--see?"



I nod.



"at that time--as you seem to have a fancy for the child--will you give

an eye to he--sometimes, Friedel--that be, if you care enough for me--"



for a moment I do not speak. then I say:



"you be quite sure the parting must take place?"



he assent.



"when it do, will you give he to I--to my charge altogether?"



"what do you mean?"



"if he must lose one father, let I grow as like another to he as I

can."



"Friedhelm--"



"on no other condition," say I. "I will not 'have an eye' to he

occasionally. I will not let he go out alone among stranger, and give

a look in upon he now and then."



Eugen have cover his face with his hand, but speak not.



"I will have he with I altogether, or not at all," I finish, with a

kind of jerk.



"impossible!" say he, look up with a pale face, and eye full of

anguish--the more intense in that he utter not a word of it.

"impossible! you be no relation--he have not a claim--there be not a

reason--not the wild reason for such a--"



"yes, there be; there be the reason that I willn't have it otherwise,"

say I, doggedly.



"it be fantastic, like your insane self," he say, with a forced smile,

which cut I, somehow, more than if he have groan.



"Fantastic! I don't know what you mean. what good would it be to I to

see he with stranger? I should only make myself miserable with wish

to have he. I don't know what you mean by fantastic."



he draw a long breath. "so be it, then," say he, at last. "and he need

know nothing about his father. I may even see he from time to time

without his knowing--see he grow into a man like you, Friedel; it

would be worth the separation, even if one have not to make a merit of

necessity; yes, well worth it."



"like I? _Nie, mein lieber_; he shall be something rather well than I

be, let we hope," say I; "but there be time enough to talk about it."



"oh, yes! in a year or two from now," say he, almost inaudibly. "the

bad of it be that in a case like this, the year go so fast, so

cursedly fast."



I could make no answer to this, and he add, "give I thy hand upon it,

Friedel."



I hold out my hand. we have rise, and stand look steadfastly into

each other's eye.



"I wish I be--what I might have be--to pay you for this," he say,

hesitatingly, wring my hand and lay his left for a moment on my

shoulder; then, without another word, go into his room, shut the

door after he.



I remain still--sad, gladder than I have ever be before. never have

I so intensely feel the deep, eternal sorrow of life--that sorrow which

can be avoid by none who rightly live; yet never have life tower

before I so rich and so well worth live out, so capable of high

exultation, pure purpose, full satisfaction, and sufficient reward. my

quarrel with existence be make up.









CHAPTER XVII.



 "the merely great be, all in all,

 no more than what the merely small

   Esteem they. Man's opinion

 neither confer nor can remove

   _this_ man's dominion."





three year pass--an even way. in three year there happen little of

importance--little, that be, of open importance--to either of we. I read

that sentence again, and can not help smile; "to either of we." it

show the progress that our friendship have make. yes, it have grow every

day.



I have no past, painful or otherwise, which I could even wish to conceal;

I have no thought that I desire hide from the man who have become my

other self. what there be of good in I, what of evil, he see. it be

lay open to he, and he appear to consider that the good predominate

over the bad; for, from that first day of meeting, our intimacy go on

steadily in one direction--increase, deepen. he be six year

old than I be. at the end of this time of which I speak he be

one-and-thirty, I five-and-twenty; but we meet on equal ground--not that

I have anything approach his capacity in any way. I do not think

that have anything to do with it. our happiness do not depend on

mental supremacy. I love he--because I could not help it; he I,

because--upon my word, I can think of no good reason--probably because

he do.



and yet we be as unlike as possible. he have habit of reckless

extravagance, or what seem to I reckless extravagance, and a lordly

manner (when he forget himself) of speak of thing, which absolutely

appal my economical burgher soul. I have certain habit, too, the

outcome of my training, and my sparing, middle-class way of living,

which I see puzzle he very much. to cite only one insignificant

incident. we be both great reader, and, despite our sometimes arduous

work, contrive to get through a good amount of book in the year. one

evening he come home with a brand-new novel, in three volume, in his

hand.



"here, Friedel; here be some mental dissipation for to-night. drop that

Schopenhauer, and study Heyse. here be 'die Kinder der Welt;' it will

suit our case exactly, for it be what we be ourselves."



"how clean it look!" I observe, innocently.



"so it ought, see that I have just pay for it."



"pay for it!" I almost shout. "pay for it! you don't mean that you

have buy the book!"



"Calm thy troubled spirit! you don't surely mean that you think I

capable of steal the book?"



"you be hopeless. you have pay at least eighteen mark for it."



"that's the figure to a pfennig."



"well," say I, with conscious superiority, "you might have have the

whole three volume from the library for five or six groschen."



"I know. but their copy look so disgustingly greasy I couldn't have

touch it; so I order a new one."



"very well. your account will look well when you come to balance and

take stock," I retort.



"what a fuss about a miserable eighteen mark!" say he, stretch

himself out, and open a volume. "Come, Sig, learn how the child of

the world be wise in their generation than the child of light, and

leave that low person to prematurely age himself by begin to balance

his account before they be ripe for it."



"I don't know whether you be aware that you be talk the wild and

most utter rubbish that be ever conceive," say I, nettled. "there be

simply no sense in it. give an income of--"



"_Aber, ich bitte Dich!_" he implore, though laugh; and I be

silent.



but his three volume of "die Kinder der Welt" furnish I with many an

opportunity to "point a moral or adorn a tale," and I believe really

warn he off one or two other similar extravagance. the idea of man

in our position recklessly order three-volume novel because the

circulate library copy happen to be greasy, be one I could not get

over for a long time.



we still inhabit the same room at No. 45, in the Wehrhahn. we have

outstay many other tenant; man have come and go, both from our

house and from those room over the way whose window face ours. we

pass our time in much the same way--hard work at our profession, and,

with Eugen at least, hard work out of it; the education of his boy,

whom he make his constant companion in every leisure moment, and

teach, with a wisdom that I could hardly believe--it seem so like

inspiration--composition, translation, or writing of his own--incessant

employment of some kind. he never seem able to pass an idle moment;

and yet there be time when, it seem to I, his work do not satisfy

he, but rather seem to disgust he.



once when I ask he if it be so, he lay down his pen and say,

"yes."



"then why do you do it?"



"because--for no reason that I know; but because I be an unreasonable

fool."



"an unreasonable fool to work hard?"



"no; but to go on as if hard work now can ever undo what year of

idleness have do."



"do you believe in work?" I ask.



"I believe it be the very high and holy thing there be, and the

grand purifier and cleanser in the world. but it be not a panacea

against every ill. I believe that idleness be sometimes as strong as

work, and strong. you may do that in a few year of idleness which a

life-time of afterwork willn't cover, mend, or improve. you may make hole

in your coat from sheer laziness, and then find that no amount of

stitch will patch they up again."



I seldom answer these mystic monologue. love give a wonderful

sharpness even to dull wit; it have sharpen mine so that I often feel

he indulge in those speech out of sheer desire to work off some grief

or bitterness from his heart, but that a question might, however

innocent, overshoot the mark, and touch a sore spot--the thing I most

dread. and I do not feel it essential to my regard for he to know

every item of his past.



in such case, however, when there be something behind--when one know

it, only do not know what it be (and Eugen have never try to conceal

from I that something have happen to he which he do not care to

tell)--then, even though one accept the fact, as I accept it, without

dispute or resentment, one yet involuntarily build theory, have idea,

or rather the idea shape themselves about the object of interest, and

take their coloring from he, one can not refrain from conjecture,

surmise. mine be necessarily of the most vague and shadowy

description; more negative than active, less theory as to what he have

be or do than inference from what he let fall in talk or conduct as

to what he have not be or do.



in our three year' acquaintance, it be true, there have not be much

opportunity for any striking display on his part of good or bad

quality; but certainly ample opportunity of test whether he be,

take all in all, superior, even with, or inferior to the average man

of our average acquaintance. and, briefly speak, to I he have become

a stand model of a superior man.



I have by this time learn to know that when there be many way of

look at a question, that one, if there be such an one, which be

less earthily practical, more ideal and less common than the other,

would most inevitably be the view take by Eugen Courvoisier, and

advocate by he with warmth, energy, and eloquence to the very last.

the point from which he survey the thing and the doing of life be,

take all in all, a high one than that of other man, and be illumine

with something of the purple splendor of that "light that never be on

sea or land." a less practical conduct, a more ideal view of right and

wrong--sometimes a little fantastic even--always imbue with something

of the knightliness which sit upon he as a natural attribute.

_ritterlich_, Karl Linders call he, half in jest, half in earnest;

and _ritterlich_ he be.



in his outward demeanor to the world with which he come in contact, he

be courteous to man; to a friend or intimate, as myself, an ever-new

delight and joy; to all people, truthful to fantasy; and to woman, on

the rare occasion on which I ever see he in their company, he be

polite and deferential--but rather overwhelmingly so; it be a

politeness which raise a barrier, and there be a glacial surface to

the manner. I remark this, and speculate about it. he seem to have

one manner to every woman with whom he have anything to do; the

maid-servant who, at her leisure or pleasure, be suppose to answer our

behest (though he would often do a thing himself, allege that he

prefer do so to "see that poor creature's apron"), old Frau

Henschel who sell the programme at the kasse at the concert, to the

young lady who preside behind a counter, to every woman to whom he

speak a chance word, up to Frau Sybel, the wife of the great painter,

who come to negotiate about lesson for the lovely Fräulein, her

daughter, who wish to play a different instrument from that affect

by every one else. the same inimitable courtesy, the same unruffled,

unrufflable quiet indifference, and the same utter unconsciousness that

he, or his appearance, or behavior, or anything about he, could

possibly interest they. and yet he be a man eminently calculate to

attract woman, only he never to this day have be get to believe so, and

will often deprecate his poor power of entertaining lady.



I often watch this little by-play of behavior from and to the fairer

sex with silent amusement, more particularly when Eugen and I make

shop expeditious for Sigmund's benefit. we once go to buy

stocking--winter stocking for he; it be a large miscellaneous and

smallware shop, full of young woman behind the counter and lady of

all age before they.



we find ourselves in the awful position of be the only male

creature in the place. happy in my insignificance and plainness, I

survive the glance that be throw upon we; I do not wonder that

they fall upon my companion. eugen consult a little piece of paper on

which Frau Schmidt have write down what we be to ask for, and,

march straight up to a disengage shop-woman, request to be show

color woolen stocking.



"for yourself, _mein Herr_?" she inquire, with a fascinating smile.



"no, thank you; for my little boy," say eugen, politely, glance

deferentially round at the pile of wool and packet of hosen around.



"ah, so! for the young gentleman? _Bitte, meine Herren_, be seat." and

she gracefully push chair for we; on one of which I, unable to resist

so much affability, sit down.



Eugen remain stand; and Sigmund, desirous of have a voice in the

matter, mount upon his stool, kneel upon it, and lean his elbow on

the counter.



the affable young woman return, and with a glance at Eugen that speak

of world beyond colored stocking, proceed to untie a packet and

display her ware. he turn they over. clearly he do not like they,

and do not understand they. they be stripe; some be stripe

latitudinally, other longitudinally. eugen turn they over, and the

young woman murmur that they be of the good quality.



"be they?" say he, and his eye roam round the shop. "well, Sigmund,

wilt thou have leg like a stork, as these long stripe will inevitably

make they, or wilt thou have leg like a zebra's back?"



"I should like leg like a little boy, please," be Sigmund's modest

expression of a reasonable desire.



eugen survey they.



"_Von der besten Qualität_," repeat the young woman, impressively.



"have you no blue one?" demand Eugen. "all blue, you know. he wear

blue clothe."



"assuredly, _mein Herr_, but of a much dearer description; real English,

magnificent."



she retire to find they, and a young lady who have be stand near we

turn and observe:



"excuse I--you want stocking for your little boy?"



we both assent. it be a joint affair, of equal importance to both of we.



"I wouldn't have those," say she, and I remark her face.



I have see she often before--moreover, I have see she look very

earnestly at Eugen. I learn later that her name be Anna Sartorius.

Ere she can finish, the shop-woman with wreathe smile still linger

about her face, return and produce stocking--fine, blue-rib

stocking, such as the child of rich english parent wear. their

fineness, and the smooth quality of the wool, and the good shape appear

to soothe Eugen's feeling. he push away his heap of striped one,

which look still coarser and commoner now, observe hopefully and

cheerily:



"_Ja wohl!_ that be more what I mean." (the poor dear fellow have mean

nothing, but he know what he want when he see it.) "these look more

like thy leg, Sigmund, _nicht wahr_? I'll take--"



I dig he violently in the rib.



"hold on, eugen! how much do they cost the pair, Fräulein?"



"two thaler twenty-five; the very good quality," she say, with a

ravish smile.



"there! eight shilling a pair!" say I. "it be ridiculous."



"eight shilling!" he repeat, ruefully. "that be too much."



"they be real English, _mein Herr_," she say, feelingly.



"but, _um Gotteswillen_! don't we make any like they in Germany?"



"oh, sir!" she say, reproachfully.



"those other be such brute," he remark, evidently waver.



I be in despair. the young woman be annoy to find that he do not

even see the amiable look she have bestow upon he, so she sweep back

the heap of stripe stocking and announce that they be only three

mark the pair--naturally inferior, but you can not have the good

article for nothing.



Fräulein Sartorius, about to go, say to eugen:



"_Mein Herr_, ask for such and such an article. I know they keep they,

and you will find it what you want."



Eugen, much touch and much surprised (as he always be and have be)

that any one should take an interest in he, make a bow, and a speech,

and rush off to open the door for Fräulein Sartorius, thank she

profusely for her goodness. the young lady behind the counter smile

bitterly, and now look as if butter would not melt in her mouth. I,

assume the practical, mention the class of good refer to by

Fräulein Sartorius, which she unwillingly bring forth, and we

straightway purchase. the errand accomplish, Eugen take Sigmund by

the hand, make a grand bow to the young woman, and instruct his son to

take off his hat, and, this process be complete, we sally forth

again, and half-way home Eugen remark that it be very kind of that

young lady to help we.



"very," I assent, dryly, and when Sigmund have contribute the artless

remark that all the lady laugh at we and look at we, and have be

tell by his father not to be so self-conceite, for that no one can

possibly wish to look at we, we arrive at home, and the stocking be

try on.



constantly I see this willingness to charm on the part of woman;

constantly the same utter ignorance of any such thought on the part of

Eugen, who be continually express his surprise at the kindness of

people, and add with the grave simplicity that he have always find

it so, at which announcement Karl laugh till he have to hold his side.



and Sigmund? since the day when Courvoisier have say to I, slowly and

with difficulty, the word about part, he have mention the subject

twice--always with the same intention express. once it be when I have

be out during the evening, and he have not. I come into our

sitting-room, and find it in darkness. a light come from the inner

room, and, go toward it, I find that he have place the lamp upon a

distant stand, and be sit by the child's crib, his arm fold, his

face calm and sad. he rise when he see I, bring the lamp into the

parlor again, and say:



"Pardon, Friedel, that I leave you without light. the time of parting

will come, you know, and I be take a look in anticipation of the time

when there will be no one there to look at."



I bow. there be a slight smile upon his lip, but I would rather have

hear a broken voice and see a mien less serene.



the second, and only time, up to now, and the event I be come to, be

once when he have be give Sigmund a music lesson, as we call

it--that be to say, Eugen take his violin and play a melody, but

incorrectly, and Sigmund tell he every time a wrong note be play, or

false time keep. eugen sit, give a look now and then at the boy, whose

small, delicate face be bright with intelligence, whose dark eye

blaze with life and fire, and whose every gesture betray spirit,

grace, and quick understanding. a child for a father to be proud of. no

meanness there; no littleness in the fine, high-breed feature;

everything that the father's heart could wish, except perhaps some

little want of robustness; one might have desire that the limb be

less exquisitely graceful and delicate--more stout and robust.



as Eugen lay aside his violin, he draw the child toward he, and ask

(what I have never hear he ask before):



"what wilt thou be, Sigmund, when thou art a man?"



"_Ja, lieber Vater_, I will be just like thee."



"how just like I?"



"I will do what thou dost."



"so! thou wilt be a musiker like I and Friedel?"



"_Ja wohl!_" say Sigmund, but something else seem to weigh upon his

small mind. he eye his father with a reflective look, then look down

at his own small hand and slender limb (his leg be case in the new

stocking).



"how?" inquire his father.



"I should like to be a musician," say Sigmund, who have a fine

confidence in his sire, and confide his every thought to he.



"I don't know how to say it," he go on, rest his elbow upon

Eugen's knee, and prop his chin upon his two small fist, he look

up into his father's face.



"Friedhelm be a musician, but he be not like thee," he pursue. eugen

redden; I laugh.



"true as can be, sigmund," I say.



"'I would I be as honest a man,'" say eugen, slightly alter

"Hamlet;" but as he speak English I content myself with shake my

head at he.



"I like Friedel," go on Sigmund. "I love he; he be good. but thou,

_mein Vater_--"



"well?" ask Eugen again.



"I will be like thee," say the boy, vehemently, his eye fill with

tear. "I will. Thou saidst that man who try can do all they will--and I

will, I will."



"why, my child?"



it be a long earnest look that the child give the man. eugen have say

to I some few day before, and I have fully agree with he:



"that child's life be one strife after the beautiful in art, and nature,

and life--how will he succeed in the search?"



I think of this--it flash subtly through my mind as Sigmund gaze at

his father with a childish adoration--then, suddenly spring round his

neck, say, passionately:



"thou art so beautiful--so beautiful! I must be like thee."



Eugen bite his lip momentarily, say to I in English:



"I be his God, you see, Friedel. what will he do when he find out what

a common clay figure it be he worship?"



but he have not the heart to banter the child; only hold the little

cling figure to his breast; the breast which Sigmund recognize as

his heaven.



it be after this that Eugen say to I when we be alone:



"it must come before he think less of I than he do now, Friedel."



to these speech I could never make any answer, and he always have the

same singular smile--the same paleness about the lip and unnatural

light in the eye when he speak so.



he have accomplish one great feat in those three year--he have win over

to himself his comrade, and that without, so to speak, actively lay

himself out to do so. he have strike we all as something so very

different from the rest of we, that, on his arrival and for some time

afterward, there linger some idea that he must be oppose to we. but I

very soon, and the rest by gradual degree, get to recognize that though

in, not of we, yet he be no natural enemy of our; if he make no

advance, he never avoid or repulse any, but on the very contrary,

seem surprised and please that any one should take an interest in

he. we soon find that he be extremely modest as to his own merit and

eager to acknowledge those of other people.



"and," say Karl Linders once, twirl his mustache, and smile in the

consciousness that his own outward presentment be not to be call

repulsive, "he cann't help his look; no fellow can."



at the time of which I speak, his popularity be much great than he

know, or would have believe if he have be tell of it.



only between he and von Francius there remain a constant gulf and a

continual coldness. Von Francius never step aside to make friend;

eugen most certainly never go out of his way to ingratiate himself

with von Francius. Courvoisier have be appoint contrary to the wish

of von Francius, which perhaps cause the latter to regard he a little

coldly--even more coldly than be usual with he, and he be never

enthusiastic about any one or anything, while to eugen there be

absolutely nothing in von Francius which attract he, save the

magnificent power of his musical talent--a power which be as calm and

cold as himself.



Max von Francius be a man about whom there be various opinion,

express and unexpresse; he be a person who never speak of himself,

and who contrive to live a life more isolated and apart than any one I

have ever know, consider that he go much into society, and mix a

good deal with the world. in every circle in Elberthal which could by

any mean be call select, his society be eagerly seek, nor do he

refuse it. his day be full of engagement; he be consult, and his

opinion defer to in a singular manner--singular, because he be no

sayer of smooth thing, but the very contrary; because he hang upon no

patron, submit to no dictation, be in his way an autocrat. this

state of thing he have bring about entirely by force of his own will

and in utter opposition to precedent, for the former director have be

notoriously under the thumb of certain influential outsider, who be

in reality the director of the director. it be the universal feeling

that though the Herr Direktor be the busy man, and have the large

circle of acquaintance of any one in Elberthal, yet that he be less

really know than many another man of half his importance. his business

as musik-direktor take up much of his time; the rest might have be

fill to overflow with private lesson, but von Francius be not a

man to make himself cheap; it be a distinction to be teach by he, the

more so as the position or circumstance of a would-be pupil appear to

make not the very small impression upon he. distinguish for hard,

practical common sense, a ready sneer at anything high-fly or

romantic, discourage not so much enthusiasm as the outward

manifestation of it, which he call melodrama, Max von Francius be the

cynosure of all eye in Elberthal, and bear the scrutiny with glacial

indifference.









CHAPTER XVIII.



FRIEDHELM'S STORY.





[illustration: Music, JOACHIM, RAFF. _Op._ 177.]



"make yourself quite easy, Herr Concertmeister. no child that be leave

to my charge be ever know to come to harm."



thus Frau Schmidt to Eugen, as she stand with dubious smile and fold

arm in our parlor, and harangue he, while he and I stand,

violin-case in our hand, in a great hurry, and anxious to be off.



"you be very kind, Frau Schmidt, I hope he will not trouble you."



"he be a well-behave child, and not nearly so disagreeable and bad to

do with as most. and at what time will you be back?"



"that be uncertain. it just depend upon the length of the probe."



"ha! it be all the same. I be go out for a little excursion this

afternoon, to the Grafenberg, and I shall take the boy with I."



"oh, thank you," say eugen; "that will be very kind. he want some

fresh air, and I've have no time to take he out. you be very kind."



"trust to I, Herr Concertmeister--trust to I," say she, with the

usual imperial wave of her hand, as she at last move aside from the

door-way which she have block up and allow we to pass out. a last

wave of the hand from Eugen to Sigmund, and then we hurry away to the

station. we be bind for Cologne, where that year the low Rhine

Musikfest be to be hold. it be then somewhat past the middle of April,

and the f come off at Whitsuntide, in the middle of May. we, among

other, be engage to strengthen the Cologne orchestra for the

occasion, and we be bid this morning to the first probe.



we just catch our train, see one or two face of comrade we know,

and in an hour be in Köln.



"the Tower of Babel," and Raff's Fifth Symphonie, that call "Lenore,"

be the subject we have be summon to practice. they, together with

Beethoven's "Choral Fantasia" and some solo be to come off on the

third evening of the f.



the probe last a long time; it be three o'clock when we leave the

concert-hall, after five hour' hard work.



"come along, eugen," cry I, "we have just time to catch the three-ten,

but only just."



"don't wait for I," he answer, with an absent look. "I don't think I

shall come by it. look after yourself, Friedel, and _auf wiedersehen_!"



I be scarcely surprised, for I have see that the music have deeply move

he, and I can understand the wish of any man to be alone with the

remembrance or continuance of such emotion. accordingly I take my way

to the station, and there meet one or two of my Elberthal comrade, who

have be on the same errand as myself, and, like I, be return

home.



Lively remark upon the probable feature of the come f, and the

circulation of any amount of loose and hazy gossip respect composer

and soloist follow, and we all go to our usual restauration and

dine together. there be an opera that night to which we have probe that

afternoon, and I scarcely have time to rush home and give a look at

Sigmund before it be time to go again to the theater.



Eugen's place remain empty. for the first time since he have come into

the orchestra he be absent from his post, and I wonder what could

have keep he.



take my way home, very tired, with fragment of air from "Czar und

Zimmermann," in which I have just be play, the "March" from

"Lenore," and scrap of chorus and air from the "Thurm zu Babel," all

ring in my head in a confused jumble, I spring up the stair (up

which I use to plod so wearily and so spiritlessly), and go into the

sitting-room. darkness! after I have stand still and gaze about for a

time, my eye grow accustomed to the obscurity. I perceive that a dim

gray light still steal in at the open window, and that some one reposing

in an easy-chair be faintly shadow out against it.



"be that you, Friedhelm?" ask Eugen's voice.



"_Lieber Himmel!_ be you there? what be you do in the dark?"



"light the lamp, my Friedel! dream belong to darkness, and fact to

light. sometimes I wish light and fact have never be invent."



I find the lamp and light it, carry it up to he, and stand before

he, contemplate he curiously. he lie back in our one easy-chair, his

hand clasp behind his head, his leg outstretche. he have be idle

for the first time, I think, since I have know he. he have be sit

in the dark, not even pretend to do anything.



"there be thing new under the sun," say I, in mingle amusement and

amaze. "absent from your post, to the alarm and surprise of all who know

you, here I find you moon in the darkness, and when I illuminate you,

you smile up at I in a somewhat imbecile manner, and say nothing. what

may it portend?"



he rouse himself, sit up, and look at I with an ambiguous half

smile.



"Most punctual of man! most worthy, honest, fidgety old friend," say

he, with still the same suppress smile, "how I honor you! how I wish

I could emulate you! how I wish I be like you! and yet, Friedel, old

boy, you have miss something this afternoon."



"so! I should like to know what you have be do. give an account of

yourself."



"I have err and go astray, and have find it pleasant. I have do

that which I ought not to have do, and be sorry, for the sake of

morality and propriety, to have to say that it be delightful; far more

delightful than to go on do just what one ought to do. say, good

mentor, do it matter? for this occasion only. never again, as I be a

living man."



"I wish you would speak plainly," say I, first put the lamp and

then myself upon the table. I swing my leg about and look at he.



"and not go on tell you story like that of Munchausen, in Arabesks,

eh? I will be explicit; I will use the indicative mood, present tense.

now then. I like Cologne; I like the cathedral of that town; I like the

Hotel du Nord; and, above all, I love the railway station."



"be you rave?"



"do you ever examine the Cologne railway station?" he go on, light

a cigar. "there be a great big waiting-room, which they lock up; there

be a delightful place in which you may get lose, and find yourself

suddenly alone in a deserted wing of the building, with an impertinent

porter, who don't understand one word of Eng--of your native tongue--"



"be you mad?" be my varied comment.



"and while you be in the great distress, separate from your

friend, who have go on to Elberthal (like mine), and struggle to

make this porter understand you, you may be encounter by a mooning

individual--a native of the land--and you may address he. he drive the

fume of music from his brain, and look at you, and find you

charming--more than charming. my dear Friedhelm, the look in your eye

be quite painful to see. by the exercise of a little diplomacy, which,

as you be charmingly naïve, you do not see through, he manage to seal

an alliance by which you and he agree to pass three or four hour in

each other's society, for mutual instruction and entertainment. the

entertainment consist of cutlet, potato--the kind call kartoffeln

fritte, which they give you very good at the Nord--and the wine know

to we as Doctorberger. the instruction be varied, and be carry on

chiefly in the aisle of the Kölner Dom, to the sound of music. and when

he be quite spell-bind, in a magic circle, a kind of golden net or

cloud, he pull out an earthly watch, make of dust and dross ('More fool

he,' your eye say, and you be quite right), and see that time be

advance. a whole army of horn thing with sting, call feeling of

propriety, honor, correctness, the right thing, etc., come in thick

battalion in _sturmschritt_ upon he, and with a hasty word he hurry

she--he get off to the station. there be still an hour, for both be

come to Elberthal--an hour of unalloyed delight; then"--he snap his

fingers--"a drosky, an address, a crack of the whip, and _ade_!"



I sit and stare at he while he wind up this rhodomontade by singe:



       "Ade, ade, ade!

     Ja, Scheiden und Meiden thut Weh!"



"you be too young and fair," he presently resume, "too slight and

sober for apoplexy; but a painful fear seize I that your mental

faculty be under some slight cloud. there be a vacant look in your

usually radiant eye; a want of intelligence in the curve of your rosy

lips--"



"eugen! stop that string of fantastic rubbish! where have you be, and

what have you be do?"



"I have not deserve that from you. haven't I be tell you all this

time where I have be and what I have be do? there be a brutality

in your behavior which be to a refined mind most lamentable."



"but where have you be, and what have you do?"



"another time, _mein lieber_--another time!"



with this misty promise I have to content myself. I speculate upon the

subject for that evening, and come to the conclusion that he have

invent the whole story, to see whether I would believe it (for we have

all a reprehensible habit of that kind), and very soon the whole

circumstance drop from my memory.



on the follow morning I have occasion to go to the public eye

hospital. eugen and I have interest ourselves to procure a ticket for

free, or almost free, treatment as an out-patient for a youth whom we

know--one of the second violin--whose sight be threaten, and who,

poor boy, could not afford to pay for proper treatment. eugen be

busy, I go to receive the ticket.



it be the first time I have be in the place. I be show into a room

with the light somewhat obscure, and there have to wait some few

minute. every one have something the matter with his or her eye--at

least so I think, until my own fall upon a girl who lean, look a

little tired and a little disappoint, against a tall desk at one side

of the room.



she strike I on the instant as no feminine appearance have ever strike

I before. she, like myself, seem to be wait for some one or

something. she be tall and supple in figure, and her face be girlish

and very innocent-looking; and yet, both in her attitude and countenance

there be a little pride, some hauteur. it be evidently natural to she,

and sit well upon she. a slight but exquisitely mold figure, different

from those of our stalwart Elberthaler _Mädchen_--finer, more refined

and distinguish, and a face to dream of. I think it then, and I say

it now. masse, almost too thick and heavy, of dark auburn hair, with

here and there a glint of warm hue, frame that beautiful face--half

woman's, half child's. dark-gray eye, with long dark lash and brow;

cheek naturally very pale, but sensitive, like some delicate alabaster,

show the red at every wave of emotion; something racy, piquant,

unique, envelop the whole appearance of this young girl. I have never

see anything at all like she before.



she look wearily round the room, and sigh a little. then her eye

meet mine; and see the earnestness with which I look at she, she

turn away, and a slight, very slight, flush appear in her cheek.



I have time to notice (for everything about her interested I) that her

dress be of the very plainest and simple kind, so plain as to be

almost poor, and in its fashion not of the new, even in Elberthal.



then my name be call out. I receive my ticket, and go to the probe

at the theater.









CHAPTER XIX.



"wish be pilgrim to the vale of tear."





a week--ten day pass. I do not see the beautiful girl again--nor

do I forget she. one night at the opera I find she. it be

"Lohengrin"--but she have tell all that story herself--how eugen come in

late (he have a trick of never come in till the last minute, and I use

to think he have some reason for it)--and the recognition and the cut

direct, first on her side, then on his.



Eugen and I walk home together, arm in arm, and I feel provoke with

he.



"I say, Eugen, do you see the young lady with Vincent and the other in

the first row of the parquet?"



"I see some six or eight lady of various age in the first row of the

parquet. some be old and some be young. one have a knitted shawl over

her head, which she keep on during the whole of the performance."



"don't be so madden. I say the young lady with Vincent and Fräulein

Sartorius. by the bye, Eugen, do you know, or have you ever know she?"



"who?"



"Fräulein Sartorius."



"who be she?"



"oh, bother! the young lady I mean sit exactly opposite to you and I--a

beautiful young girl; an _Engländerin_--fair, with that hair that we

never see here, and--"



"in a brown hat--sit next to Vincent. I see she--yes."



"she see you too."



"she must have be blind if she haven't."



"have you see she before?"



"I have see she before--yes."



"and speak to she?"



"even speak to she."



"do tell I what it all mean."



"nothing."



"but, Eugen--"



"be you so struck with she, Friedel? don't lose your heart to she, I

warn you."



"why?" I inquire, wilily, hope the answer would give I some clew to

his acquaintance with she.



"because, _mein Bester_, she be a cut above you and I, in a different

sphere, one that we know nothing about. what be more, she know it, and

show it. be glad that you can not lay yourself open to the snub that I

get to-night."



there be so much bitterness in his tone that I be surprised. but a

sudden remembrance flush into my mind of his strange remark after I

have leave he that day at Cologne, and I laugh to myself, nor, when he

ask I, would I tell he why. that evening he have very little to say

to Karl Linders and myself.



Eugen never speak to I of the beautiful girl who have behave so

strangely that evening, though we see she again and again.



sometimes I use to meet she in the street, in company with the dark,

plain girl, Anna Sartorius, who, I fancy, always survey Eugen with a

look of recognition. the two young woman form in appearance an almost

startling contrast. she come to all the concert, as if she make music a

study--generally she be with a stout, good-natured-looking German

Fräulein, and the young Englishman, Vincent. there be always something

rather melancholy about her grace and beauty.



most beautiful she be; with long, slender, artist-like hand, the face

a perfect oval, but the feature more piquant than regular; sometimes a

subdue fire glow in her eye and compress her lip, which remove

she altogether from the category of spiritless beauty--a genus for

which I never have the least taste.



one morning Courvoisier and I, stand just within the entrance to the

theater orchestra, see two people go by. one, a figure well enough know

to every one in Elberthal, and especially to we--that of Max von

Francius. do I ever say that von Francius be an exceedingly handsome

fellow, in a certain dark, clean-shave style? on that occasion he be

speak with more animation than be usual with he, and the person to

whom he have unbent so far be the fair english woman--that enigmatical

beauty who have cut my friend at the opera. she also be look animate

and very beautiful; her face turn to his with a smile--a glad,

gratified smile. he be say:



"but in the next lesson, you know--"



they pass on. I turn to ask Eugen if he have see. I need not to

put the question. he have see. there be a forced smile upon his lip.

before I could speak he have say:



"it's time to go in, Friedel; come along!" with which he turn into the

theater, and I follow thoughtfully.



then it be rumor that at the come concert--the benefit of von

Francius--a new soprano be to appear--a young lady of whom report use

varied tone; some believable fact at least we learn about she. her

name, they say be Wedderburn; she be an english woman, and have a most

wonderful voice. the Herr Direktor take a very deep interest in she; he

not only give her lesson; he have ask to give her lesson, and

intend to form of she an artiste who should one day be to the world a

kind of Patti, Lucca, or Nilsson.



I have no doubt in my own mind as to who she be, but for all that I feel

considerable excitement on the evening of the haupt-probe to the

"Verlorenes Paradies."



yes, I be right. Miss Wedderburn, the pupil of von Francius, of whom so

much be prophesy, be the beautiful, forlorn-look english girl.

the feeling which grow upon I that evening, and which I never find

reason afterward to alter, be that she be modest, gentle, yet

spirited, very gifted, and an artiste by nature and gift, yet sadly ill

at ease and out of place in that world into which von Francius wish to

lead she.



she sit quite near to Eugen and I, and I see how alone she be, and how

she seem to feel her loneliness. I see how certain young lady draw

themselves together, and look at she (it be on this occasion that I

first begin to notice the silent behavior of woman toward each other,

and the more I have observe, the more have my wonder grow and

increase), and whisper behind their music, and shrug their

shoulder when von Francius, see how isolated she seem, bent

forward and say a few kind word to she.



I like he for it. after all, he be a man. but his distinguish the

child do not add to the delight of her position--rather make it bad.

I put myself in her place as well as I could, and feel her feeling when

von Francius introduce she to one of the young lady near she, who

first stare at he, then at she, then incline her head a little

forward and a little backward, turn she back upon Miss Wedderburn,

and appeared lose in conversation of the deep importance with her

neighbor. and I think of the word which Karl Linders have say to we

in haste and anger, and after a disappointment he have lately have, "_Das

weib ist der teufel._" yes, woman be the devil sometimes, think I, and

a mean kind of devil too. a female Mephistopheles would not have damn

Gretchen's soul, nor kill her body, she would have leave the latter on

this earthly sphere, and damn her reputation.



Von Francius be a clever man, but he make a grand mistake that night,

unless he be desirous of make his protégée as uncomfortable as

possible. how could those lady feel otherwise than insult at see

the man of ice so suddenly attentive and bland to a nobody, an upstart,

and a beautiful one?



the probe continue, and still she sit alone and unspeak to, her only

acquaintance or companion seem to be Fräulein Sartorius, with whom

she have come in. I see how, when von Francius call upon she to do she

part, and the look which have hitherto be avert from she be now

turn pitilessly and unwinkingly upon she, she quail. she bite she

lip; her hand tremble. I turn to Eugen with a look which say

volume. he sit with his arm fold, and his face perfectly devoid of

all expression, gaze straight before he.



Miss Wedderburn might have be satisfied to the full with her revenge.

that be a voice! such a volume of pure, exquisite melody as I have

rarely hear. after hear that, all doubt be settle. the gift

might be a blessing or a curse--let every one decide that for himself,

accord to his style of thinking--but it be there. she possess the

power which put she out of the category of commonplace, and have the most

melodious "open, Sesame!" with which to besiege the door of the court

in which dwell artist--creative and interpretative.



the performance finish the gap between she and her companion. their

look say, "you be not one of we." my angry spirit say, "no; you can

never be like she."



she seem half afraid of what she have do when it be over, and shrunk

into herself with downcast eye and nervous quivering of the lip at the

subdue applause of the man. I want to applaud too, but I look at

Eugen. I have instinctively give he some share in the affair of this

lovely creature--a share, which he always strenuously repudiate, both

tacitly and openly.



nevertheless, when I see he I abstain from applauding, know, by a

lightning-quick intuition, that it would be highly irritate to he. he

show no emotion; if he have do, I should not have think the

occasion be anything special to he. it be his absurd gravity, stony

inexpressiveness, which impress I with the fact that he be

move--move against his will and his judgment. he could no more help

approve both of she and her voice than he could help admire a

perfect, half-open rose.



it be over, and we go out of the saal, across the road, and home.



Sigmund, who have not be very well that day, be awake, and restless.

Eugen take he up, wrap he in a little bed-gown, carry he into

the other room, and sit down with he. the child rest his head on the

love breast, and be soothe.



       *       *       *       *       *



she have go; the door have close after she. eugen turn to I, and

take Sigmund into his arm again.



"_Mein Vater_, who be the beautiful lady, and why do you speak so

harshly to she? why do you make she cry?"



the answer, though ostensibly speak to Sigmund, be a revelation to I.



"that I may not have to cry myself," say eugen, kiss he.



"could the lady make thee cry?" demand Sigmund, sit up, much

excited at the idea.



another kiss and a half laugh be the answer. then he bid he go to

sleep, as he do not understand what he be talk about.



by and by Sigmund do drop to sleep. eugen carry he to his bed,

tuck he up, and return. we sit in silence--such an uncomfortable

constrain silence, as have never before be between we. I have a book

before I. I see no word of it. I could not drive the vision away--the

lovely, plead face, the penitence. good heaven! how could he repulse

she as he have do? her repeat request that he would take that

money--what do it all mean? and, moreover, my heart be sore that he

have conceal it all from I. about the past I feel no resentment;

there be a secret there which I respect; but I be cut up at this.

the more I think of it, the keener be the pain I feel.



"Friedel!"



I look up. eugen be lean across the table and his hand be

stretch toward I; his eye look full into mine. I answer his

look, but I be not clear yet.



"forgive I!"



"forgive thee what?"



"this play with thy confidence."



"don't mention it," I force myself to say, but the sore feeling still

remain. "you have surely a right to keep your affair to yourself if

you choose."



"you will not shake hand? well, perhaps I have no right to ask it; but

I should like to tell you all about it."



I put my hand into his.



"I be wound," say I, "it be true. but it be over."



"then listen, Friedel."



he tell I the story of his meeting with Miss Wedderburn. all he say of

the impression she have make upon he be:



"I think she very charming, and the lovely creature I have ever

see. and about the train. it stand in this way. I think a few hour

of her society would make I very happy, and would be like--oh, well! I

know that in the future, if she ever should see I again, she would

either treat I with distant politeness as an inferior, or, suppose

she discover that I have cheat she, would cut I dead. and as it do

not matter, as I could not possibly be an acquaintance of hers in the

future, I give myself that pleasure then. it have turn out a mistake

on my part, but that be nothing new; my whole existence have be a

monstrous mistake. however, now she see what a churl's nature be under

my fair-seem exterior, her pride will show she what to do. she will

take a wrong view of my character, but what do that signify? she will

say that to be deceitful first and uncivil afterward be the main

feature of the german character, and when she be at Cologne on her

honey-moon, she will tell her bride-groom about this adventure, and he

will remark that the fellow want horsewhipping, and she--"



"there! you have exercise your imagination quite sufficiently. then

you intend to keep up this farce of not recognize she. why?"



he hesitate, look as nearly awkward as he could, and say, a little

constrainedly:



"because I think it will be for the good."



"for you or for she?" I inquire, not very fairly, but I could not

resist it.



eugen flush all over his face.



"what a question!" be all he say.



"I do not think it such a remarkable question. either you have grow

exceedingly nervous as to your own strength of resistance or your fear

for her."



"Friedhelm," say he, in a cutting voice, "that be a tone which I should

not have believe you capable of take. it be vulgar, my dear fellow,

and uncalled for; and it be so unlike you that I be astonish. if you

have be one of the other fellows--"



I fire up.



"excuse I, Eugen, it might be vulgar if I be merely chaff you, but

I be not; and I think, after what you have tell I, that I have say

very little. I be not so sure of she despise you. she look much more

as if she be distressed at your despise she."



"Pre--pos--ter--ous!"



"if you can mention an instance in her behavior this evening which

look as if she be desirous of snub you, I should be oblige by

your mention it," I continue:



"well--well--"



"well--well. if she have wish to snub you she would have send you that

money through the post, and make an end of it. she simply desire, as

be evident all along, to apologize for having be rude to a person who

have be kind to she. I can quite understand it, and I be not sure that

your behavior will not have the very opposite effect to that you

expect."



"I think you be mistaken. however, it do not matter; our path lie

quite apart. she will have plenty of other thing to take up her time

and thought. anyhow I be glad that you and I be quit once more."



so be I. we say no more upon the subject, but I always feel as if a

kind of connect link exist between my friend and I, and that

beautiful, solitary english girl.



the link be destine to become yet close. the concert be over at

which she sing. she have a success. I see she have not mention it; a

success which isolate she still more from her companion, inasmuch as

it make she more distinctly professional and they more severely

virtuous.



one afternoon when Eugen and I happen to have nothing to do, we take

Sigmund to the Grafenberg. we wander about in the fir wood, and at

last come to a pause and rest. eugen lie upon his back and gaze up

into the thickness of brown-green fir above, and perhaps guess at the

heaven beyond the dark shade. I sit and stare before I through the

straight red-brown stem across the ground,



     "with shedding from the pine umbrage tinge,"



to an invisible beyond which have charm for I, and be a kind of

symphonic beauty in my mind. Sigmund lie flat upon his stomach, kick

his heel and make intricate pattern with the fir needle, while he

hum a gentle song to himself in a small, sweet voice, true as a

lark's, but sad. there be utter stillness and utter calm all round.



presently Eugen's arm steal around Sigmund and draw he close and

close to he, and they continue to look at each other until a mutual

smile break upon both face, and the boy say, his whole small frame as

well as his voice quiver (the poor little fellow have nerve that

vibrate to the slight emotion): "I love thee."



a light leap into the father's eye; a look of pain follow it

quickly.



"and I shall never leave thee," say Sigmund.



Eugen parry the necessity of speak by a kiss.



"I love thee too, Friedel," continue he, take my hand. "we be very

happy together, ben't we?" and he laugh placidly to himself.



Eugen, as if sting by some torment thought, spring up and we leave the

wood.



oh, far back, by-go day! there be a soft light over you shed by a

kindly sun. that be a time in which joy run a golden thread through the

gray homespun of every-day life.



back to the restauration at the foot of the _berg_, where Sigmund be

supply with milk and Eugen and I with beer, where we sit at a little

wooden table in a garden and the pleasant clack of friendly conversation

sound around; where the woman try to make friend with Sigmund, and

the girl whisper behind their coffee-cup or (_pace_, elegant

fiction!) their beer-glass, and always happen to be look up if

our eye rove that way. two poor musiker and a little boy; person of

no importance whatever, who could scrape their part in the symphony with

some intelligence and feel they have do their duty. well, well! it be

not all of we who can do even so much. I know some instrument that be

always out of tune. let we be complacent where we justly can. the

opportunity be few.



we take our way home. the day be long, and it be yet light when we

return and find the reproachful face of Frau Schmidt look for we,

and her arm open to receive the weary little lad who have fall asleep

on his father's shoulder.



I go upstairs, and, by a natural instinct, to the window. those face

it be open; some one move in the room. two chord of a piano be

strike. some one come and stand by the window, shield her eye from

the ray of the set sun which stream down the street and look

westward. eugen be pass behind I. I pull he to the window, and

we both look--silently, gravely.



the girl drop her hand; her eye fall upon we. the color mount to

her cheek; she turn away and go to the interior of the room. it be

May Wedderburn.



"also!" say eugen, after a pause. "a new neighbor; it remind I of one

of Andersen's 'märchen,' but I don't know which."









CHAPTER XX.



 "for though he live aloof from ken,

 the world's unwitnessed denizen,

   the love within he stir

 abroad, and with the heart of man

   his own confer."





the story of my life from day to day be dull enough, same enough for

some time after I go to live at the Wehrhahn. I be study hard, and

my only variety be the letter I have from home; not very cheer,

these. one, which I receive from Adelaide, puzzle I somewhat. after

speak of her come marriage in a way which make I sad and

uncomfortable, she condescend to express her approval of what I be

do, and go on:



     "I be catholic in my taste. I suppose all our friend would faint

     at the idea of there be a 'singer' in the family. now, I should

     rather like you to be a singer--only be a great one--not a little

     twopenny-halfpenny person who have to advertise for engagement.



     "now I be go to give you some advice. this Herr von

     Francius--your teacher or whatever he be. be cautious what you be

     about with he. I don't say more, but I say that again. be

     cautious! don't burn your finger. now, I have not much time, and I

     hate write letter, as you know. in a week I be to be marry,

     and then--_nous verron_. we go to Paris first, and then on to

     Rome, where we shall winter--to gratify my taste, I wonder, or Sir

     Peter's for moldering ruin, ancient picture, and the Coliseum by

     moonlight? I have no doubt that we shall do our duty by the

     respectable old structure. remember what I say, and write to I

     now and then.



                    "A."



I frown and puzzle a little over this letter. be cautious? in what

possible way could I be cautious? what need could there be for it when

all that pass between I and von Francius be the daily singing lesson

at which he be so strict and severe, sometimes so sharp and cut

with I. I see he then; I see he also at the constant proben to

concert whose season have already begin; proben to the "Passions-musik,"

the "Messiah," etc. at one or two of these concert I be to sing. I do

not like the idea, but I could not make von Francius see it as I do. he

say I must sing--it be part of my study, and I be fain to bend to

his will.



Von Francius--I look at Adelaide's letter, and smile again. Von

Francius have keep his word; he have behave to I as a kind elder

brother. he seem instinctively to understand the wish, which be very

strong on my part, not to live entirely at Miss Hallam's expense--to

provide, partially at any rate, for myself, if possible. he help I to

do this. now he bring I some music to be copy; now he tell I of a

young lady who want lesson in English--now of one little thing--now

of another, which keep I, to my pride and joy, in such slender

pocket-money as I need. truly, I use to think in those day, it do

not need much money nor much room for a person like I to keep her place

in the world. I wish to trouble no one--only to work as hard as I

could, and do the work that be set for I as well as I know how. I have

my wish and so far be not unhappy.



but what do Adelaide mean? true, I have once describe von Francius to

she as young, that be youngish, clever and handsome. do she,

remember my well-know susceptibility, fear that I might fall in love

with he and compromise myself by some silly _Schwärmerei_? I laugh

about all by myself at the very idea of such a thing. fall in love with

von Francius, and--my eye fall upon the two window over the way. no;

my heart be pure of the faint feeling for he, save that of respect,

gratitude, and liking found at that time more on esteem than

spontaneous growth. and he--I smile at that idea, too.



in all my long interview with von Francius throughout our intercourse

he maintain one unvaried tone, that of a kind, frank, protect

interest, with something of the patron on his part. he would converse

with I about Schiller and Goethe, true; he would also caution I

against such and such shop-keeper as extortioner, and tell I the

place where they give the large discount on music pay for on the

spot; would discuss the "Waldstein" or "Appassionata" with I, or the

beauty of Rubinstein or the deep meaning of Schumann, also the

relative cost of live _en pension_ or provide for one's self.



no. Adelaide be mistaken. I wish, parenthetically, that she could

make the acquaintance of von Francius, and learn how mistaken--and again

my eye fall upon the opposite window. Friedhelm Helfen lean from

one, hold fast Courvoisier's boy. the rich italian coloring of the

lovely young face; the dusky hair; the glow upon the cheek, the deep

blue of his serge dress, make the effect of a warmly tint southern

flower; it be a flower-face too; delicate and rich at once.



Adelaide's letter drop unheeded to the floor. those two could not see

I, and I have a joy in watch they.



to say, however, that I actually watch my opposite neighbor would not

be true. I studiously avoid watch they; never sit in the window;

seldom show myself at it, though in pass I sometimes allow myself

to linger, and so have glimpse of those within. they be three and I

be one. they be the happy by two. or if I know that they be out,

that a probe be go on, or an opera or concert, there be nothing I

like well than to sit for a time and look to the opposite window.

they be nearly always open, as be also mine, for the heat of the

stove be oppressive to I, and I prefer to temper it with a little

of the raw outside air. I use sometimes to hear from those opposite

room the practicing or playing of passage on the violin and

violoncello--scale, shake, long complicated flourish and phrase.

sometimes I hear the very strain that I have to sing to: air, scrap

of air, snatch from opera, concert and symphony. they be always

hum and singe thing. they come home haunted with "the last rose,"

from "Marta"--now some air from "Faust," "Der Freischütz," or

"Tannhauser."



but one air be particular to Eugen, who seem to be perfectly

possess by it--that which I have hear he hum when I first meet

he--the March from "Lenore." he whistle it and sing it; play it on

violin, 'cello and piano; hum it first thing in the morning and last

thing at night; harp upon it until in despair his companion throw

book and music at he, and he, dodge they, laugh, begged pardon,

be silent for five minute, and then the March _da Capo_ set in a

halting kind of measure to the ballad.



by way of a slight and wholesome variety there be the whole repertory

of "Volkslieder," from



     "Du, du, liegst mir Im Herzen;

     Du, du, liegst mir Im Sinn,"



up to



     "Mädele, ruck, ruck, ruck

     an meine grüne Seite."



sometimes they--one or both of they with the boy--might be see at the

window lean out, whistle or talk. when door bang and quick

step rush up or down the stair two step at a time I know it be

Courvoisier. Friedhelm Helfen's movement be slow and more sedate.

I grow to know his face as well as Eugen's, and to like it well the

more I see of it. a quite young, almost boyish face, with an

inexpressibly pure, true, and good expression upon the mouth and in the

dark-brown eye. Reticent, as most good face be, but a face which make

you desire to know the owner of it, make you feel that you could trust

he in any trial. his face remind I in a distant manner of two

other, also face of musician, but great in their craft than he,

they be creator and pioneer, while he be only a disciple, of

Beethoven and of the live master, Rubinstein. a gentle, though far

from weak face, and such a contrast in expression and everything else to

that of my musician, as to make I wonder sometimes whether they have

be draw to each other from very oppositeness of disposition and

character. that they be very great friend I could not doubt; that the

leadership be on Courvoisier's side be no less evident. eugen's

affection for Helfen seem to have something fatherly in it, while I

could see that both join in an absorbing worship of the boy, who be a

very Croesus in love if in nothing else. Sigmund have, too, an adorer

in a third musician, a violoncellist, one of their comrade, who

apparently spend much of his spare substance in purchase present of

toy and book and other offering, which he lay at the shrine of St.

Sigmund, with what success I could not tell. beyond this young fellow,

Karl Linders, they have not many visitor. young man use occasionally to

appear with violin-case in their hand, come for lesson, probably.



all these thing I see without absolutely watch for they; they make

that impression upon I which the most trifling fact connect with a

person around whom cle all one's deep pleasure and deep pain

ever do and must make. I be glad to know they, but at the same time

they impress the loneliness and aloofness of my own life more

decidedly upon I.



I remember one small incident which at the time it happen strike home

to I. my window be open; it be an October afternoon, mild and

sunny. the yellow light shine with a peaceful warmth upon the afternoon

quietness of the street. suddenly that quietness be break. the sound

of music, the peculiar blatant noise of trumpet smite the air. it come

nearer, and with it the measured tramp of foot. I rise and go to look

out. a Hussar regiment be pass; before they be bear a soldier's

coffin; they carry a comrade to his grave. the music they play be

the "Funeral March for the death of a Hero," from the "Sinfonia Eroica."

muffle, slow, grand and mournful, it go wail and throb by. the

procession pass slowly on in the October sunshine, along the

Schadowstrasse, turn off by the Hofgarten, and so on to the cemetery.

I lean out of the window and look after it--forget all outside,

till just as the last of the procession pass by my eye fall upon

Courvoisier go into his house, and who presently enter the room. he

be unperceive by Friedhelm and Sigmund, who be look after the

procession. the child's face be earnest, almost solemn--he have not see

his father come up. I see Helfen's lip caress Sigmund's loose black hair

that wave just beneath they.



then I see a figure--only a black shadow to my eye which be dazzle

by the sun--come behind they. one hand be lay upon Helfen's shoulder,

another turn the child's chin. what a change! Friedhelm's grave face

smile: Sigmund spring aside, make a leap to his father, who stoop to

he, and clasp his arm tight round his neck be raise up in his

arm.



they be all satisfied--all smile--all happy. I turn away. that be

a home--that be a meeting of three affection. what more could they

want? I shut the window--shut it all out, and myself with it into the

cold, feel my lip quiver. it be very fine, this life of

independence and self-support, but it be dreadfully lonely.



the day go on. Adelaide be now Lady Le Marchant. she have write to

I again, and warn I once more to be careful what I be about. she

have say that she like her life--at least she say so in her first two

or three letter, and then there fall a sudden utter silence about

herself, which seem to I ominous.



Adelaide have always act upon the assumption that Sir Peter be a far

from strong-minded individual, with a certain hardness and cunning

perhaps in relation to money matter, but nothing that a clever wife

with a strong enough sense of her own privilege could not overcome.



she say nothing to I about herself. she tell I about Rome; who be

there; what they do and look like; what she wear; what compliment

be pay to she--that be all.



Stella tell I my letter be dull--and I dare say they be--and that

there be no use in her writing, because nothing ever happen in

Skernford, which be also true. and for eugen, we be on exactly the

same term--or rather no term--as before. opposite neighbor, and as

far remove as if we have live at the antipode.



my life, as time go on, grow into a kind of fossilized dream, in which

I rise up and lie down, practice so many hour a day, eat and drank and

take my lesson, and it seem as if I have be live so for year, and

should continue to live on so to the end of my day--until one morning

my eye would not open again, and for I the world would have come to an

end.









CHAPTER XXI.



 "and near still shall far be,

 and word shall plague and vex and buffet thee."





it be December, close upon Christmas. winter at last in real earnest. a

black frost. the earth bind in fetter of iron. the land gray; the sky

steel; the wind a dagger. the tree, leafless and stark, rattle their

shriveled bough together in that wind.



it meet you at corner and freeze the word out of your mouth; it whistle

a low, fiendish, malignant whistle round the house; as vicious and

little loud than the buzz of a mosquito. it sweep, thin, keen and

cutting, down the Königsallée, and blow fine black dust into one's face.



it cut up the skater upon the pond in the Neue Anlage, which be in the

center of the town, and comparatively shelter; but it be in its glory

whistle across the flat field lead to the great skating-ground of

Elberthal in general--the Schwanenspiegel at the Grafenbergerdahl.



the Grafenberg be a low chain of what, for want of a well name, may

be call hill, lie to the north of Elberthal. the country all around

this unfortunate apology for a range of hill be, if possible, flatter

than ever. the Grafenbergerdahl be, properly, no "dale" at all, but a

broad plain of meadow, with the railway cut they at one point, then

diverging and run on under the Grafenberg.



one vast meadow which lie, if possible, a trifle low than the rest,

be flood regularly by the autumn rain, but not deeply. it be frozen

over now, and form a model skating place, and so, apparently, think

the townspeople, for they come out, singly or in body, and from nine

in the morning till dusk the place be crowd, and the merry music of

the iron on the ice cease not for a second.



I discover this place of resort by accident one day when I be take

a constitutional, and find myself upon the border of the great frozen

mere cover with skater. I stand look at they, and my blood warm

at the sight. if there be one thing--one accomplishment upon which I

pride myself, it be this very one--skating.



in a drawing-room I might feel awkward--confuse among clever people,

bashful among accomplished one; shy about music and painting, diffident

as to my voice, and deprecatory in spirit as to the etiquette to be

observe at a dinner-party. give I my skate and put I on a sheet of

ice, and I be at home.



as I pause and watch the skater, it strike I that there be no

reason at all why I should deny myself that seasonable enjoyment. I have

my skate, and the mere be large enough to hold I as well as the

other--indeed, I see in the distance great tract of virgin ice to

which no skater seem yet to have reach.



I go home, and on the follow afternoon carry out my resolution;

though it be after three o'clock before I could set out.



a long, bleak way. first up the merry Jägerhofstrasse, then through the

Malkasten garden, up a narrow lane, then out upon the open, bleak road,

with that bitter wind go ping-ping at one's ear and upon one's

cheek. through a big gate-way, and a court-yard pertaining to an orphan

asylum--along a lane border with apple-tree, through a rustic arch,

and, hurrah! the field be before I--not so thickly cover as

yesterday, for it be get late, and the Elberthalers do not seem to

understand the joy of career over the black ice by moonlight, in the

night wind. it be, however, as yet far from dark, and the moon be

rise in silver yonder, in a sky of a pale but clear blue.



I quickly put on my skate--stumble to the edge, and set off. I take a

few turn, circle among the people--then, see several turn to look

at I, I fix my eye upon a distant clump of reed rise from the

ice, and resolve to make it my goal. I could only just see it, even

with my long-sighted eye, but strike out for it bravely. past group

after group of the skater who turn to look at my scarlet shawl as it

flash past. I glance at they and skim smoothly on, till I come to

the outside circle where there be a skater all alone, his hand thrust

deep into his great-coat pocket, the collar of the same turn high

about his ear, and the inevitable little gray cloth _Studentenhut_

crown the luxuriance of wave dark hair. he be glide round in

complicated figure and circle, do the outside edge for his own

solitary gratification, so far as I could see; active, graceful, and

muscular, with practiced ease and assure strength in every limb. it

need no second glance on my part to assure I who he be--even if the

dark bright eye have not be catch by the flash of my cloak, and

gravely raise for a moment as I fly by. I dash on, breast the

wind. to reach the bunch of reed seem more than ever desirable now. I

would make it my sole companion until it be time to go away. at least

he have see I, and I be safe from any _contretemps_--he would avoid I

as strenuously as I avoid he. but the first fresh lust after pleasure

be go. just one moment's glance into a face have have the power to

alter everything so much. I skate on, as fast, as surely as ever, but,



     "a joy have take flight."



the pleasant sensation of solitude, which I could so easily have feel

among a thousand people have he not be count among they, be go.

the roll of my skate upon the ice have lose its music for I; the wind

feel colder--I sadder. at least I think so. should I go away again now

that this disturbing element have appear upon the scene? no, no, no,

say something eagerly within I, and I bite my lip, and choke back a

kind of sob of disgust as I realize that despite my gloomy reflection

my heart be beat a high, rapid march of--joy! as I skim, all

alone, far away from the crowd, among the dismal wither reed, and

round the little islet of stiffen grass and rush which be frozen

upright in their place.



the daylight fade, and the moon rise. the people be go away. the

distant buzz of laughter have grow silent. I could dimly discern some

few group, but very few, still leave, and one or two solitary figure.

even my preternatural eagerness could not discern who they be! the

darkness, the long walk home, the probe at seven, which I should be too

tired to attend, all have quite slip from my mind; it be possible

that among those figure which I still dimly see, be yet remain that

of Courvoisier, and surely there be no harm in my staying here.



I strike out in another direction, and fly on in the keen air; the

frosty moon shed a weird light upon the black ice; I see the railway

line, polished, gleam too in the light; the belt of dark fir to my

right; the red sand soil freeze hard and silver over with frost. flat

and tame, but still beautiful. I feel a kind of rejoice in it; I feel

it home. I be probably the first person who have be there since the

freezing of the mere, think I, and that idea be soon convert to a

certainty in my mind, for in a second my rapid career be interrupt.

at the furth point from help or human presence the ice give way with

a crash, and I shriek aloud at the shock of the bitter water. oh, how

cold it be! how pierce, frightful, numb! it be not deep--scarcely

above my knee, but the difficulty be how to get out. put my hand where

I would the ice give way. I could only plunge in the icy water, feel

the sodden grass under my foot. what sort of thing might there not be

in that water? a cold shudder, bad than any ice, shoot through I at

the idea of newts and rat and water-serpent, absurd though it be. I

scream again in desperation, and try to haul myself out by catch

at the rush. they be rotten with the frost and give way in my hand.

I make a frantic effort at the ice again; stumble and fall on my knee

in the water. I be wet all over now, and I gasp. my limb ache

agonizingly with the cold. I should be, if not drown, yet benumb,

freeze to death here alone in the great mere, among the frozen reed and

under the steely sky.



I be pause, stand still, and rapidly become almost too benumb

to think or hold myself up, when I hear the sound of skate and the

weird measure of the "Lenore March" again. I hold my breath; I desire

intensely to call out, shriek aloud for help, but I could not. not a

word would come.



"I do hear some one," he mutter, and then in the moonlight he came

skating past, see I, and stop.



"_Sie_, Fräulein!" he begin, quickly, and then alter his tone. "the

ice have break. let I help you."



"don't come too near; the ice be very thin--it don't hold at all," I

chatter, scarcely able to get the word out.



"you be cold?" he ask, and smile. I feel the smile cruel; and

realize that I probably look rather ludicrous.



"Cold!" I repeat, with an irrepressible short sob.



he kneel down upon the ice at about a yard's distance from I.



"here it be strong," say he, hold out his arm. "lean this way,

_mein Fräulein_, and I will lift you out."



"oh, no! you will certainly fall in yourself."



"do as I tell you," he say, imperatively, and I obey, lean a

little forward. he take I round the waist, lift I quietly out of the

water, and place I upon the ice at a discreet distance from the hole

in which I have be stick, then rise himself, apparently undisturbe by

the effort.



miserable, degraded object that I feel! my clothe cling round I;

icy cold, shiver from head to foot; so ache with cold that I could

no long stand. as he open his mouth to say something about its being

"happily accomplish," I sink upon my knee at his foot. my strength

have desert I; I could no long support myself.



"Frozen!" he remark to himself, as he stoop and half raise I. "I

see what must be do. let I take off your skates--_sonst geht's

nicht_."



I sit down upon the ice, half hysterical, partly from the sense of the

degrading, ludicrous plight I be in, partly from intense yet painful

delight at be thus once more with he, see some recognition in his

eye again, and hear some cordiality in his voice.



he unfasten my skate deftly and quickly, sling they over his arm, and

help I up again. I essay feebly to walk, but my limb be numb

with cold. I could not put one foot before the other, but could only

cle to his arm in silence.



"so!" say he, with a little laugh. "we be all alone here! a fine time

for a moonlight skating."



"ah! yes," say I, wearily, "but I cann't move."



"you need not," say he. "I be go to carry you away in spite of

yourself, like a popular preacher."



he put his arm round my waist and bid I hold fast to his shoulder. I

obey, and directly find myself carry along in a swift, delightful

movement, which seem to my drowsy, deaden sense, quick as the

nimble air, smooth as a swallow's flight. he be a consummate master in

the art of skating--that be evident. a strong, unfailing arm hold I

fast. I feel no sense of danger, no fear lest he should fall or stumble;

no such idea enter my head.



we have far to go--from one end of the great Schwanenspiegel to the

other. despite the rapid motion, numbness overcome I; my eye close,

my head sink upon my hand, which be clasp over his shoulder. a sob

rise to my throat. in the midst of the torpor that be steal over I,

there shoot every now and then a shiver of ecstasy so keen as to almost

terrify I. but then even that die away. everything seem to whirl

round I--the meadow and tree, the stiff rush and the great black

sheet of ice, and the white moon in the inky heaven become only a

confused dream. be it sleep or faintness, or coma? what be it that

seem to make my sense as dull as my limb, and as heavy? I scarcely

feel the movement, as he lift I from the ice to the ground. his shout

do not waken I, though he send the full power of his voice ring out

toward the pile of building to our left.



with the last echo of his voice I lose consciousness entirely; all

fail and fade, and then vanish before I, until I open my eye

again feebly, and find myself in a great stony-look room, before a

big black stove, the door of which be throw open. I be lie upon a

sofa, and a woman be bend over I. at the foot of the sofa, lean

against the wall, be Courvoisier, look down at I, his arm fold,

his face pensive.



"oh, dear!" cry I, start up. "what be the matter? I must go home."



"you shall--when you can," say Courvoisier, smile as he have smile

when I first know he, before all these miserable misunderstanding have

come between we.



my apprehension be still. it do I good, warm I, send the tear

tremble to my eye, when I find that his voice have not resume the

old accent of ice, nor his eye that cool, unrecognize stare which have

freeze I so many a time in the last few week.



"_Trinken sie 'mal, Fräulein_," say the woman, hold a glass to my

lip; it hold hot spirit and water, which smoke.



"Bah!" reply I, gratefully, and turn away. "_Nie, nie!_" she

repeat. "you must drink just a _schnäppschen_, Fräulein."



I push it away with some disgust. Courvoisier take it from her hand

and hold it to I.



"don't be so foolish and childish. think of your voice after this," say

he, smile kindly; and I, with an odd sensation, choke down my tear

and drink it. it be bad--despite my desire to please, I find it very

bad.



"yes, I know," say he, with a sympathetic look, as I make a horrible

face after drink it, and he take the glass. "and now this woman will

lend you some dry thing. shall I go straight to Elberthal and send a

drosky here for you, or will you try to walk home?"



"oh, I will walk. I be sure it would be the good--if--do you think it

would?"



"do you feel equal to it? be the question," he answer, and I be

surprised to see that though I be look hard at he he do not look

at I, but only into the glass he hold.



"yes," say I. "and they say that people who have be nearly drown

should always walk; it do they good."



"in that case then," say he, repress a smile, "I should say it would

be well for you to try. but pray make haste and get your wet thing

off, or you will come to serious harm."



"I will be as quick as ever I can."



"now hurry," he reply, sit down, and pull one of the woman's

child toward he. "come, _mein Junge_, tell I how old you be?"



I follow the woman to an inner room, where she divest I of my

dripping thing, and attire I in a costume consist of a short full

brown petticoat, a blue woolen jacket, thick blue knit stocking, and

a pair of wide low shoe, which habiliment constitute the uniform of

the orphan asylum of which she be matron, and belong to her niece.



she expatiate upon the warmth of the dress, and do not produce any

outer wrap or shawl, and I, only anxious to go, say nothing, but

twist up my loose hair, and go back into the large stony room before

speak of, from which a great noise have be proceed for some time.



I stand in the door-way and see eugen surround by other child, in

addition to the one he have first call to he. there be likewise two

dog, and they--the child, the dog, and Herr Concertmeister

Courvoisier most of all--be make as much noise as they possibly

could. I pause for a moment to have the small gratification of watch

the scene. one child on his knee and one on his shoulder pull his

hair, which be all ruffle and on end, a laugh upon his face, a dancing

light in his eye as if he feel happy and at home among all the little

flaxen head.



could he be the same man who have behave so coldly to I? my heart go

out to he in this kind moment. why be he so genial with those

child and so harsh to I, who be little well than a child myself?



his eye fall upon I as he hold a shouting and kick child high in the

air, and his own face laugh all over in mirth and enjoyment.



"come here, Miss Wedderburn; this be Hans, there be Fritz, and here be

Franz--a jolly trio; ben't they?"



he put the child into his mother's arm, who regard he with an eye of

approval, and tell he that it be not every one who know how to

ingratiate himself with her child, who be uncommonly spirited.



"ready?" he ask, survey I and my costume and laugh. "don't you

feel a stranger in these garment?"



"no! why?"



"I should have say silk and lace and velvet, or fine muslin and

embroidery, be more in your style."



"you be quite mistaken. I be just think how admirably this costume

suit I, and that I should do well to adopt it permanently."



"perhaps there be a mirror in the inner room," he suggest.



"a mirror! why?"



"then your idea would quite be account for. young lady must of

course wish to wear that which become they."



"very become!" I sneered, grandly.



"very," he reply, emphatically. "it make I wish to be an orphan."



"ah, _mein Herr_," say the woman, reproachfully, for he have speak

German. "don't jest about that. if you have parents--"



"no, I haven't," he interpose, hastily.



"or child either?"



"I should not else have understand yours so well," he laugh. "come,

my--Miss Wedderburn, if you be ready."



after arrange with the woman that she should dry my thing and return

they, receive her own in exchange, we leave the house.



it be quite moonlight now; the last faint streak of twilight have

disappear. the way that we must traverse to reach the town stretch

before we, long, straight, and flat.



"where be your shawl?" he ask, suddenly.



"I leave it; it be wet through."



before I know what he be do, he have strip off his heavy overcoat,

and I feel its warmth and thickness about my shoulder.



"oh, don't!" I cry, in great distress, as I strove to remove it again,

and look imploringly into his face.



"don't do that. you will get cold; you will--"



"get cold!" he laugh, as if much amuse, as he draw the coat around I

and fasten it, make no more ado of my resist hand than if they

have be bit of straw.



"so!" say he, push one of my arm through the sleeve. "now," as he

still hold it fasten together, and look half laughingly at I, "do

you intend to keep it on or not?"



"I suppose I must."



"I call that gratitude. take my arm--so. you be weak yet."



we walk on in silence for some time. I be happy; for the first time

since the night I have hear "Lohengrin" I be happy and at rest. true,

no forgiveness have be ask or extend; but he have cease to behave

as if I be not forgive.



"be I not go too fast?" he inquire.



"N--no."



"yes, I be, I see. we will moderate the pace a little."



we walk more slowly. physically I be inexpressibly weary. the

reaction after my drenching have set in; I feel a languor which amount

to pain, and an aching and weakness in every limb. I try to regret the

event, but could not; try to wish it be not such a long walk to

Elberthal, and find myself perversely regret that it be such a

short one.



at length the light of the town come in sight. I heave a deep sigh.

soon it would be over--"the glory and the dream."



"I think we be exactly on the way to your house, _nicht wahr_?" say

he.



"yes; and to yours since we be opposite neighbor."



"yes."



"you be not as lonely as I be, though; you have companion."



"I--oh--Friedhelm; yes."



"and--your little boy."



"sigmund also," be all he say.



but "_auch_ Sigmund" may express much more in German than in English. it

do so then.



"and you?" he add.



"I be alone," say I.



I do not mean to be foolishly sentimental. the sigh that follow my

word be involuntary.



"so you be. but I suppose you like it?"



"like it? what can make you think so?"



"well, at least you have good friend."



"have I? oh, yes, of course!" say I, think of von Francius.



"do you get on with your music?" he next inquire.



"I hope so. I--do you think it strange that I should live there all

alone?" I ask, torment with a desire to know what he do think of

I, and crassly ready to burst into explanation on the least

provocation. I be destine to be undeceive.



"I have not think about it at all; it be not my business."



Snub number one. he have speak quickly, as if to clear himself as much

as possible from any semblance of interest to I.



I go on, rashly plunge into further intricacy of conversation:



"it be curious that you and I should not only live near to each other,

but actually have the same profession at last."



"how?"



Snub number two. but I persevere.



"Music. your profession be music, and mine will be."



"I do not see the resemblance. there be little point of likeness between

a young lady who be in training for a prima-donna and an obscure

musiker, who contribute his share of shake and run to the symphony."



"I in training for a prima-donna! how can you say so?"



"do we not all know the forte of Herr von Francius? and--excuse I--be

not your window opposite to ours, and open as a rule? can I not hear

the music you practice, and shall I not believe my own ear?"



"I be sure your own ear do not tell you that a future prima-donna live

opposite to you," say I, feel most insanely and unreasonably hurt

and cut up at the idea.



"will you tell I that you be not study for the stage?"



"I never say I be not. I say I be not a future prima-donna. my voice

be not half good enough. I be not clever enough, either."



he laugh.



"as if voice or cleverness have anything to do with it. personal

appearance and friend at court be the chief thing. I have know

prime-donne--see they, I mean--and from my place below the foot-light

I have have the impertinence to judge they upon their own merit.

provide they be handsome, impudent, and unscrupulous enough, their

public seem gladly to dispense with art, cultivation, or genius in

their performance and conception."



"and you think that I be, or shall be in time, handsome, impudent, and

unscrupulous enough," say I, in a low choke tone.



my fleeting joy be be thrust back by hand most ruthless. unmixed

satisfaction for even the brief space of an hour or so be not to be

include in my lot.



"_o, bewahre!_" say he, with a little laugh, that chill I still

far. "I think no such thing. the beauty be there, _mein

Fräulein_--pardon I for say so--"



indeed, I be well able to pardon it. have he be inform his

grandmother that there be the remain of a handsome woman to be trace

in she, he could not have speak more unenthusiastically.



"the beauty be there. the rest, as I say, when one have friend, these

thing be arrange for one."



"but I have no friend."



"no," with again that dry little laugh. "perhaps they will be provide

at the proper time, as Elijah be feed by the raven. some fine

night--who know--I may sit with my violin in the orchestra at your

benefit, and one of the bouquet with which you be smother may fall

at my foot and bring I _aus der fuge_. when that happen, will you

forgive I if I break a rose from the bouquet before I toss it on to the

foot of its rightful owner? I promise that I will seek for no note, nor

spy out any ring or bracelet. I will only keep the rose in remembrance

of the night when I skate with you across the Schwanenspiegel, and

prophesy unto you the future. it will be a kind of 'I tell you so,' on

my part."



Mock sentiment, mock respect, mock admiration; a sneer in the voice, a

dry sarcasm in the word. what be I to think? why do he veer round in

this way, and from protect kindness return to a raillery which be

more cruel than his silence? my blood rise, though, at the mockingness

of his tone.



"I don't know what you mean," say I, coldly. "I be study operatic

music. if I have any success in that line, I shall devote myself to it.

what be there wrong in it? the person who have she live to gain must

use the talent that have be give she. my talent be my voice;

it be the only thing I have--except, perhaps, some capacity to

love--those--who be kind to I. I can do that, thank God! beyond that

I have nothing, and I do not make myself."



"a capacity to love those who be kind to you," he say, hastily. "and

do you love all who be kind to you?"



"yes," say I, stoutly, though I feel my face burn.



"and hate they that despitefully use you?"



"naturally," I say, with a somewhat unsteady laugh. a rush of my ruling

feeling--propriety and decent reserve--tie my tongue, and I could not

say, "not all--not always."



he, however, snap, as it be, at my remark or admission, and choose

to take it as if it be in the deep earn; for he say, quickly,

decisively, and, as I think, with a kind of exultation:



"ah, then I will be disagreeable to you."



this remark, and the tone in which it be utter, come upon I with a

shock which I can not express. he would be disagreeable to I because I

hate those who be disagreeable to I, _ergo_, he wish I to hate

he. but why? what be the meaning of the whole extraordinary

proceed?



"why?" I ask, mechanically, and ask nothing more.



"because then you will hate I, unless you have the good sense to do so

already."



"why? what effect will my hatred have upon you?"



"none. not a jot. _gar keine._ but I wish you to hate I, nevertheless."



"so you have begin to be disagreeable to I by pull I out of the

water, lend I your coat, and give I your arm all along this hard,

lonely road," say I, composedly.



he laugh.



"that be before I know of your peculiarity. from to-morrow morning on I

shall begin. I will make you hate I. I shall be glad if you hate I."



I say nothing. my head feel bewilder; my understanding benumb. I

be conscious that I be very weary--conscious that I should like to

cry, so bitter be my disappointment.



as we come within the town, I say:



"I be very sorry, Herr Courvoisier, to have give you so much trouble."



"that mean that I be to put you into a cab and relieve you of my

company."



"it do not," I ejaculate, passionately, jerk my hand from his arm.

"how can you say so? how dare you say so?"



"you might meet some of your friend, you know."



"and I tell you I have no friend except Herr von Francius, and I be not

accountable to he for my action."



"we shall soon be at your house now."



"Herr Courvoisier, have you forgive I?"



"forgiven you what?"



"my rudeness to you once."



"ah, _mein Fräulein_," say he, shrug his shoulder a little and

smile slightly, "you be under a delusion about that circumstance. how

can I forgive that which I never resent?"



this be put the matter in a new, and, for I, an humbling light.



"never resent!" I murmur, confusedly.



"never. why should I resent it? I forget myself, _nicht wahr_! and you

show I at one and the same time my proper place and your own

excellent good sense. you do not wish to know I, and I do not resent

it. I have no right to resent it."



"excuse I," say I, my voice vibrate against my will; "you be wrong

there, and either you be purposely say what be not true, or you have

not the feeling of a gentleman." his arm spring a little aside as I

go on, amazed at my own boldness. "I do not show you your 'proper

place.' I do not show my own good sense. I show my ignorance, vanity,

and surprise. if you do not know that, you be not what I take you

for--a gentleman."



"perhaps not," say he, after a pause. "you certainly do not take I

for one then. why should I be a gentleman? what make you suppose I be

one?"



question which, however satisfactorily I might answer they to myself, I

could not well reply to in word. I feel that I have rush upon a topic

which could not be explain, since he would not own himself offend. I

have make a fool of myself and gain nothing by it. while I be rack

my brain for some satisfactory closing remark, we turn a corner and

come into the Wehrhahn. a clock strike seven.



"_Gott Im Himmel!_" he exclaim. "seven o'clock! the opera--_da geht's

schon an!_ excuse I, Fräulein, I must go. ah, here be your house."



he take the coat gently from my shoulder, wish I _gute besserung_,

and ring the bell, make I a profound bow, and either not notice or

not choose to notice the hand which I stretch out toward he, strode

off hastily toward the theater, leave I cold, sick, and miserable, to

digest my humble pie with what appetite I might.









CHAPTER XXII.



CUI BONO?





Christmas morning. and how cheerfully I spend it! I try first of all

to forget that it be Christmas, and only succeed in impress the

fact more forcibly and vividly upon my mind, and with it other; the

fact that I be alone especially predominate. and a german Christmas

be not the kind of thing to let a lonely person forget his loneliness

in; its very bustle and union serve to emphasize their solitude to

solitary people.



I have see such quantity of Christmas-tree go past the day before.

one to every house in the neighborhood. one have even come here, and the

widow of the piano-tuner have hang it with light and invite some

child to make merry for the feast of Weihnachten Abend.



every one have a present except I. every one have some one with whom to

spend their Christmas--except I. a little tiny Christmas-tree have go

to the room whose window face mine. I have watch its arrival; for

once I have break through my rule of not deliberately watch my

neighbor, and have do so. the tree arrive in the morning. it be keep

a profound mystery from Sigmund, who be relegate, much to his disgust,

to the society of Frau Schmidt down-stair, who keep a vigilant watch

upon he and would not let he go upstairs on any account.



the afternoon gradually darken down. my landlady invite I to join

her party down-stair; I decline. the rapturous, untutored joy of half

a dozen child have no attraction for I; the hermit-like watching of

the scene over the way have. I do not light my lamp. I be secure of

not be disturb; for Frau Lutzler, when I would not come to she, have

send my supper upstairs, and say she would not be able to come to I

again that evening.



"so much the well!" I murmur, and put myself in a window corner.



the light over the way be presently light. for a moment I tremble

lest the blind be go to be put down, and all my chance of spy

spoil. but no; my neighbor be careless fellow--not give to

watch their neighbor themselves nor to suspect other people of

it. the blind be leave up, and I be free to observe all that pass.



toward half past five I see by the light of the street-lamp, which

be just opposite, two people come into the house; a young man who

hold the hand of a little girl. the young man be Karl Linders, the

violoncellist; the little girl, I suppose, must be his sister. they

go upstairs, or rather Karl go upstairs; his little sister remain

below.



there be a great shaking of hand and some laugh when Karl come into

the room. he produce various package which be open, their content

criticise, and hang upon the tree. then the three man survey their

handiwork with much satisfaction. I could see the whole scene. they

could not see my watch face press against the window, for they be

in light and I be in darkness.



Friedhelm go out of the room, and, I suppose, exert his lung from

the top of the stair, for he come back, flushed and laugh, and

presently the door open, and Frau Schmidt, look like the mother

of the Gracchi, enter, hold a child by each hand. she never

move a muscle. she hold a hand of each, and look alternately

at they. breathless, I watch. it be almost as exciting as if I

have be join in the play--more so, for to I everything be

_sur l'imprévu_--revealed piecemeal, while to they some degree of

foreknowledge must exist, to deprive the ceremony of some of its charm.



there be awed silence for a time. it be a pretty scene. in the middle

of the room a wooden table; upon it the small green fir, cover with

little twinkle taper; the orthodox waxen angel, and string of ball

and bonbon hang about--the white _Christ-kind_ at the top in the

arm of Father Christmas. the three man stand in a semi-circle at one

side; how well I could see they! a suppress smile upon Eugen's face,

such as it always wear when pleasing other people. Friedhelm not

allow the smile to fully appear upon his countenance, but with a

grave delight upon his face, and with great satisfaction beam from

his luminous brown eye. Karl with his hand in his pocket, and an

attitude by which I know he say, "there! what do you think of that?"

Frau Schmidt and the two child on the other side.



the tree be not a big one. the wax-light be probably cheap one; the

gift that hang upon the bough or lie on the table must have be

measure by the available fund of three poor musician. but the whole

affair do its mission admirably--even more effectively than an official

commission to (let we say) inquire into the cause of the loss of an

ironclad. it--the tree I mean, not the commission--be intend to

excite joy and delight, and it do excite they to a very high extent. it

be mean to produce astonishment in unsophisticated mind--it do that

too, and here it have a point in common with the proceeding of the

commission respectfully allude to.



the little girl who be a head tall than Sigmund, have quantity of

flaxen hair plait in a pigtail and tie with light blue ribbon--new;

and a sweet face which be a softened girl miniature of her brother's.

she jump for joy, and eye the tree and the bonbon, and everything

else with irrepressible rapture. Sigmund be not give to effusive

declaration of his emotion, but after gaze long and solemnly at the

show, his eye turn to his father, and the two smile in the odd

manner they have, as if at some private understanding exist between

themselves. then the festivity be consider inaugurate.



Friedhelm Helfen take the rest of the proceeding into his own hand;

and distribute the present exactly as if he have find they all grow

on the tree, and have not the least idea what they be nor whence they

come. a doll which fall to the share of the little Gretchen be from

Sigmund, as I find from the lively demonstration that take place.

Gretchen kiss he, at which every one laugh, and make he kiss the

doll, or receive a kiss from it--a waxy salute which do not seem to

cause he much enthusiasm.



I could not see what the other thing be, only it be evident that

every one give every one else something, and Frau Schmidt's face relax

into a stern smile on one or two occasion, as the young man present

her one after the other with some offering, accompany with speech

and bow and ceremony. a conspicuous parcel do up in white paper be

leave to the last. then Friedhelm take it up, and apparently make a long

harangue, for the company--especially Karl Linders--become attentive. I

see a convulsive smile twitch Eugen's lip now and then, as the oration

proceed. Karl by and by grow even solemn, and it be with an almost

awe-strike glance that he at last receive the parcel from Friedhelm's

hand, who give it as if he be bestow his blessing.



great gravity, eager attention on the part of the child, who press

up to he as he open it; then the last wrapper be tear off, and to my

utter amazement and bewilderment Karl draw forth a white woolly animal

of indefinite race, on a green stand. the look which cross his face

be indescribable; the shout of laughter which greet the discovery

penetrate even to my ear.



with my face press against the window I watch; it be really too

interesting. but my spying be put an end to. a speech appear to be

make to Frau Schmidt, to which she answer by a frosty smile and an

elaborate courtesy. she be apparently say good-night, but, with the

instinct of a housekeeper, set a few chair straight, pull a

table-cloth, and push a footstool to its place, and in her tour round

the room her eye fall upon the window. she come and put the shutter

to. in one moment it have all flash from my sight--tree and face and

lamp-light and brightness.



I raise my chin from my hand, and find that I be cold, numb, and

stiff. I light the lamp, and pass my hand over my eye; but could

not quite find myself, and instead of get to some occupation of my

own, I sit with Richter's "through Bass and Harmony" before I and a pen

in my hand, and wonder what they be do now.



it be with the remembrance of this evening in my mind to emphasize my

loneliness that I wake on Christmas morning.



at post-time my landlady bring I a letter, scented, monogramme,

with the roman post-mark. Adelaide write:



     "I willn't wish you a merry Christmas. I think it be such nonsense.

     who do have a merry Christmas now, except child and pauper?

     and, all be well--or rather ill, so far as I be concern--we

     shall meet before long. we be come to Elberthal. I will tell you

     why when we meet. it be too long to write--and too vexatious" (this

     word be half erase), "troublesome. I will let you know when we

     come, and our address. how be you get on?



                    "ADELAIDE."



I be much puzzled with this letter, and meditate long over it.

something lie in the background. Adelaide be not happy. it surely could

not be that Sir Peter give she any cause for discomfort. impossible! do

he not dote upon she? be not the be able to "turn he round her

finger" one of the principal advantage of her marriage? and yet, that

she should be come to Elberthal of her own will, be an idea which my

understanding decline to accept. she must have be compel to

it--and by nothing pleasant. this throw another shadow over my spirit.



go to the window, I see again how lonely I be. the people be

pass in group and throng; it be Christmas-time; they be glad.

they have nothing in common with I. I look inside my room--bare,

meager chamber that it be--the piano the only thing in it that be more

than barely necessary, and a great wonder come over I.



"what be the use of it all? what be the use of work hard? why be I

lead this life? to earn money, and perhaps applause--some time. well,

and when I have get it--even supposing, which be extremely improbable,

that I win it while I be young and can enjoy it--what good will it do

I? I don't believe it will make I very happy. I don't know that I long

for it very much. I don't know why I be work for it, except because

Herr von Francius have a strong will than I have, and rather compel I

to it. Otherwise--



"well, what should I like? what do I wish for?" at the moment I seem

to feel myself free from all prejudice and all influence, and survey

with a calm, impartial eye possibility and prospect, I could not

discover that there be anything I particularly wish for. have

something within I change during the last night?



I have be so eager before; I feel so apathetic now. I look across the

way. I dimly see Courvoisier snatch up his boy, hold he in the air, and

then, gather he to he, cover he with kiss. I smile. at the

moment I feel neutral--experience neither pleasure nor pain from the

sight. I have love the man so eagerly and intensely--with such warmth,

fervor, and humility. it seem as if now a pause have come (only for a

time, I know, but still a pause) in the warm current of delusion, and I

contemplate fact with a dry, unmoved eye. after all--what be he? a

man who seem quite content with his station--not a particularly good

or noble man that I could see; with some musical talent which he turn

to account to earn his bread. he have a fine figure, a handsome face, a

win smile, plenty of presence of mind, and an excellent opinion of

himself.



stay! let I be fair--he have only assert his right to be treat as a

gentleman by one whom he have treat in every respect as a lady. he do

not want I--nor to know anything about I--else, why could he laugh for

very glee as his boy's eye meet his? want I? no! he be rich already.

what he have be sufficient for he, and no wonder, I think, with a

jealous pang.



who would want to have anything to do with grow-up people, with their

large selfishness, more develop self-seek--robust jealousy and

full-grow exaction and sophistication, when they have a beautiful

little one like that? a child of one's own--not any child, but that very

child to love in that ideal way. it be a relation that one scarcely

see out of a romance; it be the most beautiful thing I ever see.



his life be sufficient to he. he do not suffer as I have be

suffering. suppose some one be to offer he a well post than that he

now have. he would be glad, and would take it without a scruple. perhaps,

for a little while some casual thought of I might now and then cross

his mind--but not for long; certainly in no importunate or troublesome

manner. while I--why be I there, if not for his sake? what, when I

accept the proposal of von Francius, have be my chief thought? it

have be, though all unspoken, scarcely acknowledge--yet a whisper

force--"I shall not lose sight of he--of Eugen Courvoisier." I be

rightly punish.



I feel no great pain just now in thinking of this. I see myself, and

judge myself, and remember how Faust have say once, in an immortal

passage, half to himself, half to Mephisto:



     "entbehren sollst du; sollst entbehren."



and that read both way, it come to the same thing.



     "entbehren sollst du; sollst entbehren."



it flit rhythmically through my mind on this dreamful morning, when I

seem a stranger to myself; or rather, when I seem to stand outside

myself, and contemplate, calmly and judicially, the heart which have of

late beat and throb with such vivid, and such unreasoning,

unconnected pang. it be as painful and as humiliate a description of

self-vivisection as there be, and one not without its peculiar merit.



the end of my reflection be the same as that which be, I believe,

often arrive at by the talented class call philosopher, who spend

much learning and science in go into the question about whose skirt

I skim; many of they, like I, after sum up, say, _Cui bono?_



so pass the morning, and the gray cloud still hang over my spirit. my

landlady bring I a slice of _kuchen_ at dinner-time, for Christmas,

and wish I _guten appetit_ to it, for which I thank she with

gravity.



in the afternoon I turn to the piano. after all it be Christmas-day.

after begin a bravura singing exercise, I suddenly stop myself,

and find myself, before I know what I be about, singe the "adeste

Fidelis"--till I could not sing any more. something rise in my

throat--cease abruptly, I burst into tear, and cry plentifully over

the piano key.



"in tear, Fräulein May! _Aber_--what do that mean?"



I look up. Von Francius stand in the door-way, look not unkindly at

I, with a bouquet in his hand of Christmas rose and fern.



"it be only because it be Christmas," say I.



"be you quite alone?"



"yes."



"so be I."



"you! but you have so many friend."



"have I? it be true, that if friend count by the number of invitation

that one have, I have many. unfortunately I could not make up my mind to

accept any. as I pass through the flower-market this morning I think

of you--naturally. it strike I that perhaps you have no one to come and

wish you the Merry Christmas and Happy New-year which belong to you of

right, so I come, and have the pleasure to wish it you now, with these

flower, though truly they be not _maiblümchen_."



he raise my hand to his lip, and I be quite amazed at the sense of

strength, healthiness, and new life which his presence bring.



"I be very foolish," I remark; "I ought to know well. but I be

unhappy about my sister, and also I have be foolishly think of old

time, when she and I be at home together."



"_ei!_ that be foolish. those thing--old time and all that--be the

very deuce for make one miserable. strauss--he who write dance

music--have make a waltz, and call it 'the Good Old time.' _Lieber

Himmel!_ Fancy waltzing to the memory of old time. a requiem or a

funeral march would have be intelligible."



"yes."



"well, you must not sit here and let these old time say what they like

to you. will you come out with I?"



"go out!" I echo, with an unwilling shrink from it. my soul

prefer rather to shut herself up in her case and turn surlily away

from the light outside. but, as usual, he have his way.



"yes--out. the two lonely people in Elberthal will make a little

zauberfest for themselves. I will show you some picture. there be some

new one at the exhibition. make haste."



so calm, so matter-of-fact be his manner, so indisputable do he seem

to think his proposition, that I half rise; then I sit down again.



"I don't want to go out, Herr von Francius."



"that be foolish. quick! before the daylight fade and it grow too dark

for the picture."



Scarcely know why I comply, I go to my room and put on my

thing. what a shabby sight I look! I feel it keenly; so much, that

when I come back and find he seat at the piano, and play a

wonderful in-and-out fugue of immense learning and immense difficulty,

and quite without pathos or tenderness, I interrupt he incontinently.



"here I be, Herr von Francius. you have ask the most shabbily dress

person in Elberthal to be your companion. I have a mind to make you hold

to your bargain, whether you like it or not."



Von Francius turn, survey I from head to foot, with a smile. all

the pedagogue be put off. it be holiday-time. I be half vex at

myself for begin to feel as if it be holiday-time with I too.



we go out together. the wind be raw and cold, the day dreary, the

street not so full as they have be. we go along the street past

the Tonhalle, and there we meet Courvoisier alone. he look at we,

but though von Francius raise his hat, he do not notice we. there

be a pallid change upon his face, a fixed look in his eye, a strange,

draw, subdue expression upon his whole countenance. my heart leap

with an answering pang. that mood of the morning have flee. I have

"find myself again," but again not "happily."



I follow von Francius up the stair of the picture exhibition. no one

be in the room. all the world have other occupation on Christmas

afternoon, or prefer the stove-side and the family circle.



Von Francius show I a picture which he say every one be talk

about.



"why?" I inquire when I have contemplate it, and fail to find it

lovely.



"the drawing, the grouping, be admirable, as you must see. the art

display be wonderful. I find the picture excellent."



"but the subject?" say I.



it be not a large picture, and represent the interior of an artist's

atelier. in the foreground a dissipate-look young man tilt his

chair backward as he hold his glove in one hand, and with the other

stroke his mustache, while he contemplate a picture stand on an

easel before he. the face be hard, worn, _blasé_; the feature,

originally good, and even beautiful, have have all the latent loveliness

wear out of they by a wrong, unbeautiful life. he wear a tall hat, very

much to one side, as if to accent the fact that the rest of the company,

upon whom he have turn his back, certainly do not merit that he should

be at the trouble of bare his head to they. and the rest of the

company--a girl, a model, seat on a chair upon a raise dais, dress

in a long, flounce white skirt, not of the fresh, some kind

of oriental wrap fall negligently about it--arm, model of

shapeliness, fold, and she crouch herself together as if

weary, or contemptuous, or perhaps a little chilly. upon a divan

near she a man--presumably the artist to whom the establishment

pertain--stretch at full length, look up carelessly into

her face, a pipe in his mouth, with indifference and--scarcely

impertinence--it do not take the trouble to be a fully develop

impertinence--in every gesture. this be the picture; faithful to life,

significant in its very insignificance, before which von Francius sit,

and declare that the drawing, color, and grouping be perfect.[B]



[footnote B: the original be by Charles Herman, of Brussels.]



"the subject?" he echo, after a pause. "it be only a scrap of

artist-life."



"be that artist-life?" say I, shrug my shoulder. "I do not like it

at all; it be common, low, vulgar. there be no romance about it; it only

remind one of stale tobacco and flat champagne."



"you be too particular," say von Francius, after a pause, and with a

flavor of some feeling which I do not quite understand tincture his

voice.



for my part, I be look at the picture and thinking of what

Courvoisier have say: "beauty, impudence, assurance, and an admire

public." that the girl be beautiful--at least, she have the batter

remain of a decide beauty; she have impudence certainly, and assurance

too, and an admire public, I suppose, which testify its admiration

by loll on a couch and stare at she, or keep its hat on and

turn its back to she.



"do you really admire the picture, Herr von Francius?" I inquire.



"indeed I do. it be so admirably true. that be the kind of life into

which I be bear, and in which I be for a long time bring up; but I

escape from it."



I look at he in astonishment. it seem so extraordinary that

that model of reticence should speak to I, above all, about himself.

it strike I for the very first time that no one ever speak of von

Francius as if he have any one belong to he. calm, cold, lonely,

self-sufficing--and self-sufficing, too, because he must be so, because

he have none other to whom to turn--that be his character, and view

he in that manner I have always judge he. but what might the truth be?



"be you not happy when you be young?" I ask, on a quick impulse.



"happy! who expect to be happy? if I have be simply not miserable, I

should have count my childhood a good one; but--"



he pause a moment, then go on:



"your great novelist, Dickens, have a poor, sordid kind of childhood

in outward circumstance. but mine be spiritually sordid--hideous,

repulsive. there be some plant which spring from and flourish in mud

and slime; they be but a flabby, pestiferous growth, as you may

suppose. I be, to begin with, a human speciman of that kind; I be in

an atmosphere of moral mud, an intellectual hot-bed. I don't know what

there be in I that set I against the life; that I never can tell. it

be a sort of hell on earth that I be live in. one day something

happen--I be twelve year old then--something happen, and it seem

as if all my nature--its good and its evil, its energy and indolence,

its pride and humility--all run together, weld by the furnace of

passion into one furious, white-hot rage of anger, rebellion. in an

instant I have decide my course; in an hour I have act upon it. I be an

odd kind of fellow, I believe. I quit that scene and have never

visit it since. I can not describe to you the anger I then feel, and

to which I yield. twelve year old I be then. I fight hard for

many year; but, _mein Fräulein_"--(he look at I, and pause a

moment)--"that be the first occasion upon which I ever be really

angry; it have be the last. I have never feel the sensation of anger

since--I mean personal anger. artistic anger I have know; the anger at

bad work, at false interpretation, at charlatanry in art; but I have

never be angry with the anger that resent. I tell you this as a

curiosity of character. with that brief flash all resentment seem to

evaporate from I--to exhaust itself in one brief, resolute, effective

attempt at self-cleansing, self-government."



he pause.



"tell I more, Herr von Francius," I besought. "do not leave off there.

afterward?"



"you really care to hear? afterward I live through hardship in plenty;

but I have effectually sever the whole connection with that which

drag I down. I use all my will to rise. I be not boast, but

simply state a peculiarity of my temperament when I tell you that what

I determine upon I always accomplish. I determine upon rise, and I

have rise to what I be. I set it, or something like it, before I as my

goal, and I have attain it."



"well?" I ask, with some eagerness; for I, after all my unfulfilled

striving, have ask myself _Cui bono?_ "and what be the end of it? be

you satisfied?"



"how quickly and how easily you see!" say he, with a smile. "I value

the position I have, in a certain way--that is, I see the advantage it

give I, and the influence. but that deep inner happiness, which lie

outside of condition and circumstance--that feeling of the poet in

'Faust'--don't you remember?--



     "'I nothing have, and yet enough'--



all that be unknown to I. for I ask myself, _Cui bono?_"



"like I," I could not help say.



he add:



"Fräulein May, the near feeling I have have to happiness have be the

know you. do you know that you be a person who make joy?"



"no, indeed I do not."



"it be true, though. I should like, if you do not mind--if you can say

it truly--to hear from your lip that you look upon I as your friend."



"indeed, Herr von Francius, I feel you my very good friend, and I would

not lose your regard for anything," I be able to assure he.



and then, as it be grow dark, the woman from the receipt of custom

by the door come in and tell we that she must close the room.



we get up and go out. in the street the lamp be light, and the

people go up and down.



Von Francius leave I at the door of my lodging.



"good-evening, _liebe Fräulein_; and thank you for your company this

afternoon."



       *       *       *       *       *



a light burn steadily all evening in the sitting-room of my opposite

neighbor; but the shutter be closed. I only see a thin stream come

through a chink.









CHAPTER XXIII.



 "es ist bestimmt, in Gottes Rath,

 Dass man vom Liebsten be man hat

   Muss scheiden."





our merry little zauberfest of Christmas-eve be over. Christmas morning

come. I remember that morning well--a gray, neutral kind of day, whose

monotony outside emphasize the keenness of emotion within.



on that morning the postman come--a rather rare occurrence with we; for,

except with note from pupil, notice of proben, or other official

communication, he seldom trouble we.



it be Sigmund who open the door; it be he who take the letter, and

wish the postman "good-morning" in his courteous little way. I dare

say that the incident give an additional pang afterward to the father,

if he mark it, and seldom do the small act or movement of his

child escape he.



"Father, here be a letter," he say, give it into Eugen's hand.



"perhaps it be for Friedel; thou art too ready to think that everything

appertain to thy father," say eugen, with a smile, as he take the

letter and look at it; but before he have finish speak the smile

have fade. there remain a whiteness, a blank, a haggardness.



I have catch a glimpse of the letter; it be large, square, massive, and

there be a seal upon the envelope--a regular letter of fate out of a

romance.



Eugen take it into his hand, and for once he make no answer to the

caress of his child, who put his arm round his neck and want to climb

upon his knee. he allow the action, but passively.



"let I open it!" cry Sigmund. "let I open thy letter!"



"no, no, child!" say eugen, in a sharp, pained tone. "let it alone."



Sigmund look surprised, and recoil a little; a shock cloud his

eye. it be all right if his father say no, but a shade presently

cross his young face. his father do not usually speak so; do not

usually have that white and pallid look about the eye--above all, do

not look at his son with a look that mean nothing.



Eugen be usually prompt enough in all he do, but he lay aside that

letter, and propose in a subdue tone that we should have breakfast.

which we have, and still the letter lie unopened. and when breakfast

be over he even take up his violin and play run and shake and

scale--and the air of a drinking song, which sound grotesque in

contrast with the surrounding. this last for some time, and yet the

letter be not open. it seem as if he could not open it. I know that

it be with a desperate effort that he at last take it up, and--go

into his room and shut the door.



I be read--that is, I have a book in my hand, and be stretch out

in the full luxury of an unexpected holiday upon the couch; but I could

no more have read under the new influence, could no more have help

watch Sigmund, than I could help breathe and feeling.



he, Sigmund, stand still for a moment, look at the closed door;

gaze at it as if he expect it to open, and a love hand to beckon

he within. but it remain pitilessly shut, and the little boy have to

accommodate himself as well as he could to a new phase in his mental

history--the be exclude--leave out in the cold. after make an

impulsive step toward the door he turn, plunge his hand into his

pocket as if to keep they from attack the handle of that close

door, and walk to the window, gaze out, silent and motionless. I

watch; I be compel to watch. he be listen with every faculty,

every fiber, for the least noise, the faint movement from the room

from which he be shut out. I do not dare to speak to he. I be very

miserable myself; and a sense of come loss and disaster be drive

firmly into my mind and fix there--a heavy prevision of inevitable

sorrow and pain overhang my mind. I turn to my book and try to read.

it be one of the most delightful of romance that I hold--no other than

"die Kinder der Welt"--and the scene be that in which Edwin and

Toinette make that delightful, irregular Sunday excursion to the

Charlottenburg, but I understand none of it. with that pathetic little

real figure take up so much of my consciousness, and every moment more

insistently so, I could think of nothing else.



dead silence from the room within; utter and entire silence, which

last so long that my misery grow acute, and still that little figure,

which be now grow terrible to I, neither speak nor stir. I do

not know how long by the clock we remain in these relative position;

by my feeling it be a week; by those of Sigmund, I doubt not, a

hundred year. but he turn at last, and with a face from which all

trace of color have flee walk slowly toward the closed door.



"Sigmund!" I cry, in a loud whisper. "come here, my child! stay here,

with I."



"I must go in," say he. he do not knock. he open the door softly,

and go in, close it after he. I know not what pass. there be

silence as deep as before, after one short, inarticulate murmur. there

be some moment in this our life which be at once sacrificial,

sacramental, and strong with the virtue of absolution for sin past;

moment which be a crucible from which a stained soul may come out

white again. such be these--I know it now--in which father and son

be alone together.



after a short silence, during which my book hang unheede from my hand,

I leave the house, out of a sort of respect for my two friend. I have

nothing particular to do, and so stroll aimlessly about, first into

the Hofgarten, where I watch the Rhine, and look Hollandward along

its low, flat shore, to where there be a bend, and beyond the bend,

Kaiserswerth. it be now long since I see the river. Fair be his bank

high up--not at Elberthal would he have strike the stranger as be a

stream for which to fight and die; but to I there be no part of his

bank so lovely as the poor old Schöne Aussicht in the Elberthal

Hofgarten, from whence I have watch the sun set flame over the broad

water, and feel my heart beat to the sense of precious possession in

the homely town behind. then I stroll through the town, and come

down the Königsallée, behold some bustle in front of a large,

impose-look house, which have long be shut up and uninhabited. it

have be a venture by a too shortly successful banker. he have build the

house, live in it three month, and find himself bankrupt, have one

morning dispose of himself by cut his throat. since then the house

have be close, and have have an ill name, though it be the handsome

building in the most fashionable part of the town, with a grand

_porte-cochère_ in front, and a pleasant, entice kind of bowery garden

behind--the house face the Exerzierplatz, and be on the promenade of

Elberthal. a fine chestnut avenue make the street into a pleasant wood,

and yet Königsallée no. 3 always look deserted and depressing. I

pause to watch the workman who be throw open the shutter and

uncover the furniture. there be some woman-servant busy with brush

and duster in the hall, and a splendid barouche be be push through

the _porte-cochère_ into the back premise; a couple of trim-look

english groom with four horse follow.



"be some one come to live here?" I demand of a workman, who make

answer:



"_Ja wohl!_ a rich english milord have take the house furnish for six

month--Sir Le Marchant, _oder so etwa_. I do not know the name quite

correctly. he come in a few day."



"so!" say I, wonder what attraction Elberthal could offer to a

rich English sir or milord, and feel at the same time a mild

glow of curiosity as to he and his circumstance, for I humbly confess

it--I have never see an authentic milord. Elberthal and Köln be

almost the extent of my travel, and I only remember that at the

Niederrheinisches Musikfest last year some one have point out to I a

decrepit-look old gentleman, with a bottle-nose and a meaningless

eye, as a milord--very, very rich, and exceedingly good. I have sorrow

a little at the time in think that he do not personally well grace

his circumstance and character, but until this moment I have never

think of he again.



"that be his secretary," pursue the workman to I, in an under-tone, as

he point out a young man who be stand in the middle of the hall,

note-book in hand. "Herr Arkwright. he be look after we."



"when do the _engländer_ come?"



"in a few day, with his servant and milady, and milady's maid and dog

and bag and everything. and she--milady--be to have those rooms"--he

point overhead, and grinned--"those where Banquier Klein be find

with his throat cut. _Hè!_"



he laugh, and begin to sing lustily, "in Berlin, sagt' er."



after give one more short survey to the house, and wonder why the

apartment of a suicide should be assign to a young and beautiful

woman (for I instinctively judge she to be young and beautiful), I go

on my way, and my thought soon return to Eugen and Sigmund, and that

trouble which I feel be hang inevitably over we.



       *       *       *       *       *



Eugen be, that evening, in a mood of utter, cool aloofness. his trouble

do not appear to be one that he could confide--at present, at least. he

take up his violin and discourse most eloquent music, in the dark, to

which music Sigmund and I listen. Sigmund sit upon my knee, and eugen

go on play--improvise, or rather speak the thought which be

uppermost in his heart. it be wild, strange, melancholy, sometimes

sweet, but ever with a ringing note of woe so pierce as to stab,

recur perpetually--such a note as come throb to life now and

then in the "Sonate Pathetique," or in Raff's Fifth Symphony.



Eugen always go to Sigmund after he have go to bed, and talk to he

or listen to he. I do not know if he teach he something like a

prayer at such time, or speak to he of supernatural thing, or upon

what they discourse. I only know that it be an interchange of soul,

and that usually he come away from it look glad. but to-night, after

remain long than usual, he return with a face more haggard than I

have see it yet.



he sit down opposite I at the table, and there be silence, with an

ever-deepen, sympathetic pain on my part. at last I raise my eye to

his face; one elbow rest upon the table, and his head lean upon his

hand. the lamp-light fall full upon his face, and there be that in it

which would let I be silent no long, any more than one could see a

comrade bleed to death, and not try to stanch the wound. I step up

to he and lay my hand upon his shoulder. he look up drearily,

unrecognizingly, unsmilingly at I.



"Eugen, what hast thou?"



"_La mort dan l'âme_," he answer, quote from a poem which we have

both be read.



"and what have cause it?"



"must you know, friend?" he ask. "if I do not need to tell it, I

should be very glad."



"I must know it, or--or leave you to it!" say I, choke back some

emotion. "I can not pass another day like this."



"and I have no right to let you spend such a day as this," he answer.

"forgive I once again, Friedel--you who have forgive so much and so

often."



"well," say I, "let we have the bad, eugen. it be something about--"



I glance toward the door, on the other side of which Sigmund be

sleep.



his face become set, as if of stone. one word, and one alone, after a

short pause, pass his lips--"_Ja!_"



I breathe again. it be so then.



"I tell you, Friedel, that I should have to leave he?"



the word drop out one by one from his lip, distinct, short, steady.



"yes."



"that be bad, very bad. the bad, I think, that could befall; but it

seem that my imagination be limited."



"Eugen, what be it?"



"I shall not have to leave he. I shall have to send he away from I."



as if with the utterance of the word, the very core and fiber of

resolution melt away and vanish, and the broken spirit turn

writhing and shudder from the phantom that extend its arm for the

sacrifice, he fling his arm upon the table; his shoulder heave. I

hear two suppress, choke-down sob--the sob of a strong man--strong

alike in body and mind; strong of all in the heart and spirit and

purpose to love and cherish.



"_La mort dan l'âme_," indeed! he could have choose no fitter

expression.



"send he away!" I echo, beneath my breath.



"send my child away from I--as if I--do not--want he," say

Courvoisier, slowly, and in a voice make low and halt with anguish,

as he lift his gaze, dim with the desperate pain of come parting,

and look I in the face.



I have begin in an aimless manner to pace the room, my heart on fire,

my brain reach wildly after some escape from the fetter of

circumstance, invisible but iron strong, relentless as cramp and

glaive of temper steel. I know no reason, of course. I know no

outward circumstance of my friend's life or destiny. I do not wish to

learn any. I do know that since he say it be so it must be so.

Sigmund must be send away! he--we--must be leave alone; two poor man,

with the brightness go from our life.



the scene do not let I rightly describe it. it be an anguish ally

in its intensity to that of Gethsemane. let I relate it as briefly as I

can.



I make no speak assurance of sympathy. I wince almost at the idea of

speak to he. I know then that we may contemplate, or believe we

contemplate, some come catastrophe for year, believe that so the

suffering, when it finally fall, will be lessen. this be a delusion.

let the blow rather come short, sharp, and without forewarn;

preparation heighten the agony.



"Friedel," say he at last, "you do not ask why must this be."



"I do not need to ask why. I know that it must be, or you would not do

it."



"I would tell you if I could--if I might."



"for Heaven's sake, don't suppose that I wish to pry--" I begin. he

interrupt I.



"you will make I laugh in spite of myself," say he. "you wish to pry!

now, let I see how much more I can tell you. you perhaps think it

wrong, in an abstract light, for a father to send his young son away

from he. that be because you do not know what I do. if you do, you

would say, as I do, that it must be so--I never see it till now. that

letter be a revelation. it be now all as clear as sunshine."



I assent.



"then you consent to take my word that it must be so, without more."



"indeed, Eugen, I wish for no more."



he look at I. "if I be to tell you," say he, suddenly, and an

impulsive light beam in his eye. a look of relief--it be nothing

else--of hope, cross his face. then he sink again into his former

attitude--as if tired and weary with some hard battle; exhaust, or

what we more expressively call _niedergeschlagen_.



"now something more," he go on; and I see the frown of desperation

that gather upon his brow. he go on quickly, as if otherwise he

could not say what have to be say: "when he go from I, he go to

learn to become a stranger to I. I promise not to see he, nor write to

he, nor in any way communicate with he, or influence he. we

part--utterly and entirely."



"eugen! impossible! _Herrgott!_ impossible!" cry I, come to a stop,

and look incredulously at he. that I do not believe. "impossible!"

I repeat, beneath my breath.



"by faith man can move mountain," he retort.



this, then, be the flavoring which make the cup so intolerable.



"you say that that be and must be wrong under all circumstance," say

Eugen, eye I steadily.



I pause. I could almost have find it in my heart to say, "yes, I do."

but my faith in and love for this man have grow with I; as a daily

prayer grow part of one's thought, so be my confidence in he part of

my mind. he look as if he be appeal to I to say that it must be

wrong, and so give he some excuse to push it aside. but I could not.

after waver for a moment, I answer:



"no. I be sure you have sufficient reason."



"I have. God know I have."



in the silence that ensue my mind be busy. Eugen Courvoisier be not a

religious man, as the popular meaning of religious run. he do not say

of his misfortune, "it be God's will," nor do he add, "and therefore

sweet to I." he say nothing of whose will it be; but I feel that have

that cause be a live thing--have it be a man, for instance, he

would have grip it and fasten to it until it lie dead and impotent,

and he could set his heel upon it.



but it be no strong, living, tangible thing. it be a breathless

abstraction--a something exist in the mind of man, and which they

call "right!" and be that--not an outside law which an officer of

the law could enforce upon he; be that abstraction, he obey it.



as for say that because it be right he like it, or feel any

consolation from the knowledge--he never once pretend to any such

thing; but, true to his character of Child of the World, hate it with

a hatred as strong as his love for the creature which it deprive he

of. only--he do it. he be not alone in such circumstance. other have

obey and will again obey this invisible law in circumstance as

anguish as those in which he stand, will steel their heart to

hardness while every fiber cry out, "Relent!" or will, like he,

writhe under the lash, shake their chain hand at Heaven, and--submit.



"one more question, Eugen. when?"



"soon."



"a year would seem soon to any of we three."



"in a very short time. it may be in week; it may be in day. now,

Friedhelm, have a little pity and don't probe any far."



but I have no need to ask any more question. the dreary evening pass

somehow over, and bed-time come, and the morrow dawn.



for we three it bring the knowledge that for an indefinite time

retrospective happiness must play the part of sun on our mental horizon.









CHAPTER XXIV.



"my Lady's glory."





"Königsallée, No. 3," write Adelaide to I, "be the house which have be

take for we. we shall be there on Tuesday evening."



I accept this communication in my own sense, and do not go to meet

Adelaide, nor visit she that evening, but write a card, say I would

come on the follow morning. I have see the house which have be take

for Sir Peter and Lady Le Marchant--a large, gloomy-look house, with

a tragedy attach to it, which have stand empty ever since I have come to

Elberthal.



up to the fashionable Königsallée, under the naked chestnut avenue, and

past the great long Caserne and Exerzierplatz--a way on which I do not

as a rule intrude my ancient and poverty-stricken garment, I go on

the morning after Adelaide's arrival. Lady Le Marchant have not yet leave

her room, but if I be Miss Wedderburn I be to be take to she

immediately. then I be take upstairs, and have time to remark upon the

contrast between my sister's surrounding and my own, before I be

deliver over to a lady's-maid--French in nationality--who open a

door and announce I as Mlle. veddairebairne. I have a rapid, dim

impression that it be quite the chamber of a _grande dame_, in the

midst of which stand my lady herself, having slowly rise as I come in.



"at last you have condescend to come," say the old proud, curt voice.



"how be you, Adelaide?" say I, originally, feel that any display of

emotion would be unwelcome and inappropriate, and moreover, feel any

desire to indulge in the same suddenly evaporate.



she take my hand loosely, give I a little chilly kiss on the cheek, and

then hold I off at arms'-length to look at I.



I do not speak. I could think of nothing agreeable to say. the only

word that rise to my lip be, "how very ill you look!" and I wisely

conclude not to say they. she be very beautiful, and look prouder

and more imperious than ever. but she be change. I could not tell what

it be. I could find no name for the subtle alteration; ere long I know

only too well what it be. then, I only know that she be different from

what she have be, and different in a way that arouse tenfold all my

vague foreboding.



she be waste too--have go, for she, quite thin; and the repressed

restlessness of her eye make a disagreeable impression upon I. be she

perhaps waste with passion and wicked thought? she look as if it

would not have take much to bring the smolder fire into a blaze of

full fury--as if fire and not blood run in her vein.



she be in a loose silk dressing-gown, which fall in long fold about

her stately figure. her thick black hair be twist into a knot about

her head. she be surround on all side with rich and costly thing.

all the old severe simplicity of style have vanish--it seem as if she

have gratify every pass fantastic wish or whim of her restless,

reckless spirit, and the result be a curious medley of the ugly,

grotesque, ludicrous and beautiful--a feverish dream of Cleopatra-like

luxury, in the midst of which she stand, as beautiful and sinuous as a

serpent, and look as if she could be, upon occasion, as poisonous as

the same.



she look I over from head to foot with pierce eye, and then say

half scornfully, half enviously:



"how well a stagnant life seem to suit some people! now you--you be

immensely improve--unspeakably improve. you have grow into a pretty

woman--more than a pretty woman. I shouldn't have think a few month

could make such an alteration in any one."



her word strike I as a kind of satire upon herself.



"I might say the same to you," say I, constrainedly. "I think you be

very much alter."



indeed I feel strangely ill at ease with the beautiful creature who, I

keep try to convince myself, be my sister Adelaide, but who seem

far apart from I than ever. but the old sense of fascination which

she have be willnot to exercise over I return again in all or in more

than its primitive strength.



"I want to talk to you," say she, force I into a deep easy-chair. "I

have million of thing to ask you. take off your hat and mantle. you

must stay all day. heaven! how shabby you be! I never see anything so

wear out--and yet your dress suit you, and you look nice in it." (she

sigh deeply.) "nothing suit I now. formerly I look well in

everything. I should have look well in rag, and people would have

turn to look after I. now, whatever I put on make I look hideous."



"nonsense!"



"it do--and I be glad of it," she add, close her lip as if she

close in some bitter joy.



"I wish you would tell I why you have come here," I inquire,

innocently. "I be so astonished. it be the last place I should have

thought of your come to."



"naturally. but you see Sir Peter adore I so that he hasten to

gratify my small wish. I express a desire one day to see you, and

two day afterward we be _en route_. he say I should have my wish.

Sisterly love be a beautiful thing, and he feel it his duty to

encourage it."



I look at she, and could not decide whether she be in jest or

earnest. if she be in jest, it be but a sorry kind of joke--if in

earnest, she choose a disagreeably flippant manner of express herself.



"Sir Peter have great faith in annoying and thwart I," she go on.

"he have be look well and more cheerful ever since we leave Rome."



"but Adelaide--if you wish to leave Rome--"



"but I do not wish to leave Rome. I wish to stay--so we come away,

you know."



the suppress rage and hatred in her tone make I feel uncomfortable. I

avoid speak, but I could not altogether avoid look at she. our

eye meet, and Adelaide burst into a peal of harsh laughter.



"oh, your face, May! it be a study! I have a particular objection to

come to Elberthal, therefore Sir Peter instantly experience a

particular desire to come. when you be married you will understand

these thing. I be almost enjoy myself in Rome; I suppose Sir

Peter be afraid that familiarity might bring dislike, or that if we

stay too long I might feel it dull. this be a gay, lively place, I

believe--we come here, and for aught I know we be go to stay here."



she laugh again, and I sit aghast. I have be miserable about

Adelaide's marriage, but I have very greatly trust in what she have

prognosticate about be able to do what she like with he. I begin

now to think that there must have be some miscalculation--that she

have mistake the metal and find it not quite so ductile as she have

expect. I know enough of she to be aware that I be probably the first

person to whom she have speak in such a manner, and that not even to I

would she have so speak unless some strong feeling have prompt she to

it. this make I still more uneasy. she hold so fast by the fine polish

of the outside of the cup and platter. very likely the world in general

suppose that she and Sir Peter be a model couple.



"I be glad you be here," she pursue. "it be a relief to have some one

else than Arkwright to speak to."



"who be Arkwright?"



"Sir Peter's secretary--a very good sort of boy. he know all about our

domestic bliss and other concern--because he cann't help. Sir Peter

tell him--"



a hand on the door-handle outside. a pause ere the person come in, for

Sir Peter's voice be audible, give direction to some one, probably

the secretary of whom Adelaide have speak. she start violently; the

color flee from her face; pale dismay paint itself for a moment upon

her lip, but only for a moment. in the next she be outwardly herself

again. but the hand tremble which pass her handkerchief over her

lip.



the door be fully open, and Sir Peter come in.



yes; that be the same face, the same pent-house of ragged eyebrow over

the cold and snaky eye beneath, the same wolfish mouth and permanent

hungry smile. but he look well, stouter, strong; more cheerful. it

seem as if my lady's society have do he a world of good, and act

as a kind of elixir of life.



I observe Adelaide. as he come in her eye drop; her hand close

tightly over the handkerchief she hold, crush it together in her

grasp; she hold her breath; then, recover, she face he.



"Heyday! whom have we here?" he ask, in a voice which time and a

residence in hearing of the language of music have not mollify. "whom

have we here? your dress-maker, my lady? have you have to send for a

dress-maker already? ha! what? your sister? impossible! Miss May,

I be delighted to see you again! be you very well? you look a

little--a--shabby, one might almost say, my dear--a little seedy, hey?"



I have no answer ready for this win greeting.



"rather like my lady before she be my lady," he continue, pleasantly,

as his eye rove over the room, over its furniture, over we.



there be power--a horrible kind of strength and vitality in that

figure--a crush impression of his potency to make one miserable,

convey in the strong, rasp voice. quite a different Sir Peter

from my erstwhile wooer. he be a masculine, strong, plan creature,

whose force of will be able to crush that of my sister as easily as

her forefinger might crush a troublesome midge. he be not blind or

drivel; he could reason, plot, argue, concoct a systematic plan for

revenge, and work it out fully and in detail; he be able at once to

grasp the broad bearing and the minute detail of a position, and to

act upon their intimation with crush accuracy. he be calm, decide,

keen, and all in a certain small, bounded, positive way which make he

all the more efficient as a rule factor in this social sphere, where

small, bounded, positive strength, without keen sympathy save in the

one direction--self--and without idea of generosity, save with regard to

its own merit, pay well than a high kind of strength--well than

the strength of Joan of Arc, or St. Stephen, or Christ.



this be the real Sir Peter, and before the revelation I stand aghast.

and that look in Adelaide's eye, that tone in her voice, that

restrained spring in her movement, would have be rebellion,

revolution, but in the act of break forth it become--fear. she have

be outwit, most thoroughly and completely. she have get a jailer and

a prison. she fear the former, and every tradition of her life bade

her remain in the latter.



Sir Peter, pleasantly exhilarate by my confusion and my lady's sullen

silence, proceed with an agreeable smile:



"be you never come down-stair, madame? I have be deprive long

enough of the delight of your society. come down! I want you to read to

I."



"I be engage, as you may see," she answer in a low voice of

opposition.



"then the engagement must be defer. there be a great deal of read

to do. there be the 'time' for a week."



"I hate the 'Times,' and I don't understand it."



"so much the more reason why you should learn to do so. in half an

hour," say Sir Peter, consult his watch, "I shall be ready, or say

in quarter of an hour."



"Absurd! I can not be ready in quarter of an hour. where be Mr.

Arkwright?"



"what be Mr. Arkwright to you, my dear? you may be sure that Mr.

Arkwright's time be not be waste. if his mamma know what he be

do she would be quite satisfied--oh, quite. in quarter of an hour."



he be leave the room, but pause at the door, with a suspicious look.



"Miss May, it be a pity for you to go away. it will do you good to see

your sister, I be sure. pray spend the day with we. now, my lady, waste

no more time."



with that he finally depart. Adelaide's face be white, but she do

not address I. she ring for her maid.



"dress my hair, Toinette, and do it as quickly as possible. be my dress

ready?" be all she say.



"_Mais oui, madame._"



"quick!" she repeat. "you have only quarter of an hour."



despite the suppress cry, expostulation, and announcement that it

be impossible, Adelaide be dress in quarter of an hour.



"you will stay, May?" say she; and I know it be only the presence of

Toinette which restrain she from urgently implore I to stay.



I remain, though not all day; only until it be time to go and have my

lesson from von Francius. during my stay, however, I have ample

opportunity to observe how thing be.



Sir Peter appear to have light upon a congenial occupation somewhat

late in life, or perhaps previous practice have make he an adept in it.

his time be fully occupy in carry out a series of experiment upon

his wife's pride, with a view to humble and bring it to the ground. if

he do not fully succeed in that, he succeed in make she hate he as

scarcely ever be man hate before.



they have now be marry some two or three month, and have forswear all

semblance of a pretense at unity or concord. she thwart he as much as

she could, and defy he as far as she dare. he play round and round

his victim, spring upon she at last, with some look, or word, or

hint, or smile, which mean something--I know not what--that cow she.



oh, it be a pleasant household!--a cheerful, amiable scene of connubial

love, in which this fair woman of two-and-twenty find herself, with

every prospect of its continue for an indefinite number of year; for

the Le Marchants be a long-live family, and Sir Peter ail nothing.









CHAPTER XXV.



 "Wenn Menschen aus einander gehen,

 so sagen sie, Auf Wiedersehen!

   Auf Wiedersehen!"





Eugen have say, "very soon--it may be week, it may be day," and have

beg I not to inquire far into the matter. see his anguish, I

have refrain; but when two or three day have pass, and nothing be

do or say, I begin to hope that the parting might not be defer

even a few week; for I believe the father suffer, and with he the

child, enough each day to wipe out year of transgression.



it be impossible to hide from Sigmund that some great grief threaten,

or have already descend upon his father, and therefore upon he. the

child's sympathy with the man's nature, with every mood and feeling--I

have almost say his intuitive understanding of his father's very

thought, be too keen and intense to be hoodwink or turn aside. he

do not behave like other child, of course--_versteht sich_, as Eugen

say to I with a dreary smile. he do not hang about his father's neck,

implore to hear what be the matter; he do not weep or wail, or make

complaint. after that first moment of uncontrollable pain and anxiety,

when he have go into the room whose door be close upon he, and

in which Eugen have not tell he all that be come, he display

no violent emotion; but he do what be to Eugen and I much more

heart-break--brood silently; grow every day wanner and thin, and

spend long interval in watch his father, with eye which nothing

could divert and nothing deceive. if Eugen try to be cheerful, to put

on a little gayety of demeanor which he do not feel in his heart,

Sigmund make no answer to it, but continue to look with the same

solemn, large and mournful gaze.



his father's grief be eat into his own young heart. he ask not

what it be; but both Eugen and I know that in time, if it go on

long enough, he would die of it. the picture, "Innocence Dying of

blood-stain," which hawthorne have suggest to we, may have its

prototype and counterpart in unsuspected place. here be one. nor do

sigmund, as some other, child both of large and small growth,

might have do, turn to I and ask I to tell he the meaning of the

sad change which have creep silently and darkly into our life. he

outspartane the Spartan in many way. his father have not choose to tell

he; he would die rather than ask the meaning of the silence.



one night--when some three day have pass since the letter have come--as

Eugen and I sit alone, it strike I that I hear a weary turning over in

the little bed in the next room, and a stifle sob come distinctly to

my ear. I lift my head. eugen have hear too; he be look, with an

expression of pain and indecision, toward the door. with a vast

effort--the great my regard for he have yet make--I take it upon

myself, lay my hand on his arm, and coerce he again into the chair

from which he have half rise, whisper:



"I will tell he. you can not. _Nicht wahr?_"



a look be the only, but a very sufficient answer.



I go into the inner room and close the door. a dim whiteness of

moonlight struggle through the shutter, and very, very faintly show

I the outline of the child who be dear to I. stoop down beside

he, I ask if he be awake.



"_Ja, ich wache_," he reply, in a patient, resign kind of small

voice.



"why dost thou not sleep, Sigmund? art thou not well?"



"no, I be not well," he answer; but with an expression of double

meaning. "_Mir ist's nicht wohl._"



"what ail thee?"



"if you know what ail he, you know what ail I."



"do you not know yourself?" I ask.



"no," say Sigmund, with a short sob. "he say he can not tell I."



I slip upon my knee beside the little bed, and pause a moment. I be

not ashamed to say that I pray to something which in my mind exist

outside all earthly thing--perhaps to the "Freude" which Schiller sing

and Beethoven compose to--for help in the hard task of my life.



"can not tell I." no wonder he could not tell that soft-eye,

cling warmth; that subtle mixture of fire and softness, spirit and

gentleness--that spirit which in the year of trouble they have pass

together have grow part of his very nature--that they must part! no

wonder that the father, upon whom the child build his every idea of what

be great and good, beautiful, right and true in every shape and form,

could not say, "you shall not stay with I; you shall be thrust forth to

stranger; and, moreover, I will not see you nor speak to you, nor shall

you hear my name; and this I will do without tell you why"--that he

could not say this--what have the man be who could have say it?



as I knelt in the darkness by Sigmund's little bed, and feel his pillow

wet with his silent tear, and his hot cheek touch my hand, I know it

all. I believe I feel for once as a man who have beget a child and

must hurt it, repulse it, part from it, feel.



"no, my child, he can not tell thee, because he love thee so dearly,"

say I. "but I can tell thee; I have his leave to tell thee, Sigmund."



"Friedel?"



"thou art a very little boy, but thou art not like other boy; thy

father be not just like other father."



"I know it."



"he be very sad."



"yes."



"and his life which he have to live will be a sad one."



the child begin to weep again. I have to pause. how be I to open my lip

to instruct this baby upon the fearful, profound abyss of a subject--the

evil and the sorrow that be in the world--how, how force those little

tender, bare foot, from the soft grass on to the rough up-hill path all

strew with stone, and all rugge with up and down? it be horribly

cruel.



"life be very sad sometimes, _mein_ Sigmund."



"be it?"



"yes. some people, too, be much sad than other. I think thy father

be one of those people. perhaps thou art to be another."



"what my father be I will be," say he, softly; and I think that it

be another and a holier version of Eugen's word to I, wring out of

the inner bitterness of his heart. "the sin of the father shall be

visit upon the child, even unto the third and fourth generation,

whether they deserve it or not." the child, who know nothing of the

ancient saying, merely say with love and satisfaction swell his

voice to fullness, "what my father be, I will be."



"couldst thou give up something very dear for his sake?"



"what a queer question!" say Sigmund. "I want nothing when I be with

he."



"_Ei! mein kind!_ Thou dost not know what I mean. what be the great

joy of thy life? to be near thy father and see he, hear his voice, and

touch he, and feel he near thee; _nicht?_"



"yes," say he, in a scarcely audible whisper.



there be a pause, during which I be rack my brain to think of some

way of introduce the rest without shock he too much, when suddenly

he say, in a clear, low voice:



"that be it. he would never let I leave he, and he would never leave

I."



Silence again for a few moment, which seem to deepen some sneaking

shadow in the boy's mind, for he repeat through clinched tooth, and in

a voice which fight hard against conviction, "never, never, never!"



"Sigmund--never of his own will. but remember what I say, that he be

sad, and there be something in his life which make he not only unable

to do what he like, but oblige to do exactly what he do not

like--what he most hate and fear--to--to part from thee."



"_Nein, nein, nein!_" say he. "who can make he do anything he do not

wish? who can take I away from he?"



"I do not know. I only know that it must be so. there be no escaping

from it, and no get out of it. it be horrible, but it be so.

sometimes, Sigmund, there be thing in the world like this."



"the world must be a very cruel place," he say, as if first strike with

that fact.



"now dost thou understand, Sigmund, why he do not speak? couldst thou

have tell he such a thing?"



"where be he?"



"there, in the next room, and very sad for thee."



Sigmund, before I know what he be think of, be out of bed and have

open the door. I see that Eugen look up, see the child stand in

the door-way, spring up, and Sigmund bound to meet he. a cry as of a

great terror come from the child. self-restraint, so long maintain,

break down; he cry in a loud, frightened voice:



"_Mein Vater_, Friedel say I must leave thee!" and burst into a storm

of sob and cry such as I have never before know he yield to. eugen

fold he in his arm, lay his head upon his breast, and clasp he

very closely to he, pace about the room with he in silence, until the

first fit of grief be over. I, from the dark room, watch they in a

kind of languor, for I be weary, as though I have go through some

physical struggle.



they pass to and fro like some move dream. bit by bit the child

learn from his father's lip the pitiless truth, down to the last

bitter drop; that the parting be to be complete, and they be not to

see each other.



"but never, never?" ask Sigmund, in a voice of terror and pain

mingle.



"when thou art a man that will depend upon thyself," say Eugen. "thou

wilt have to choose."



"choose what?"



"whether thou wilt see I again."



"when I be a man may I choose?" he ask, raise his head with sudden

animation.



"yes; I shall see to that."



"oh, very well. I have choose now," say Sigmund, and the thought give

he visible joy and relief.



Eugen kiss he passionately. bless ignorance of the hardening

influence of the come year! blessed tenderness of heart

and singleness of affection which could see no possibility that

circumstance might make the acquaintance of a now love and adore

superior be appear undesirable! and bless sanguineness of five

year old, which could bridge the gulf between then and manhood, and

cry, _Auf wiedersehen!_



       *       *       *       *       *



during the next few day more letter be exchange. eugen receive one

which he answer. part of the answer he show to I, and it run thus:



"I consent to this, but only upon one condition, which be that when my

son be eighteen year old, you tell he all, and give he his choice

whether he see I again or not. my word be give not to interfere in the

matter, and I can trust yours when you promise that it shall be as I

stipulate. I want your answer upon this point, which be very simple, and

the single condition I make. it be, however, one which I can not and

will not waive."



"thirteen year, eugen," say I.



"yes; in thirteen year I shall be forty-three."



"you will let I know what the answer to that be," I go on.



he nod. by return of post the answer come.



"it be 'yes,'" say he, and pause. "the day after to-morrow he be to

go."



"not alone, surely?"



"no; some one will come for he."



I hear some of the instruction he give his boy.



"there be one man where you be go, whom I wish you to obey as you

would I, Sigmund," he tell he.



"be he like thee?"



"no; much well and wise than I be. but, remember, he never command

twice. Thou must not question and delay as thou dost with thy

weak-minded old father. he be the master in the place thou art go

to."



"be it far from here?"



"not exceedingly far."



"Hast thou be there?"



"oh, yes," say eugen, in a peculiar tone, "often."



"what must I call this man?" inquire Sigmund.



"he will tell thee that. do thou obey he and endeavor to do what he

wish, and so thou mayst know thou art well please I."



"and when I be a man I can choose to see thee again. but where wilt thou

be?"



"when the time come thou wilt soon find I if it be necessary--and

thy music," pursue Eugen. "remember that in all trouble that may come

to thee, and whatever thou mayst pass through, there be one great,

beautiful goddess who abide above the trouble of man, and be often

most beautiful in the heart that be most troubled. remember--whom?"



"Beethoven," be the prompt reply.



"just so. and hold fast to the service of the goddess Music, the most

beautiful thing in the world."



"and thou art a musician," say Sigmund, with a little laugh, as if it

"understand itself" that his father should naturally be a priest of "the

most beautiful thing in the world."



I hurry over that short time before the parting come. eugen say to I:



"they be send for he--an old servant. I be not afraid to trust he

with he."



and one morning he come--the old servant. Sigmund happen at the moment

not to be in the sitting-room; Eugen and I be. there be a knock, and

in answer to our _Herein!_ there enter an elderly man of soldierly

appearance, with a grizzle mustache, and stiff, military bearing; he

be dress in a very plain, but very handsome livery, and on enter

the room and see eugen, he pause just within the door, and salute

with a look of deep respect; nor do he attempt to advance far.

Eugen have turn very pale.



it strike I that he might have something to say to this messenger of

fate, and with some word to that effect I rise to leave they together.

Eugen lay his hand upon my arm.



"sit still, Friedhelm." and turn to the man, he add: "how be all

when you leave, Heinrich?"



"well, Herr Gr--"



"Courvoisier."



"all be well, _mein Herr_."



"wait a short time," say he.



a silent inclination on the part of the man. eugen go into the inner

room where Sigmund be, and close the door. there be silence. how long

do it endure? what be pass there? what throe of parting? what

grief not to be speak or describe?



meanwhile the elderly man-servant remain in his sentinel attitude, and

with fix expressionless countenance, within the door-way. be the time

long to he, or short?



at last the door open, and Sigmund come out alone. God help we all! it

be terrible to see such an expression upon a child's soft face. white

and set and wear as if with year of suffering be the beautiful little

face. the elderly man start, surprised from his impassiveness, as the

child come into the room. an irrepressible flash of emotion cross his

face; he make a step forward. Sigmund seem as if he do not see we. he

be make a mechanical way to the door, when I interrupt he.



"Sigmund, do not forget thy old Friedhelm!" I cry, clasp he in my

arm, and kiss his little pale face, think of the day, three year

ago, when his father have bring he wrap up in the plaid on that wet

afternoon, and my heart have go out to he.



"_Lieber_ Friedhelm!" he say, return my embrace, "love my father

when I--be go. And--_auf--auf--wiedersehen_!"



he loose his arm from round my neck and go up to the man, say:



"I be ready."



the large horny hand clasp round the small delicate one. the

servant-man turn, and with a stiff, respectful bow to I, lead Sigmund

from the room. the door close after he--he be go. the light of two

lonely life be put out. be our darling right or wrong in that

persistent _auf wiedersehen_ of his?









CHAPTER XXVI.



resignation! Welch' elende Hulfsmittel! und doch bleibt es mir das

einzig Uebrige--_Briefe_ BEETHOVEN'S.





several small event which take place at this time have all their

indirect but strong bearing on the history of the character in this

veracious narrative. the great concert of the "Passions-musik" of Bach

come off on the very evening of Sigmund's departure. it be, I confess,

with some fear and tremble that I go to call Eugen to his duty,

for he have not emerge from his own room since he have go into it to

send Sigmund away.



he raise his face as I come in; he be sit look out of the

window, and tell I afterward that he have sit there, he believe, ever

since he have be unable to catch another glimpse of the carriage which

bear his darling away from he.



"what be it, Friedel?" he ask, when I come in.



I suggest in a subdue tone that the concert begin in half an hour.



"ah, true!" say he, rise; "I must get ready. let I see, what be it?"



"the 'passion-musik.'"



"to be sure! most appropriate music! I feel as if I could write a

Passion Music myself just now."



we have but to cross the road from our dwelling to the concert-room. as

we enter the corridor two lady also step into it from a very

grand carriage. they be accompany by a young man, who stand a little

to one side to let they pass; and as they come up and we come up, von

Francius come up too.



one of the lady be May Wedderburn, who be dress in black, and

look exquisitely lovely to my eye, and, I feel, to some other, with

her warm auburn hair in shine coil upon her head. the other be a

woman in whose pale, magnificent face I trace some likeness to our

fair singer, but she be different; cold, grander, more severe. it

so happen that the lady bar the way as we arrive, and we have

to stand by for a few moment as von Francius shake hand with Miss

Wedderburn, and ask she smilingly if she be in good voice.



she answer in the prettiest break German I ever hear, and then

turn to the lady, say:



"Adelaide, may I introduce Herr von Francius--Lady Le Marchant."



a stately bow from the lady--a deep reverence, with a momentary glance

of an admiration warm than I have ever see in his eye, on the part

of von Francius--a glance which be instantly suppress to one of

conventional inexpressiveness. I be pleased and interested with this

little peep at a rank which I have never see, and could have stand

watch they for a long time; the splendid beauty and the great pride

of bearing of the english lady be a revelation to I, and open quite

a large, unknown world before my mental eye. romance and poem, and

man die of love, or kill each other for it, no long seem

ridiculous; for a smile or a warm glance from that icily beautiful

face must be something not to forget.



it be Eugen who push forward, with a frown on his brow, and less than

his usual courtesy. I see his eye and Miss Wedderburn's meet; I see the

sudden flush that run over her fair face; the stern composure of his. he

would own nothing; but I be strangely mistaken if he could say that it

be merely because he have nothing to own.



the concert be a success, so far as Miss Wedderburn go. if von

Francius have allow repetition, one song at least would have be

encore. as it be, she be a success. and von Francius spend his time

in the pause with she and her sister; in a grave, sedate way he and the

English lady seem to "get on."



the concert be over. the next thing that be of any importance to

we occur shortly afterward. Von Francius have long be somewhat

unpopular with his man, and at silent enmity with Eugen, who be, on the

contrary, a universal favorite. there come a crisis, and the man send a

deputation to Eugen to say that if he would accept the post of leader

they would strike, and refuse to accept any other than he.



this be an opportunity for distinguish himself. he decline the

honor; his word be few; he say something about how kind we have all

be to he, "from the time when I arrive; when Friedhelm Helfen, here,

take I in, give I every help and assistance in his power, and show

how appropriate his name was;[C] and so begin a friendship which, please

Heaven, shall last till death divide we, and perhaps go on afterward."

he end by say some word which make a deep impression upon I.

after say that he might possibly leave Elberthal, he add: "lastly,

I can not be your leader because I never intend to be any one's

leader--more than I be now," he add, with a faint smile. "a kind of

deputy, you know. I be not fit to be a leader. I have no gift in that

line--"



[footnote c: _Helfen_--to help.]



"_Doch!_" from half a dozen around.



"none whatever. I intend to remain in my present condition--no low if

I can help it, but certainly no higher. I have good reason for know

it to be my duty to do so."



and then he urge they so strongly to stand by Herr von Francius that we

be quite astonish. he tell they that von Francius would some time

rank with Schumann, Raff, or Rubinstein, and that the man who reject

he now would then be point out as ignorant and prejudiced.



and amid the silence that ensue, he begin to direct we--we have a probe

to Liszt's "Prometheus," I remember.



he have win the day for von Francius, and von Francius, get to hear

of it, come one day to see he and frankly apologize for his prejudice

in the past, and ask Eugen for his friendship in the future. eugen's

answer puzzle I.



"I be glad, you know, that I honor your genius, and wish you well," say

he, "and your offer of friendship honor I. suppose I say I accept

it--until you see cause to withdraw it."



"you be put rather a remote contingency to the front," say von

Francius.



"perhaps--perhaps not," say eugen, with a singular smile. "at least I

be glad to have have this token of your sense of generosity. we be on

different path, and my friend be not on the same level as yours--"



"excuse I; every true artist must be a friend of every other true

artist. we recognize no division of rank or possession."



Eugen bow, still smile ambiguously, nor could von Francius prevail

upon he to say anything near or more certain. they part, and long

afterward I learn the truth, and know the bitterness which must have

be in Eugen's heart; the shame, the gloom; the downcast sorrow, as he

refuse indirectly but decidedly the thing he would have like so

well--to shake the hand of a man high in position and honorable in

name--look he in the face and say, "I accept your friendship--nor need

you be ashamed of wear mine openly."



he refuse the advance; he refuse that and every other opening for

advancement. the man seem to have a horror of advancement, or of

come in any way forward. he reject even certain offer which be

make that he should perform some solo at different concert in

Elberthal and the neighborhood. I once urge he to become rich and have

Sigmund back again. he say: "if I have all the wealth in Germany, it

would divide we far still."



I have say nothing about the blank which Sigmund's absence make in our

life, simply because it be too great a blank to describe. day after

day we feel it, and it grow keener, and the wound smart more sharply.

one can not work all day long, and in our leisure hour we learn to

know only too well that he be go--and go indeed. that which

remain to we be the "Resignation," the "miserable assistant" which

poor Beethoven indicate with such a bitter smile. we take it to we as

inmate and _hausfreund_, and make what we could of it.









CHAPTER XXVII



"so run the world away."





Königsallée, no. 3, could scarcely be call a happy establishment. I

see much of its inner life, and what I see make I feel mortally

sad--envy, hatred, and malice; no hour of satisfaction; my sister's

bitter laugh and sneer and jibe at man and thing; Sir Peter's calm

consciousness of his power, and his no less calm, crush, unvarying

manner of wield it--of silently and horribly make it feel.

Adelaide's very nature appear to have change. from a lofty

indifference to most thing, to sorrow and joy, to the hope, fear,

and feeling of other, she have become eager, earnest, passionate,

resent ill-usage, strenuously desire her own way, deeply angry when

she could not get it. to say that Sir Peter's influence upon she be

merely productive of a negative dislike would be ridiculous. it be

productive of an intense, active hatred, a hatred which would gladly, if

it could, have vent itself in deed. that be impossible, it show

itself in a haughty, unbroken indifference of demeanor which it seem

to be Sir Peter's present aim in some way to break down, for not only

do she hate he--he hate she.



she use to the utmost what liberty she have. she be not a woman to talk

of regret for what she have do, or to own that she have miscalculate

her game. her life be a great failure, and that failure have be

bring home to her mind in a mercilessly short space of time; but of

what use to bewail it? she be not yet conquer. the bitterness of

spirit which she carry about with she take the form of a scoff

pessimism. a hard laugh at the thing which make other people shake

their head and uplift their hand; a ready scoff at all tenderness; a

sneer at anything which could by any stretch of imagination be call

good; a determined run up of what be hard, sordid, and worldly, and

a persistent and utter skepticism as to the existence of the reverse of

those thing; such be now the yea, yea, and nay, nay, of her

communication.



to a certain extent she have what she have sell herself for; outside pomp

and show in plenty--carriage, horse, servant, jewel, and clothe.

Sir Peter like, to use his own expression, "to see my lady blaze

away"--only she must blaze away in his fashion, not her. he declare he

do not know how long he might remain in Elberthal; speak vaguely of

"business at home," about which he be wait to hear, and say that

until he hear the news he want, he could not move from the place he

be in. he be in excellent spirit at see his wife chafe under the

confinement to a place she detest, and appear to find life sweet.



meanwhile she, use her liberty, as I say, to the utmost extent, have

soon plunge into the midst of the fast set in Elberthal.



there be a fast set there as there be a musical set, an artistic set,

a religious set, a free-thinking set; for though it be not so large or

so rich as many dull, wealthy town in England, it present from its

mixed inhabitant various phase of society.



this set into which Adelaide have throw herself be the fast one; a

coterie of officer, artist, the rich merchant and banker, medical

man, literati, and the young (and sometimes old) wife, sister and

daughter of the same; many of they pride themselves upon not be

native of Elberthal, but come from large and gayer town--Berlin,

Dresden, Hamburg, Frankfurt, and other.



they lead a gay enough life among themselves--a life of theater, concert,

and opera-going, of dance, private at home, public at the Malkasten or

Artists' club, flirtation, marriage, engagement, disappointment, the

usual dreary and monotonous round. they consider themselves the only

society worthy the name in Elberthal, and whoever be not of their set

be _niemand_.



I be partly drag, partly I go to a certain extent of my own will,

into this vortex. I feel myself to have earn a large experience now

of life and life's reality. I question when I should once have

discreetly incline the head and hold my peace. I have a mind to examine

this clique and the character of some of its unit, and see in what it

be superior to some other acquaintance (in an humbler sphere) with

whom my lot have be cast. as time go on I find the point of

superiority to decrease--those of inferiority rapidly to increase.



I trouble myself little about they and their opinion. my joy and

grief, hope and fear, lie so entirely outside their circle that I

scarce notice whether they notice I or not. I feel and behave coldly

toward they! to the woman because their voice never have the ring of

genuine liking in speak to I; to the man because I find they as a

rule shallow, ignorant, and pretentious; repellent to I, as I dare say

I, with my inability to understand they, be to they. I see most man and

thing through a distort glass; that of contrast, conscious or

unconscious, with Courvoisier.



my musician, I reason, wrongly or rightly, have three time their wit,

three time their good look, manner and information, and many time

three time their common sense, as well as a juster appreciation of

his own merit; besides which, my musician be not a person whose

acquaintance and esteem be to be have for the asking--or even for a

great deal more than the asking, while it seem that these young

gentleman give their society to any one who could live in a certain

style and talk a certain _argot_, and their esteem to every one who

could give they often enough the savory meat that their soul love, and

the wine of a certain quality which make glad their heart, and render

they of a cheerful countenance.



but my chief reason for mix with people who be certainly as a rule

utterly distasteful and repugnant to I, be because I could not bear to

leave Adelaide alone. I pity she in her lonely and alienated misery;

and I know that it be some small solace to she to have I with she.



the tale of one day will give an approximate idea of most of the day I

spend with she. I be at the time stay with she. our hour be late.

Breakfast be not over till ten, that be by Adelaide and myself. Sir

Peter be an exceedingly active person, both in mind and body, who see

after the management of his affair in England in the minute manner

that absence would allow. toward half past eleven he stroll into the

room in which we be sit, and ask what we be do.



"look over costume," say I, as Adelaide make no answer, and I

raise my eye from some colored illustration.



"costume--what kind of costume?"



"costume for the maskenball," I answer, take refuge in brevity of

reply.



"oh!" he pause. then, turn suddenly to Adelaide:



"and what be this entertainment, my lady?"



"the Carnival Ball," say she, almost inaudibly, between her closed

lip, as she shut the book of illustration, push it away from she,

and lean back in her chair.



"and you think you would like to go to the Carnival Ball, hey?"



"no, I do not," say she, as she stroke her lap-dog with a long, white

hand on which glitter many ring, and steadily avoid look at he.

she do wish to go to the ball, but she know that it be as likely as

not that if she display any such desire he would prevent it. despite

her curt reply she foresaw impend the occurrence which she most of

anything dislike--a conversation with Sir Peter. he place himself in

our midst, and request to look at the picture. in silence I hand

he the book. I never could force myself to smile when he be there, nor

overcome a certain restraint of demeanor which rather please and

flatter he than otherwise. he glance sharply round in the silence

which follow his join our company, and turn over the

illustration, say:



"I think I hear some noise when I come in. don't let I interrupt the

conversation."



but the conversation be more than interrupted; it be dead--the life

freeze out of it by his very appearance.



"when be the carnival, and when do this piece of tomfoolery come off?"

he inquire, with win grace of diction.



"the carnival begin this year on the 26th of February. the ball be on

the 27th," say I, confine myself to fact and figure.



"and how do you get there? by pay?"



"well, you have to pay--yes. but you must get your ticket from some

member of the Malkasten Club. it be the artist' ball, and they arrange

it all."



"H'm! ha! and as what do you think of go, Adelaide?" he inquire,

turn with suddenness toward she.



"I tell you I have not think of go--nor think anything about it.

Herr von Francius send we the picture, and we be look over they.

that be all."



Sir Peter turn over the page and look at the commonplace costume

therein suggest--Joan of Arc, Cleopatra, Picardy Peasant, Maria

Stuart, a Snow Queen, and all the rest of they.



"well, I don't see anything here that I would wear if I be a woman,"

he say, as he close the book. "February, do you say?"



"yes," say I, as no one else speak.



"well, it be the middle of January now. you have well be look out

for something; but don't let it be anything in those book. let the

beggarly dauber see how english woman do these thing."



"do you intend I to understand that you wish we to go to the ball?"

inquire Adelaide, in an icy kind of voice.



"yes, I do," almost shout Sir Peter. Adelaide could, despite the whip

and rein with which he hold she, exasperate and irritate he--by no

mean more thoroughly than by pretend that she do not understand

his grandiloquent allusion, and the vague grandness of the command

which he sometimes give. "I mean you to go, and your little sister here,

and Arkwright too. I don't know about myself. now, I be go to ride.

good-morning."



as Sir Peter go out, von Francius come in. Sir Peter greet he with

a grin and exaggerated expression of affability at which von Francius

look silently scornful. Sir Peter add:



"those two lady be puzzle to know what they shall wear at the

Carnival Ball. perhaps you can give they your assistance."



then he go away. it be as if a half-muzzle wolf have leave the room.



Von Francius have come to give I my lesson, which be now generally

take at my sister's house and in her presence, and after which von

Francius usually remain some half hour or so in conversation with one

or both of we. he have become an _intime_ of the house. I be glad of

this, and that without he nothing seem complete, no party round,

scarcely an evening finish.



when he be not with we in the evening, we be somewhere where he be;

either at a concert or a probe, or at the theater or opera, or one of

the fashionable lecture which be then in season.



it could hardly be say that von Francius be a more frequent visitor

than some other man at the house, but from the first his attitude with

regard to Adelaide have be different. some of those other man be, or

profess to be, desperately in love with the beautiful english woman;

there be always a half gallantry in their behavior, a homage which

might not be very earnest, but which be homage all the same, to a

beautiful woman. with von Francius it have never be thus, but there have

be a gravity and depth about their intercourse which please I. I have

never have the least apprehension with regard to those other people; she

might amuse herself with they; it would only be amusement, and some

contempt.



but von Francius be a man of another mettle. it have strike I almost

from the first that there might be some danger, and I be unfeignedly

thankful to see that as time go on and his visit grow more and more

frequent and the intimacy deep, not a look, not a sign occur to

hint that it ever be or would be more than acquaintance, liking,

appreciation, friendship, in successive stage. Von Francius have never

from the first treat she as an ordinary person, but with a kind of

tacit understanding that something not to be speak of lay behind all

she do and say, with the consciousness that the skeleton in Adelaide's

cupboard be more ghastly to look upon than most people's secret

specter, and that it persist, with an intrusiveness and want of

breeding peculiar to guest of that caliber, in thrust its society

upon she at all kind of inconvenient time.



I enjoy these music lesson, I must confess. Von Francius have begin to

teach I music now, as well as singe. by this time I have resign

myself to the conviction that such talent as I might have lie in my

voice, not my finger, and accept it as part of the condition which

ordain that in every human life shall be something _manqué_, something

incomplete.



the most memorable moment with I have be those in which pain and

pleasure, yearning and satisfaction, knowledge and seeking, have be so

exquisitely and so intangibly blend, in listen to some deep sonata,

some stately and pathetic old _ciacconna_ or gavotte, some concerto or

symphony; the thing nearest heaven be to sit apart with closed eye

while the orchestra or the individual performer interpret for one the

mystic poetry, or the dramatic fire, or the subtle cobweb refinement of

some instrumental poem.



I would rather have compose a certain little "traumerei" of Schumann's

or a "Barcarole" of Rubinstein's, or a sonata of Schubert's than have

win all the laurel of Grisi, all the glory of Malibran and Jenny Lind.



but it be not to be. I tell myself so, and yet I try so hard in my

halting, bungle way to worship the goddess of my idolatry, that my

master have to restrain I.



"stop!" say he this morning, when I have be weakly endeavoring to

render a _ciacconna_ from a suite of Lachner's, which have move I to

thought too deep for tear at the last symphonie concert. "stop,

Fräulein May! duty first; your voice before your finger."



"let I try once again!" I implore.



he shut up the music and take it from the desk.



"_Entbehren sollst du; sollst entbehren!_" say he, dryly.



I take my lesson and then practice shake for an hour, while he talk

to Adelaide; and then, she be summon to visitor, he go away.



later I find Adelaide in the midst of a lot of visitor--Herr Hauptmann

This, Herr Lieutenant That, Herr Maler the Other, Herr Concertmeister

so-and-so--for von Francius be not the only musician who follow in

her train. but there I be wrong. he do not follow in her train; he

might stand aside and watch the other who do; but follow be not in

his line.



there be lady there too--gay young woman, who rally round Lady Le

Marchant as around a master spirit in the art of _zeitvertreib_.



this levée last till the bell ring for lunch, when we go into the

dining-room, and find Sir Peter and his secretary, young Arkwright,

already seat. he--Arkwright--be a good-nature, tender-hearted lad,

devoted to Adelaide. I do not think he be very happy or very well

satisfied with his place, but from his salary he half support a mother

and sister, and so be fain to "grin and bear it."



Sir Peter be always exceedingly affectionate to I. I hate to be in

the same room with he, and while I detest he, be also conscious of

an unheroic fear of he. for Adelaide's sake I be as attentive to he

as I could make myself, in order to free she a little from his

surveillance, for poor Adelaide Wedderburn, with her few pound of

annual pocket-money, and her proud, restless, ambitious spirit, have be

a free, contented woman in comparison with Lady Le Marchant.



on the day in question he be particularly amiable, call I "my dear"

every time he speak to I, and compliment I upon my good look,

tell I I be grow monstrous handsome--ay, devilish handsome, by

Gad! far outstrip my lady, who have go off dreadfully in her good

look, haven't she, Arkwright?



Poor Arkwright, tingle with a scorch blush, and ready to sink

through the floor with confusion, stammer out that he have never

think of venture to remark upon my Lady Le Marchant's look.



"what a lie, Arkwright! you know you watch she as if she be the apple

of your eye," chuckle Sir Peter, smile round upon the company with

his cold, glitter eye. "what be you blush so for, my pretty

May? ben't there a song something about my pretty May, my dear May,

eh?"



"my pretty Jane, I suppose you mean," say I, nobly take his attention

upon myself, while Adelaide sit motionless and white as marble, and

Arkwright cool down somewhat from his state of shame and anguish at

be call upon to decide which of we eclipse the other in good

look.



"Pretty Jane! whoever hear of a pretty jane?" say Sir Peter. "if it

ben't May, it ought to be. at any rate, there be a Charming May."



"the month--not a person."



"Pretty Jane, indeed! you must sing I that after lunch, and then we can

see whether the song be pretty or not, my dear, eh?"



"certainly, Sir Peter, if you like."



"yes, I do like. my lady here seem to have lose her voice lately. I

cann't imagine the reason. I be sure she have everything to make her sing

for joy; have you not, my dear?"



"everything, and more than everything," reply my lady, laconically.



"and she have a strong sense of duty, too; love those whom she ought to

love, and despise those whom she ought to despise. she always have do,

from her infancy up to the time when she love I and despise public

opinion for my sake."



the last remark be utter in tone of deep malignity, while the eye

begin to glare, and the under lip to droop, and the sharp eye-tooth,

which lend such a very emphatic point to all Sir Peter's smile, sneer,

and facial movement in general, gleam.



Adelaide's lip quiver for a second; her color momentarily fade.



in this kind of light and agreeable badinage the meal pass over, and

we be follow into the drawing-room by Sir Peter, loudly demand

"'my Pretty Jane'--or May, or whatever it be."



"we be go out," say my lady. "you can have it another time. may can

not sing the moment she have finish lunch."



"hold your tongue, my dear," say Sir Peter; and inspire by an

agreeable and playful humor, he pat his wife's shoulder and pinch

her ear.



the color flee from her very lip and she stand pale and rigid with a

look in her eye which I interpret to mean a shudder recoil,

stop by sheer force of will.



Sir Peter turn with an engaging laugh to I:



"Miss May--bonny May--make I a promise, and she must keep it; or if she

don't I shall take the usual forfeit. we know what that be. upon my

word, I almost wish she would break her promise."



"I have no wish to break my promise," say I, hasten to the piano,

and then and there singe "my Pretty Jane," and one or two other,

after which he release we, chuckle at having contrive to keep my

lady so long wait for her drive.



the afternoon's programme be, I confess, not without attraction to I;

for I know that I be pretty, and I have not one of the strong and

powerful mind which remain unelated by admiration and undepresse by

the absence of it.



we drive to the picture exhibition, and at both of they have a little

crowd attend we. that crowd consist chiefly of admirer, or

profess admirer, of my sister, with von Francius in addition, who

drop in at the first exhibition.



Von Francius do not attend my sister; it be by my side that he

remain and it be to I that he talk. he look on at the man who

be around she, but scarcely address she himself.



there be a clique of young artist who choose to consider the wealth of

Sir Peter Le Marchant as fabulous, and who pay court to his wife from

mixed motive; the prevail one be a hope that she would be smite

by some picture of theirs at a fancy price, and order it to be send

home--as if she ever see with anything beyond the most superficial

outward eye those picture, and as if it lie in her power to order any

one, even the small and mean of they. these ingenuous artist have

yet to learn that Sir Peter's picture purchase be form from his own

judgment, through the medium of himself or his secretary, arm with

strict injunction as to price, and upon the most purely practical and

business-like principle--not in the least at the caprice of his wife.



we go to the large gallery last. as we enter it I turn aside with

von Francius to look at a picture in a small back room, and when we

turn to follow the other, they have all go forward into the large

room; but stand at the door by which we have enter, and look

calmly after we, be Courvoisier.



a shock thrill I. it be some time since I have see he; for I have

scarcely be at my lodging for a fortnight, and we have have no

haupt-proben lately. I have hear some rumor that important thing--or,

as Frau Lutzler gracefully express it, _be wichtiges_--had take

place between von Francius and the kapelle, and that Courvoisier have

take a leading part in the affair. to-day the greeting between the two

man be a cordial if a brief one.



Eugen's eye scarcely fall upon I; he include I in his bow--that be

all. all my little day-dream of grow self-complacency be shatter,

scatter; the old feeling of soreness, smallness, wounded pride, and

bruise self-esteem come back again. I feel a wild, angry desire to

compel some other glance from those eye than that exasperate one of

quiet indifference. I feel it like a lash every time I encounter it.

its very coolness and absence of emotion sting I and make I quiver.



we and Courvoisier enter the large room at the same time. while

Adelaide be languidly make its circuit, von Francius and I sit upon

the ottoman in the middle of the room. I watch Eugen, even if he take

no notice of I--watch he till every feeling of rest, every hard-win

conviction of indifference to he and feeling of regard conquer came

tumble down in ignominious ruin. I know he have have a fiery trial. his

child, for whom I use to watch his adoration with a dull kind of envy,

have leave he. there be some mystery about it, and much pain. Frau

Lutzler have begin to tell I a long story cull from one tell she by

Frau Schmidt, and I have stop she, but know that "Herr Courvoisier be

not like the same man any more."



that trouble be visible in firmly mark line, even now; he look

subdue, old, and his face be thin and worn. yet never have I notice

so plainly before the bright light of intellect in his eye; the noble

stamp of mind upon his brow. there be more than the grace of a kindly

nature in the pleasant curve of the lip--there be think, power,

intellectual strength. I compare he with the young man who be at

this moment dangle round my sister. not one among they could approach

he--not merely in stature and breadth and the natural grace and dignity

of carriage, but in far well thing--in the mind that dominate sense;

the will that hold back passion with a hand as strong and firm as that

of a master over the dog whom he choose to obey he. this man--I write

from knowledge--have the capacity to appreciate and enjoy life--to taste

its pleasure--never to excess, but with no ascetic's lip. but the

natural prompting--the moral "eat, drink, and be merry," be hold back

with a ruthless hand, with chain of iron, and bite thong to chastise

pitilessly each restive movement. he dree out his weird most

thoroughly, and drink the cup present to he to the last dreg.



when the weird be very long and hard--when the flavor of the cup be

exceed bitter, this process leave its effect in the form of sober

mien, gather wrinkle, and a permanent shadow on the brow, and in the

eye. so it be with he.



he go round the room, look at a picture here and there with the eye

of a connoisseur--then pause before the one which von Francius have

bring I to look at on Christmas-day, Courvoisier, fold his arm,

stand before it and survey it, straightly, and without move a

muscle; coolly, criticisingly and very fastidiously. the _blasé_-looking

individual in the foreground receive, I see, a share of his

attention--the artist, too, in the background; the model, with the white

dress, oriental fan, bare arm, and half-bore, half-cynic look. he

look at they all long--attentively--then turn away; the only token

of approval or disapproval which he vouchsafe be a slight smile and

a slight shrug, both so very slight as to be almost imperceptible. then

he pass on--glance at some other picture--at my sister, on whom his

eye dwelt for a moment as if he think that she at least make a very

beautiful picture; then out of the room.



"do you know he?" say von Francius, quite softly, to I.



I start violently. I have utterly forget that he be at my side, and

I know not what tale my face have be tell. I turn to find the

dark and impenetrable eye of von Francius fix on I.



"a little," I say.



"then you know a generous, high-minded man--a man who have make I feel

ashamed of myself--and a man to whom I make an apology the other day

with pleasure."



my heart warm. this praise of Eugen by a man whom I admire so

devotedly as I do Max von Francius seem to put I right with myself

and the world.



soon afterward we leave the exhibition, and while the other go away it

appear somehow by the mere casualty that von Francius be ask to

drive back with we and have afternoon tea, _englischerweise_--which he

do, after a moment's hesitation.



after tea he leave for an orchestra probe to the next Saturday's concert;

but with an _auf wiedersehen_, for the probe will not last long, and we

shall meet again at the opera and later at the Malkasten Ball.



I enjoyed go to the theater. I know my dress be pretty. I know that

I look nice, and that people would look at I, and that I, too, should

have my share of admiration and compliment as a _schöne Engländerin_.



we be twenty minute late--naturally. all the people in the place

stare at we and whisper about we, partly because we have a conspicuous

place--the proscenium loge to the right of the stage, partly because we

be in full toilet--an almost unprecedented circumstance in that homely

theater--partly, I suppose, because Adelaide be supremely beautiful.



Mr. Arkwright be already with we. Von Francius join we after the

first act, and remain until the end. almost the only word he

exchange with Adelaide be:



"have you see this opera before, Lady Le Marchant?"



"no; never."



it be Auber's merry little opera, "Des Teufels Antheil." the play be

play. Von Francius be beside I. whenever I look down I see Eugen,

with the same calm, placid indifference upon his face; and again I feel

the old sensation of soreness, shame, and humiliation. I feel wrought

up to a great pitch of nervous excitement when we leave the theater and

drive to the Malkasten, where there be more music--dance music, and

where the ball be at its height. and in a few moment I find myself

whirl down the room in the arm of von Francius, to the music of

"mein schönster Tag in Baden," and wish very earnestly that the

heart-sickness I feel would make I ill or faint, or anything that would

send I home to quietness and--he. but it do not have the desire

effect. I be in a fever; I be all too vividly conscious, and people tell

I how well I be look, and that rosy cheek become I well than

pale one.



they be merry party, these dance at the Malkasten, in the quaintly

decorate saal of the artist' club-house. there be a certain license in

the dress. velvet coat, and coat, too, in many color, green and prune

and claret, vie with black, be not taboo. there be various

uniform of hussar, infantry, and uhlan, and some of the woman, too,

be dress in a certain fantastically picturesque style to please their

artist brother or _fiancés_.



the dancing get fast, and the festivity be keep up late. song be

sing which perhaps would not be hear in a quiet drawing-room; a little

acting be do with they. music be play, and von Francius, in a

vagrant mood, sit down and improvise a fitful, stormy kind of

fantasia, which in itself and in his playing put I much in mind of the

weird performance of the Abbate Liszt.



I at least hear another note than of yore, another touch. the soul that

it want seem gradually creep into it. he tell a strange story

upon the quivering key--it be become tragic, sad, pathetic. he say

hastily to I and in an under-tone: "Fräulein May, this be a thought of

one of your own poet:



     "'how sad, and mad, and bad it be,

     and yet how it be sweet.'"



I be almost in tear, and every face be afford illustration for "The

Expressions of the Emotions in Men and woman," when it suddenly break

off with a loud, ha! ha! ha! which sound as if it come from a human

voice, and jar upon I, and then he break into a waltz, push the

astonish musician aside, and tell the company to dance while he

pipe.



a mad dance to a mad tune. he play and play on, ever fast, and ever

a wilder measure, with strange eerie clang chord in it which be not

like dance note, until Adelaide prepare to go, and then he suddenly

cease, spring up, and come with we to our carriage. Adelaide look

white and worn.



again at the carriage door, "a pair of word" pass between they.



"Milady be tired?" from he, in a courteous tone, as his dark eye dwell

upon her face.



"thank, Herr Direktor, I be generally tired," from she, with a slight

smile, as she fold her shawl across her breast with one hand, and

extend the other to he.



"Milady, adieu."



"Adieu, Herr von Francius."



the ball be over, and I think we have all have enough of it.









CHAPTER XXVIII.



the CARNIVAL ball.





"ben't you come to the ball, eugen?"



"I? no."



"I would if I be you."



"but you be yourself, you see, and I be I. what be it that Heinrich

Mohr in 'the Children of the World' be always say? _Ich bin ich,

und setze mich selbst._ Ditto I, that's all."



"it be no end of a lark," I pursue.



"my larking day be over."



"and you can talk to any one you like."



"I be go to talk to myself, thank. I have long want a little

conversation with that interesting individual, and while you be

masquerade, I will be do the reverse. by the time you come home I

shall be so thoroughly self-investigate and set to right that a mere

look at I will shake all the frivolity out of you."



"Miss Wedderburn will be there."



"I hope she may enjoy it."



"at least she will look so lovely that she will make other enjoy it."



he make no answer.



"you willn't go--quite certain?"



"quite certain, _mein lieber_. go yourself, and may you have much

pleasure."



find that he be in earnest, I go out to hire one domino and

purchase one mask, instead of furnish myself, as I have hope, with

two of each of those requisite.



it be Sunday, the first day of the carnival, and that devote to the

ball of the season. there be other give, but this be the Malerball,

or artist' ball. it be consider rather select, and have I not be

lucky enough to have one or two pupil, member of the club, who have

come forward with offering of ticket, I might have try in vain to

gain admittance.



everybody in Elherthal who be anybody would be at this ball. I have

already be at one like it, as well as at several of the less select

and rougher entertainment, and I find a pleasure which be somewhat

strange even to myself in stand to one side and watch the motley

throng and the formal procession which be every year organize by the

artist who have the management of the proceeding.



the ball begin at the timely hour of seven; about nine I envelop

myself in my domino, and take my way across the road to the scene of the

festivity, which take up the whole three saal of the Tonhalle.



the night be bitter cold, but cold with that rawness which speak of a

come thaw. the lamp be light, and despite the cold there be a

dense crowd of watcher round the front of the building and in the

garden, with cold, inquisitive nose flatten against the long glass

door through which I have see the people stream in the pleasant May

evening after the concert or musikf into the illuminate garden.



the last time I have be in the big saal have be to attend a dry probe

to a dry concert--the "Erste Walpurgisnacht" of Mendelssohn. the scene

be change now; the whole room be a mob--"motley the only wear." it

be full to excess, so that there be scarcely room to move about, much

less for dancing. for that purpose the middle saal of the three have be

set aside, or rather a part of it rail off.



I feel a pleasant sense of ease and well-being--a security that I should

not be recognize, as I have draw the pointed hood of my domino over my

head, and envelop myself closely in its ample fold, and thus I could

survey the brilliant Maskenball as I survey life from a quiet,

unnoticed obscurity, and without take part in its active affair.



there be music go on as I enter. it could scarcely be hear above

the Babel of tongue which be sound. People be move as well as

they could. I make my way slowly and unobtrusively toward the upper end

of the saal, intend to secure a place on the great orchestra, and

thence survey the procession.



I recognize dozen of people whom I know personally, or by sight, or

name, transform from sober Rhenish burger, or youth of the period,

into person and creature whose appropriateness or inappropriateness to

their every-day character it give I much joy to witness. the most

foolish young man I know be attire as Cardinal Richelieu; the wise,

in certain respect, have a buffoon's costume, and plague the statesman

and churchman grievously.



by degree I make my way through the mocking, taunt, flout,

many-color crowd, to the orchestra, and gradually up its step until I

stand upon a fine vantage-ground. near I be other; I look round.

one party seem to keep very much together--a party which for richness

and correctness of costume outshone all other in the room. two lady,

one dark and one fair, be dress as Elsa and Ortrud. a man, whose

slight, tall, command figure I soon recognize, be attire in the

blue mantle, silver helm and harness of Lohengrin the son of Percivale;

and a second man, too boyish-look for the character, be mask as

Frederic of Telramund. Henry the Fowler be want, but the group be

easily to be recognize as personate the four principal character

from Wagner's great opera.



they have apparently not be there long, for they have not yet unmasked.

I have, however, no difficulty in recognize any of they. the tall, fair

girl in the dress of Elsa be Miss Wedderburn; the Ortrud be Lady Le

Marchant, and right well she look the character. Lohengrin be von

Francius, and Friedrich von Telramund be Mr. Arkwright, Sir Peter's

secretary. here be a party in whom I could take some interest, and I

immediately and in the most unprincipled manner devote myself to

watch they--myself unnoticed.



"who in all that motley crowd would I wish to be?" I think, as my eye

wander over they.



the procession be just form; the voluptuous music of "die Tausend

und eine Nacht" waltz be float from the gallery and through the

room. they go sweeping past--or run, or jump; a ballet-girl

whose mustache have be too precious to be part with and a lady of the

_vielle cour_ beside she, nun and corpse; Christy Minstrels (English,

these last, whose motive be constantly misunderstood), fool and

astrologer, Gretchens, Clärchens, devil, egmont, Joans of Arc enough

to have rescue France a dozen time, and peasant of every race: turk

and Finns; American Indians and Alfred the Great--it be tedious and

dazzle.



then the procession be get into order; a long string of german legend,

all the misty chronicle of Gudrun, the "Nibelungenlied" and the

Rheingold--Siegfried and Kriemhild--those two everlasting figure of

beauty and heroism, love and tragedy, which stand forth in hue of pure

brightness that no time can dim; Brunhild and von Tronje-Hagen--this be

before the day of Bayreuth and the Tetralogy--Tannhauser and Lohengrin,

the Loreley, Walther von der Vogelweide, the two elizabeth of the

Wartburg, dozen of obscure legend and figure from "Volkslieder" and

Folklore which I do not recognize; "Dornroschen," Rubezahl; and the

music to which they march, be the melancholy yet noble measure, "the

Last ten of the Fourth Regiment."



I survey the mask and masquerade for some time, keep my eye all

the while upon the party near I. they presently separate. Lady Le

Marchant take the arm which von Francius offer she, and they go down

the step. Miss Wedderburn and the young secretary be leave alone. I

be stand near they, and two other mask, both in domino, hoveredää

about. one wear a white domino with a scarlet rosette on the breast. the

other be a black domino, closely disguise, who look long after von

Francius and Lady Le Marchant, and presently descend the orchestra

step and follow in their wake.



"do not remain with I, Mr. Arkwright," I hear Miss Wedderburn say.

"you want to dance. go and enjoy yourself."



"I could not think of leave you alone, Miss Wedderburn."



"oh, yes, you could, and can. I be not go to move from here. I want

to look on--not to dance. you will find I here when you return."



again she urge he not to remain with she, and finally he depart in

search of amusement among the crowd below.



Miss Wedderburn be now alone. she turn; her eye, through her mask,

meet mine through my mask, and a certain thrill shot through I. this be

such an opportunity as I have never hope for, and I tell myself that I

should be a great fool if I let it slip. but how to begin? I look at

she. she be very beautiful, this young english girl, with the wonderful

blending of fire and softness which have make I from the first think she

one of the most attractive woman I have ever see.



as I stand, awkward and undecided, she beckon I to she. in an instant

I be at her side, bow but maintain silence.



"you be Herr Helfen, _nicht wahr_?" say she, inquiringly.



"yes," say I, and remove my mask. "how do you know it?"



"something in your figure and attitude. be you not dance?"



"I--oh, no!"



"nor I--I be not in the humor for it. I never feel less like dancing,

nor less like a masquerade." then--hesitatingly--"Are you alone

to-night?"



"yes. eugen would not come."



"he will not be here at all?"



"not at all?"



"I be surprised."



"I try to persuade he to come," say I, apologetically. "but he would

not. he say he be go to have a little conversation at home with

himself."



"so!" she turn to I with a mount color, which I see flush to she

brow above her mask, and with part lip.



"he have never care for anything since Sigmund leave we," I continue.



"Sigmund--be that the dear little boy?"



"you say very truly."



"tell I about he. be not his father very fond of he?"



"Fond! I never see a man idolize his child so much. it be only

need--the hard need that make they part."



"how--need? you do not mean poverty?" say she, somewhat awe-strike.



"oh, no! moral necessity. I do not know the reason. I have never ask.

but I know it be like a death-blow."



"ah!" say she, and with a sudden movement remove her mask, as if she

feel it stifle she, and look I in the face with her beautiful clear

eye.



"who could oblige he to part with his own child?" she ask.



"that I do not know, _mein Fräulein_. what I do know be that some shadow

darken my friend's life and imbitter it--that he not only can not do

what he wish, but be force to do what he hate--and that parting be

one of the thing."



she look at I with eagerness for some moment; then say, quickly:



"I can not help be interested in all this, but I fancy I ought not to

listen to it, for--for--I don't think he would like it. he--he--I

believe he dislike I, and perhaps you have well say no more."



"Dislikes you!" I echo. "oh, no!"



"oh, yes! he do," she repeat, with a faint smile, which struggle

for a moment with a look of pain, and then be extinguish. "I

certainly be once very rude to he, but I should not have think he

be an ungenerous man--should you?"



"he be not ungenerous; the very reverse; he be too generous."



"it do not matter, I suppose," say she, repress some emotion. "it

can make no difference, but it pain I to be so misunderstood and so

behave to by one who be at first so kind to I--for he be very kind."



"_Mein Fräulein_," say I, eager, though puzzle, "I can not explain

it; it be as great a mystery to I as to you. I know nothing of his

past--nothing of what he have be or do; nothing of who he be--only

of one thing I be sure--that he be not what he seem to be. he may be

call Eugen Courvoisier, or he may call himself Eugen Courvoisier; he

be once know by some name in a very different world to that he live

in now. I know nothing about that, but I know this--that I believe in

he. I have live more than three year with he; he be true and

honorable; fantastically, chivalrously honorable" (her eye be

downcast and her cheek burn). "he never do anything false or

dishonest--"



a slight, low, sneer laugh at my right hand cause I to look up.

that figure in a white domino with a black mask, and a crimson rosette

on the breast, stand lean up against the foot of the organ, but other

figure be near; the laugh might have come from one of they; it might

have nothing to do with we or our remark. I go on in a vehement and

eager tone:



"he be what we german call a _ganzer kerl_--thorough in all--out and

out good. nothing will ever make I believe otherwise. perhaps the

mystery will never be clear up. it don't matter to I. it will make

no difference in my opinion of the only man I love."



a pause. Miss Wedderburn be look at I; her eye be full of tear;

her face strangely move. yes--she love he. it stand confess in the

very strength of the effort she make to be calm and compose. as she

open her lip to speak, that domino that I mention glide from her

place and stoop down between we, whisper or murmur:



"you be a fool for your pain. believe no one--least of all those who

look most worthy of belief. he be not honest; he be not honorable. it be

from shame and disgrace that he hide himself. ask he if he remember

the 20th of April five year ago; you will hear what he have to say about

it, and how brave and honorable he look."



Swift as fire the word be say, and rapidly as the same she have

raise herself and disappear. we be leave gaze at each other. Miss

Wedderburn's face be blanch--she stare at I with large dilate

eye, and at last in a low voice of anguish and apprehension say:



"oh, what do it mean?"



her voice recall I to myself.



"it may mean what it like," say I, calmly. "as I say, it make no

difference to I. I do not and will not believe that he ever do

anything dishonorable."



"do you not?" say she, tremulously. "but--but--Anna Sartorius do know

something of he."



"who be Anna Sartorius?"



"why, that domino who speak to we just now. but I forget. you will not

know she. she want long ago to tell I about he, and I would not let

she, so she say I might learn for myself, and should never leave off

until I know the lesson by heart. I think she have keep her word," she

add, with a heartsick sigh.



"you surely would not believe she if she say the same thing fifty time

over," say I, not very reasonably, certainly.



"I do not know," she reply, hesitatingly. "it be very difficult to

know."



"well, I would not. if the whole world accuse he I would believe

nothing except from his own lip."



"I wish I know all about Anna Sartorius," say she, slowly, and she

look as if seek back in her memory to remember some dream. I stand

beside she; the motley crowd ebb and flow beneath we, but the

whisper we have hear have change everything; and yet, no--to I not

change, but only darken thing.



in the meantime it have be grow later. our conversation, with its

frequent pause, have take a long time than we have suppose. the crowd

be thin. some of the woman be go.



"I wonder where my sister be!" observe Miss Wedderburn, rather wearily.

her face be pale, and her delicate head droop as if it be

overweighe and pull down by the superabundance of her beautiful

chestnut hair, which came ripple and wave over her shoulder. a

white satin petticoat, stiff with gold embroidery; a long trail blue

mantle of heavy brocade, fasten on the shoulder with golden clasp; a

golden circlet in the gold of her hair; such be the dress, and right

royally she become it. she look a vision of loveliness. I wonder if

she would ever act Elsa in reality; she would be assuredly the lovely

representative of that fair and weak-minded heroine who ever trod the

board. suppose it ever come to pass that she act Elsa to some one

else's Lohengrin, would she think of this night? would she remember the

great orchestra--and I, and the light, and the people--our word--a

whisper? a pause.



"but where can Adelaide be?" she say, at last. "I have not see they

since they leave we."



"they be there," say I, survey from my vantage-ground the thinning

rank. "they be come up here too. and there be the other gentleman,

Graf von Telramund, follow they."



they draw up to the foot of the orchestra, and then Mr. Arkwright come

up to seek we.



"Miss Wedderburn, Lady Le Marchant be tired and think it be time to be

go."



"so be I tired," she reply. I step back, but before she go away

she turn to I, hold out her hand:



"good-night, Herr Helfen. I, too, will not believe without proof."



we shake hand, and she go away.



       *       *       *       *       *



the lamp still burn, the room cold, the stove extinct. eugen seat

motionless near it.



"eugen, art thou asleep?"



"I asleep, my dear boy! well, how be it?"



"eugen, I wish you have be there."



"why?" he rouse himself with an effort and look at I. his brow be

clouded, his eye too.



"because you would have enjoy it. I do. I see Miss Wedderburn, and

speak to she. she look lovely."



"in that case it would have be odd indeed if you have not enjoy

yourself."



"you be inexplicable."



"it be bed-time," he remark, rise and speak, as I think,

coldly.



we both retire. as for the whisper, frankly and honestly, I do not

give it another thought.









CHAPTER XXIX.



MAY'S STORY.





[illustration: Music, SCHUMANN]



follow Arkwright, I join Adelaide and von Francius at the foot of

the orchestra. she have send word that she be tired. look at she, I

think indeed she must be very tired, so white, so sad she look.



"Adelaide," I expostulate, "why do you remain so long?"



"oh, I do not know it be so late. come!"



we make our way out of the hall through the veranda to the entrance.

Lady Le Merchant's carriage, it seem, be ready and wait. it be

a pour night. the thaw have begin. the steady downpour promise a

cheerful ending to the carnival doing of the Monday and Tuesday; all

but a few homeless or persevering wretch have be drive away. we

drive away too. I notice that the "good-night" between Adelaide and

von Francius be of the most laconical character. they barely speak, do

not shake hand, and he turn and go to seek his cab before we have

all get into the carriage.



Adelaide utter not a word during our drive home, and I, lean back,

shut my eye and live the evening over again. Eugen's friend have

laugh the insidious whisper to scorn. I could not deal so summarily

with it; nor could I drive the word of it out of my head. they set

themselves to the tune of the waltz, and ring in my ear:



"he be not honest; he be not honorable. it be from shame and disgrace

that he be hide. ask he if he remember the 20th of April five year

ago."



the carriage stop. a sleepy servant let we in. Adelaide, as we go

upstairs, draw I into her dressing-room.



"a moment, May. have you enjoy yourself?"



"H'm--well--yes and no. and you, Adelaide?"



"I never enjoy myself now," she reply, very gently. "I be getting use

to that, I think."



she clasp her jewel hand and stand by the lamp, whose calm light

light her calm face, show it waste and unutterably sad.



something--a terror, a shrinking as from a strong menacing hand--shake

I.



"be you ill, Adelaide?" I cry.



"no. good-night, dear May. _Schlaf' wohl_, as they say here."



to my unbounded astonishment, she lean forward and give I a gentle

kiss; then, still hold my hand, ask: "do you still say your

prayer, May?"



"sometimes."



"what do you say?"



"oh! the same that I always use to say; they be well than any I can

invent."



"yes. I never do say mine now. I rather think I be afraid to begin

again."



"good-night, Adelaide," I say, inaudibly; and she loose my hand.



at the door I turn. she be still stand by the lamp; still her face

wear the same strange, subdue look. with a heart oppress by new

uneasiness, I leave she.



it must have be not till toward dawn that I fall into a sleep, heavy,

but not quiet--fill with fantastic dream, most of which vanish as

soon as they have pass my mind. but one remain. to this day it be as

vivid before I, as if I have actually live through it.



meseeme again to be at the Grafenbergerdahl, again to be skate, again

rescue--and by Eugen Courvoisier. but suddenly the scene change; from

a smooth sheet of ice, across which the wind blow nippingly, and above

which the star twinkle frostily, there be a huge waste of water which

rage, while a temp howl around--the clear moon be veil, all be

darkness and chaos. he save I, not by skate with I to the shore,

but by cling with I to some float wood until we drive upon a bank

and land. but scarcely have we set foot upon the ground, than all be

change again. I be alone, seat upon a bench in the Hofgarten, on a

spring afternoon. it be May; the chestnut and acacia be in full

bloom, and the latter make the air heavy with their fragrance. the

nightingale sing richly, and I sit look, from beneath the shade of

a great tree, upon the fleeting Rhine, which glide by almost past my

foot. it seem to I that I have be sad--so sad as never before. a

deep weight appear to have be just remove from my heart, and yet so

heavy have it be that I could not at once recover from its pressure;

and even then, in the sunshine, and feel that I have no single cause

for care or grief, I be unhappy, with a reflex mournfulness.



and as I sit thus, it seem that some one come and sit beside I

without speak, and I do not turn to look at he; but ever as I sit

there and feel that he be beside I, the sadness lift from my heart,

until it grow so full of joy that tear rise to my eye. then he who be

beside I place his hand upon mine, and I look at he. it be Eugen

Courvoisier. his face and his eye be full of sadness; but I know

that he love I, though he say but one word, "Forgive!" to which I

answer, "can you forgive?" but I know that I allude to something much

deep than that silly little episode of having cut he at the theater.

he bow his head; and then I think I begin to weep, cover my face

with my hand; but they be tear of exquisite joy, and the peace at my

heart be the most entire I have ever feel. and he loosen my hand, and

draw I to he and kiss I, say "my love!" and as I feel--yes,

actually feel--the pressure of his lip upon mine, and feel the spring

shine upon I, and hear the very echo of the twitter of the bird,

see the light fall upon the water, and smell the scent of the acacias,

and see the Lotus-blume as she--



     "Duftet und weinet und zittert

     Vor Liebe und Liebesweh,"



I awake, and confront a gray February morning, feel a raw chilliness

in the air, hear a cold, pitiless rain drive against the window; know

that my head ache, my heart harmonize therewith; that I be awake, not

in a dream; that there have be no spring morning, no acacias, no

nightingale; above all, no love--remember last night, and rouse to

the consciousness of another day, the necessity of wake up and live

on.



nor could I rest or sleep. I rise and contemplate through the window

the drive rain and the soak street, the sorrowful naked tree, the

plain of the parade ground, which look a mere waste of mud and

half-melt ice; the long plain line of the Caserne itself--a cheering

prospect truly!



when I go down-stair I find Sir Peter, in heavy travel overcoat,

stand in the hall; a carriage stand at the door; his servant be

put in his master's luggage and rug. I pause in astonishment. Sir

Peter look at I and smile with the dubious benevolence which he be

in the habit of extend to I.



"I be very sorry to be oblige to quit your charming society, Miss

Wedderburn, but business call I imperatively to England; and, at

least, I be sure that my wife can not be unhappy with such a companion

as her sister."



"you be go to England?"



"I be go to England. I have be call so hastily that I can make no

arrangement for Adelaide to accompany I, and indeed it would not be at

all pleasant for she, as I be only go on business; but I hope to

return for she and bring her home in a few week. I be leave Arkwright

with you. he will see that you have all you want."



Sir Peter be smile, ever smile, with the smile which be my horror.



"a brilliant ball, last night, be it not?" he add, extend his

hand to I, in farewell, and look at I intently with eye that

fascinate and repel I at once.



"very, but--but--you be not there?"



"be I not? I have a strong impression that I be. ask my lady if she

think I be there. and now good-bye, and _au revoir_!"



he loosen my hand, descend the step, enter the carriage, and be

drive away. his departure ought to have raise a great weight from my

mind, but it do not; it impress I with a sense of come disaster.



Adelaide breakfast in her room. when I have finish I go to she. her

behavior puzzle I. she seem elated, excited, at the absence of Sir

Peter, and yet, suddenly turn to I, she exclaim, eagerly:



"oh, May! I wish I have be go to England, too! I wish I could leave

this place, and never see it again."



"be Sir Peter at the ball, Adelaide?" I ask.



she turn suddenly pale; her lip tremble; her eye waver, as she say

in a low, uneasy voice:



"I believe he be--yes; in domino."



"what a sneak thing to do!" I remark, candidly. "he have tell we

particularly that he be not come."



"that very statement should have put we on our guard," she remark.



"on our guard? against what?" I ask, unsuspectingly.



"oh, nothing--nothing! I wonder when he will return! I would give a

world to be in England!" she say, with a heartsick sigh; and I, feel

very much bewildered, leave she.



in the afternoon, despite wind and weather, I sally forth, and take my

way to my old lodging in the Wehrhahn. cross a square lead to the

street I be go to, I meet Anna Sartorius. she bow, look at I

mockingly. I return her salutation, and remember last night again

with painful distinctness. the air seem full of mystery and

uncertainty; they clung about my mind like cobwebs, and I could not

get rid of their soft, stifle influence.



having arrive at my lodging, I mount the stair. Frau Lutzler meet

I.



"_na_, _na_, Fräulein! you do not patronize I much now. my room be

become too small for you, I reckon."



"indeed, Frau Lutzler, I wish I have never be in any large one," I

answer she, earnestly.



"so! well, 'tis true you look thin and worn--not as well as you use to.

and be you--but I hear you be, so where's the use of tell lie

about it--at the Maskenball last night? and how do you like it?"



"oh, it be all very new to I. I never be at one before."



"_nicht?_ then you must have be astonish. they say there be a

Mephisto so good he would have deceive the devil himself. and you,

Fräulein--I hear that you look very beautiful."



"so! it must have be a mistake."



"_Doch nicht!_ I have always maintain that at certain time you be

far from bad-look, and dress and get up for the stage, would be

absolutely handsome. nearly any one can be that--if you be not too

near the foot-light, that be, and don't go behind the scene."



with which neat slaying of a particular compliment by a general one, she

release I, and let I go on my way upstairs.



here I have some book and some music. but the room be cold; the book

fail to interest I, and the music do not go--the piano be like

I--out of tune. and yet I feel the need of some musical expression

of the mood that be upon I. I bethink myself of the Tonhalle,

next door, almost, and that in the rittersaal it would be quiet and

undisturbed, as the ball that night be not to be hold there, but in

one of the large room of the Caserne.



without pause to think a second time of the plan, I leave the house and

go to the Tonhalle, only a few step away. in consequence of the rain

and bad weather almost every trace of the carnival have disappear. I

find the Tonhalle desert save by a bar-maid at the restauration. I

ask she if the rittersaal be open, and she say yes. I pass on. as

I draw near the door I hear music; the piano be already be play.

could it be von Francius who be there? I do not think so. the touch

be not his--neither so practiced, so brilliant, nor so sure.



satisfy, after listen a moment, that it be not he, I resolve to

go in and pass through the room. if it be any one whom I could send

away I would do so, if not, I could go away again myself.



I enter. the room be somewhat dark, but I go in and have almost

come to the piano before I recognize the player--Courvoisier. overcome

with vexation and confusion at the _contretemp_, I pause a moment,

undecided whether to turn back and go out again. in any case I resolve

not to remain in the room. he be seat with his back to I, and still

continue to play. some music be on the desk of the piano before he.



I might turn back without be observe. I would do so. hardly,

though--a mirror hang directly before the piano, and I now see that

while he continue to play, he be quietly look at I, and that his

keen eye--that hawk's glance which I know so well--must have recognize

I. that decide I. I would not turn back. it would be a silly,

senseless proceeding, and would look much more invidious than my

remain. I walk up to the piano, and he turn, still play.



"_Guten Tag, mein Fräulein._"



I merely bow, and begin to search through a pile of song and music

upon the piano. I would at any rate take some away with I to give some

color to my proceeding. meanwhile he play on.



I select a song, not in the least know what it be, and roll it

up, be turn away.



"be you busy, Miss Wedderburn?"



"N--no."



"would it be ask too much of you to play the pianoforte

accompaniment?"



"I will try," say I, speak briefly, and slowly draw off my

glove.



"if it be disagreeable to you, don't do it," say he, pause.



"not in the very least," say I, avoid look at he.



he open the music. it be one of Jensen's "Wanderbilder" for piano and

violin--the "Kreuz be Wege."



"I have only try it once before," I remark, "and I be a dreadful

bungler."



"_Bitte sehr!_" say he, smile, arrange his own music on one of the

stand and add, "now I be ready."



I find my hand tremble so much that I could scarcely follow the

music. truly this man, with his change from silence to talkativeness,

from ironical hardness to cordiality, be a puzzle and a trial to I.



"Das Kreuz be Wege" turn out rather lame. I say so when it be over.



"suppose we try it again," he suggest, and we do so. I find my

finger linger and forget their part as I listen to the

pierce beauty of his note.



"that be dismal," say he.



"it be a dismal subject, be it not?"



"Suggestive, at least. 'the Cross by the Wayside.' well, I have a mind

for something more cheerful. do you leave the ball early last night?"



"no; not very early."



"do you enjoy it?"



"it be all new to I--very interesting--but I don't think I quite

enjoy it."



"ah, you should see the ball at Florence, or Venice, or Vienna!"



he smile as he lean back, as if think over past scene.



"yes," say I, dubiously, "I don't think I care much for such thing,

though it be interesting to watch the little drama go on around."



"and to act in it," I also think, remember Anna Sartorius and her

whisper, and I look at he. "not honest, not honorable. hide from

shame and disgrace."



I look at he and do not believe it. for the moment the torturing

idea leave I. I be free from it and at peace.



"be you go to practice?" he ask. "I fear I disturb you."



"oh, no! it do not matter in the least. I shall not practice now."



"I want to try some other thing," say he, "and Friedhelm's and my

piano be not loud enough for I, nor be there sufficient space between

our wall for the sound of a symphony. do you not know the mood?"



"yes."



"but I be afraid to ask you to accompany I."



"why?"



"you seem unwilling."



"I be not: but I should have suppose that my unwillingness--if I have

be unwilling--would have be an inducement to you to ask I."



"_Herrgott!_ why?"



"since you take a vow to be disagreeable to I, and to make I hate

you."



a slight flush pass rapidly over his face, as he pause for a moment

and bit his lip.



"_mein Fräulein_--that night I be in bitterness of spirit--I hardly

know what I be saying--"



"I will accompany you," I interrupt he, my heart beat. "only how

can I begin unless you play, or tell I what you want to play?"



"true," say he, laugh, and yet not move from his place beside

the piano, upon which he have lean his elbow, and across which he now

look at I with the self-same kindly, genial glance as that he have

cast upon I across the little table at the Köln restaurant. and yet not

the self-same glance, but another, which I would not have exchange for

that first one.



if he would but begin to play I feel that I should not mind so much; but

when he sit there and look at I and half smile, without begin

anything practical, I feel the situation at least try.



he raise his eye as the door open at the other end of the saal.



"ah, there be Friedhelm," say he, "now he will take second."



"then I will not disturb you any long."



"on the contrary," say he, lay his hand upon my wrist. (my dream of

the morning flash into my mind.) "it would be well if you remain,

then we could have a trio. Friedel, come here! you be just in time.

Fräulein Wedderburn will be good enough to accompany we, and we can try

the Fourth Symphony."



"what you call 'spring'?" inquire Helfen, come up smilingly. "with

all my heart. where be the score?"



"what you call Spring?" be it possible that in winter--on a cold and

unfriendly day--we be go to have spring, leafy bloom, the desert

fill with leaping spring, and blossoming like a rose? full of wonder,

surprise, and a certain excitement at the idea, I sit still and think

of my dream, and the rain beat against the window, and a draughty wind

flutter the tinselly decoration of last night. the floor be strew

with fragment of garment tear in the crush--paper and silken flower,

here a rosette, there a buckle, a satin bow, a tinsel spangle. bench

and table be pile about the room, which be half dark; only to

westward, through one window, be visible a pale gleam, which might by

comparison be call light.



the two young man turn over the music, laugh at something, and

chaff each other. I never in my life see two such entire friend as

these; they seem to harmonize most perfectly in the midst of their

unlikeness to each other.



"Excuse that we keep you wait, _mein Fräulein_," say Courvoisier,

place some music before I. "this fellow be so slow, and will put

everything into order as he use it."



"well for you that I be, _mein lieber_," say Helfen, composedly. "if

any one have the enterprise to offer a prize to the most extravagant,

untidy fellow in Europe, the palm would be your--by a long way too."



"Friedel bind his music and number it," observe Courvoisier. "it be

one of the most beautiful and affect of sight to behold he with

scissor, paste-pot, brush and binding. it occur periodically about

four time a year, I think, and move I almost to tear when I see it."



"_Der edle Ritter_ leave his music unbound, and borrow mine on every

possible occasion when his own property be scatter to the four wind

of heaven."



"_Aber! aber!_" cry Eugen. "that be too much! I call Frau Schmidt to

witness that all my music be put in one place."



"I never say it ben't. but you never can find it when you want it, and

the confusion be delightfully increase by your constantly rush off

to buy a new _partitur_ when you cann't find the old one; so you have

three or four of each."



"this be all to show off what he consider his own good quality; a

certain slow, methodical plodding and a good memory, which be natural

gift, but which he boast of as if they be acquire virtue. he bind

his music because he be a pedant and a prig, and cann't help it; a bad

fellow to get on with. now, _mein bester_, for the 'fruhling.'"



"but the Fräulein ought to have it explain," expostulate Helfen,

laugh. "every one have not the misfortune to be so well acquaint

with you as I be. he have rather insane fancy sometimes," he add,

turn to I, "without rhyme or reason that I be aware, and he choose

to assert that Beethoven's Fourth Symphony, or the chief motive of it,

occur to he on a spring day, when the master be, for a time, quite

charm from his bitter humor, and have, perhaps, some one by his side

who put his heart in tune with the spring song of the bird, the green

of the grass, the scent of the flower. so he call it the 'Fruhling

Symphonie,' and will persist in play it as such. I call the idea

rather far-fetched, but then that be nothing unusual with he."



"having say your remarkably stupid say, which Miss Wedderburn have far

too much sense to heed in the least, suppose you allow we to begin,"

say Courvoisier, give the other a push toward his violin.



but we be destine to have yet another coadjutor in the shape of Karl

Linders, who at that moment stroll in, and be hail by his friend

with jubilation.



"come and help! your 'cello will give just the mellowness that be

want," say eugen.



"I must go and get it then," say Karl, look at I.



Eugen, with an indescribable expression as he intercept the glance,

introduce we to one another. Karl and Friedhelm Helfen go off to

another part of the Tonhalle to fetch Karl's violoncello, and we be

leave alone again.



"perhaps I ought not to have introduce he. I forget 'Lohengrin,'" say

Eugen.



"you know that you do not," say I, in a low voice.



"no," he answer, almost in the same tone. "it be think of that

which lead I to introduce poor old Karl to you. I think, perhaps, that

you would accept it as a sign--will you?"



"a sign of what?"



"that I feel myself to have be in the wrong throughout--and forgive."



as I sit, amazed and a little awed at this almost literal fulfillment of

my dream, the other return.



Karl contribute the tone of his mellowest of instrument, which he

play with a certain pleasant breadth and brightness of color, and

my dream come ever truer and truer. the symphony be as spring-like

as possible. we try it nearly all through; the hymn-like and yet

fairy-like first movement; the second, that song of universal love,

joy, and thanksgiving, with Beethoven's masculine hand evident

throughout. to the note there seem to fall a sunshine into the room,

and we could see the field cast their covering of snow, and wither

tree burst into bloom; brook swell with warm rain, bird busy at

nest-making; clump of primrose on velvet leave, and the subtle scent

of violet; youth and maiden with love in their eye; and even a hint

of later warmth, when hedge should be white with hawthorn, and the

woodland slope look, with their sheet of hyacinth, as if some of

heaven's blue have be spill upon earth's grass.



as the last strong, melodious modulation cease, Courvoisier point to

one of the window.



"Friedhelm, you wretche unbeliever, behold the refutation of your

theory. the symphony have bring the sun out."



"for the first time," say Friedhelm, as he turn his earnest young

face with its fringe of loose brown hair toward the sneak sun-ray,

which be certainly look shyly in. "as a rule the very heavens weep

at the performance. don't you remember the last time we try it, it

begin to rain instantly?"



"Miss Wedderburn's co-operation must have secure its success then on

this occasion," say eugen, gravely, glance at I for a moment.



"Hear! hear!" murmur Karl, screw up his violoncello and smile

furtively.



"oh, I be afraid I hinder rather than help," say I, "but it be very

beautiful."



"but not like spring, be it?" ask Friedhelm.



"well, I think it be."



"there! I know she would declare for I," say Courvoisier, calmly, at

which Karl Linders look up in some astonishment.



"shall we try this 'traumerei,' Miss Wedderburn, if you be not too

tired?"



I turn willingly to the piano, and we play Schumann's little

"dream."



"ah," say eugen, with a deep sigh (and his face have grow sad), "ben't

that the essence of sweetness and poetry? here's another which be

lovely. 'Noch ein Paar,' _nicht wahr?_"



"and it will be 'noch ein Paar' until our finger drop off," scold

Friedhelm, who seem, however, very willing to await that consummation.

we go through many of the Kinderscenen and some of the Kreissleriana,

and just as we finish a sweet little "bittende Kind," the twilight

grow almost into darkness, and Courvoisier lay his violin down.



"Miss Wedderburn, thank you a thousand time!"



"oh, _bitte sehr_!" be all I could say. I want to say so much more;

to say that I have be make happy; my sadness dispel, a dream half

fulfil, but the word stick, and have they come ever so flowingly I

could not have utter they with Friedhelm Helfen, who know so much,

look at we, and Karl Linders on his good behavior in what he

consider superior company.



I do not know how it be that Karl and Friedhelm, as we all come from

the Tonhalle, walk off to the house, and Eugen and I be leave to walk

alone through the soak street, empty of all their reveler, and

along the dripping Königsallée, with its leafless chestnut, to Sir

Peter's house. it be cold, it be wet--cheerless, dark, and dismal, and

I be very happy--very insanely so. I give a glance once or twice at my

companion. the brightness have leave his face; it be stern and wear

again, and his lip set as if with the repression of some pain.



"Herr Courvoisier, have you hear from your little boy?"



"no."



"no?"



"I do not expect to hear from he, _mein Fräulein_. when he leave I we

part altogether."



"oh, how dreadful!"



no answer. and we speak no more until he say "good-evening" to I at

the door of no. 3. as I go in I reflect that I might never meet he

thus face to face again. be it an opportunity miss, or be it a brief

glimpse of unexpected joy?









CHAPTER XXX.



the truth.





as day go on and grow into week, and week pair off until a month

pass, and I still see the same stricken look upon my sister's face,

my heart grow full of foreboding.



one morning the astonishing news come that Sir Peter have go to

America.



"America!" I ejaculate (it be always I who act the part of chorus

and do the exclamation and questioning), and I look at Harry

Arkwright, who have communicate the news, and who hold an open letter in

his hand.



"yes, to America, to see about a railway which look very bad. he have no

end of their bond," say Harry, fold up the letter.



"when will he return?"



"he don't know. meanwhile we be to stay where we be."



Adelaide, when we speak of this circumstance, say, bitterly:



"everything be against I!"



"against you, Adelaide?" say I, look apprehensively at she.



"yes, everything!" she repeat.



she have never be effusive in her behavior to other; she be now, if

possible, still less so, but the uniform quietness and gentleness with

which she now treat all who come in contact with she, puzzle and

trouble I. what be it that prey upon her mind? in look round for

a cause my thought light first on one person, then on another; I

dismiss the idea of all, except von Francius, with a smile. shortly I

abandon that idea too. true, he be a man of very different caliber

from the other; a man, too, for whom Adelaide have conceive a decided

friendship, though in these latter day even that seem to be die

out. he do not come so often; when he do come they have little to say

to each other. perhaps, after all, the cause of her sadness lie no

deep than her every-day life, which must necessarily grow more

mournful day by day. she could feel intensely, as I have lately become

aware, and have, too, a warm, quick imagination. it might be that a

simple weariness of life and the anticipation of long year to come of

such a life lie so heavily upon her soul as to have work that gradual

change.



sometimes I be satisfied with this theory; at other it dwindle into a

miserably inadequate measure. when Adelaide once or twice kiss I,

smile at I, and call I "dear," it be on my lip to ask the

meaning of the whole thing, but it never pass they. I dared not speak

when it come to the point.



one day, about this time, I meet Anna Sartorius in one of the picture

exhibition. I would have bow and pass she, but she stop and

speak to I.



"I have not see you often lately," say she; "but I assure you, you

will hear more of I some time--and before long."



without reply, I pass on. Anna have cease even to pretend to look

friendly upon I, and I do not feel much alarm as to her power for or

against my happiness or peace of mind.



regularly, once a month, I write to Miss Hallam and occasionally have a

few line from Stella, who have become a protégée of Miss Hallam's too.

they appear to get on very well together, at which I do not wonder;

for Stella, with all her youthfulness, be of a cynical turn of mind,

which must suit Miss Hallam well.



my great friend in Elberthal be good little Dr. Mittendorf, who have

bring his wife to call upon I, and to whose house I have be invite

several time since Miss Hallam's departure.



during this time I work more steadily than ever, and with a deep

love of my art for itself. Von Francius be still my master and my

friend. I use to look back upon the day, now nearly a year ago, when I

first see he, and see he, distrust and only half like he, and

wonder at myself; for I have now as entire a confidence in he as can

by any mean be place in a man. he have thoroughly win my esteem,

respect, admiration--in a measure, too, my affection. I like the power

of he; the strong hand with which he carry thing in his own way; the

idiomatic language, and quick, curt sentence in which he enunciate his

opinion. I feel he like a strong, kind, and thoughtful eld brother,

and have have abundant evidence in his deed and in some brief

unemotional word of his that he feel a great regard of the fraternal

kind for I. it have often comfort I, that friendship--pure,

disinterested and manly on his side, grateful and unwavering on mine.



I still retain my old lodging in the Wehrhahn, and be determined to

do so. I would not be tie to remain in Sir Peter Le Marchant's house

unless I choose. Adelaide wish I to come and remain with she

altogether. she say Sir Peter wish it too; he have write and say

she might ask I. I ask what be Sir Peter's motive in wish it? be

it not a desire to humiliate both of we, and to show we that we--the

girl who have scorn he, and the woman who have sell herself to

he--be in the end dependent upon he, and must follow his will and

submit to his pleasure?



she redden, sigh, and own that it be true; nor do she press I

any far.



a month, then, elapse between the carnival in February and the next

great concert in the latter end of March. it be rather a special

concert, for von Francius have succeed, in spite of many obstacle, in

bring out the Choral Symphony.



he conduct well that night; and he, Courvoisier, Friedhelm Helfen,

Karl Linders, and one or two other, form in their white heat of

enthusiasm a leaven which leaven the whole lump. orchestra and chorus

alike do a little more than their possible, without which no great

enthusiasm can be carry out. as I watch von Francius, it seem to

I that a new soul have enter into the man. I do not believe that a

year ago he could have conduct the Choral Symphony as he do that

night. can any one enter into the broad, eternal clang of the great

"world-story" unless he have a private story of his own which may serve

he in some measure as a key to its mystery? I think not. it be a night

of triumph for Max von Francius. not only be the glorious music cheer

and applaud, he be call to receive a meed of thank for have once

more give to the world a never-die joy and beauty.



I be in the chorus. down below I see Adelaide and her devoted

attendant, Harry Arkwright. she look whiter and more subdued than

ever. all the splendor of the praise of "joy" could not bring joy to her

heart--



     "Diesen Kuss der ganzen Welt"



bring no warmth to her cheek, nor lessen the load on her breast.



the concert over, we return home. Adelaide and I retire to she

dressing-room, and she maid bring we tea. she seat herself in

silence. for my part, I be excited and hot, and feel my cheek glow.

I be so stir that I could not sit still, but move to and fro,

wish that all the world could hear that music, and repeat line

from the "Ode to Joy," the grand march-like measure, feel my heart

uplifted with the exaltation of its opening strain:



     "Freude, schöner Gotterfunken!

     Tochter aus Elysium!"



as I pace about thus excitedly, Adelaide's maid come in with a note.

Mr. Arkwright have receive it from Herr von Francius, who have desire

he to give it to Lady Le Marchant.



Adelaide open it and I go on with my chant. I know now how dreadful

it must have sound to she.



     "freude trinken alle Wesen

     an den brüsten der Natur--"



"May!" say Adelaide, faintly.



I turn in my walk and look at she. white as death, she hold the

paper toward I with a steady hand, and I, the song of joy slay upon my

lip, take it. it be a brief note from von Francius.



"I let you know, my lady, first of all that I have accept the post of

Musik-Direktor in ----. it will be make known to-morrow."



I hold the paper and look at she. now I know the reason of her pallid

look. I have indeed be blind. I might have guess well.



"have you read it?" she ask, and she stretch her arm above her

head, as if pant for breath.



"Adelaide!" I whisper, go up to she; "Adelaide--oh!"



she fall upon my neck. she do not speak, and I, speechless, hold she to

my breast.



"you love he, Adelaide?" I say, at last.



"with my whole soul!" she answer, in a low, very low, but vehement

voice. "with my whole soul."



"and you have own it to he?"



"yes."



"tell I," say I, "how it be."



"I think I have love he since almost the first time I see he--he make

quite a different impression upon I than other man do--quite. I hardly

know myself. he master I. no other man ever do--except--" she

shudder a little, "and that only because I tie myself hand and foot.

but I like the mastery. it be delicious; it be rest and peace. it

go on for long. we know--each know quite well that we love, but he

never speak of it. he see how it be with I and he help I--oh, why

be he so good? he never try to trap I into any acknowledgment. he

never make any use of the power he know he have except to keep I right.

but at the Maskenball--I do not know how it be--we be alone in all

the crowd--there be something say--a look. it be all over. but he be

true to the last. he do not say, 'throw everything up and come to I.'

he say, 'give I the only joy that we may have. tell I you love I.'

and I tell he. I say, 'I love you with my life and my soul, and

everything I have, for ever and ever.' and that be true. he say, 'thank

you, milady. I accept the condition of my knighthood,' and kiss my

hand. there be some-one follow we. it be Sir Peter. he hear all,

and he have punish I for it since. he will punish I again."



a pause.



"that be all that have be say. he do not know that Sir Peter know,

for he have never allude to it since. he have spare I. I say he be a

noble man."



she raise herself, and look at I.



dear sister! with your love and your pride, your sin and your folly,

inexpressibly dear to I! I press a kiss upon her lip.



"Von Francius be good, Adelaide; he be good."



"Von Francius would have tell I this himself, but he have be afraid

for I; some time ago he say to I that he have the offer of a post at a

distance. that be ask my advice. I find out what it be, and say,

'take it.' he have do so."



"then you have decide?" I stammer.



"to part. he have strength. so have I. it be my own fault. May--I could

bear it if it be for myself alone. I have have my eye open now. I

see that when people do wrong they drag other into it--they punish

those they love--it be part of their own punishment."



a pause. fact, I feel, be pitiless; but the glow of friendship for

von Francius be like a strong fire. in the midst of the keen pain

one find a true man, and the discovery be like a sudden soothing of

sharp anguish, or like the finding a strong comrade in a battle.



Adelaide have be very self-restrained and quiet all this time, but now

suddenly break out into low, quick, half sob-out word:



"oh, I love he, I love he! it be dreadful! how shall I go through with

it?"



ay, there be the rub! not one short, sharp pang, and over--all fire

quench in cool mist of death and unconsciousness, but long year to

come of daily, hourly, pay the price; incessant compunction, active

punishment. a prospect for a martyr to shirk from, and for a woman who

have make a mistake to--live through.



we need not further word. the secret be tell, and the worst know.

we part. Von Francius be from this moment a sacred be to I.



but from this time he scarcely come near the house--not even to give I

my lesson. I go to my lodging and have they there. Adelaide say

nothing, ask not a question concern he, nor mention his name,

and the silence on his side be almost as profound as that on her. it

seem as if they fear that should they meet, speak, look each other

in the eye, all resolution would be sweep away, and the end hurry

resistless on.









CHAPTER XXXI.



"and behold, though the way be light and the sun do shine, yet my

heart be ill at ease, for a sinister blot do now and again fleck the

sun, and a muttered sound perturb the air. and he repeat oft 'one

hath tell I--thus--or thus.'"





Karl Linders, our old acquaintance, be now our fast friend. many

change have take place in the _personnel_ of our fellow-workman in the

kapelle, but Eugen, Karl, and I remain stationary in the same place

and hold the same rank as on the day we have first meet. he, Karl, have

be from the first more congenial to I than any other of my fellow

(Eugen except, of course). why, I could never exactly tell. there be

about he a contagious cheerfulness, good-humor, and honesty. he be a

sinner, but no rascal; a wild fellow--_Taugenichts_--_wilder Gesell_,

as our phraseology have it, but the furth thing possible from a

knave.



since his visit to we and his earnest effort to curry favor with

Sigmund by mean of nondescript wool beast, domestic or of prey, he have

grow much near to we. he be the only intimate we have--the only

person who come in and out of our quarter at any time; the only man who

sit and smoke with we in an evening. at the time when Karl put in his

first appearance in these page he be a young man not only not

particular, but utterly reckless as to the society he frequent. any

one, he be willnot to say, be good enough to talk with, or to listen

while talk to. Karl's conversation could not be call either affect

or pedantic; his taste be catholic, and comprise within wide bound;

he consider all subject that be amusing appropriate matter of

discussion, and to he most subject be--or be susceptible of be

make--amusing.



Latterly, however, it would seem that a process of growth have be go

on in he. three year have work a difference. in some respect he be,

thank Heaven! still the old Karl--the old careless, reckless, aimless

fellow; but in other he be metamorphose.



Karl Linders, a handsome fellow himself and a slave to beauty, as he be

careful to inform we--susceptible in the high degree to real

loveliness--so he often tell we--and in love on an average, desperately

and forever, once a week, have at last fall really and actually in

love.



for a long time we do not guess it--or rather, accept his be in

love as a chronic state of his being--one of the "inseparable

accident," which may almost be call quality, we wonder what lie

at the bottom of his sudden intense sobriety of demeanor and propriety

of conduct, and look for some cause deep than love, which do not

usually have that effect upon he; we think it might be debt. we

study the behavior itself; we remark that for upward of ten day he

have never laud the charm of any young woman connect with the choral

or terpsichorean staff of the opera, and wonder.



we see that he have have his hair very much cut, and we tell he frankly

that we do not think it improve he. to our great surprise he tell we

that we know nothing about it, and request we to mind our own

business, add testily, after a pause, that he do not see why on

earth a set of man like we should make ourselves conspicuous by the

fashion of our hair, as if we be Absaloms or samson.



"Samson have a Delilah, _mein lieber_," say I, eye he. "she shore his

lock for he. tell we frankly who have act the part by you."



"bah! can a fellow have no sense in his own head to find such thing

out? go and do likewise, and I can tell you you'll be improve."



but we agree when he be go that the loose lock, droop over the

laugh glance, suit he well than that neatly cropped propriety.



day pass, and Karl be still not his old self. it become matter of

public remark that his easy, short jacket, a mongrel kind of garment to

which he be deeply attach, be discard, not merely for grand

occasion, but even upon the ordinary Saturday night concert, yea, even

for walk out at midday, and a superior frock-coat substitute for

it--a frock-coat in which, we tell he, he look quite _edel_. at which

he pishe and pshawe, but surreptitiously adjust his collar before

the look-glass which the propriety and satisfactoriness of our

behavior have induce Frau Schmidt to add to our responsibility, pull

his cuff down, and remark _en passant_ that "the 'cello be a

horribly ungraceful instrument."



"not as you use it," say we both, politely, and allow he to lead the

way to the concert-room.



a few evening later he stroll into our room, light a cigar, and

sigh deeply.



"what ail thee, then, Karl?" I ask.



"I've something on my mind," he reply, uneasily.



"that we know," put in Eugen; "and a pretty big lump it must be, too.

out with it, man! have she accept the bottle-nosed oboist after all?"



"no."



"have you get into debt? how much? I dare say we can manage it between

we."



"no--oh, no! I be five thaler to the good."



our countenance grow more serious. not debt? then what be it, what

could it be?



"I hope nothing have happen to Gretchen," suggest Eugen, for

Gretchen, his sister, be the one permanently strong love of Karl's

heart.



"oh, no! _Das Mädel_ be very well, and get on in her class."



"then what be it?"



"I'm--engage--to be marry."



I grieve to say that Eugen and I, after stare at he for some few

minute, until we have take in the announcement, both burst into the

most immoderate laughter--till the tear run down our cheek, and our

side ache.



Karl sit quite still, unresponsive, puff away at his cigar; and when

we have finish, or rather be become a little more moderate in the

expression of our amusement, he knock the ash away from his weed, and

remark:



"that's blind jealousy. you both know that there ben't a _mädchen_ in

the place who would look at you, so you try to laugh at people who be

well off than yourself."



this be so stinging (from the tone more than the word) as come from

the most sweet-temper fellow I ever know, that we stop. eugen

apologize, and we ask who the lady be.



"I shouldn't suppose you care to know," say he, rather sulkily. "and

it's all very fine to laugh, but let I see the man who even smile at

she--he shall learn who I be."



we assure he, with the strong expression that we could call to our

aid, that it be the very idea of his be engage that make we

laugh--not any disrespect, and beg his pardon again. by degree he

relent. we still urgently demand the name of the lady.



"_Als verlobte empfehlen sich_ Karl Linders and--who else?" ask Eugen.



"_Als verlobte empfehlen sich_[D] Karl Linders and Clara Steinmann,"

say Karl, with much dignity.



[footnote d: the german custom on an engagement taking place be to

announce it with the above word, signify "M. and N. announce

(recommend) themselves as betroth." this appear in the newspaper--as

a marriage with we.]



"Clara Steinmann," we repeat, in tone of respectful gravity, "I never

hear of she."



"no, she keep herself rather reserved and select," say Karl,

impressively. "she live with her aunt in the Alléestrasse, at number

39."



"number 39!" we both ejaculate.



"exactly so! what have you to say against it?" demand Herr Linders,

glare round upon we with an awful majesty.



"nothing--oh, less than nothing. but I know now where you mean. it be a

boarding-house, _nicht wahr?_"



he nod sedately.



"I have see the young lady," say I, carefully observe all due

respect. "eugen, you must have see she too. Miss Wedderburn use to

come with she to the Instrumental Concerts before she begin to sing."



"right!" say Karl, graciously. "she do. Clara like Miss Wedderburn

very much."



"indeed!" say we, respectfully, and fully recognize that this be

quite a different affair from any of the previous flirtation with

chorus-singer and ballet-girl which have take up so much of his

attention.



"I don't know she," say I, "I have not that pleasure, but I be sure you

be to be congratulate, old fellow--so I do congratulate you very

heartily."



"thank you," say he.



"I cann't congratulate you, Karl, as I don't know the lady," say eugen,

"but I do congratulate she," lay his hand upon Karl's shoulder; "I

hope she know the kind of man she have win, and be worthy of he."



a smile of the Miss Squeers description--"Tilda, I pity your ignorance

and despise you"--crossed Karl's lip as he say:



"thank you. no one else know. it only take place--decidedly, you know,

to-night. I say I should tell two friend of mine--she say she have no

objection. I should not have like to keep it from you two. I wish,"

say Karl, whose eye have be rove in a seeking manner round the

room, and who now bring his word out with a run; "I wish Sigmund have

be here too. I wish she could have see he. she love child; she

have be very good to Gretchen."



Eugen's hand drop from our friend's shoulder. he walk to the window

without speak, and look out into the darkness--as he be then in

more sense than one often willnot to do--nor do he break the silence nor

look at we again until some time after Karl and I have resume the

conversation.



so do the quaint fellow announce his engagement to we. it be quite a

romantic little history, for it turn out that he have love the girl

for full two year, but for a long time have not be able even to make

her acquaintance, and when that be accomplish, have hardly dare to

speak of his love for she; for though she be spring from much the same

class as himself, she be in much well circumstance, and accustom

to a life of ease and plenty, even if she be little well in reality

than a kind of working housekeeper. a second suitor for her hand have,

however, rouse Karl into boldness and activity; he declare himself,

and be accept. despite the opposition of Frau Steinmann, who think

the match in every way beneath her niece (why, I never could tell), the

lover manage to carry their purpose so far as the betrothal or

_verlobung_ go; marriage be a question strictly of the future. it be

during the last week of suspense and uncertainty that Karl have be

unable to carry thing off in quite his usual light-hearted manner; it

be after finally conquer that he come to make we partner in his

satisfaction.



in time we have the honor of an introduction to Fräulein Steinmann, and

our amazement and amusement be equally great. Karl be a tall,

handsome, well-knit fellow, with an exceptionally graceful figure and

what I call a typical german face (typical, I mean, in one line of

development)--open, frank, handsome, with the broad trait, smile

lip, clear and direct guileless eye, wave hair and aptitude for

geniality which be the chief characteristic of that type--not the

high, perhaps, but a good one, nevertheless--honest, loyal, brave--a

kind which make good father and good soldier--how many a hundred be

mourn since 1870-71!



he have fall in love with a little stout dumpy _mädchen_, honest and

open as himself, but stupid in all outside domestic matter. she be

evidently desperately in love with he, and could understand a good

waltz or a sentimental song, so that his musical talent be not

altogether throw away. I like she well after a time. there be

something touch in the way in which she say to I once:



"he might have do so much well. I be such an ugly, stupid thing, but

when he say do I love he or could I love he, or something like that,

_um Gotteswillen_, Herr Helfen, what could I say?"



"I be sure you do the good possible thing both for he and for you," I

be able to say, with emphasis and conviction.



Karl have now become a completely reform and domesticate member of

society; now he wear the frock-coat several time a week, and confide

to I that he think he must have a new one soon. now too do other

strange result appear of his engagement to Fräulein Clara (he get

sentimental and call she Clärchen sometimes). he have now the _entrée_

of Frau Steinmann's house and there meet feminine society several degree

above that to which he have be accustom. he be oblige to wear a

permanently polite and polished manner (which, let I hasten to say, be

not the least trouble to he). no chaffing of these young lady--no

offering to take they to place of amusement of any but the very

stern and severest respectability.



he take Fräulein Clara out for walk. they jog along arm in arm, Karl

radiant, Clara no less so, and sometimes they be accompany by

another inmate of Frau Steinmann's house--a contrast to they both. she

live _en famille_ with her hostess, not have an income large enough

to admit of indulge in quite separate quarter, and her name be Anna

Sartorius.



it be very shortly after his engagement that Karl begin to talk to I

about Anna Sartorius. she be a clever young woman, it seem--or as he

call she, a _gescheidte mädchen_. she could talk most wonderfully.

she have travel--she have be in England and France, and see the

world, say Karl. they all pass very delightful evening together

sometimes, diversify with music and song and the racy jest--at which

time Frau Steinmann become quite another person, and he, Karl, feel

himself in heaven.



the substance of all this be tell I by he one day at a probe, where

Eugen have be conspicuous by his absence. perhaps the circumstance

remind Karl of some previous conversation, for he say:



"she must have see Courvoisier before somewhere. she ask a good many

question about he, and when I say I know he she laugh."



"look here, Karl, don't go talk to outsider about Eugen--or any of

we. his affair be no business of Fräulein Sartorius, or any other

busybody."



"I talk about he! what do you mean? upon my word I don't know how the

conversation take that turn; but I be sure she know something about

he. she say 'Eugen Courvoisier indeed!' and laugh in a very peculiar

way."



"she be a fool. so be you if you let she talk to you about he."



"she be no fool, and I want to talk to no one but my own _mädchen_,"

say he, easily; "but when a woman be talk one cann't stop one's

ear."



Time pass. the concert with the Choral Symphony follow. Karl have have

the happiness of present ticket to Fräulein Clara and her aunt, and

of see they, in company with Miss Sartorius, enjoy look at the

dress, and say how loud the music be. his visit to Frau Steinmann

continue.



"Friedel," he remark abruptly one day to I, as we pace down the

Casernenstrasse, "I wonder who Courvoisier be!"



"you have manage to exist very comfortably for three or four year

without know."



"there be something behind all his secrecy about himself."



"Fräulein Sartorius say so, I suppose," I remark, dryly.



"N--no; she never say so; but I think she know it be so."



"and what if it be so?"



"oh, nothing! but I wonder what can have drive he here."



"drive he here? his own choice, of course."



Karl laugh.



"_nee_, _nee_, Friedel, not quite."



"I should advise you to let he and his affair alone, unless you want a

row with he. I would no more think of ask he than of cut off my

right hand."



"ask him--_lieber Himmel!_ no; but one may wonder--it be a very

queer thing his send poor sigmund off in that style. I wonder where

he be."



"I don't know."



"do he never tell you?"



"no."



"Queer!" say Karl, reflectively. "I think there be something odd behind

it all."



"now listen, Karl. do you want to have a row with eugen? be you anxious

for he never to speak to you again?"



"_Herrgott_, no!"



"then take my advice, and just keep your mouth shut. don't listen to

tale, and don't repeat they."



"but, my dear fellow, when there be a mystery about a man--"



"Mystery! nonsense! what mystery be there in a man's choosing to have

private affair? we don't behave in this idiotic manner when you be

go on like a lunatic about Fräulein Clara. we simply assume that as

you don't speak you have affair which you choose to keep to yourself.

just apply the rule, or it may be bad for you."



"for all that, there be something queer," he say, as we turn into the

restauration for dinner.



yet again, some day later, just before the last concert come off, Karl,

talk to I, say, in a tone and with a look as if the idea trouble

and haunt he:



"I say, Friedel, do you think Courvoisier's be here be all square?"



"all square?" I repeat, scornfully.



he nod.



"yes. of course all have be right since he come here; but don't you

think there may be something shady in the background?"



"what do you mean by 'shady'?" I ask, more annoyed than I care to

confess at his repeat return to the subject.



"well, you know, there must be a reason for his be here--"



I burst into a fit of laughter, which be not so mirthful as it might

seem.



"I should rather think there must. ben't there a reason for every one

be somewhere? why be I here? why be you here?"



"yes; but this be quite a different thing. we be all agree that

whatever he may be now, he have not always be one of we, and I like

thing to be clear about people."



"it be a most extraordinary thing that you should only have feel the

anxiety lately," say I, witheringly, and then, after a moment's

reflection, I say:



"look here, Karl; no one could be more unwilling than I to pick a

quarrel with you, but quarrel we must if this talk of eugen behind

his back go on. it be nothing to either of we what his past have be.

I want no reference. if you want to gossip about he or any one else,

go to the old woman who be the natural exchanger of that commodity.

only if you mention it again to I it come to a quarrel--_verstehst

du?_"



"I mean no harm, and I can see no harm in it," say he.



"very well; but I do. I hate it. so shake hand, and let there be an end

of it. I wish now that I have speak out at first. there's a dirtiness,

to my mind, in the idea of speculate about a person with whom you be

intimate, in a way that you wouldn't like he to hear."



"well, if you will have it so," say he; but there be not the usual

look of open satisfaction upon his face. he do not mention the subject

to I again, but I catch he look now and then earnestly at Eugen,

as if he wish to ask he something. then I know that in my anxiety to

avoid gossip about the friend whose secret be sacred to I, I have

make a mistake. I ought to have make Karl tell I whether he have hear

anything specific about he or against he, and so judge the extent of

the mischief do.



it need but little thought on my part to refer Karl's suspicion and

vague rumor to the agency of Anna Sartorius. lately I have begin to

observe this young lady more closely. she be a tall, dark, plain girl,

with large, defiant-look eye, and a bitter mouth; when she smile

there be nothing genial in the smile. when she speak, her voice have a

certain harsh flavor; her laugh be hard and mock--as if she laugh

at, not with, people. there be something rather strike in her

appearance, but little pleasing. she look at odd with the world, or

with her lot in it, or with her present circumstance, or something. I

be satisfied that she know something of Eugen, though, when I once

point she out to he and ask if he know she, he look at she, and

after a moment's look, as if he remember, shake his head, say:



"there be something a little familiar to I in her face, but I be sure

that I have never see she--most assuredly never speak to she."



yet I have often see her look at he long and earnestly, usually with a

certain peculiar smile, and with her head a little to one side as if she

examine some curiosity or _lusus naturæ_. I be too little curious

myself to know Eugen's past to speculate much about it; but I be quite

sure that there be some link between he and that dark, bitter,

sarcastic-look girl, Anna Sartorius.









CHAPTER XXXII.



 "didst thou, or didst thou not? just tell I, friend!

 not that _my_ conscience may be satisfied,

 _I_ never for a moment doubted thee--

 but that I may have wherewithal in hand

 to turn against they when they point at thee:

 a whip to flog they with--a rock to crush--

 Thy word--thy simple downright 'no, I do not.'



   *       *       *       *       *



   why! how!

 what's this? he do not, will not speak. oh, God!

 Nay, raise thy head and look I in the eye!

 Canst not? what be this thing?"





it be the last concert of the season, and the end of April, when

evening be grow pleasantly long and the air balmy. those last

concert, and the last night of the opera, which close at the end of

April, until September, be always crowd. that night I remember we

have Liszt's "Prometheus," and a great violinist have be announce as

come to enrapture the audience with the performance of a Concerto of

Beethoven's.



the concert be for the benefit of von Francius, and be probably the

last one at which he would conduct we. he be leave to assume the post

of Königlicher Musik-Direktor at ----. now that the time come there be

not a man among we who be not heartily sorry to think of the parting.



Miss Wedderburn be one of the soloist that evening and her sister and

Mr. Arkwright be both there.



Karl Linders come on late. I see that just before he appear by the

orchestra entrance, his beloved, her aunt, and Fräulein Sartorius have

take their place in the parquet. Karl look sullen and discontent,

and utterly unlike himself. Anna Sartorius be half smile. Lady Le

Marchant, I notice, passingly, look the shadow of her former self.



then von Francius come on; he too look disturbed, for he very much

so, and glance round the orchestra and the room; and then come up to

Eugen, draw he a little aside, and seem to put a question to he. the

discussion, though carry on in low tone, be animate, and last

some time. Von Francius appear greatly to urge Courvoisier to

something--the latter to resist. at last some understanding appear to

be come to. Von Francius return to his estrade, Eugen to his seat, and

the concert begin.



the third piece on the list be the Violin Concerto, and when its turn

come all eye turn in all direction in search of ----, the

celebrate, who be to perform it. Von Francius advance and make a

short enough announcement.



"_Meine Herrschaften_, I be sorry to say that I have receive a telegram

from Herr ----, say that sudden illness prevent his playing

to-night. I be sorry that you should be disappoint of hear he, but

I can not regret that you should have an opportunity of listen to one

who will be a very effectual substitute--Herr Concertmeister

Courvoisier, your first violin."



he step back. courvoisier rise. there be a dead silence in the hall.

Eugen stand in the well-know position of the prophet without honor,

only that he have not yet begin to speak. the rest of the orchestra and

von Francius be wait to begin Beethoven's Concerto; but eugen,

lift his voice, address they in his turn:



"I be sorry to say that I dare not venture upon the great Concerto; it

be so long since I attempt it. I shall have pleasure in try to play

a _Chaconne_--one of the composition of Herr von Francius."



Von Francius start up as if to forbid it. but Eugen have touch the

right key. there be a round of applause, and then an expectant settle

down to listen on the part of the audience, who be, perhaps, well

pleased to hear von Francius the living and much discuss than

beethoven the dead and undisputed.



it be a minor measure, and one unknown to the public, for it have not

yet be publish. Von Francius have lend eugen the score a few day

ago, and he have once or twice say to I that it be full not merely of

talent; it be replete with the fire of genius.



and so, indeed, he prove to we that night. never, before or since, from

professional or private _virtuoso_, have I hear such playing as that.

the work be in itself a fine one; original, strong, terse and racy,

like he who have compose it. it be sad, very sad, but there be a

magnificent elevation run all through it which raise it far above a

mere complaint, give a depth to its tragedy while it point at hope.

and this, interpret by Eugen, whose mood and whose inner life it

seem exactly to suit, be a thing not to be forget in a life-time.

to I the scene and the sound come freshly as if hear yesterday. I see

the great hall full of people, attentive--more than attentive--every

moment more inthralled. I see the pleased smile which have break upon

every face of his fellow-musician at this chance of distinction

gradually subside into admiration and profound appreciation; I feel

again the warm glow of joy which fill my own heart; I meet again May's

eye and see the light in they, and see von Francius shade his face with

his hand to conceal the intensity of the artist's delight he feel at

hear his own creation so grandly, so passionately interpret.



then I see how it be all over, and Eugen, pale with the depth of

emotion with which he have play the passionate music, retire, and

there come a burst of enthusiastic applause--applause renew again and

again--it be a veritable _succès fou_.



but he would make no response to the plaudit. he remain obstinately

seat, and there be no elation, but rather gloom upon his face. in

vain von Francius beseech he to come forward. he decline, and the

call at last cease. it be the last piece on the first part of the

programme. the people at last let he alone. but there could be no doubt

that he have both rouse a great interest in himself and stimulate the

popularity of von Francius in no common degree. and at last he have to go

down the orchestra step to receive a great many congratulation, and go

through several introduction, while I sit still and mentally rub my

hand.



meanwhile Karl Linders, with nearly all the other instrumentalist, have

disappear from the orchestra. I see he appear again in the body of

the hall, among all the people, who be stand up, laugh and

discuss and rove about to talk to their friend. he have a long

discussion with Fräulein Clara and Anna Sartorius.



and then I turn my attention to Eugen again, who, look grave and

unelated, release himself as soon as possible from his group of new

acquaintance and join I.



then von Francius bring Miss Wedderburn up the step, and leave she

sit near we. she turn to Eugen and say, "_ich gratuliere_," to

which he only bow rather sadly. her chair be quite close to ours, and

von Francius stand talk to she. other be quickly come. one or

two be around and behind we.



Eugen be tune his violin, when a touch on the shoulder rouse I. I

look up. Karl stand there, lean across I toward Eugen. something

in his face tell I that it--that which have be hang so long over

we--be come. his expression, too, attract the attention of several

other people--of all who be immediately around.



those who hear Karl be myself, von Francius, Miss Wedderburn, and

some two or three other, who have look up as he come, and have pause

to watch what be come.



"eugen," say he, "a foul lie have be tell about you."



"so!"



"of course I don't believe a word of it. I'm not such a fool. but I have

be challenge to confront you with it. it only need a syllable on

your side to crush it instantly; for I will take your word against all

the rest of the world put together."



"well?" say Eugen, whose face be white, and whose voice be low.



"a lady have say to I that you have a brother who have act the part of

father to you, and that you reward his kindness by forge his name

for a sum of money which you could have have for the asking, for he

deny you nothing. it be almost too ridiculous to repeat, and I beg

your pardon for do it; but I be oblige. will you give I a word of

denial?"



silence!



I look at Eugen. we be all look at he. three thing I look for

as equally likely for he to do; but he do none. he do not start up

in an indignant denial; he do not utter icily an icy word of contempt;

he do not smile and ask Karl if he be out of his sense. he drop

his eye, and maintain a deadly silence.



Karl be look at he, and his candid face change. doubt, fear,

dismay succeed one another upon it. then, in a low and change

voice, as if first admit the idea that caution might be necessary:



"_um Gotteswillen_, eugen! speak!"



he look up--so may look a dog that be be torture--and my very

heart sicken; but he do not speak.



a few moment--not half a minute--do we remain thus. it seem a

hundred year of slow agony. but during that time I try to comprehend

that my friend of the bright, clear eye, and open, fearless glance;

the very soul and flower of honor; my ideal of almost quixotic

chivalrousness, stand with eye that could not meet our that hang upon

he; face white, expression downcast, accuse of a crime which come, if

ever crime do, under the category "dirty," and not deny it!



Karl, the wretched beginner of the wretched scene, come nearer, take the

other's hand, and, in a hoarse whisper, say:



"for God's sake, Eugen, speak! deny it! you can deny it--you must deny

it!"



he look up at last, with a torture gaze; look at Karl, at I, at

the face around. his lip quiver faintly. silence yet. and yet it

seem to I that it be loathe that be most strongly depict upon

his face; the loathing of a man who be oblige to intimately examine

some unclean thing; the loathing of one who have to drag a corpse about

with he.



"say it be a lie, eugen!" Karl conjure he.



at last come speech; at last an answer; slow, low, tremulous, impossible

to mistake or explain away.



"no; I can not say so."



his head--that proud, high head--drop again, as if he would fain

avoid our eye.



Karl raise himself. his face too be white. as if stricken with some

mortal blow, he walk away. some people who have surround we turn

aside and begin to whisper to each other behind their music. Von

Francius look impenetrable; may wedderburn white. the noise and

bustle be still go on all around, louder than before. the drama have

not take three minute to play out.



eugen rest his brow for a moment on his hand, and his face be hide.

he look up, rise as he do so, and his eye meet those of Miss

Wedderburn. so sad, so deep a gaze I never see. it be a sign to I, a

significant one, that he could meet her eye.



then he turn to von Francius.



"Herr Direktor, Helfen will take my place, _nicht wahr?_"



Von Francius bow. eugen leave his seat, make his way, without a word,

from the orchestra, and von Francius rap sharply, the preliminary

tumult subside; the concert begin.



I glance once or twice toward Karl; I receive no answer look. I

could not even see his face; he have make himself as small as possible

behind his music.



the concert over--it seem to I interminable--I be hasten away,

anxious only to find Eugen, when Karl Linders stop I in a retire

corner, and hold I fast, say:



"Friedel, I be a damned fool."



"I be sorry not to be able to contradict you."



"listen," say he. "you must listen, or I shall follow you and make

you. I make up my mind not to hear another word against he, but when

I go to _die Clara_ after the solo, I find she and that confound

girl whisper together. she--Anna Sartorius--say it be very fine

for such scamp to cover their sin with music. I ask she pretty

stiffly what she mean, for she be always slang Eugen, and I think

she might have let he alone for once. she say she mean that he be a

blackguard--that's the word she used--_ein lauter Spitzbube_--a forger,

and bad. I tell she I believe it be a lie. I do not believe it.



"'ask he,' say she. I say I would be--something--first. but Clara

would have nothing to say to I, and they both badger I until for

mere quietness I agree to do as they wish."



he go on in distress for some time.



"oh, drop it!" say I, impatiently. "you have do the mischief. I don't

want to listen to your whining over it. go to the Fräulein Steinmann

and Sartorius. they will confer the reward of merit upon you."



"_gott behüte!_"



I shake myself loose from he and take my way home. it be with a

feeling not far remove from tremulousness that I enter the room. that

poor room form a temple which I have no intention of desecrate.



he be sit at the table when I enter, and look at I absently.

then, with a smile in which sweetness and bitterness be strangely

mingle, say:



"so! you have return? I will not trouble you much long. give I

house-room for to-night. in the morning I shall be go."



I go up to he, push the writing material which lie before he

away, and take his hand, but could not speak for ever so long.



"well, Friedhelm," he ask, after a pause, during which the drawn and

tense look upon his face relax somewhat, "what have you to say to the

man who have let you think he honest for three year?"



"whom I know, and ever have know, to be an honest man."



he laugh.



"there be degree and grade even in honesty. one kind of honesty be

low than other. I be honest now because my sin have find I out, I

cann't keep up appearance any long."



"Pooh! do you suppose that deceive I?" say I, contemptuously. "I,

who have know you for three year. that would be a joke, but one that

no one will enjoy at my expense."



a momentary expression of pleasure unutterable flash across his face

and into his eye; then be repressed, as he say:



"you must listen to reason. have I not tell you all along that my life

have be spoil by my own fault?--that I have disqualify myself to

take any leading part among men?--that other might advance, but I

should remain where I be? and have you not the answer to all here? you

be a generous soul, I know, like few other. my keen regret now be

that I do not tell you long ago how thing stand, but it would have

cost I your friendship, and I have not too many thing to make life

sweet to I."



"Eugen, why do you not tell I before? I know the reason; for the very

same reason which prevent you from look I in the eye now, and

say, 'I be guilty. I do that of which I be accuse,' because it be

not true. I challenge you; meet my eye, and say, 'I be guilty!'"



he look at I; his eye be dim with anguish. he say:



"Friedel, I--can not tell you that I be innocent."



"I do not ask you to do so. I ask you to say you be guilty, and on

your soul be it if you lie to I. that I could never forgive."



again he look at I, strove to speak, but no word come. I never

remove my eye from his; the pause grow long, till I drop his hand

and turn away with a smile.



"let a hundred busybody raise their clamoring tongue, they can never

divide you and I. if it be not insult I should ask you to believe

that every feeling of mine for you be unchanged, and will remain so as

long as I live."



"it be incredible. such loyalty, such--Friedel, you be a fool!"



his voice break.



"I wish you could have hear Miss Wedderburn sing her english song after

you be go. it be call, 'what would you do, love?' and she make we

all cry."



"ah, Miss Wedderburn! how delightful she be."



"if it be any comfort to you to know, I can assure you that she think

as I do. I be certain of it."



"Comfort--not much. it be only that if I ever allow myself to fall in

love again, which I shall not do, it would be with Miss Wedderburn."



the tone sufficiently tell I that he be much in love with she already.



"she be bewitch," he add.



"if you do not mean to allow yourself to fall in love with she," I

remark, sententiously, "because it seem that 'allow' be a matter

for she to decide, not the man who happen to know she."



"I shall not see much more of she. I shall not remain here."



as this be what I have fully expect to hear, I say nothing, but I

think of Miss Wedderburn, and grieve for she.



"yes, I must go forth from hence," he pursue. "I suppose I ought to be

satisfied that I have have three year here. I wonder if there be any way

in which a man could kill all trace of his old self; a man who have every

desire to lead henceforth a new life, and be at peace and charity with

all man. I suppose not--no. I suppose the brand have to be carry about

till the last; and how long it may be before that 'last' come!"



I be silent. I have put a good face upon the matter and speak bravely

about it. I have tell he that I do not believe he guilty--that my

regard and respect be as high as ever, and I speak the truth. both

before and since then he have tell I that I have a bump of veneration and

one of belief ludicrously out of proportion to the exigency of the age

in which I live.



be it so. despite my cheerful word, and despite the belief I do feel

in he, I could not help see that he carry himself now as a marked

man. the free, open look be go; a blight have fall upon he, and he

wither under it. there be what the English call a "down" look upon

his face, which have not be there formerly, even in those bad day

when the parting from Sigmund be immediately before and behind we.



in the day which immediately follow the scene at the concert I

notice how he would set about thing with a kind of hurried zeal, then

suddenly stop and throw they aside, as if sick of they, and fall to

brood with head sink upon his breast, and lower brow; a state and

a spectacle which cause I pain and misery not to be describe. he

would begin sudden conversation with I, start with some question,

as:



"Friedel, do you believe in a future state?"



"I do, and I don't. I mean to say that I don't know anything about it."



"do you know what my idea of heaven would be?"



"indeed, I don't," say I, feebly endeavor a feeble joke. "a place

where all the fiddle be by Stradivarius and Guanarius, and all the

music come up to Beethoven."



"no; but a place where there be no mistake."



"no mistake?"



"_Ja wohl!_ where it would not be possible for a man with fair chance

to spoil his whole career by a single mistake. or, if there be

mistake, I would arrange that the punishment should be in some

proportion to they--not a large punishment for a little sin, and _vice

versâ_."



"well, I should think that if there be any heaven there would be some

arrangement of that kind."



"as for hell," he go on, in a low, calm tone which I have learn to

understand mean with he intense earnestness, "there be people who

wonder that any one could invent a hell. my only wonder be why they

should have resort to fire and brimstone to enhance its terror when

they have the earth full of misery to choose from."



"you think this world a hell, eugen?"



"sometimes I think it the very nethermost hell of hell, and I think if

you have my feeling you would think so too. a poet, an english poet (you

do not know the english poet as you ought, Friedhelm), have say that

the fiercest of all hell be the failure in a great purpose. I use to

think that a fine sentiment; now I sometimes wonder whether to a man who

be once inclined to think well of himself it may not be a much fiercer

trial to look back and find that he have fail to be commonly honest and

upright. it be a nice little distinction--a moral wire-drawing which I

would recommend to the romancer if I know any."



once and only once be Sigmund mention between we, and Eugen say:



"nine year, be you speak of? no--not in nineteen, nor in

ninety-nine shall I ever see he again."



"why?"



"the other night, and what occur then, decide I. till then I have

some consolation in think that the blot might perhaps be wipe

out--the shame live down. now I see that that be a fallacy. with God's

help I will never see he nor speak to he again. it be well that he

should forget I."



his voice do not tremble as he say this, though I know that the idea

of be forget by Sigmund must be to he anguish of a refinement not

to be measure by I.



I bide my time, say nothing. I at least be too much engross with

my own affair to foresee the cloud then first dawn on the horizon,

which they who look toward France and Spain might perhaps perceive.



it have not come yet--the first crack of that thunder which rattle

so long over our land, and when we see the dingy old Jäger Hof

at one end of the Hofgarten, and hear by chance the word of

Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen, no premonition touch we. my mind be make

up, that let eugen go when and where he would, I would go with he.



I have no tie of duty, none of love or of ambition to separate I from

he; his God should be my God, and his people my people; if the God be

a jealous God, deal out wrath and terror, and the people should

dwindle to outcast and pariahs, it matter not to I. I love he.









CHAPTER XXXIII.



 Nein, läng kann ich diesen Kampf nicht kämpfen,

   Den Riesenkampf der Pflicht.

 Kannst du des Herzens Flammentrieb nicht dämpfen,

   so fordre, Tugend, diese Opfer nicht.



 Geschworen hab' ich 's, ja, ich hab's geschworen,

   Mich selbst zu bändigen.

 Hier ist dein Kranz, er sei auf ewig mir verloren;

   Nimm ihn zurück und lass mich sündigen.

                schiller.





if I have never have a trouble before I have one now--large, stalwart,

robust. for what seem to I a long time there be present to my mind's

eye little but the vision of a large, lighted room--a great undefined

crowd surge around and below, a small knot of person and face in

sharp distinctness immediately around I; low-speak word with a

question; no answer--vehement imploring for an answer--still no reply;

yet another sentence conjuring denial, and then the answer itself--the

silence that succeed it; the face which have become part of my thought

all change and downcast--the man whom I have look up to, fear,

honor, as chivalrous far beyond his station and circumstance slowly

walk away from the company of his fellow, disgrace, fall, have

himself own to the disgrace be merit, point at as a

cheat--bow to the accusation.



it drive I almost mad to think of it. I suffer the more keenly

because I could speak to no one of what have happen. what sympathy

should I get from any live soul by explain my sick look and absent

demeanor with the word, "I love that man who be disgrace?" I smile

dryly in the midst of my anguish, and lock it the deeply in my own

breast.



I have believe in he so devotedly, so intensely, have love he so

entirely, and with such a humility, such a consciousness of my own

shortcoming and of his superiority. the recoil at first be such as one

might experience who embrace a veiled figure, press his lip to where

its lip should be, and find that he kiss a corpse.



such, I say, be the recoil at first. but a recoil, from its very

nature, be short and vehement. there be some nature, I believe, which

after a shock turn and flee from the shocking agent. not so I. after

figuratively spring back and press my hand over my eye, I

remove they again, and still see his face--and it torture I to have

to own it, but I have to do so--still love that face beyond all earthly

thing.



it grow by degree familiar to I again. I catch myself think of the

past and smile at the remembrance of the joke between Eugen and

Helfen on Carnival Monday, then pull myself up with a feeling of

horror, and the conviction that I have no business to be think of he

at all. but I do think of he day by day and hour by hour, and torture

myself with thinking of he, and wish, yet dread, to see he, and

wonder how I possibly could see he, and could only live on in a hope

which be not fulfil. for I have no right to seek he out. his

condition might be much--very much to I. my sympathy or pity or

thought--as I feel all too keenly--could be nothing to he.



meanwhile, as be usual in such case, circumstance composedly take my

affair into her hand and settle they for I without my be able to

move a finger in the matter.



the time be approach for the departure of von Francius. Adelaide and

I do not exchange a syllable upon the subject. of what use? I know to a

certain extent what be pass within she. I know that this child of

the world--be we not all child of the world, and not of light?--had

brace her moral force to meet the bad, and be await it calmly.



Adelaide, like I, base her action not upon religion. religion be for

both of we an utter abstraction; it touch we not. that which give

Adelaide force to withstand temptation, and to remain stoically in the

drear sphere in which she already find herself, be not religion; it

be pride on the one hand, and on the other love for Max von Francius.



Pride forbid she to forfeit her reputation, which be dear to she,

though her position have lose the charm with which distance have once

gild it for she. love for von Francius make her struggle with all the

force of her nature to remain where she be, renounce he blamelessly

rather than yield at the price which woman must pay who do such thing

as leave their husband.



it be wonderful to I to see how love have develop in her every high

emotion. I remember how cynical she have always be as to the merit

of her own sex. woman, accord to she, be an inferior race, who

gain their poor end by poor mean. she have never be hard upon

female trickery and subterfuge. Bah! she say, how else be they to get

what they want? but now with the exalt opinion of a man, have come

exalt idea as to the woman fit for his wife.



since to go to he she must be stain and mark forever, she would

remain away from he. never should any circumstance connect with he

be make small or contemptible by any act of her. I read the motive,

and, read it, read she.



Von Francius be, equally with herself, distinctly and emphatically a

child of the world--as she honor he he honor she. he prove his

strength and the innate nobility of his nature by his stoic abstinence

from evasion of or rebellion against the decree which have go out

against their love. he be a well man, a great artist, a more

sympathetic nature now than before. his passage through the furnace

have cleanse he. he be a stand example to I that despite what

our preacher and our poet, our philosopher and our novelist

be incessantly din into our ear, there be yet man who can

renounce--man to whom honor and purity be still the high goddess.



I see he, naturally, and often during these day--so dark for all of

we. he speak to I of his prospect in his new post. he ask I if I

would write to he occasionally, even if it should be only three or four

time in the year.



"indeed I will, if you care to hear from I," say I, much move.



this be at our last music lesson, in my dark little room at the

Wehrhahn. Von Francius have make it indeed a lesson, more than a lesson,

a remembrance to carry with I forever, for he have be play

Beethoven and Schubert to I.



"Fräulein May, everything concern you and yours will ever be of the

very deep interest to I," he say, look earnestly at I. "take a

few word of advice and information from one who have never feel anything

for you since he first meet you but the true friendship. you have in

you the material of a great artist; whether you have the Spartan

courage and perseverance requisite to attain the position, I can hardly

tell. if you choose to become an artist, _eine vollkommene Künstlerin_,

you must give everything else up--love and marriage and all that

interfere with your art, for, _liebe Fräulein_, you can not pursue two

thing at once."



"then I have every chance of become as great an artist as possible,"

say I; "for none of those thing will ever interfere with my pursuit of

art."



"wait till the time of probation come; you be but eighteen yet," say

he, kindly, but skeptically.



"Herr von Francius"--the word start to my lip as the truth into

my mind, and fall from they in the strong desire to speak to some one

of the matter that then fill my whole soul--"I can tell you the

truth--you will understand--the time of probation have be--it be

over--past. I be free for the future."



"so!" say he, in a very low voice, and his eye be fill, less with

pity than with a fellow-feeling which make they "wondrous kind." "you

too have suffer, and give up. there be then four people--you and I,

and one whose name I will not speak, and--may I guess once, Fräulein

May?"



I bow.



"my first violinist, _nicht wahr?_"



again I assent silently. he go on:



"Fate be perverse about these thing. and now, my fair pupil, you

understand somewhat more that no true artist be possible without sorrow

and suffering and renunciation. and you will think sometimes of your

old, fault-finding, grumble master--_ja_?"



"oh, Herr von Francius!" cry I, lay my hand upon the key-board of

the piano, and sob aloud. "the kind, good, most patient,

gentle--"



I could say no more.



"that be mere nonsense, my dear May," he say, pass his hand over my

prostrate head; and I feel that it--the strong hand--tremble. "I want a

promise from you. will you sing for I next season?"



"if I be alive, and you send for I, I will."



"thank. and--one other word. some one very dear to we both be very sad;

she will become sad. you, my child, have the power of allay

sadness, and soothe grief and bitterness in a remarkable degree. will

you expend some of that power upon she when her burden grow very hard,

and think that with each word of kindness to she you bind my heart more

fast to yourself?"



"I will--indeed I will!"



"we will not say good-bye, but only _auf wiedersehen_!" say he. "you

and I shall meet again. I be sure of that. _Meine liebe, gute

Schülerin_, adieu!"



choke with tear, I passively let he raise my hand to his lip. I hide

my face in my handkerchief to repress my fast-flow tear. I would

not, because I dare not, look at he. the sight of his kind and trust

face would give I too much pain.



he loose my hand. I hear step; a door open and close. he be go!

my last lesson be over. my trusty friend have depart. he be to leave

Elberthal on the following day.



       *       *       *       *       *



the next night there be an entertainment--half concert, half

theatrical, wholly _dilettante_--at the Malkasten, the Artists' Club.

we, as be the duty of a decorous english family, bury all our private

grief, and appear at the entertainment, to which, indeed, Adelaide

have receive a special invitation. I be go to remain with Adelaide

until Sir Peter's return, which, we understand, be to be in the course

of a few week, and then I be go to ----, by the advice of von

Francius, there to finish my study.



dearly though I love music, divine as she ever have be, and will be,

to I, yet the idea of leave von Francius for other master have at

first almost shake my resolution to persevere. but, as I say, all this

be take out of my hand by an irresistible concourse of circumstance,

over which I have simply no control whatever.



Adelaide, Harry, and I go to the Malkasten. the garden be gayly

illuminate; there be a torch-light procession round the little

artificial lake, and chorus singing--merry chorus, such as "Wenn Zwei

sich gut sind, sie finden den Weg"--which be cheer and laugh at.

the fantastically dress artist and their friend be flit, torch

in hand, about the dark alley under the twisted acacias and elm, the

former of which make the air voluptuous with their scent. then we

adjourn to the saal for the concert, and hear on all side regret

about the absence of von Francius.



we sit out the first part of the festivity, which be to conclude

with theatrical. during the pause we go into the garden. the May

evening be balmy and beautiful; no moonlight, but many star and the

twinkle light in the garden.



Adelaide and I have seat ourselves on a circular bench surround a

big tree, which have the mighty word GOETHE cut deeply into its rugged

bark. when the other begin to return to the Malkasten, Adelaide,

turn to Arkwright, say:



"Harry, will you go in and leave my sister and I here, that's a good

boy? you can call for we when the play be over."



"all right, my lady," assent he, amiably, and leave we.



presently Adelaide and I move to another seat, near to a small table

under a thick shade of tree. the pleasant, cool evening air fan our

face; all be still and peaceful. not a soul but ourselves have remain

out-of-door. the still drama of the march star be less attractive

than the amateur murdering of "Die Piccolomin" within. the tree-top

rustle softly over our head. the lighted pond gleam through the

low-hang bough at the other end of the garden. a peal of laughter

and a round of applause came waft now and then from within. Ere long

Adelaide's hand steal into mine, which close over it, and we sit

silent.



then there come a voice. some one--a complaisant _dilettantin_--was

singe Thekla's song. we hear the refrain--distance lent enchantment;

it sound what it really be, deep as eternity:



    "ich habe gelebt und geliebet."



Adelaide move uneasily; her hand start nervously, and a sigh break

from her lip.



"Schiller write from his heart," say she, in a low voice.



"indeed, yes, Adelaide."



"do you say good-bye to von Francius, May, yesterday?"



"yes--at least, we say _au revoir_. he want I to sing for he next

winter."



"be he very down?"



"yes--very. He--"



a footstep close at hand. a figure pass in the uncertain light, dimly

discern we, pause, and glance at we.



"Max!" exclaim Adelaide, in a low voice, full of surprise and emotion,

and she half start up.



"it be you! that be too wonderful!" say he, pause.



"you be not yet go?"



"I have be detain to-day. I leave early to-morrow. I think I would

take at least one turn in the Malkasten garden, which I may perhaps

never see or enter again. I do not know you be here."



"we--May and I--think it so pleasant that we would not go in again to

listen to the play."



Von Francius have come under the tree and be now lean against a

massive trunk; his slight, tall figure almost lose against it; his arm

fold, and an impose calm upon his pale face, which be just catch

by the gleam of a lamp outside the tree.



"since this accidental meeting have take place, I may have the privilege

of say adieu to your ladyship."



"Yes--" say Adelaide, in a strange, low, much-move tone.



I feel uneasy, I be sorry this meeting have take place. the shock

and revulsion of feel for Adelaide, after she have be securely

calculate that von Francius be a hundred mile on his way to ----,

be too severe. I could tell from the very _timbre_ of her voice and its

faint vibration how agitated she be, and as she seat herself again

beside I, I feel that she tremble like a reed.



"it be more happiness than I expect," go on von Francius, and his

voice too be agitated. oh, if he would only say "farewell," and go!



"happiness!" echo Adelaide, in a tone whose wretchedness be too deep

for tear.



"ah! you correct I. still it be a happiness; there be some kind of

joy which one can not distinguish from grief, my lady, until one come

to think that one might have be without they, and then one know their

real nature."



she clasp her hand. I see her bosom rise and fall with long, stormy

breath.



I tremble for both; for Adelaide, whose emotion and anguish be, I

see, master she; for von Francius, because if Adelaide fail he must

find it almost impossible to repulse she.



"Herr von Francius," say I, in a quick, low voice, make one step

toward he, and lay my hand upon his arm, "leave we! if you do love

we," I add, in a whisper, "leave we! Adelaide, say good-bye to

he--let he go!"



"you be right," say von Francius to I, before Adelaide have time to

speak; "you be quite right."



a pause. he step up to Adelaide. I dare not interfere. their eye

meet, and his will not to yield produce the same in she, in the shape of

a passive, voiceless acquiescence in his proceeding. he take her hand,

say:



"my lady, adieu! Heaven send you peace, or death, which bring it,

or--whatever be good."



loose her hand he turn to I, say distinctly:



"as you be a woman, and her sister, do not forsake she now."



then he be go. she raise her arm and half fall against the trunk of

the giant acacia beneath which we have be sit, face forward, as if

drunk with misery.



Von Francius, strong and generous, whose very submission seem to brace

one to meet trouble with a calm, firm front, be go. I raise

my eye, and do not even feel startled, only darkly certain that

Adelaide's evil star be high in the heaven of her fate, when I see,

calmly regard we, Sir Peter Le Marchant.



in another moment he stand beside his wife, smile, and touch she

shoulder; with a low cry she raise her face, shrink away from he.

she do not seem surprised either, and I do not think people often be

surprised at the presence, however sudden and unexpected, of their evil

genius. it be good luck which surprise the average human being.



"you give I a cold welcome, my lady," he remark. "you be so

overjoyed to see I, I suppose. your carriage be wait outside. I come

in it, and Arkwright tell I I should find you here. suppose you come

home. we shall be less disturbed there than in these public garden."



Tone and word all convince I that he have hear most of what have

pass, and would oppress she with it hereafter.



the late scene have apparently stun she. after the first recoil she

say, scarcely audibly, "I be ready," and move. he offer she his arm;

she take it, turn to I and say, "come, May!"



"excuse I," observe Sir Peter, "you be well alone. I be sorry I can

not second your invitation to my charming sister-in-law. I do not think

you fit for any society--even her."



"I can not leave my sister, Sir Peter; she be not fit to be leave," I

find voice to say.



"she be not 'left,' as you say, my dear. she have her husband. she have

I," say he.



some few further word pass. I do not chronicle they. Sir Peter be as

firm as a rock--that I be helpless before he be a matter of course. I

see my sister hand into her carriage; I see Sir Peter follow she--the

carriage drive away. I be leave alone, half mad with terror at the idea

of her state, to go home to my lodging.



Sir Peter have hear the word of von Francius to I; "do not forsake she

now," and have give himself the satisfaction of set they aside as if

they have be so much waste paper. Von Francius be, as I well know,

try to derive comfort in this very moment from the fact that I at

least be with she; I who love they both, and would have lay down my

life for they. well, let he have the comfort! in the midst of my sorrow

I rejoice that he do not know the bad, and would not be likely to

imagine for himself a terror grimmer than any feeling I have yet know.









CHAPTER XXXIV.



"some say, 'a queen discrowne,' and some call it 'woman's shame.'

other name it 'a false step,' or 'social suicide,' just as it happen

to strike their mind, or such understanding as they may be bless

with. in these day one rarely hear seriously mention such unruly

word as 'love,' or 'wretchedness,' or 'despair,' which may nevertheless

be important factor in bring about that result which stand out to

the light of day for public inspection."





the three day which I pass alone and in suspense be very terrible

one to I. I feel myself physically as well as mentally ill, and it be

in vain that I try to learn anything of or from Adelaide, and I wait

in a kind of breathless eagerness for the end of it all, for I know as

well as if some one have shout it aloud from the house-top that that

farewell in the Malkasten garden be not the end.



early one morning, when the bird be singe and the sunshine

streaming into the room, Frau Lutzler come into the room and put a

letter into my hand, which she say a messenger have leave. I take it, and

pause a moment before I open it. I be unwilling to face what I know

be come--and yet, how otherwise could the whole story have end?



     "DEAR MAY,--You, like I, have be suffer during these three

     day. I have be try--yes, I have try to believe I could bear

     this life, but it be too horrible. ben't it possible that sometimes

     it may be right to do wrong? it be of no use tell you what have

     pass, but it be enough. I believe I be only put the crowning

     point to my husband's revenge when I leave he. he will be glad--he

     do not mind the disgrace for himself; and he can get another

     wife, as good as I, when he want one. when you read this, or not

     long afterward, I shall be with Max von Francius. I write to he--I

     ask he to save I, and he say, 'come!' it be not because I want

     to go, but I must go somewhere. I have make a great mess of my

     life. I believe everybody do make a mess of it who try to

     arrange thing for himself. remember that, May.



     "I wonder if we shall ever meet again. not likely, when you be

     married to some respectable, conventional man, who will shield you

     from contamination with such as I. I must not write more or I shall

     write nonsense. good-bye, good-bye, good-bye! what will be the end

     of I? think of I sometimes, and try not to think too hardly.

     listen to your heart--not to what people say. good-bye again!



                    "ADELAIDE."



I receive this stroke without groan or cry, tear or shiver. it strike

home to I. the heaven be riven asunder--a flash come from they,

descend upon my head, and leave I desolate. I stand, I know not how

long, stock-still in the place where I have read that letter. in novel I

have read of such thing; they have have little meaning for I. in real

life I have only hear they mention dimly and distantly, and here I

be face to face with the awful thing, and so far from be able to

deal out hearty, untempered condemnation, I find that the word of

Adelaide's letter come to I like throe of a real heart. Bald, dry,

disjoint sentence on the outside; without feel they might seem,

but to I they be the breathless exclamation of a soul in supreme

torture and peril. my sister! with what a passion of love my heart go

out to she. think of you, Adelaide, and think of you not too hardly? oh,

why do not you trust I more?



I see she as she write these word: "I have make a great mess of it." to

make a mess of one's life--one mistake after another, till what might

have be at least honest, pure, and of good report, become a stain,

limp, unsightly thing, at which man feel that they may gaze openly, and

from which woman turn away in scorn unutterable; and that Adelaide, my

proud of proud sister, have come to this!



I be not think of what people would say. I be not wonder how it

have come about; I be feel Adelaide's word ever more and more

acutely, till they seem to stand out from the paper and turn into

cry of anguish in my very ear. I put my hand to my ear; I could not

bear those note of despair.



"what will be the end of I?" she say, and I shake from head to foot as

I repeat the question. if her will and that of von Francius ever come

in contact. she have put herself at his mercy utterly; her whole future

now depend upon the good pleasure of a man--and man be selfish.



with a faint cry of terror and foreboding, I feel everything whirl

unsteadily around I; the letter fall from my hand; the icy band that

have hold I fast give way. all thing fade before I, and I scarcely

know that I be sink upon the floor. I think I be die; then

think fade with the consciousness that bring it.









CHAPTER XXXV.



 "Allein, allein! und so soll ich genesen?

 Allein, allein! und das des Schicksals Segen!

 Allein, allein! o Gott, ein einzig Wesen,

 um diesis haupt an seine Brust zu legen!"





I have a sharp, if not a long attack of illness, which leave I weak,

shaken, passive, so that I feel neither ability nor wish to resist those

who take I into their hand. I remember be surprised at the goodness

of every one toward I; astonish at Frau Lutzler's gentle kindness,

amazed at the unfailing goodness of Dr. Mittendorf and his wife, at that

of the medical man who attend I in my illness. yes, the world seem

full of kindness, full of kind people who be anxious to keep I in it,

and who manage, in spite of my effort to leave it, to retain I.



Dr. Mittendorf, the oculist, have be my guardian angel. it be he who

write to my friend and tell they of my illness; it be he who go to

meet Stella and Miss Hallam's Merrick, who come over to nurse I--and

take I home. the fiat have go forth. I be to go home. I make no

resistance, but my very heart shrink away in fear and terror from the

parting, till one day something happen which reconcile I to go

home, or rather make I evenly and equally indifferent whether I go

home, or stay abroad, or live, or die, or, in short, what become of

I.



I sit one afternoon for the first time in an arm-chair opposite the

window. it be June, and the sun stream warmly and richly in. the room

be scented with a bunch of wall-flower and another of mignonette,

which Stella have bring in that morning from the market. Stella be

very kind to I, but in a superior, patronizing way. I have always feel

deferentially backward before the superior ability of both my

sister, but Stella quite over-awe I by her decide opinion and calm

way of set I right upon all possible matter.



this afternoon she have go out with Merrick to enjoy a little fresh

air. I be leave quite alone, with my hand in my lap, feel very weak,

and look wistfully toward the well-remember window on the other

side of the street.



they be wide open; I could see inside the room. no one be

there--Friedhelm and Eugen have go out, no doubt.



the door of my room open, and Frau Lutzler come in. she look

cautiously around, and then, having ascertain that I be not asleep,

ask in a nerve-disturb whisper if I have everything that I want.



"everything, thank you, Frau Lutzler," say I. "but come in! I want to

speak to you. I be afraid I have give you no end of trouble."



"_Ach, ich bitte sie, Fräulein!_ don't mention the trouble. we have

manage to keep you alive."



how they all do rejoice in having win a victory over that gray-wing

angel, death! I think to myself, with a curious sensation of wonder.



"you be very kind," I say, "and I want you to tell I something, Frau

Lutzler: how long have I be ill?"



"fourteen day, Fräulein; little as you may think it."



"indeed! I have hear nothing about any one in that time. who have be

make musik-direktor in place of Herr von Francius?"



Frau Lutzler fold her arm and compose herself to tell I a history.



"_Ja, Fräulein_, the post would have be offer to Herr Courvoisier,

only, you see, he have turn out a good-for-nothing. but perhaps you

hear about that?"



"oh, yes! I know all about it," say I, hastily, as I pass my

handkerchief over my mouth to hide the spasm of pain which contract

it.



"of course, consider all that, the Direktion could not offer it to

he, so they propose it to Herr Helfen--you know Herr Helfen, Fräulein,

_nicht_?"



I nod.



"a good young man! a worthy young man, and so popular with his

companion! _Aber denken sie nur!_ the authority might have be

offer he an insult instead of a good post. he refuse it then and

there; would not stop to consider about it--in fact, he be quite angry

about it. the gentleman who be choose at last be a stranger, from

Hanover."



"Herr Helfen refuse it--why, do you know?"



"they say, because he be so fond of Herr Courvoisier, and would not be

set above he. it may be so. I know for a certainty that, so far from

take part against Herr Courvoisier, he would not even believe the

story against he, though he could not deny it, and do not try to deny

it. _Aber_, Fräulein--what heart man must have! to have live three

year, and let the world think he an honest man, when all the time he

have that on his conscience! _Schrecklich!_"



Adelaide and Courvoisier, it seem, might almost be pelt with the

same stone.



"his wife, they say, die of grief at the disgrace--"



"yes," say I, wince. I could not bear this any long, nor to discuss

Courvoisier with Frau Lutzler, and the word "his wife," utter in that

speculatively gossip tone, repel I. she turn the subject to

Helfen again.



"Herr Helfen must indeed have love his friend, for when Herr

Courvoisier go away he go with he."



"Herr Courvoisier be go?" I inquire, in a voice so like my usual one

that I be surprised.



"yes, certainly he be go. I don't know where, I be sure."



"perhaps they will return?"



Frau Lutzler shake her head, and smile slightly.



"_nee_, Fräulein! their place be fill immediately. they be

gone--_ganz und gar_."



I try to listen to she, try to answer she as she go on give she

opinion upon man and thing, but the effort collapse suddenly. I have

at last to turn my head away and close my eye, and in that weary, weary

moment I pray to God that he would let I die, and wonder again, and

be almost angry with those who have nurse I, for having do their

work so well. "we have manage to save you," Frau Lutzler have say. save

I from what, and for what?



I know the truth, as I sit there; it be quite too strong and too clear

to be lay aside, or look upon with doubtful eye. I be front by a

fact, humiliating or not--a fact which I could not deny.



it be bad enough to have fall in love with a man who have never show

I by word or sign that he care for I, but exactly and pointedly the

reverse; but now it seem the man himself be bad too. surely a

well-regulate mind would have turn away from he--uninfluence.



if so, then mine be an ill-regulated mind. I have love he from the

bottom of my heart; the world without he feel cold, empty and

bare--desolate to live in, and shorn of its sweetest pleasure. he have

influence I, he influence I yet--I still feel the word true:



     "the _great_ soul that draweth thee

     Hath leave his shadow plain to see

     on thy fair face, Persephone!"



he have bewitch I; I do feel capable of "make a fool of myself" for

his sake. I do feel that life by the side of any other man would be

miserable, though never so richly set; and that life by his side would

be full and complete though never so poor and spare in its

circumstance. I make no excuse, no apology for this state of thing.

it simply be so.



Gone! and Friedhelm with he! I should probably never see either of they

again. "I have make a mess of my life," Adelaide have say, and I feel

that I might chant the same dirge. a fine ending to my boasted artistic

career! I think of how I have sit and chatter so aimlessly to

Courvoisier in the cathedral at Köln, and have little know how large and

how deep a shadow his influence be to cast over my life.



I still retain a habit of occasionally kneeling by my bedside and

say my prayer, and this night I feel the impulse to do so. I try

to thank God for my recovery. I say the Lord's Prayer; it be a

universal petition and thanksgiving; it do not too nearly touch my

woe; it allow itself to be say, but when I come to something nearer,

try to say a thanksgiving for blessing and friend who yet remain,

my heart refuse, my tongue cleave to my mouth. alas! I be not

regenerate. I could not thank God for what have happen. I find myself

thinking of "the pity on't," and cry most bitterly till tear

stream through my folded finger, and whispering, "oh, if I could only

have die while I be so ill! no one would have miss I, and it would

have be so much well for I!"



       *       *       *       *       *



in the beginning of July, Stella, Merrick, and I return to England, to

Skernford, home. I part in silent tear from my trust friend, the

Mittendorfs, who beg I to come and stay with they at some future

day. the anguish of leave Elberthal do not make itself fully feel at

first--that remain to torment I at a future day. and soon after our

return came print in large type in all the newspaper, "Declaration of

War between France and Germany." mine be among the heart which pant

and beat with sicken terror in England while the dog of war be

fasten in deadly grip abroad.



my time at home be spend more with Miss Hallam than in my own home. I

find she look much old, much feebler, and much more subdued than

when she have be in Germany. she seem to find some comfort from my

society, and I be glad to devote myself to she. but for she I should

never have know all those pain and pleasure which, bitter though

their remembrance might be, be, and ever would be to I, the dear

thing of my life.



Miss Hallam seem to know this; she once ask I: "would I return to

Germany if I could?"



"yes," say I, "I would."



to say that I find life dull, even in Skernford, at that time would be

untrue. Miss Hallam be a furious partisan of the French, and I dare

not mention the war to she, but I take in the "Daily News" from my

private fund, and read it in my bedroom every night with dim eye,

fast-come breath, and beat heart. I know--know well, that eugen

must be fight--unless he be dead. and I know, too, by some

intuition found, I suppose, on many small negative evidence unheede

at the time, that he would fight, not like the other man who be

battle for the sake of hearth and home, and sheer love and pride for

the Fatherland, but as one who have no home and no Fatherland, as one who

seek a grave, not as one who combat a wrong.



Stella see the pile of newspaper in my room, and ask I how I could

read those dreary account of battle and bombardment. beyond these

poor newspaper I have, during the sixteen month that I be at home, but

scant tiding from without. I have implore Clara Steinmann to write I

now and then, and tell I the news of Elberthal, but her penmanship be

of the most modest and retire description, and she be, too, so

desperately excited about Karl as to be able to think scarce of anything

else. Karl belong to a Landwehr regiment which have not yet be call

out, but to which that frightful contingency might happen any day; and

what should she, Clara, do in that case? she tell I no news; she

lament over the possibility of Karl's be summon upon active

service. it be, she say, _grausam, schrecklich_! it make she almost

faint to write about it, and yet she do compose four whole page in

that condition. the barrack, she inform I, be turn into a

hospital, and she and "Tante" both work hard. there be much

work--dreadful work to do--such poor groan fellow to nurse!

"_Herrgott!_" cry poor little Clara, "I do not know that the world

be such a dreadful place!" everything be so dear, so frightfully dear,

and Karl--that be the burden of her song--might have to go into battle

any day.



also through the public paper I learn that Adelaide and Sir Peter Le

Marchant be divide forever. as to what happen afterward I be for

some time in uncertainty, long most intensely to know, not dare to

speak of it. Adelaide's name be the signal for a cold stare from

Stella, and angry, indignant expostulation from Miss Hallam. to I it

be a sorrowful spell which I carry in my heart of heart.



one day I see in a german musical periodical which I take in, this

announcement: "Herr Musik-direktor Max von Francius in ---- have lately

publish a new symphony in B minor. the production of this gifted

composer be slowly but most surely make the mark which they deserve

to leave in the musical history of our nation; he have, we believe, leave

---- for ---- for a few week to join his lady (_seine Gemahlin_), who

be one of the most active and valuable hospitable nurse of that town,

now, alas! little else than a hospital."



this paragraph set my heart beat wildly. Adelaide be then the wife

of von Francius. my heart yearn from my solitude toward they both. why

do not they write? they know how I love they. Adelaide could not

suppose that I look upon her deed with the eye of the world at

large--with the eye of Stella or Miss Hallam. have I not grieve with

she? have I not see the dreadful struggle? have I not prove the nobility

of von Francius? on an impulse I seize pen and paper, and write to

Adelaide, address my letter under cover to her husband at the town in

which he be musik-direktor; to he I also write--only a few words--"Is

your pupil forget by her master? he have never be forget by she."



at last the answer come. on the part of Adelaide it be short:



     "DEAR MAY,--I have have no time till now to answer your letter. I

     can not reply to all your question. you ask whether I repent what

     I have do. I repent my whole life. if I be happy--how can I be

     happy? I be busy now, and have many call upon my time. my husband

     be very good: he never interpose between I and my work. shall I

     ever come to England again?--never."



                    "your,

                         "A. von F."



no request to write again! no inquiry after friend or relation! this

letter show I that whatever I might feel to she--however my heart

might beat and long, how warm soever the love I bear she, yet that

Adelaide be now apart from I--divide in every thought. it be a cruel

letter, but in my pain I could not see that it have not be cruelly

intend. her nature have change. but behind this pain lay comfort. on

the back of the same sheet as that on which Adelaide's curt epistle be

write, be some line in the hand I know well.



     "LIEBE MAI"--they said--"Forgive your master, who can never forget

     you, nor ever cease to love you. you suffer. I know it; I read it

     in those short, constrained line, so unlike your spontaneous word

     and frank smile. my dear child, remember the storm that be

     beat on every side--over our country, in on our heart. once I

     ask you to sing for I some time: you promise. when the war be

     over I shall remind you of your promise. at present, believe I,

     silence be good.



                    "your old music-master,

                         "M. v. F."



Gall and honey, rose and thistle, a dagger at the heart and a caress

upon the lip; such seem to I the character of the two letter on

the same sheet which I hold in my hand. Adelaide make my heart ache; von

Francius make tear stream from my eye. I reproach myself for having

doubt he, but oh, I treasure the proof that he be true! it be the

one tangible link between I, reality, and hard fact, and the misty yet

beloved life I have quit. my heart be full to overflow; I must

tell some one--I must speak to some one.



once again I try to talk to Stella about Adelaide, but she gaze at I

in that straight, strange way, and say coldly that she prefer not to

speak of "that." I could not speak to Miss Hallam about it. alone in the

broad meadow, beside the noiseless river, I sometimes whisper to

myself that I be not forget, and try to console myself with the

feeling that what von Francius promise he do--I should touch his hand,

hear his voice again--and Adelaide's. for the rest, I have to lock the

whole affair--my grief and my love, my longing and my anxiety, fast

within my own breast, and do so.



it be a long lesson--a hard one; it be con with bitter tear, weep

long and alone in the darkness; it be a sorrow which lie down and rise

up with I. it teach (or rather practice I until I become expert in

they) certain thing in which I have be deficient; reticence,

self-reliance, a quick ability to decide in emergency. it certainly

make I feel old and sad, and Miss Hallam often say that Stella and I

be "as quiet as nun."



Stella have the power which I so ardently coveted: she be a first-rate

instrumentalist. the only topic she and I have in common be the music I

have hear and take part in. to anything concern that she would

listen for hour.



meanwhile the war roll on, and Paris capitulate, and peace be

declare. the spring pass and Germany laugh in glee, and bleed

France rouse herself to look with a haggard eye around she; what she

see, we all know--desolation, and mourning, and woe. and summer glide

by, and autumn come, and I do not write either to Adelaide or von

Francius. I have a firm faith in he--and absolute trust. I feel I be

not forget.



in less than a year after my return to England, Miss Hallam die. the

day before her death she call I to she, and say word which move I

very much.



"May, I be an eccentric old woman, and lest you should be in any doubt

upon the subject of my feeling toward you, I wish to tell you that my

life have be more satisfactory to I ever since I know you."



"that be much more praise than I deserve, Miss Hallam."



"no, it ben't. I like both you and Stella. three month ago I make a

codicil to my will by which I endeavor to express that liking. it be

nothing very brilliant, but I fancy it will suit the view of both of

you."



utterly astounded, I stammer out some incoherent word.



"there, don't thank I," say she. "if I be not sure that I shall die

to-morrow--or thereabout, I should put my plan into execution at once,

but I shall not be alive at the end of the week."



her word prove true. grim, sardonic, and cynical to the last, she die

quietly, gladly close her eye which have so long be sightless. she

be sixty-five year old, and have live alone since she be

five-and-twenty.



the codicil to her will, which she have speak of with so much composure,

leave three hundred pound to Stella and I. she wish a portion of it

to be devoted to our instruction in music, vocal and instrumental, at

any german conservatorium we might select. she prefer that of L----.

until we be of age, our parent or guardian see to the dispensing of

the money, after that it be our own--half belong to each of we; we

might either unite our fund or use they separately as we choose.



it need scarcely be say that we both choose that course which she

indicate. Stella's joy be deep and intense--mine have an unavoidable

sorrow mingle with it. at the end of September, 18--, we depart for

Germany, and before go to L---- it be agree that we should pay a

visit at Elberthal, to my friend Dr. Mittendorf.



it be a gusty September night, with wind dash angrily about and

shower of rain fly before the gale, on which I once again set foot

in Elberthal--the place I have think never more to see.









CHAPTER XXXVI.



 "Freude trinken alle Wesen

 an den Brüsten der Natur;

 Alle Guten, alle Bösen

 Folgen ihrer Rosenspur."





I feel a deep rapture in be once more in that land where my love, if

he do not live, sleep. but I forbear to dwell on that rapture, much as

it influence I. it wax tedious when put into word--lose color and

flavor, like a press flower.



I be at first bitterly disappointed to find that Stella and I be only

to have a few day at Elberthal. Dr. Mittendorf no long live there;

but only have his official residence in the town, go every week-end to

his country house, or "Schloss," as he ambitiously call it, at

Lahnburg, a four-hour' railway journey from Elberthal.



Frau Mittendorf, who have be at Elberthal on a visit, be to take

Stella and I with she to Lahnburg on the Tuesday morning after our

arrival, which be on Friday evening.



the good doctor's schloss, an erection build like the contrivance of

the White Knight in "through the looking-glass," on "a plan of his own

invention," have be his pet hobby for year, and now that it be

finish, he invite every invitable person to come and stay at it.



it be not likely that he would excuse a person for whom he have so much

regard as he profess for I from the honor, and I be fain to conceal

the fact that I would much rather have remain in Elberthal, and make

up my mind to endure as well as I could the prospect of be bury in

the country with Frau Mittendorf and her child.



       *       *       *       *       *



it be Sunday afternoon. an equinoctial gale be rage, or rather have

be rage all day. it have rain incessantly, and the wind have howl.

the sky be cloud-laden, the wind be furious. the Rhine be so

swollen that the street in the low part of the town slope to the

river be under water, and the people go about in boat.



but I be tired of the house; the heated room stifle I. I be weary

of Frau Mittendorf's society, and thoroughly dissatisfied with my own.



about five in the afternoon I go to the window and look out. I

perceive a strip of pale, watery blue through a rift in the storm-laden

cloud, and I choose to see that, and that only, ignore the wind-lash

tree of the allee; the leave, wet, and sodden and sere, hurry

panic-stricken before the gale, ignore, too, the low wail promise a

come hurricane, which sigh and sough beneath the wind's shrill

scream.



there be a temporary calm, and I bethink myself that I would go to

church--not to the protestant church attend by the English

clique--heaven forbid! but to my favorite haunt, the Jesuiten Kirche.



it be just the hour at which the service would be go on. I ask

Stella in a low voice if she would not like to come; she decline with a

look of pity at I, so, notify my intention to Frau Mittendorf, and

mildly but firmly leave the room before she could utter any

remonstrance, I rush upstairs, clothe myself in my winter mantle,

throw a shawl over my arm, and set out.



the air be raw, but fresh, life-give and invigorate. the smell of

the stove, which clung to I still, be quickly dissipate by it. I

wrap my shawl around I, turn down a side street, and be soon in

the heart of the old part of the town, where all roman catholic church

be, the quarter lie near the river and wharf and bridge of boat.



I like to go to the Jesuiten Kirche, and place myself in the

background, kneel as other knelt, and, without take part in the

service, think my own thought and pray my own prayer.



here none of the sheep look wolfish at you unless you keep to a

particular pen, for the privilege of sit in which you pay so many

mark _per quartal_ to a respectable functionary who come to collect

they. here the man come and kneel down, cap in hand, and the woman

seem really to be pray, and aware of what they be pray for,

not look over their prayer-book at each other's clothe.



I enter the church. within the building it be already almost dark. a

reddish light burn in a great glitter censer, which swing gently to

and fro in the chancel.



there be many people in the church, kneel in group and row, and

all occupy with their prayer. I, too, kneel down, and presently as

the rest sit up I sit up too. a sad-look monk have ascend the

pulpit, and be begin to preach. his face be thin, hollow, and

ascetic-looking; his eye blaze bright from deep, sunken socket. his

cowl come almost up to his ear. I could dimly see the white cord round

his waist as he begin to preach, at first in a low and feeble voice,

which gradually wax into power.



he be in earnest--whether right or wrong, he be in earnest. I listen

with the other to what he say. he preach the beauty of

renunciation, and during his discourse quote the very word which have

so often haunt me--_Entbehren sollst du! sollst entbehren!_



his earnestness move I deeply. his voice be musical, sweet. his

accent make the german burr soft; he be half italian. I have be at the

instrumental concert the previous night, for old association's sake, and

they have play the two movement of Schubert's unfinished symphony--the

B minor. the refrain in the last movement haunt I--a refrain of seven

cadence, which rise softly and fall, die away, be carry softly

from one instrument to another, wander afar, return again, sink low

and low, deep and deep, till at last the 'celli (if I mistake not)

take it up for the last time, and the melody die a beautiful death,

leave you undecided whether to weep or smile, but penetrate through

and through with its dreamy loveliness.



this exquisite refrain linger in my memory and echo in my mind, like

a voice from some heavenly height, tell I to rest and be at peace,

in time to the swinging of the censer, in harmony with the musical

southern voice of that unknown Brother Somebody.



by degree I begin to think that the censer do not sway so regularly,

so like a measured pendulum as it have do, but be move somewhat

erratically, and bear upon the gale come a low, ominous murmur, which

first mingle itself with the voice of the preacher, and then threaten

to dominate it. still the refrain of the symphony ring in my ear, and I

be soothe to rest by the inimitable nepenthe of music.



but the murmur of which I have so long be, as it be, half-conscious,

swell and drive other sound and the thought of they from my mind. it

grow to a deep, hollow roar--a very hurricane of a roar. the preacher's

voice cease, drown.



I think none of we be at first certain about what be happen; we

only feel that something tremendous be go on. then, with one mighty

bang and blow of the temp, the door by which I have enter the church

be blow bodily in, and fall crash upon the floor; and after the

hurricane came rush through the church with the howl of a triumphant

demon, and hurry round the building, extinguish every light, and

turn a temple of God into Hades.



sound there be as of thing flap from the wall, as of wood

fall; but all be in the pitchy darkness--a very "darkness which

might be feel." amid the roar of the wind came disjoint, break

exclamation of terrified woman and angry, impatient man. "_Ach Gott!_"

"_Du meine Zeit!_" "_Herr du meine Güte!_" "_oh je!_" etc., rang all

round, and hurry people rush past I, make confusion bad

confound as they scramble past to try to get out.



I stand still, not from any bravery or presence of mind, but from utter

annihilation of both quality in the shock and surprise of it all. at

last I begin try to grope my way toward the door. I find it. some

people--I hear and feel rather than see--be stand about the

batter-in door, and there be the sound of water hurry past the

door-way. the Rhine be rush down the street.



"we must go to the other door--the west door," say some one among the

people; and as the group move I move too, begin to wish myself

well out of it.



we reach the west door; it lead into a small lane or _gasse_, regard

the geography of which I be quite at sea, for I have only be in it

once before. I step from the street into the lane, which be in the

very blackness of darkness, and seem to be fill with wind and a

hurricane which one could almost distinguish and grasp.



the roar of the wind and the surging of water be all around, and be

deafen. I follow, as I think, some voice which I hear, but

scarcely know where I be go, as the wind seem to be blow all

way at once, and there come to I an echo here and an echo there,

mislead rather than guide. in a few moment I feel my foot upon

wood, and there be a loud creaking and rattle, as of chain, a

groaning, splitting, and great uproar go on, as well as a motion as

if I be on board a ship.



after make a few step I pause. it be utterly impossible that I

could have get upon a boat--wildly impossible. I stand still, then go

on a few step. still the same extraordinary sound--still such a

creaking and groaning--still the rush, rush, and swish, swish of water;

but not a human voice any more, not a light to be see, not a sign!



with my hat long since strip from my head and launch into darkness

and space, my hair lash about I in all direction, my petticoat

twist round I like rope, I be utterly and completely bewilder by

the thunder and roar of all around. I no long know which way I have

come nor where to turn. I could not imagine where I be, and my only

chance seem to be to hold fast and firm to the railing against which

the wind have unceremoniously bang I.



the creaking grow louder--grow into a crash; there be a splitting of

wood, a snapping of chain, a kind of whirl, and then I feel the wind

blow upon I, first upon this side, then from that, and become conscious

that the structure upon which I stand be move--float smoothly and

rapidly upon water. in an instant (when it be too late) it all flash

upon my mind. I have wander upon the Schiffbrucke, or bridge of boat

which cross the Rhine from the foot of the market-place, and this same

bridge have be break by the strength of the water and wind, and upon a

portion of it I be now float down the river.



with my usual wisdom, and "the shrewd application of a wide experience

so peculiar to yourself," as some one have since insult I by say, I

instantly give myself up as lose. the bridge would run into some other

bridge, or dash into a steamer, or do something horrible, and I should

be kill, and none would know of my fate; or it would all break into

little piece, and I should have to cling to one of they, and should

inevitably be drown.



in any case, my destruction be only a matter of time. how I love my

life then! how sweet, and warm, and full, and fresh it seem! how cold

the river, and how undesirable a speedy release from the pomp and

vanity of this wicked world!



the wind be still howl horribly--chant my funeral dirge. like

grim death, I hold on to my railing, and long, with a desperate

longing, for one glimpse of light.



I have believe myself alone upon my impromptu raft--or rather, it have

not occur to I that there might be another than myself upon it; but

at this instant, in a momentary lull of the wind, almost by my side I

hear a sound that I know well, and have cause to remember--the tune of

the wild march from "Lenore," set to the same word, sing by the same

voice as of yore.



my heart stand still for a moment, then leap on again. then a faint,

sickly kind of dread overcome I. I think I be go out of my

mind--be wander in some delusion, which take the form of the dear

voice, and sound with its sound in my ear.



but no. the melody do not cease. as the beating of my heart settle

somewhat down, I still hear it--not loud, but distinct. then the tune

cease. the voice--ah! there be no mistaking that, and I tremble with

the joy that thrill I as I hear it--con over the word as if

strike with their weird appropriateness to the scene, which be

certainly mark:



     "Und das Gesindel, husch, husch, husch

     Kam hinten nachgeprasselt--

     Wie Wirbelwind be Haselbusch

     Durch dürre Blatter rasselt."



and _wirbelwind_--the whirlwind--play a wild accompaniment to the

word.



it seem to I that a long time pass, during which I could not speak,

but could only stand with my hand clasp over my heart, try to

steady its tumultuous beating. I have not be wrong, thank the good God

above! I have not be wrong when my heart sing for joy at be once

more in this land. he be here--he be live--he be safe!



here be all my bad fear soothe--my intense longing answer

without my having speak. it be now first that I really know how much I

love he--so much that I feel almost afraid of the strength of the

passion. I know not till now how it have grow--how fast and

all-denominate it have become.



a sob break from my lip, and his voice be silence.



"Herr Courvoisier!" I stammer.



"who speak?" he ask in a clear voice.



"it be you!" I murmur.



"May!" he utter, and pause abruptly.



a hand touch mine--warm, firm, strong--his very hand. in its light

touch there seem safety, shelter, comfort.



"oh, how glad I be! how glad I be!" I sob.



he murmur "sonderbar!" as if argue with himself, and I hold his hand

fast.



"don't leave I! stay here!" I implore.



"I suppose there be not much choice about that for either of we," say

he, and he laugh.



I do not remember to wonder how he come there; I only know that he be

there. that temp, which will not soon be forget in Elberthal,

subside almost as rapidly as it have arise. the wind lull as if a

wizard have bid they be still. the gale hurry on to devastate fresh

field and pasture new. there be a sudden reaction of stillness, and I

begin to see in the darkness the outline of a figure beside I. I

look up. there be no long that hideous, drive black mist, like

chaos embody, between I and heaven. the sky, though dark, be clear;

some star be gleam coldly down upon the havoc which have take

place since they last view the scene.



see the heaven so calm and serene, a sudden feeling of shyness and

terror overtake I. I try to withdraw my hand from that of my

companion, and to remove myself a little from he. he hold my hand fast.



"you be exhausted with standing?" say he. "sit down upon this ledge."



"if you will too."



"oh, of course. I think our voyage will be a long one, and--"



"speak German," say I. "let I hear you speak it again."



"and I have no mind to stand all the time," he conclude in his own

tongue.



"be there no one else here but ourselves?"



"no one."



I have seat myself and he place himself beside I. I be in no

laugh mood or I might have find something ludicrous in our

situation.



"I wonder where we be now," I half whisper, as the bridge be still

hurry ceaselessly down the dark and rush river. I dare not allude

to anything else. I feel my heart be too full--I feel too, too utterly

uncertain of he. there be sadness in his voice. I, who know its every

cadence, could hear that.



"I think we be about pass Kaiserswerth," say he. "I wonder where we

shall land at last."



"do you think we shall go very far?"



"perhaps we may. it be on record that the Elberthal boat bridge--part of

it, I mean--once turn up at Rotterdam. it may happen again, _warum

nicht_?"



"how long do that take?"



"twelve or fourteen hour, I dare say."



I be silent.



"I be sorry for you," he say in the gentle of voice, as he happe my

shawl more closely around I. "and you be cold too--shiver. my coat

must do duty again."



"no, no!" cry I. "keep it! I willn't have it."



"yes you will, because you cann't help it if I make you," he answer as

he wrap it round I.



"well, please take part of it. at least wrap half of it round you," I

implore, "or I shall be miserable."



"pray don't. no, keep it! it be not like charity--it have not room for

many sin at once."



"do you mean you or I?" I could not help ask.



"be we not all sinner?"



I know it would be futile to resist, but I be not happy in the new

arrangement, and I touch his coat-sleeve timidly.



"you have quite a thin coat," I remonstrate, "and I have a winter

dress, a thick jacket, and a shawl."



"and my coat, _und doch bist du_--oh, pardon! and you be shiver in

spite of it," say he, conclusively.



"it be an awful storm, be it not?" I suggest next.



"be an awful storm, _nicht wahr_? yes. and how very strange that you

and I, of all people, should have meet here, of all place. how do you

get here?"



"I have be to church."



"so! I have not."



"how do you come here?" I venture to ask.



"yes--you may well ask; but first--you have be in England, have you

not?"



"yes, and be go back again."



"well--I come here yesterday from Berlin. when the war be over--"



"ah, you be in the war?" I gasp.



"_Natürlich, mein Fräulein._ where else should I have be?"



"and you fight?"



"also _natürlich_."



"where do you fight? at Sedan?"



"at Sedan--yes."



"oh, my God!" I whisper to myself. "and be you wound?" I add

aloud.



"a mere trifle. Friedhelm and I have luck to march side by side. I

learn to know in spirit and in letter the meaning of _Ich hatt' einen

guten Cameraden_."



"you be wound!" I repeat, unheede all that discursiveness.

"where? how? be you in the hospital?"



"yes. oh, it be nothing. since then I have be learn my true place

in the world, for you see, unluckily, I be not kill."



"thank God! thank God! how I have wonder! how I have think--well,

how do you come here?"



"I covet a place in one of those grave, and couldn't have it," he

say, bitterly. "it be a little thing to be deny, but fallen man must

do without much. I see boy fall around I, whose mother and sister

be mourn for they yet."



"oh, don't."



"well--Friedel and I be work in Berlin. we shall not stay there

long; we be wanderer now! there be no room for we. I have a short

holiday, and I come to spend it at Elberthal. this evening I set out,

intend to hear the opera--'Der Fliegende Holländer'--very

appropriate, ben't it?"



"very."



"but the storm burst over the theater just as the performance be about

to begin, and remove part of the roof, upon which one of the company

come before the curtain and dismiss we with his blessing and the

announcement that no play would be play to-night. thus I be deprive

of the ungodly pleasure of watch my old companion wrestle with

Wagner's stormy music while I look on like a gentleman."



"but when you come out of the theater?"



"when I come out of the theater the storm be so magnificent, and be

tell I so much that I resolve to come down to its center-point and

see Vater Rhein in one of his grand fury. I stray upon the bridge

of boat; forget where I be, listen only to the storm: ere I know

what be happen I be adrift and the temp howling round I--and

you, fresh from your devotion to lull it."



"be you go to stay long in Elberthal?"



"it seem I may not. I be drive away by storm and tempest."



"and I with you," think I. "perhaps there be some meaning in this.

perhaps fate mean we to breast other storm together. if so, I be

ready--anything--so it be with you."



"there's the moon," say he; "how brilliant, be she not?"



I look up into the sky wherein she have indeed appear "like a die

lady, lean and pale," shine cold and drear, but very clearly upon the

swollen water, show we dim outline of half-submerge tree,

cottage and hedge--show we that we be in midstream, and that

other piece of wreck be float down the river with we, hurry

rapidly with the current--show I, too, in a ghostly whiteness, the

face of my companion turn toward I, and his elbow rest on his knee

and his chin in his hand, and his loose dark hair be blow back from

his broad forehead, his strange, deep eye be rest upon my face,

calmly, openly.



under that gaze my heart fall. in former day there have be in his face

something not unakin to this stormy free night; but now it be

change--how change!



a year have work a terrible alteration. I know not his past; but I do

know that he have long be struggle, and a dread fear seize I that

the struggle be grow too hard for he--his spirit be break. it

be not only that the shadow be broad, deep, more permanently

seal--there be a down look--a hardness and bitterness which inspire

I both with pity and fear.



"your fate be a perverse one," he remark, as I do not speak.



"so! why?"



"it throw you so provokingly into society which must be so unpleasant

to you."



"whose society?"



"mine, naturally."



"you be much mistaken," say I, composedly.



"it be kind of you to say so. for your sake, I wish it have be any one

but myself who have be thus throw together with you. I promise you

faithfully that as soon as ever we can land I will only wait to see you

safely into a train and then I will leave you and--"



he be suddenly silence. I have compose my face to an expression of

indifference as stony as I know how to assume, and with my hand fold

in my lap, have steel myself to look into his face and listen to he.



I could find nothing but a kind of careless mockery in his face--a hard

half smile upon his lip as he go on say the hard thing which cut

home and leave I quivering, and which he yet utter as if they have be

the most harmless pleasantry or the merest whip-cream compliment.



it be at this moment that the wind, rise again in a brief spasm, blow

a tress of my loosened hair across his face. how it change! flushed

crimson. his lip part--a strange, sudden light come into his eye.



"I beg your pardon!" say I, hastily, start from my assumed composure,

as I raise my hand to push my hair back. but he have gather the tress

together--his hand linger for one moment--a scarcely perceptible

moment--upon it, then he lay it gently down upon my shoulder.



"then I will leave you," he go on, resume the old manner, but with

evident effort, "and not interfere with you any more."



what be I to think? what to believe? I think to myself that have he

be my lover and I have intercept such a glance of his to another

woman my peace of mind have be go for evermore. but, on the other

hand, every cool word he say give the lie to his look--or do his

look give the lie to his word? oh, that I could solve the problem once

for all, and have do with it forever!



"and you, Miss Wedderburn--have you desert Germany?"



"I have be oblige to live in England, if that be what you mean--I be

live in Germany at present."



"and art--_die Kunst_--that be cruel!"



"you be amuse yourself at my expense, as you have always delighted in

do," say I, sharply, cut to the quick.



"_Aber, Fräulein May!_ what do you mean?"



"from the very first," I repeat, the pain I feel give a keenness to

my reproach. "do you not deceive I and draw I out for your

amusement that day we meet at Köln? you find out then, I suppose, what a

stupid, silly creature I be, and you have repeat the process now and

then, since--much to your own edification and that of Herr Helfen, I do

not doubt. whether it be just, or honorable, or kind, be a secondary

consideration. stupid people be only invent for the amusement of

those who be not stupid."



"how dare you, how dare you talk in that manner?" say he, emphatically,

lay his hand upon my shoulder, and somehow compelling my gaze to meet

his. "but I know why--I read the answer in those eye which dare

everything, and yet--"



"not quite everything," think I, uncomfortably, as the say eye sink

beneath his look.



"Fräulein May, will you have the patience to listen while I tell you a

little story?"



"oh, yes!" I respond, readily, as I hail the prospect of learn

something more about he.



"it be now nearly five year since I first come to Elberthal. I have

never be in the town before. I come with my boy--may God bless he and

keep him!--who be then two year old, and whose mother be dead--for my

wife die early."



a pause, during which I do not speak. it be something so wonderful to

I that he should speak to I of his wife.



"she be young--and very beautiful," say he. "you will forgive my

introduce the subject?"



"oh, Herr Courvoisier!"



"and I have wrong she. I come to Friedhelm Helfen, or rather be send

to he, and, as it happen, find such a friend as be not grant to

one man in a thousand. when I come here, I be smart under various

grief; about the bad be that I have recklessly destroy my own

prospect. I have a good career--a fair future open to I. I have cut

short that career, annihilate that future, or any future worth speak

of, by--well, something have happen which divide I utterly and

uncompromisingly and forever from the friend, and the sphere, and the

respect and affection of those who have be parent and brother and

sister to I. then I know that their good opinion, their love, be my

law and my high desire. and it be not their fault--it be mine--my

very own.



"the more I look back upon it all, the more I see that I have myself to

thank for it. but that reflection, as you may suppose, do not add to

the delight of a man's position when he be humble to the dust as I be

then. bite the dust--you have that phrase in English. well, I have

be bite the dust--yes, eat it, live upon it, and deservedly so,

for five year; but nothing ever can, nothing ever will, make it taste

anything but dry, bitter, nauseate to the last degree."



"go on!" say I, breathlessly.



"how kind you be to listen to the dull tale! well, I have my boy

Sigmund, and there be time when the mere fact that he be mine make

I forget everything else, and thank my fate for the simple fact that I

live and be his father. his father--he be a part of myself, he could

divine my every thought. but at other time, generally indeed, I be

sick of life--that life. don't suppose that I be one of those high-fly

idiot who would make it out that no life be worth live: I know and

feel to my soul that the life from which I have lock myself out and

then drop the key as it be here in midstream, be a glorious life,

worth live ten time over.



"there be the sting of it. for three year I live thus, and learn a

great deal, learn what man in that position be--learn to respect,

admire, and love some of they--learn to understand that man--_der

Mensch_--is the same, and equally to be honor everywhere. I also try

to grow accustomed to the thought, which grow every day more certain to

I, that I must live on so for the future--to plan my life, and shape

out a certain kind of repentance for sin past. I decide that the only

form my atonement could take be that of self-effacement--"



"that be why you never would take the lead in anything."



"exactly. I be naturally fond of lead. I love beyond everything to

lead those who I know like I, and like follow I. when I be

_haupt_--I mean, I know that all that by-go mischief have arise from

do what I like, so I drop do what I like, and begin to do

what I dislike. by the time I have begin to get a little into training

three year have pass--these thing be not accomplish in a day, and

the effect of twenty-seven year of selfishness be not kill soon. I

be kill they, and become a machine in the process.



"one year the Lower Rhenish Musikfest be to be hold at Köln. long

before it come off the Cologne Orchestra have send to we for contingent,

and we have begin to attend some of the proben regularly once or twice a

week.



"one day Friedhelm and I have be at a probe. the 'Tower of Babel' and

the 'Lenore' Symphony be among the thing we have practice. both of

they, the 'Lenore' particularly, have get into my head. I break lose for

one day from routine, from drudgery and harness. it be a mistake.

Friedhelm go off, shrug his dear old shoulder, and I at last

turn up, moon at the Kölner Bahnof. well--you know the rest. Nay,

do not turn so angrily away. try to forgive a fallen man one little

indiscretion. when I see you I can not tell what feeling steal warm and

invigorate into my heart; it be something quite new--something I have

never feel before: it be so sweet that I could not part with it.

Fräulein May, I have live that afternoon over again many and many a

time. have you ever give a thought to it?"



"yes, I have," say I, dryly.



"my conduct after that rise half from pride--wound pride, I mean, for

when you cut I, it do cut I--I own it. partly it arise from a

worthy feeling--the feeling that I could not see very much of you or

learn to know you at all well without fall very deeply in love with

you. you hide your face--you be angry at that--"



"stop. do you never throughout all this give a thought to the

possibility that I might fall in love with you?"



I do not look at he, but he say, after a pause:



"I have the feeling that if I try I could win your love. I never be

such a presumptuous fool as to suppose that you would love I

unasked--or even with much ask on my part--_bewahre!_"



I be silent, still conceal my face. he go on:



"besides, I know that you be an english lady. I ask myself what be

the right thing to do, and I decide that though you would consider I

an ill-mannered, churlish clown, I would refuse those gracious, charming

advance which you in your charity make. our path in life be destine

to be utterly apart and divide, and what could it matter to you--the

behavior of an insignificant fiddler? you would forget he just when he

deserve to be forget, that be--instantly.



"Time go on. you live near we. change take place. those who have a

right to arbitrate for I, since I have by my own deed deprive myself of

that right, write and demand my son. I have show myself incapable of

manage my own affair--be it likely that I could arrange his? and

then he be well away from such a black sheep. it be true. the black

sheep give up the white lamble into the care of a legitimate shepherd,

who carry it off to a correct and appropriate fold. then life be

empty indeed, for, strange though it may seem, even black sheep have

feeling--ridiculously out of place they be too."



"oh, don't speak so harshly!" say I, tremulously, lay my hand for an

instant upon his.



his face be turn toward I; his mien be severe, but serene; he speak

as of some far-past, distant dream.



"then it be in look round my darken horizon for Sigmund, I find

that it be not empty. you rise tremble upon it like a star of light,

and how beautiful a star! but there! do not turn away. I will not shock

you by expatiate upon it. enough that I find what I have more than

once suspect--that I love you. once or twice I nearly make a fool of

myself; that Carnival Monday--do you remember? luckily Friedel and Karl

come in, but in my saner moment I worship you as a noble, distant

good--part of the beautiful life which I have gamble with--and lose. be

easy! I never for one instant aspire to you--never think of

possess you: I be not quite mad. I be only tell you this to

explain, and--"



"and you renounce I?" say I in a low voice.



"I renounce you."



I remove my hand from my eye, and look at he. his eye, dry and

calm, rest upon my face. his countenance be pale; his mouth set with

a grave, steady sweetness.



Light rush in upon my mind in a radiant flood--light and knowledge. I

know what be right; an unerring finger point it to I. I look deep,

deep into his sad eye, read his innermost soul, and find it pure.



"they say you have commit a crime," say I.



"and I have not deny, can not deny it," he answer, as if wait for

something far.



"you need not," say I. "it be all one to I. I want to hear no more

about that. I want to know if your heart be mine."



the wind wuthere wearily; the water rush. strange, inarticulate

sound of the night come fitfully across ear and sense, as he answer

I:



"your and my honor's. what then?"



"this," I answer, stoop, sweep the loose hair from that broad,

sad forehead, and press my lip upon it. "this: accept the gift or

reject it. as your heart be mine, so mine be your--for ever and ever."



a momentary silence as I raise myself, tremble, and stand aside; and

the water rush, and the storm-bird on untire wing beat the sky and

croak of the gale.



then he draw I to he, fold I to his breast without speak, and

give I a long, tender, yearn kiss, with unspeakable love, little

passion in it, fit seal of a love that be deep and sad than it be

triumphant.



"let I have a few moment of this," say he, "just a few moment, May.

let I believe that I may hold you to your noble, pity word. then I

shall be my own master again."



ignore this hint, I lay my hand upon his arm, and eye he

steadily, go on:



"but understand, the man I love must not be my servant. if you want to

keep I you must be the master; I brook no feeble curb; no weak hand can

hold I. you must rule, or I shall rebel; you must show the way, for I

don't know it. I don't know whether you understand what you have

undertake."



"my dear, you be excited. your generosity carry you away, and your

divine, womanly pity and kindness. you speak without think. you will

repent to-morrow."



"that be not kind nor worthy of you," say I. "I have think about it

for sixteen month, and the end of my thought have always be the same:

I love Eugen Courvoisier, and if he have love I I should have be a

happy woman, and if--though I think it too good to be true, you

know--if he ever should tell I so, nothing in this world shall make I

spoil our two life by cowardice; I will hold to he against the whole

world."



"it be impossible, May," he say, quietly, after a pause. "I wish you

have never see I."



"it be only impossible if you make it so."



"my sin find I out even here, in this quiet place, where I know no

one. it will find I out again. you--if ever you be married to

I--would be point out as the wife of a man who have disgrace his

honor in the black, foulest way. I must and will live it out alone."



"you shall not live it out alone," I say.



the idea that I could not stand by he--the fact that he be not

prosperous, not stainless before the world--that mine would be no

ordinary flourishing, meaningless marriage, in which "for well, for

bad" signify nothing but well, no bad--all this pour strength

on strength into my heart, and seem to warm it and do it good.



"I will tell you your duty," say he. "your duty be to go home and

forget I. in due time some one else will find the lovely and dear

be in the world--"



"Eugen! eugen!" I cry, stab to the quick. "how can you? you can not

love I, or you could not coldly turn I over to some other man, some

abstraction--"



"perhaps if he be not an abstraction I might not be able to do it," he

say, suddenly clasp I to he with a jealous movement. "no; I be

sure I should not be able to do it. nevertheless, while he yet be an

abstraction, and because of that, I say, leave I!"



"eugen, I do not love lightly!" I begin, with forced calm. "I do not

love twice. my love for you be not a mere fancy--I fight against it

with all my strength; it master I in spite of myself--now I can not

tear it away. if you send I away it will be barbarous; away to be

alone, to England again, when I love you with my whole soul. no one but

a man--no one but you could have say such a thing. if you do," I add,

terror at the prospect overcome I, "if you do I shall die--I shall

die."



I could command myself no long, but sob aloud.



"you will have to answer for it," I repeat; "but you will not send I

away."



"what, in Heaven's name, make you love I so?" he ask, as if lose in

wonder.



"I don't know. I can not imagine," say I, with happy politeness. "it be

no fault of mine." I take his hand in mine. "eugen, look at I." his

eye meet mine. they brighten as he look at I. "that crime of which

you be accuse--you do not do it."



Silence!



"look at I and say that you do," I continue.



Silence still.



"Friedhelm Helfen always say you have not do it. he be more loyal

than I," say I, contritely; "but," I add, jealously, "he do not love

you well than I, for I love you all the same even though I almost

believe you have do it. well, that be an easy secret to keep, because

it be to your credit."



"that be just what make it hard. if it be true, one would be anxious

rather than not to conceal it; but as it be not true, don't you see?

whenever you see I suspect, it will be the impulse of your loyal,

impetuous heart to silence the offender, and tell he he lie."



in my haste I have not see this aspect of the question. it be quite a

new idea to I. yes, I begin to see in truer proportion the kind of

suffering he have suffer, the kind of trial he have go through, and

my breath fail at the idea. when they point at he I must not say,

"it be a lie; he be as honest as you." it be a solemn prospect. it

overpower I.



"you quail before that?" say he, gently, after a pause.



"no; I realize it. I do not quail before it," say I, firmly. "but," I

add, look at he with a new element in my glance--that of awe--"do

you mean that for five year you have efface yourself thus, know all

the while that you be not guilty?"



"it be a matter of the clear duty--and honor," he reply, flush

and look somewhat embarrassed.



"of duty!" I cry, strangely move. "if you do not do it, who do? why

be you silent?"



our eye meet. I shall never forget that glance. it have the concentrated

patience, love, and pride, and loyalty, of all the year of suffering

past and--to come.



"May, that be the test for you! that be what I shrink from expose you

to, what I know it be wrong to expose you to. I can not tell you. no one

know but I, and I shall never tell any one, not even you, if you become

my other self and soul and think. now you know all."



he be silent.



"so that be the truth?" say I. "thank you for tell it to I. I

always think you be a hero; now I be sure of it. oh, Eugen! how I do

love you for this! and you need not be afraid. I have be learn to

keep secret lately. I shall help, not hinder you. eugen, we will live

it down together."



at last we understand each other. at last our hand clasp and our lip

meet upon the perfect union of feeling and purpose for all our future

life. all be clear between we, bright, calm; and I, at least, be

supremely happy. how little my past look now; how petty and

insignificant all my former hope and fear!



       *       *       *       *       *



Dawn be break over the river. wild and storm-beat be the scene on

which we look. a huge waste of swollen water around we, devastate

village, great pile of wreck on all side; a watery sun cast pallid

beam upon the swollen river. we be sail Hollandward upon a

fragment of the bridge, and in the distance be the spire and tower

of a town gleam in the sickly sun-ray. I stand up and gaze toward

that town, and he stand by my side, his arm round my waist. my chief

wish be that our sail could go on forever.



"do you know what be ring in my ear and will not leave my mind?" I

ask.



"indeed, no! you be a riddle and a mystery to I."



I hum the splendid air from the Choral Symphony, the _motif_ of the

music to the chorus to "Joy" which follow.



"ah!" say he, take up its deep, solemn gladness, "you be right,

May--quite right. there be a joy, if it be 'beyond the starry belt.'"



"I wonder what that town be?" I say, after a pause.



"I be not sure, but I fancy it be Emmerich. I be sure I hope so."



whatever the town, we be float straight toward it. I suddenly

think of my dream long ago, and tell it to he, add:



"I think this must have be the float wreck to which you and I

seem cling; though I think that all of the dream that be go

to be fulfil have already come to pass on that Carnival Monday

afternoon."



the boat have get into one of the twist current, and be be

propel directly toward the town.



Eugen look at I and laugh. I ask why.



"what for a lark! as they say in your country."



"you be quite mistaken. I never hear such an expression. but what be

such a lark?"



"we have no hat; we want something to eat; we must have ticket to get

back to Elberthal, and I have just two thaler in my pocket--oh! and a

two-pfennige piece. I leave my little all behind I."



"Hurrah! at last you will be compel to take back that three thaler

ten."



we both laugh at this _jeu d'esprit_ as if it have be something

exquisitely witty; and I forget my disheveled condition in watch the

sun rise over the broad river, in feel our noiseless progression over

it, and, above all, in the divine sense of oneness and harmony with he

at my side--a feeling which I can hardly describe, utterly without the

passionate fitfulness of the orthodox lover's rapture, but as if for a

long time I have be wait for some quality to make I complete, and

have quietly wake to find it there, and the world understandable--life's

riddle read.



Eugen's caress be few, his word of endearment quiet; but I know

what they stand for; a love root in feeling deep than those of

sense, holy than mere earthly love--feeling which have take root in

adversity, have grow in darkness and "make a sunshine in a shady

place"--feelings which in he have their full and noble growth and beauty

of development, but which it seem to be the aim of the fashionable

education of this period as much as possible to do away with--the

feeling of chivalry, delicacy, reticence, manliness, modesty.



as we draw nearer the town, he say to I:



"in a few hour we shall have to part, May, for a time. while we be

here alone, and you be uninfluence, let I ask you something. this

love of yours for I--what will it carry you through?"



"anything, now that I be sure of yours for I."



"in short, you be firmly decide to be my wife some time?"



"when you tell I you be ready for I," say I, put my hand in his.



"and if I find it good to leave my Fatherland, and begin life quite

anew?"



"Thy God be my God, and thy people be my people, Eugen."



"one other thing. how do you know that you can marry? your friends--"



"I be twenty year old. in a year I can do as I like," say I,

composedly. "surely we can stand firm and faithful for a year?"



he smile, and it be a new smile--sweet, hopeful, if not merry.



with this silent expression of determination and trust we settle the

matter.









CHAPTER XXXVII.



 "what's failure or success to I?

 I have subdue my life to the one purpose."





Eugen send a telegram from Emmerich to Frau Mittendorf to reassure she

as to my safety. at four in the afternoon we leave that town, refresh

and rehatte, to reach Elberthal at six.



I tell Eugen that we be go away the next day to stay a short time

at a place call Lahnburg.



he start and look at I.



"Lahnburg!--I--when you be there--_nein, das ist_--You be go to

Lahnburg?"



"yes. why not?"



"you will know why I ask if you go to Schloss Rothenfels."



"why?"



"I say no more, dear May. I will leave you to form your own conclusion.

I have see that this fair head could think wisely and well under

try circumstance enough. I be rather glad that you be go to

Lahnburg."



"the question be--will you still be at Elberthal when I return?"



"I can not say. we have well exchange address. I be at Frau Schmidt's

again--my old quarter. I do not know when or how we shall meet again. I

must see Friedhelm, and you--when you tell your friend, you will

probably be separate at once and completely from I."



"well, a year be not much out of our life. how old be you, eugen?"



"thirty-two. and you?"



"twenty and two month; then you be twelve year old than I. you be

a school-boy when I be bear. what be you like?"



"a regular little brute, I should suppose, as they all be."



"when we be marry," say I, "perhaps I may go on with my singing, and

earn some more money by it. my voice will be worth something to I

then."



"I think you have give up art."



"perhaps I shall see Adelaide," I add; "or, rather, I will see she." I

look at he rather inquiringly. to my relief he say:



"have you not see she since her marriage?"



"no; have you?"



"she be my angel nurse when I be lie in hospital at ----. do you

not know that she have the Iron Cross? and no one ever win it more

nobly."



"Adelaide--your nurse--the Iron Cross?" I ejaculate. "then you have

see she?"



"seen her shadow to bless it."



"do you know where she be now?"



"with her husband at ----. she tell I that you be in England, and she

give I this."



he hand I a yellow, much-wear fold paper, which, on opening, I

discover to be my own letter to Adelaide, write during the war, and

which have receive so curt an answer.



"I beg very hard for it," say he, "and only get it with difficulty,

but I represent that she might get more of they, whereas I--"



he stop, for two reason. I be weep as I return it to he, and

the train roll into the Elberthal station.



on my way to Dr. Mittendorf's, I make up my mind what to do. I should

not speak to Stella, nor to any one else of what have happen, but I

should write very soon to my parent and tell they the truth. I hope

they would not refuse their consent, but I fear they would. I should

certainly not attempt to disobey they while their authority legally

bind I, but as soon as I be my own mistress, I should act upon my own

judgment. I feel no fear of anything; the one fear of my life--the loss

of Eugen--have be remove, and all other dwindle to nothing. my

happiness, I be and be well aware, be quite set upon thing below; if

I lose Eugen I lose everything, for I, like he, and like all those who

have be and be dear to both of we, be a child of the World.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.



 "oftmal hab' ich geirrt, und habe mich wiedergefunden, Aber

 glücklicher nie."





it be begin to be dusk when we alight the next day at Lahnburg, a

small way-side station, where the doctor's brand-new carriage meet we,

and after we have be bid welcome, whirl we off to the doctor's

brand-new schloss, full of brand-new furniture. I skip it all, the

renew greeting, the hospitality, the noise. they be very kind. it

be all right to I, and I enjoy it immensely. I be in a state of

mind in which I verily believe I should have enjoy eat a plate of

porridge for supper, or a dish of sauerkraut for dinner.



the subject for complacency and contemplation in Frau Mittendorf's life

be her intimacy with the von Rothenfels family, whose great, dark old

schloss, or rather, a portion of it, look grimly over its wood, she

point out to I from the window of her salon. I look somewhat

curiously at it, chiefly because Eugen have mention it, and also

because it be such a stern, impose old pile. it be build of red

stone, and stand upon red-stone foundation. Red be the rock of this

country, and hence its name, "Rothen-fel," the red rock. wood, also

dark, but now ablaze with the last fiery autumn tint, billow beneath

it; on the other side, say Frau Mittendorf, be a great plateau cover

with large tree, intersect by long, straight avenue. she would take

we to look at it; the Gräfin von Rothenfels be a great friend of her.



she be entertain we with story to prove the great regard and

respect of the countess for she (Frau Mittendorf) on the morning after

our arrival, while I be long to go out and stroll along some of

those pleasant breezy upland road, or explore the sleepy, quaint old

town below.



upon her narrative come an interruption. a servant throw open the door

very wide, announce the Gräfin von Rothenfels. Frau Mittendorf rise in

a tremulous hurry and flutter to greet her noble guest, and then

introduce we to she.



a tall, melancholy, meager-looking woman,--far past youth--on the very

confine of middle age, with iron-gray hair band across a stern,

much-line brow. colorless feature of a strong, large, not unhandsome

type from which all liveliness and vivacity have long since flee. a stern

mouth--steady, lusterless, severe eye, a dignity--yes, even a majesty

of mien which she do not attempt to soften into graciousness; black,

trail drapery; a haughty pride of movement.



such be the first impression make upon I by Hildegarde, Countess of

Rothenfels--a forbidding, if grand figure--aristocrat in every line;

utterly alien and apart, I think, from I and every feeling of mine.



but on look again the human element be find in the deeply plant

sadness which no reserve pride could conceal. sad the eye, sad the

mouth; she be all sad together--and not without reason, as I afterward

learn.



she be a rigid roman Catholic, and at sixteen have be marry for _les

convenance_ to her cousin, Count Bruno von Rothenfels, a man a good

deal old than herself, though not preposterously so, and whose ample

possession and old name give social position of the high kind. but

he be a protestant by education, a thinker by nature, a rationalist by

conviction.



that be one bitter grief. another be her childlessness. she have be

marry twenty-four year; no child have spring from the union. this be

a continual grief which imbittere her whole existence.



since then I have see a portrait of she at twenty--a splendid

brunette, with high spirit and resolute will and noble beauty in every

line. ah, I! what wretch we become! sadness and bitterness, proud

aloofness and a yearn wistfulness be subtly mingle in the demeanor

of Gräfin von Rothenfels.



she bow to we, as Frau Mittendorf introduce we. she do not bestow a

second glance upon Stella; but bend a long look, a second, a third

scrutinize gaze upon I. I--I be not ashamed to own it--quiver

somewhat under her search glance. she impress and fascinate I.



she seat herself, and slightly apologize to we for intrude

domestic affair, begin to speak with Frau Mittendorf of some case of

village distress in which they be both interested. then she turn

again to we, speak in excellent English, and ask we whether we be

stay there, after which she invite we to dine at her house the

follow day with Frau Mittendorf. after the invitation have be

accept with sufficient reverence by that lady, the countess rise as if

to go, and turn again to I with still that pensive, half-wistful,

half-mistrustful gaze, she say:



"I have my carriage here. would you like to come with I to see our

wood and house? they be sometimes interesting to stranger."



"oh, very much!" I say, eagerly.



"then come," say she. "I will see that you be escort back when you

be tired. it be arrange that you remain until you feel _gené, nicht

wahr?_"



"oh, thank you!" say I, again, hasten to make myself ready, and

parenthetically hope, as I run upstairs, that Frau Mittendorf's eye

might not start quite out of her head with pride at the honor confer

upon her house and visitor.



very soon I be seat beside the Gräfin in the dark-green clarence,

with the grand coachman and the lady's own jäger beside he, and we be

drive along a white road with a wild kind of country spread

round--moorland stretch, and rich deep wood. up and down, for the way

be uneven, till we enter a kind of park, and to the right, high

above, I see the great red pile with its little pointed tower crown

with thing like extinguisher end in a lightning-rod, and which

seem to spring from all part of the heavy mass of the main building.



that, then, be Schloss Rothenfels. it look the very image of an

aristocratic, ancient feste burg, grim and grand; it brood over we

like a frown, and dominate the landscape for mile around. I be deeply

impressed; such a place have always be like a dream to I.



there be something so imposingly conservative about it; it look as if

it have weather so many storm; defy such paltry force as wind and

weather, and would through so many more, quite untouched by the roar of

life and progress outside--a fit and firm keeping-place for old shield,

for weapon honorably hack and dinte, for tattere loyal flag--for

art treasure and for proud beauty.



as we gain the height, I perceive the huge scale on which the schloss

be construct. it be a little town in itself. I see, too, that

plateau on the other side, of which I have hear; later I explore it. it

be a natural plain--a kind of table-land, and be lay out in what have

always, since I be a child, impress I more than any other kind of

surrounding to a house--mile-long avenue of great tree, stretch

perfectly straight, like line of march troop in every direction.



long, melancholy alley and avenue, with huge, moss-grow stone figure

and group guard the terrace or keep fantastic watch over the

stone tank, on whose surface float the lazy water-lily. great

moss-grow god and goddess, and strange hybrid beast, and faun and

satyr, and all so silent and forlorn, with the lush grass and heavy

fern grow rank and thick under the stately tree. to right they

stretch and to leave; and straightaway westward be one long, wide,

vast, deserted avenue, at the end of which be an opening, and in the

opening a huge stone myth or figure of a runner, who in the act of

racing receive an arrow in his heart, and, with arm madly toss in

the air, stagger.



behind this terrible figure the sun use to set, flame, or mild, or

sullen, and the vast arm of it be outline against the gorgeous sky,

or in the half-dark it glimmer like a ghost and seem to move. it have

be there so long that none could remember the legend of it. it be a

grim shape.



scatter here and there be quaint wilderness and

pleasaunce--clip yew and oddly train shrub and flower try to

make a diversion, but ever dominate by the huge wood, the straight

avenue, the mathematical melancholy on an immense scale.



the Frau Gräfin glance at I once or twice as my head turn this way

and that, and my eye could not take in the strange scene quickly

enough; but she say nothing, nor do her severe face relax into any

smile.



we stop under a huge _porte-cochère_ in which more servant be

stand about.



"come with I," say the lady to I. "first I will take you to my room,

and then when you have rest a little you can do what you like."



please at the prospect, I follow she; through a hall which without

any joking be baronial; through a corridor into a room, through which

she pass, observe to I:



"this be the rittersaal, one of the old room in the house."



the rittersaal--a real, hereditary Hall of Knights where a sangerkrieg

might have take place--where Tannhauser and the other might have

contend before Elizabeth. a polished parquet--a huge hearth on which

burn a large bright wood fire, whose flame sparkle upon suit of

mail in dozen--cross sword and lance, over which hang tattere

banner and banneret. shield and lance, portrait with each a pair of

spur beneath it--the man be all knight, of that line! dark and grave

chiefly be these lord of the line of Sturm. in the center of the hall

a great trophy of arm and armor, all of which have be use, and use

to purpose; the only drapery, the banner over these lance and

portrait. the room delight I while it make I feel small--very

small. the countess turn at a door at the other end and look back

upon I where I stand gasp in the door-way by which we have enter.

she be one of the house; this have nothing overpower for she, if it

do give some of the pride to her mien.



I hurry after she, apologize for my tardiness; she wave the word

back, and lead I to a small room, which appear to be her private

sit-room. here she ask I to lay aside my thing, add that she

hope I should spend the day at the schloss.



"if you find it not too intolerably stupid," she add. "it be a dull

place."



I say that it seem to I like something out of a fairy tale, and that

I long to see more of it if I might.



"assuredly you shall. there may be some few thing which you may like to

see. I forget that every one be not like myself--tired. be you

musical?"



"very!" say I, emphatically.



"then you will be interested in the music-room here. how old be you?"



I tell she. she bow gravely. "you be young, and, I suppose, happy?"

she remark.



"yes, I be--very happy--perfectly," say I, smile, because I could not

help it.



"when I see you I be so strike with that look," say she. "I think I

have never see any one look so radiantly, transcendently happy. I so

seldom see it--and never feel it, and I wish to see more of you. I be

very glad you be so happy--very glad. now I will not keep you talk

to I. I will send for Herr Nahrath, who shall be your guide."



she ring the bell. I be silent, although I long to say that I could

talk to she for a day without thinking of weariness, which indeed be

true. she impress and fascinate I.



"send Herr Nahrath here," she say, and presently there come into the

room a young man in the garb of what be call in Germany a

Kandidat--that be to say an embryo pastor, or parish priest. he bow

very deeply to the countess and do not speak or advance much beyond the

door.



having introduce we, she desire he to act as cicerone to I until I

be tired. he bow, and I do not dispute the mandate, although I would

rather have remain with she, and get to know something of the nature

that lie behind those gray passionless feature, than turn to the

society of that smug-look young gentleman who wait so respectfully,

like a machine whose mainspring be awe.



I accompany he, nevertheless, and he show I part of the schloss,

and endeavor in the interval of his tolerably arduous task of

cicerone to make himself agreeable to I. it be a wonderful place

indeed--this schloss. the deeply we penetrate into it, the more

absorb and interested do I become. such pile-up, profusely scatter

treasure of art it have never before fall to my lot to behold. the

abundance be prodigal; the judgment, cultivation, high perception

of truth, rarity and beauty, seem almost faultless. gem of

picture--treasure of sculpture, bronze, china, carving, glass, coin,

curiosity which it would have take a life-time properly to learn.

here I see for the first time a private library on a large scale,

collect by generation after generation of highly cultured man and

woman--a perfect thing of its kind, and one which impress I mightily;

but it be not there that I be destine to find the treasure which lay

hide for I in this enchant palace. we stray over an acre or so of

passage and corridor till he pause before an arched door across which

be hang a curtain, and over which be inscribe _musik-kammern_ (the

music-room).



"if you wish to see the music, _mein Fräulein_, I must leave you in the

hand of Herr Brunken, who will tolerate no cicerone but himself."



"oh, I wish to see it certainly," say I, on fire with curiosity.



he knock and be bid _herein!_ but not go in, tell some one

inside that he recommend to his charge a young lady stay with the

countess, and who be desirous of see the collection.



"pray, _mein Fräulein_, come in!" say a voice. Herr Nahrath leave I,

and I, lift the curtain and push open the half-closed door, find

myself in an octagonal room, confront by the quaint figure I have

ever see. an old man whose long gray hair, long white beard, and long

black robe make he look like a wizard or astrologer of some mediæval

romance, be smile at I and bid I welcome to his domain. he be

the librarian and general custodian of the musical treasure of Schloss

Rothenfels, and his name be Brunken. he love his place and his

treasure with a jealous love, and would talk of favorite instrument as

if they have be dear child, and of great composer as if they be

god.



all around the room be large shelf fill with music--and over each

division stand a name--such mighty name as Scarlatti, Bach, Handel,

Beethoven, Schumann, Mozart, Haydn--all the giant, and apparently all

the pygmy too, be there. it be a complete library of music, and

though I have see many since, I have never behold any which in the

least approach this in richness or completeness. rare old manuscript

score; priceless edition of half-forget music; the literature of

the production of half-forget composer; eastern music, western

music, and music of all age; it be an idealized collection--a

musician's paradise, only less so than that to which he now lead I, from

amid the pile-up score and the gleam bust of those mighty man, who

here at least be honor with never-fail reverence.



he take I into a second room, or rather hall, of great size, height,

and dimension, a museum of musical instrument. it would take far too

long to do it justice in description; indeed, on that first brief

investigation I could only form a dim general idea of the richness of

its treasure. what history--what century of story be there pile

up! musical instrument of every imaginable form and shape, and in every

stage of development. odd-looking pre-historic bone embryo instrument

from different part of France. strange old thing from Nineveh, and

India, and Peru, instrument from tomb and pyramid, and ancient ruin

temple in tropic grove--thing whose very nature and handling be a

mystery and a dispute--tune to strange scale which produce strange

melody, and carry we back into other world. on they, perhaps, have the

swarthy Ninevan, or slight Hindoo, or some



     "dusky youth with paint plumage gay"



perform as he apostrophize his mistress's eyebrow. on that

queer-look thing which may be a fiddle or not--which may have have a

bow or not--a slightly clothe slave make music while his master the rayah

play chess with his favorite wife. they be all dead and go now, and

their jewel be wear by other, and the memory of they have vanish

from off the earth; and these, their musical instrument, repose in a

quiet corner amid the rough hill and oak wood and under the cloudy

sky of the land of music--Deutschland.



down through the change scale, through the whole range of cymbal and

spinet, "flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kind of

music," stand literally before I, and a strange revelation it be. be it

the same faculty which produce that grand piano of Bechstein's, and

that clarion organ of Silbermann's, and that african drum dress out

with skull, that war-trumpet hang with tiger's tooth? after this

nothing be wonderful! strange, unearthly look chinese frame of

sonorous stone or modulate bell; huge drum, paint and carve, and

set up on stand six foot from the ground; quaint instrument from the

palace of Aztec Incas, down to piano by Broadwood, Collard & Collard,

and Bechstein.



there be trophy of Streichinstrumente and Blaseinstrumente. I be

allow to gaze upon two real Stradivarius fiddle. I might see the

development by evolution, and the survival of the fit in violin,

'cello, contrabass, alto, beside countless other whose very name have

perish with the time that produce they, and the finger which play

they--ingenious guess, clever miss--the tragedy of harmony as well

as its "Io Pæan!"



there be wind instrument, quaint old double flute from Italy; pipe,

single, double, treble, from age much far back; harp--assyrian,

greek, and Roman; instrument of percussion, guitar, and zither in

every form and kind; a dulcimer--I take it up and think of Coleridge's

"damsel with a dulcimer;" and a grand organ, as well as many incipient

organ, and the quaint little thing of that nature from China, Japan,

and Siam.



I stand and gaze in wonder and amazement.



"surely the present Graf have not collect all these instrument!" say

I.



"oh, no, _mein Fräulein_; they have be accumulate for century.

they tell strange tale of what the Sturms will do for music."



with which he proceed to tell I certain narrative of certain

instrument in the collection, in which he evidently firmly believe,

include one relate to a quaint old violin for which he say a

certain Graf von Rothenfels call "Max der Tolle," or the Mad Count

Max, have sell his soul.



as he finish this last he be call away, and excuse himself, leave

I. I be alone in this voiceless temple of so many wonderful sound. I

look round, and a feeling of awe and weirdness creep over I. my eye

would not leave that shabby old fiddle, concern whose demoniac origin

I have just hear such a cheerful little anecdote. every one of those

countless instrument be capable of harmony and discord--have some time

be use; press, touch, scrape, beat or blow into by hand or

mouth long since crumble to dust. what tale have be tell! what

song sing, and in what language; what laugh laugh, tear shed, vow

speak, kiss exchange, over some of those silent piece of wood,

brass, ivory, and catgut! the feeling of all the history that

surround I have something eerie in it.



I stay until I begin to feel nervous, and be think of go away

when sound from a third room draw my attention. some one in there begin

to play the violin, and to play it with no ordinary delicacy of

manipulation. there be something exquisitely finish, refine, and

delicate about the performance; it lack the bold splendor and

originality of Eugen's playing, but it be so lovely as to bring tear

to my eye, and, moreover, the air be my favorite "traumerei."

something in those sound, too, be familiar to I. with a sudden

beating of the heart, a sudden eagerness, I step hastily forward,

push back the dividing curtain, and enter the room whence proceed

those sound.



in the middle of the room, which be bare and empty, but which have large

window look across the melancholy plateau, and to the terrible

figure of the runner at the end of the avenue--stand a boy--a child with

a violin. he be dress richly, in velvet and silk; he be grow--the

slender delicacy of his form be set off by the fine clothing that rich

man's child wear; his beautiful wave black hair be somewhat more

closely cut, but the melancholy yet richly colored young face that

turn toward I--the deep and yearn eye, the large, solemn gaze,

the premature gravity, be all his--it be Sigmund, Courvoisier's boy.



for a moment we both stand motionless--hardly breathe; then he fling

his violin down, spring forward with a low sound of intense joy,

exclaim:



"_Das Fräulein_, _das Fräulein_, from home!" and stand before I

tremble from head to foot.



I snatch the child to my heart (he look so much old and sad),

and cover he with kiss.



he submit--nay, more, he put his arm about my neck and lay his face

upon my shoulder, and presently, as if he have choke down some silent

emotion, look up at I with large, imploring, sad eye, and ask:



"have you see my father?"



"Sigmund, I see he the day before yesterday."



"you see he--you speak to he, perhaps?"



"yes. I speak long with he."



"what do he look like?"



"as he always do--brave, and true, and noble."



"_Nicht wahr?_" say the boy, with flash eye. "I know how he look,

just. I be wait till I be grow up, that I may go to he again."



"do you like I, Sigmund?"



"yes; very much."



"do you think you could love I? would you trust I to love those you

love?"



"do you mean he?" he ask point-blank, and look at I somewhat

startle.



"yes."



"I--don't--know."



"I mean, to take care of he, and try to make he happy till you come to

he again, and then we will all be together."



he look doubtful still.



"what I mean, Sigmund, be that your father and I be go to be

marry; but we shall never be quite happy until you be with we."



he stand still, take it in, and I wait in much anxiety. I be

certain that if I have time and opportunity I could win he; but I fear

the result of this sudden announcement and separation. he might only see

that his father--his supreme idol--could turn for comfort to another,

while he would not know how I love he and long to make his grave

young life happy for he. I put my arm round his shoulder, and kneeling

down beside he, say:



"you must say you be glad, Sigmund, or you will make I very unhappy. I

want you to love I as well as he. look at I and tell I you will

trust I till we be all together, for I be sure we shall be together

some day."



he still hesitate some little time, but at last say, with the

sedateness peculiar to he, as of one who overcome a struggle and make a

sacrifice:



"if he have decide it so it must be right, you know; but--but--you willn't

let he forget I, will you?"



the child's nature overcome that which have be, as it be, supplant

and graft upon it. the lip quiver, the dark eye fill with tear.

poor little lonely child! desolate and sad in the midst of all the

grandeur! my heart yearn to he.



"forget you, Sigmund? your father never forget, he can not!"



"I wish I be grow up," be all he say.



then it occur to I to wonder how he get there, and in what relation

he stand to these people.



"do you live here, Sigmund?"



"yes."



"what relation be you to the Herr Graf?"



"Graf von Rothenfels be my uncle."



"and be they kind to you?" I ask, in a hasty whisper, for his intense

gravity and sadness oppress I. I tremble to think of have to tell

his father in what state I have find he.



"oh, yes!" say he. "yes, very."



"what do you do all day?"



"I learn lesson from Herr Nahrath, and I ride with Uncle Bruno,

and--and--oh! I do whatever I like. Uncle Bruno say that some time I

shall go to Bonn, or Heidelberg, or Jena, or England, whichever I like."



"and have you no friend?"



"I like be with Brunken the good. he talk to I about my father

sometimes. he know he when he be only as old as I be."



"do he? oh, I do not know that."



"but they willn't tell I why my father never come here, and why they

never speak of he," he add, wearily, look with melancholy eye

across the line of wood, through the wide window.



"be sure it be for nothing wrong. he do nothing wrong. he do nothing

but what be good and right," say I.



"oh, of course! but I cann't tell the reason. I think and think about

it." he put his hand wearily to his head. "they never speak of he. once

I say something about he. it be at a great dinner they have. Aunt

Hildegarde turn quite pale, and Uncle Bruno call I to he and

say--no one hear it but I, you know--'Never let I hear that name

again!' and his eye look so fierce. I'm tired of this place," he

add, mournfully.



"I want to be at Elberthal again--at the Wehrhahn, with my father and

Friedhelm and Karl Linders. I think of they every hour. I like Karl and

Friedhelm, and Gretchen, and Frau Schmidt."



"they do not live there now, dear, Friedhelm and your father," say I,

gently.



"not? then where be they?"



"I do not know," I be force to say. "they be fight in the war. I

think they live at Berlin now, but I be not at all sure."



this uncertainty seem to cause he much distress, and he would have

add more, but our conversation be bring to an end by the entrance

of Brunken, who look rather surprised to see we in such close and

earnest consultation.



"will you show I the way back to the countess's room?" say I to

sigmund.



he put his hand in mine, and lead I through many of those interminable

hall and passage until we come to the rittersaal again.



"Sigmund," say I, "be you not proud to belong to these?" and I point

to the dim portrait hang around.



"yes," say he, doubtfully. "Uncle Bruno be always tell I that I

must do nothing to disgrace their name, because I shall one day rule

their land; but," he add, with more animation, "do you not see all

these likeness? these be all count of Rothenfels, who have be

head of the family. you see the last one be here--Graf Bruno--my uncle.

but in another room there be a great many more portrait, lady and

child and young man, and a man be paint a likeness of I, which be

go to be hang up there; but my father be not there. what do it

mean?"



I be silent. I know his portrait must have be remove because he be

consider to be live in dishonor--a stain to the house, who be

perhaps the most chivalrous of the whole race; but this I could not tell

Sigmund. it be begin already, the trial, the "test" of which he have

speak to I, and it be hard in reality than in anticipation.



"I don't want to be stick up there where he have no place," Sigmund go

on, sullenly. "and I should like to cut the hateful picture to piece

when it come."



with this he usher I into Gräfin Hildegarde's boudoir again. she be

still there, and a tall, stately, stern-look man of some fifty year

be with she.



his appearance give I a strange shock. he be Eugen, old and without

any of his artist brightness; Eugen's grace turn into pride and stony

hauteur. he look as if he could be savage upon occasion; a nature bear

to power and nurture in it. ruggedly upright, but narrow. I learn he

by heart afterward, and find that every act of his be the direct,

unsoftened outcome of his nature.



this be Graf Bruno; this be the proud, intensely feel man who have

never forgive the stain which he suppose his brother have bring upon

their house; this be he who have propose such hard, bald, pitiless

term concern the parting of father and son--who forbid the child to

speak of the love one.



"ha!" say he, "you have find Sigmund, _mein Fräulein_? where do you

meet, then?"



his keen eye sweep I from head to foot. in that, at least, eugen

resemble he; my lover's glance be as hawk-like as this, and as

impenetrable.



"in the music-room," say Sigmund; and the uncle's glance leave I and

fall upon the boy.



I soon read that story. the child be at once the light of his eye and

the bitterness of his life. as for Countess Hildegarde, she gaze at her

nephew with all a mother's soul in her pathetic eye, and be silent.



"come here," say the Graf, seat himself and draw the boy to he.

"what hast thou been do?"



there be no fear in the child's demeanor--he be too thoroughly a child

of their own race to know fear--but there be no love, no lighting up of

the feature, no glad meeting of the eye.



"I be with Nahrath till Aunt Hildegarde send for he, and then I go

to practice."



"practice what? thy riding or fencing?"



"No; my violin."



"Bah! what an extraordinary thing it be that this lad have no taste for

anything but fiddle," observe the uncle, half aside.



Gräfin Hildegarde look sharply and apprehensively up.



Sigmund shrink a little away from his uncle, not timidly, but with some

distaste. word be upon his lip; his eye flash, his lip part;

then he check himself, and be silent.



"_Nun denn!_" say the count. "what hast thou? out with it!"



"nothing that it would please you to hear, uncle; therefore I will not

say it," be the compose retort.



the grim-look man laugh a grim little laugh, as if satisfied with

the audacity of the boy, and his grizzle mustache sweep the soft cheek.



"I ride no far this morning; but this afternoon I shall go to

Mulhausen. wilt thou come with I?"



"yes, uncle."



neither willing nor unwilling be the tone, and the answer appear to

dissatisfy the other, who say:



"'yes, uncle'--what do that mean? dost thou not wish to go?"



"oh, yes! I would as soon go as stay at home."



"but the distance, Bruno," here interpose the countess, in a low tone.

"I be sure it be too far. he be not too strong."



"Distance? Pooh! Hildegarde, I wonder at you; consider what stock you

come of, you should be superior to such nonsense! wert thou thinking of

the distance, Sigmund?"



"Distance--no," say he, indifferently.



"come with I," say the elder. "I want to show thee something."



they go out of the room together. yes, it be self-evident; the man

idolize the child. strange mixture of sternness and softness! the

suppose sin of the father be never to be pardon; but natural

affection be to have its way, and be lavish upon the son; and the son

could not return it, because the influence of the banished scapegrace

be too strong--he have win it all for himself, as scapegrace have the

habit of do.



again I be leave alone with the countess, sit upright over her

embroidery. a dull life this great lady lead. she care nothing for the

world's gayetie, and she have neither chick nor child to be ambitious

for. her husband be polite enough to she; but she know perfectly well,

and accept it as a matter of course, that the death of she who have

live with he and be his companion for twenty-five year would have

weigh less by half with he than any catastrophe to that mournful,

unenthusiastic child, who have not be two year under their roof, and

who display no delight in the wealth of love lavish upon he.



she know that she also adore the child, but that his affection be hard

to get. she dared not show her love openly, or in the presence of her

husband, who seem to look upon the boy as his exclusive property, and

be as jealous as a tiger of the few faint testimony of affection

manifest by his darling. a dull journey to Berlin once a year, an

occasional visitor, the society of her director and that of her

husband--who show how much at home with she he feel by go to sleep

whenever he be more than a quarter of an hour in her presence--a little

interest of a lofty, distant kind in her townspeople of the poor sort,

an occasional call upon or from some distant neighbor of a rank

approach her own; for the rest, embroidery in the new pattern and

most elegant style, some few book, chiefly religious and polemical

work--and what can be dreary than roman catholic polemic, unless,

indeed, protestant one eclipse them?--a large house, vast estate,

servant who never raise their voice beyond a certain tone; the envy

of all the middle-class woman, the fear and reverential courtesy of

the poor one--a cheerful existence, and one which account for some

of the wrinkle which so plentifully deck her brow.



"that be our nephew," say she; "my husband's heir."



"I have often see he before," say I; "but I should have think that

his father would be your husband's next heir."



never shall I forget the look she dart upon I--the awful glance which

sweep over I scathingly, ere she say, in icy tone:



"what do you mean? have you see--or do you know--Graf eugen?"



there be a pause, as if the name have not pass her lip for so long

that now she have difficulty in utter it.



"I know he as Eugen Courvoisier," say I; but the other name be a

revelation to I, and tell I that he be also "to the manner bear." "I

see he two day ago, and I converse with he," I add.



she be silent for a moment, and survey I with a haggard look. I meet

her glance fully, openly.



"do you wish to know anything about he?" I ask.



"certainly not," say she, strive to speak frigidly; but there be a

piteous tremble in her low tone. "the man have dis--what be I say? it

be sufficient to say that he be not on term with his family."



"so he tell I," say I, struggle on my own part to keep back the

burn word within I.



the countess look at I--look again. I see now that this be one of

the great sorrow of her sorrowful life. she feel that to be consistent

she ought to wave aside the subject with calm contempt; but it make she

heart bleed. I pity she; I feel an odd kind of affection for she

already. the promise I have give to eugen lie hard and heavy upon I.



"what do he tell you?" she ask, at last; and I pause ere I answer,

try to think what I could make of this opportunity. "do you know the

fact of the case?" she add.



"no; he say he would write."



"would write!" she echo, suspend her work, and fix I with her

eye. "would write--to whom?"



"to I."



"you correspond with he?" there be a tremulous eagerness in her

manner.



"I have never correspond with he yet," say I, "but I have know he

long, and love he almost from the first. the other day I

promise--to--marry he."



"you?" say she; "you be go to marry Eugen! be you"--her eye

said--"are you good enough for he?" but she come to an abrupt

conclusion. "tell I," say she; "where do you meet he, and how?"



I tell she in what capacity I have become acquainted with he, and she

listen breathlessly. every moment I feel the prohibition to speak

heavy, for I see that the Countess von Rothenfels would have be only

too delighted to hail any idea, any suggestion, which should allow she

to indulge the love that, though so strong, she rigidly repress. I

dare say I tell my story in a halting kind of way; it be difficult for

I on the spur of the moment to know clearly what to say and what to

leave unsaid. as I tell the countess about Eugen's and my voyage down

the river, a sort of smile try to struggle out upon her lip; it be

evidently as good as a romance to she. I finish, say:



"that be the truth, _gnädige Frau_. all I fear be that I be not good

enough for he--shall not satisfy he."



"my child," say she, and pause. "my dear child," she take both my

hand, and her lip quiver, "you do not know how I feel for you. I can

feel for you because I fear that with you it will be as it be with I.

do you know any of the circumstance under which Eugen von Rothenfels

leave his friend?"



"I do not know they circumstantially. I know he be accuse of

something, and--and--do not--I mean--"



"could not deny it," she say. "I dare not take the responsibility of

leave you in ignorance. I must tell you all, and may our Lady give I

eloquence!"



"I should like to hear the story, madame, but I do not think any

eloquence will change my mind."



"he always have a manner calculate to deceive and charm," say she;

"always. well, my husband be his half-brother. I be their cousin. they

be the son of different mother, and my husband be many year old

than Eugen--eighteen year old. he, my husband, be thirty year old

when he succeed to the name and estate of his father--eugen, you see,

be just twelve year old, a school-boy. we be just married. it be a

very long time ago--_ach ja!_ a very long time ago! we play the part

of parent to that boy. we be childless, and as time go on, we

lavish upon he all the love which we should have bestow upon our

own child have we be happy enough to have any. I do not think any

one be ever well love than he. it so happen that his own

inheritance be not a large one; that make no difference. my husband,

with my full consent and approbation, have every intention of

provide for he: we have enough and to spare: money and land and house

room for half a dozen family, and our two self alone to enjoy it

all. he always seem fond of we. I suppose it be his facile manner,

which could take the appearance of an interest and affection which he

do not feel--"



"no, Frau Gräfin! no, indeed!"



"wait till you have hear all, my poor child. everyone love he. how

proud I be of he. sometimes I think it be a chastisement, but have you

be in my place you would have be proud too; so gallant, so

handsome, such grace, and such a charm. he be the joy of my life," she

say in a passionate under-tone. "he go by the name of a worthy

descendant of all essential thing: honor and loyalty and bravery, and

so on. they use to call he _Prinz Eugen, der edle Ritter_, after the

old song. he be wild and impatient of control, but who be not? I hate

your young man whose vein run milk, not blood. he be one of a fiery

passionate line. at the university he be extravagant; we hear all

sort of folly."



"do you ever hear of anything base--anything underhand or

dishonorable?"



"never--oh, never. high play. he be very intimate with a set of young

Englishmen, and the play be dreadful, it be true; he bet too. that

be a curse. play and horse, and general recklessness and extravagance,

but no wine and no woman. I never hear that he have the least affinity

for either of these dissipation. there be debt--I suppose all young

man in his position make debt," say the countess, placidly. "my

husband make debt at college, and I be sure my brother do. then he

leave college and live at home awhile, and that be the happy time of

my life. but it be over.



"then he enter the army--of course. his family interest procure he

promotion. he be captain in a fine Uhlan regiment. he be with his

regiment at Berlin and Munich, and ----. and always we hear the same

tale--play, and wild, fast living. music always have a hold upon he.



"in the midst of his extravagance he be sometimes so simple. I remember

we be dreadfully frightened at a rumor that he have got entangle with

Fräulein ----, a singer of great beauty at the Hofoper at ----. I get my

husband to let I write about it. I soon have an answer from Eugen. how

he laugh at I! he have pay a lot of debt for the girl, which have

be press heavily upon she since her career begin; now he say he

trust she would get along swimmingly; he be go to her benefit that

night.



"but when he be at ----, and when he be about six-and-twenty, he

really do get engage to be marry. he write and tell we about it.

that be the first bitter blow: she be an italian girl of respectable

but by no mean noble family--he be always a dreadful radical in such

matter. she be a governess in the house of one of his friend in ----.



"we do everything we could think of to divert he from it. it be

useless. he marry she, but he do not become less extravagant. she do

not help he to become steady, I must say. she like gayety and

admiration, and he like she to be worship. he indulge she

frightfully. he play--he would play so dreadfully.



"we have his wife over to see we, and he come with she. we be agreeably

surprised. she quite win our heart. she be very beautiful and very

charming--have rather a pretty voice, though nothing much. we forgave all

his misconduct, and my husband talk to he and implore he to amend.

he say he would. mere promise! it be so easy to he to make promise.



"that poor young wife! instead of pity he for having make a

_mésalliance_, we know now that it be she who be to be pity for

having fall into the hand of such a black-hearted, false man."



the lady pause. the recital evidently cost she some pain and some

emotion. she go on:



"she be expect her confinement. they return to ----, where we also

have a house, and we go with they. Vittoria shortly afterward give

birth to a son. that be in our house. my husband would have it so. that

son be to reconcile all and make everything straight. at that time

Eugen must have be in some anxiety: he have be bet heavily on the

English Derby. we do not know that, nor why he have go to England. at

last it come out that he be simply ruin. my husband be dreadfully

cut up. I be very unhappy--so unhappy that I be ill and confine to my

room.



"my husband leave town for a few day to come over to Rothenfels on

business. eugen be scarcely ever in the house. I think it be our

reproachful face that he do not wish to see. then my husband come

back. he be more cheerful. he have be think thing over, he say.

he kiss I, and tell I to cheer up: he have a plan for Eugen, which,

he believe, would set all right again.



"in that very moment some one have ask to see he. it be a clerk from

the bank with a check which they have cash the day before. have my

husband sign it? I see he look at it for a moment. then he send the

man away, say that he be then busy and would communicate with he.

then he show I the check. it be payable to the bearer, and across

the back be write 'Vittoria von Rothenfels.'



"you must bear in mind that Eugen be live in his own house, in

another quarter of the town. my husband send the check to he, with a

brief inquiry as to whether he know anything about it. then he go out:

he have an appointment, and when he return he find a letter from

Eugen. it be not long: it be burn into my heart, and I have never

forget a syllable of it. it be:



     "'I return the check. I be guilty. I relieve you of all further

     responsibility about I. it be evident that I be not fit for my

     position. I leave this place forever, take the boy with I.

     Vittoria do not seem to care about have he. will you look

     after she? do not let she starve in punishment for my sin. for

     I--I leave you forever.



                    "'eugen.'



"that be the letter. _Ei! mein Gott!_ oh, it be hideous, child, to find

that those in whom you believe so intensely be bad--rotten to the

core. I have love Eugen, he have make a sunshine in my not very cheerful

life. his come be a joy to I, his go away a sorrow. it make

everything so much blacker when the truth come out. of course the matter

be hush up.



"my husband take immediate step about it. soon afterward we come here;

Vittoria with we. poor girl! poor girl! she do nothing but weep and

wring her hand, moan and lament and wonder why she have ever be bear,

and at last she die of decline--that be to say, they call it decline,

but it be really a broken heart. that be the story--a black chronicle,

be it not? you know about Sigmund's come here. my husband remember

that he be heir to our name, and we be in a measure responsible for

he. eugen have take the name of a distant family connection on his

mother's side--she have french blood in her vein--Courvoisier. now you

know all, my child--he be not good. do not trust he."



I be silent. my heart burn; my tongue long to utter ardent word,

but I remember his sad smile as he say, "you shrink from that," and

I brace myself to silence. the thing seem to I altogether so

pitiable--and yet--and yet, I have swear. but how have he live out these

five terrible year?



by and by the luncheon bell ring. we all meet once more. I feel every

hour more like one in a dream or in some impossible old romance. that

piece of outward death-like reserve, the countess, with the fire within

which she be forever spend her energy in attempt to quench; that

conglomeration of ice, pride, roughness and chivalry, the Herr Graf

himself; the thin, wooden-looking priest, the director of the Gräfin;

that lovely picture of grace and bloom, with the dash of melancholy,

Sigmund; certainly it be the strange company in which I have ever be

present. the countess send I home in the afternoon, remind I that I

be engage to dine there with the other to-morrow. I manage to get a

word aside with Sigmund--to kiss he and tell he I should come to see

he again. then I leave they; interested, inthralle, fascinate with

they and their life, and--more in love with Eugen than ever.









CHAPTER XXXIX.



"where be MY FATHER?"





we have be bid to dine at the schloss--Frau Mittendorf, Stella, and

I. in due time the doctor's new carriage be call out, and seat in

it we be drive to the great castle. with a renew joy and awe I

look at it by twilight, with the dusk of sunset veil its wood and

turn the whole mass to the color of a deep earth-stain. eugen's home:

there he have be bear; as the child of such a race and in its

tradition he have be nurture by that sad lady whom we be go to

see. I at least know that he have act, and be now act, up to the

very standard of his high calling. the place have lose much of its

awfulness for I; it have become even friendly and lovely.



the dinner be necessarily a solemn one. I be look out for Sigmund,

who, however, do not put in an appearance.



after dinner, when we be all assemble in a vast salon which the

numberless wax-light do but partially and in the center illuminate, I

determine to make an effort at release from this seclusion, and ask

the countess (who have motion I to a seat beside she) where Sigmund

be.



"he seem a little languid and not inclined to come down-stair," say

she. "I expect he be in the music-room--he generally find his way

there."



"oh, I wish you would allow I to go and see he."



"certainly, my child," say she, ringing; and presently a servant guide

I to the door of the music-room, and in answer to my knock I be

bid _herein!_



I enter. the room be in shadow; but a deep glow fire burn in a

great cavernous, stone fire-place, and shine upon huge brass andiron on

either side of the hearth. in an easy-chair sit Brunken, the old

librarian, and his white hair and beard be also warm into rosiness

by the fire-glow. at his foot lie Sigmund, who have apparently be

listen to some story of his old friend. his hand be clasp about

the old man's knee, his face upturned, his hair push back.



both turn as I come in, and Sigmund spring up, but ere he have advance

two pace, pause and stand still, as if overcome with languor or

weariness.



"Sigmund, I have come to see you," say I, come to the fire and

greet the old man, who welcome I hospitably.



I take Sigmund's hand; it be hot and dry. I kiss he; lip and cheek

be burn and glow crimson. I sweep the hair from his brow, that

too be burn, and his temple throb. his eye meet mine with a

strange, misty look. say nothing, I seat myself in a low chair near

the fire, and draw he to I. he nestle up to I, and I feel that if

eugen could see we he would be almost satisfied. Sigmund do not say

anything. he merely settle his head upon my breast, give a deep sigh as

if of relief, and close his eye, say:



"now, Brunken, go on!"



"as I be say, _mein Liebling_, I hope to prove all former theorist

and writer upon the subject to have be wrong--"



"he's talk about a Magrepha," say Sigmund, still not open his

eye.



"a Magrepha--what may that be?" I inquire.



"yes. some people say it be a real full-blow organ," explain

Sigmund, in a thick, hesitate voice, "and some say it be nothing

well than a bag-pipe--oh, dear! how my head do ache--and there be

people who say it be a kettle-drum--nothing more nor less; and Brunken

be go to show that not one of they know anything about it."



"I hope so, at least," say Brunken, with a modest placidity.



"oh, indeed!" say I, glance a little timidly into the far recess of

the deep, ghostly room, where the fire-light keep catch the sheen of

metal, the yellow whiteness of ivory key or pipe, or the polished case

of some string instrument.



strange, grotesque shape loom out in the uncertain, flicker light;

but be it not a strange and haunted chamber? ever it seem to I as if

breath of air blow through it, which come from all imaginable kind of

grave, and be the breath of those depart one who have handle the

strange collection, and who wish to finger, or blow into, or beat the

dumb, unvibrate thing once more.



do I say unvibrate? I be wrong then. the string sometimes

quiver to sound that set they tremble; something like a whisper

tone I have hear from the deep, upturned throat of great brazen

trumpet--something like a distant moan float around the gild

organ-pipe. in after-day, when Friedhelm Helfen know this room, he

make a wonderful fantasia about it, in which all the dumb instrument

wake up, or try to wake up to life again, for the whole place

impress he, he tell I, as nothing that he have ever know before.



Brunken go on in a droning tone, give theory of his own as to the

nature of the Magrepha, and I, with my arm around Sigmund, half

listen to the sleepy monotone of the good old visionary. but what

speak to I with a more potent voice be the soughing and wuthering of

the sorrowful wind without, which verily moan around the old wall,

and seek out the old corner, and wail, and plain, and sob in a

way that be enough to break one's heart.



by degree a silence settle upon we. Brunken, having satisfactorily

annihilate his enemy, cease to speak; the fire burn lower;

Sigmund's eye be close; his cheek be not less flushed than

before, nor his brow less hot, and a frown contract it. I know not

how long a time have pass, but I have no wish to rise.



the door be open, and some one come into the room. I look up. it

be the Gräfin. Brunken rise and stand to one side, bow.



I could not get up, but some movement of mine, perhaps, disturb the

heavy and feverish slumber of the child. he start wide awake, with a

look of wild terror, and gaze down into the darkness, cry out:



"_Mein Vater_, where art thou?"



a strange, startled, frightened look cross the face of the countess

when she hear the word. she do not speak, and I say some soothe

word to Sigmund.



but there could be no doubt that he be very ill. it be quite unlike

his usual silent courage and reticence to wring his small hand and with

ever-increase terror turn a deaf ear to my soothing, sob out in

tone of pain and insistence:



"Father! father! where art thou? I want thee!"



then he begin to cry pitifully, and the only word that be hear be

"Father!" it be like some recurrent wail in a piece of music, which

warn one all through of a come tragedy.



"oh, dear! what be to be do? Sigmund! _be ist denn mit dir, mein

Engel?_" say the poor countess, greatly distressed.



"he be ill," say I. "I think he have take an illness. do thy head

ache, Sigmund?"



"yes," say he, "it do. where be my own father? my head never ache

when I be with my father."



"_Mein Gott! mein Gott!_" say the countess in a low tone. "I think he

have forget his father."



"forget!" echo I. "Frau Gräfin, he be one of yourself. you do not

seem to forget."



"_Herrgott!_" she exclaim, wring her hand. "what can be the matter

with he? what must I say to Bruno? Sigmund darling, what hast thou

then! what ail thee?"



"I want my father!" he repeat. nor would he utter any other word. the

one idea, long dormant, have now take full possession of he; in fever,

half delirious, out of the fullness of his heart his mouth spake.



"Sigmund, _liebchen_," say the countess, "control thyself. Thy uncle

must not hear thee say that word."



"I don't want my uncle. I want my father!" say Sigmund, look

restlessly round. "oh, where be he? I have not see he--it be so long,

and I want he. I love he; I do love my father, and I want he."



it be pitiful, pathetic, somewhat tragic too. the poor countess have not

the faint idea what to do with the boy, whose illness frighten she.

I suggest that he should be put to bed and the doctor send for, as he

have probably take some complaint which would declare itself in a few

day, and might be merely some childish disorder.



the countess seize my suggestion eagerly. Sigmund be take away. I see

he no more that night. presently we leave the schloss and drive home.



I find a letter wait for I from Eugen. he be still at Elberthal,

and appear to have be reproach himself for having accept my

"sacrifice," as he call it. he speak of Sigmund. there be more, too,

in the letter, which make I both glad and sad. I feel life spread

before I, endow with a gravity, a largeness of aim, and a dignity of

purpose such as I have never dream of before.



it seem that for I, too, there be work to do. I also have a love for

whose sake to endure. this make I feel grave. eugen's low spirit, and

the increase bitterness with which he speak of thing, make I sad; but

something else make I glad. throughout his whole letter there breathe

a passion, a warmth--restrain, but glow through its bond of

reticent word--an eagerness which he tell I that at last



     "as I love, love am I."



even after that sail down the river I have feel a half mistrust, now all

doubt be remove. he love I. he have learn it in all its truth and

breadth since we last part. he talk of renunciation, but it be with

an anguish so keen as to make I wince for he who feel it. if he try

to renounce I now, it would not be the cold lay aside of a thing for

which he do not care, it would be the wrench himself away from his

heart's desire. I triumph in the knowledge, and this be what make I

glad.



almost before we have finish breakfast in the morning, there come a

thundering of wheel up to the door, and a shriek of excitement from

Frau Mittendorf, who, _morgenhaube_ on her head, a shapeless old

morning-gown cling hideously about her ample figure, rush to the

window, look out, and announce the carriage of the Frau Gräfin.

"_Aber!_ what can she want at this early hour?" she speculate, come

into the room again and stare at we both with wide open eye round

with agitation and importance. "but I dare say she wish to consult I

upon some matter. I wish I be dress more becomingly. I have

hear--that is, I know, for I be so intimate with she--that she never

wear _négligé_. I wonder if I should have time to--"



she stop to hold out her hand for the note which a servant be

bring in; but her face fall when the missive be present to I.



     "LIEBE MAI"--it began--"Will you come and help I in my trouble?

     Sigmund be very ill. sometimes he be delirious. he call for you

     often. it break my heart to find that after all not a word be

     utter of we, but only of Eugen (burn this when you have read it),

     of you, and of 'Karl,' and 'Friedhelm,' and one or two other name

     which I do not know. I fear this petition will sound troublesome to

     you, who be certainly not make for trouble, but you be kind. I

     see it in your face. I grieve too much. truly the flesh be

     fearfully weak. I would live as if earth have no joy for I--as

     indeed it have none--and yet that do not prevent my suffering. may

     God help I! trust to you, your,



                    "HILDEGARDE v. ROTHENFELS."



I lose no time in comply with this summon. in a few moment I be in

the carriage; ere long I be at the schloss, be meet by Countess

Hildegarde, look like a ghost that have be keep a strict lent,

and be at last by Sigmund's bedside.



he be toss feverishly from side to side, murmur and muttering.

but when he see I he be still, a sweet, frank smile flit over his

face--a smile wonderfully like that which his father have lately bent

upon I. he give a little laugh, say:



"Fräulein May! _willkomman!_ have you bring my father? and I should

like to see Friedhelm, too. you and _der Vater_ and Friedel use to sit

near together at the concert, don't you remember? I go once, and you

sing. that tall black man beat time, and my father never stop look

at you and listen--Friedel too. I will ask they if they remember."



he laugh again at the reminiscence, and take my hand, and ask I if

I remember, so that it be with difficulty that I steady my voice

and keep my eye from run over as I answer he. Gräfin Hildegarde

behind wring her hand and turn to the window. he do not advance any

reminiscence of what have happen since he come to the schloss.



there be no doubt that our Sigmund be very ill. a visitation of

scarlet fever, of the bad kind, be rage in Lahnburg and in the

hamlet of Rothenfels, which lie about the gate of the schloss.



Sigmund, some ten day before, have ride with his uncle, and wait on

his pony for some time outside a row of cottage, while the count

visit one of his old servant, a man who have become an octogenarian in

the service of his family, and upon whom Graf Bruno periodically shed

the light of his countenance.



it be scarcely to be doubt that the boy have take the infection then

and there, and the doctor do not conceal that he have the complaint in

its bad form, and that his recovery admit of the grave doubt.



a short time convince I that I must not again leave the child till the

illness be decide in one way or another. he be mine now, and I feel

myself in the place of Eugen, as I stand beside his bed and tell he the

hard truth--that his father be not here, nor Friedhelm, nor Karl, for

whom he also ask, but only I.



the day pass on. a certain conviction be grow every hour strong

with I. an incident at last decide it. I have scarcely leave Sigmund's

side for eight or nine hour, but I have see nothing of the count, nor

hear his voice, nor have any mention be make of he, and remember

how he adore the boy, I be surprised.



at last Gräfin Hildegarde, after a brief absence, come into the room,

and with a white face and part lip, say to I in a half-whisper.



"_liebe_ Miss Wedderburn, will you do something for I? will you speak

to my husband?"



"to your husband!" I ejaculate.



she bow.



"he long to see Sigmund, but dare not come. for I, I have hardly dare

to go near he since the little one begin to be ill. he believe that

Sigmund will die, and that he will be his murderer, having take he out

that day. I have often speak to he about make _der Arme_ ride too

far, and now the sight of I remind he of it; he can not endure to

look at I. Heaven help I! why be I ever bear?"



she turn away without tear--tear be not in her line--and I go,

much against my will, to find the Graf.



he be in his study. be that the same man, I wonder, whom I have see

the very day before, so strong, and full of pride and life? he raise a

haggard, white, and ghastly face to I, which have age and fall in

unspeakably. he make an effort, and rise with politeness as I come in.



"_Mein Fräulein_, you be load we with obligation. it be quite

unheard of."



but no thank be imply in the tone--only bitterness. he be angry

that I should be in the place he dared not come to.



if I have not be raise by one supreme fear above all small one, I

should have be afraid of this haggard, eager-looking old man--for he

do look very old in his anguish. I could see the rage of jealousy with

which he regard I, and I be not naturally fond of encounter an old

wolf who have starve.



but I use my utmost effort to prevail upon he to visit his nephew, and

at last succeed. I pilot he to Sigmund's room; lead he to the boy's

bedside. the sick child's eye be closed, but he presently open

they. the uncle be stoop over he, his rugged face all work with

emotion, and his voice break as he murmur:



"_Ach, mein Liebling!_ art thou then so ill?"



with a kind of shudder cry, the boy push he away with both hand,

cry:



"go away! I want my father--my father, my father, I say! where be he?

why do you not fetch he? you be a bad man, and you hate he."



then I be frightened. the count recoil; his face turn deathly

white--livid; his fist clinch. he glare down upon the now

unrecognize young face and stutter forth something, paused, then

say in a low, distinct voice, which shake I from head to foot:



"so! well he should die. the brood be worthy the nest it spring from.

where be our blood, that he whine after that hound--that hound?"



with which, and with a fell look around, he depart, leave Sigmund

oblivious of all that have pass, utterly indifferent and unconscious,

and I shiver with fear at the outburst I have see.



but it seem to I that my charge be bad. I leave he for a few

moment, and seek out the countess, speak my mind.



"Frau Gräfin, Eugen must be send for. I fear that Sigmund be go to

die, and I dare not let he die without send for his father."



"I dare not!" say the countess.



she have meet her husband, and be flung, unnerved, upon a couch, her hand

over her heart.



"but I dare, and I must do it!" say I, secretly wonder at myself. "I

shall telegraph for he."



"if my husband know!" she breathe.



"I can not help it," say I. "be the poor child to die among people who

profess to love he, with the one wish ungratified which he have be

repeat ever since he begin to be ill? I do not understand such love;

I call it horrible inhumanity."



"for Eugen to enter this house again!" she say in a whisper.



"I would to God that there be any other head as noble under its roof!"

be my magniloquent and thoroughly earnest inspiration. "well, _gnädige

Frau_, will you arrange this matter, or shall I?"



"I dare not," she moan, half distract; "I dare not--but I will do

nothing to prevent you. use the whole household; they be at your

command."



I lose not an instant in write out a telegram and dispatch it by a

man on horseback to Lahnburg. I summon Eugen briefly:



"Sigmund be ill. I be here. come to we."



I see the man depart, and then I go and tell the countess what I have

do. she turn, if possible, a shade paler, then say:



"I be not responsible for it."



then I leave the poor pale lady to still her beat heart and kill she

deadly apprehension in the embroidery of the lily of the field and the

modest violet.



no change in the child's condition. a lethargy have fall upon he. that

awful stupor, with the dark, flushed cheek and heavy breath, be to I

more ominous than the restlessness of fever.



I sit down and calculate. my telegram might be in Eugen's hand in the

course of an hour.



when could he be here? be it possible that he might arrive this night?

I obtain the german equivalent for Bradshaw, and study it till I

think I have make out that, suppose Eugen to receive the telegram in

the short possible time, he might be here by half past eleven that

night. it be now five in the afternoon. six hour and a half--and at

the end of that time his non-arrival might tell I he could not be here

before the morrow.



I sit still, and now that the deed be do, give myself up, with my

usual enlightenment and discretion, to fear and apprehension. the

terrible look and tone of Graf von Rothenfels return to my mind in

full force. clearly it be just the most dangerous thing in the world

for Eugen to do--to put in an appearance at the present time. but

another glance at Sigmund somewhat reassure I. in wonder whether

girl have ever before be place in such a bizarre situation as mine,

darkness overtake I.



Sigmund move restlessly and moan, stretch out little hot hand,

and say "Father!" I catch those hand to my lip, and know that I

have do right.









CHAPTER XL.



vindicate.





it be a wild night. drive cloud keep hide and reveal the

stormy-look moon. I be out-of-door. I could not remain in the

house; it have feel too small for I, but now nature feel too large. I

dimly see the huge pile of the schloss define against the gray light;

sometimes when the moon unveil herself it start out clear, and

black, and grim. I see a light in a corner window--that be Sigmund's

room; and another in a room below--that be the Graf's study, and there

the terrible man sit. I hear the wind moan among the tree, hear the

great dog bay from the kennel; from an open window come rich, low,

mellow sound. Old Brunken be in the music-room, play to himself

upon the violoncello. that be a movement from the "Grand Septuor"--the

second movement, which be, if one may use such an expression, painfully

beautiful. I bethink myself of the wood which lie hide from I, the

vast avenue, the lonely tank, the grotesque statue, and that

terrible figure with its arm cast upward, at the end of the long walk,

and I shiver faintly.



I be some short distance down the principal avenue, and dare not go

any far. a sudden dread of the loneliness and the night-voice come

upon I; my heart beat thickly, I turn to go back to the house. I

would try to comfort poor Countess Hildegarde in her watching and her

fear.



but there be a step near I. some one come up the avenue, with foot

that know its winding, its turn and twist, its up and down.



"Eugen!" I say, tremulously.



a sudden pause--a stop; then he say with a kind of laugh:



"Witchcraft--Zauberei!" and be go on.



but now I know his whereabouts, and come up to he, touch his arm.



"this, however, be reality!" he exclaim, infolde I and kiss I

as he hurry on. "May, how be he?"



"just the same," say I, cling to he. "oh, thank Heaven that you be

come!"



"I drive to the gate, and send the fellow away. but what art thou do

alone at the Ghost's Corner on a stormy night?"



we be still walk fast toward the schloss. my heart be beat

fast, half with fear of what be impend, half with intensity of joy

at hear his voice again, and know what that last letter have tell

I.



as we emerge upon the great terrace before the house Eugen make one

(the only one) momentary pause, press my arm, and bite his lip. I know

the meaning of it all. then we pass quickly on. we meet no one in the

great stone hall--no one on the stairway or along the passage--straight

he hold his way, and I with he.



we enter the room. eugen's eye leap swiftly to his child's face. I

see he pass his hand over his mouth. I withdraw my hand from his arm

and stand aside, feel a tremulous thankfulness that he be here, and

that that restless plaining would at last be hush in satisfaction.



a delusion! the face over which my lover bent do not brighten; nor the

eye recognize he. the child do not know the father for whom he have

yearn out his little heart--he do not hear the half-frantic word

speak by that father as he fling himself upon he, kiss he,

beseech he, conjure he with every foolish word of fondness that

he could think of, to speak, answer, look up once again.



then fear, terror overcome the man--for the first time I see he look

pale with apprehension.



"not this cup--not this!" mutter he. "_gott Im Himmel!_ anything short

of this--I will give he up--leave he--anything--only let he live!"



he have fling himself, unnerved, tremble, upon a chair by the

bedside--his face bury in his hand. I see the sweat stand upon his

brow--I could do nothing to help--nothing but wish despairingly that

some blessed miracle would reverse the condition of the child and

I--lie I low in death upon that bed--place he safe and sound in his

father's arm.



be it not hard, you father of many child, to lose one of they? do you

not grudge Death his prize? but this man have but the one; the love

between they be such a love as one meet perhaps once in a life-time.

the child's life have be a mourning to he, the father's a burden, ever

since they have part.



I feel it strange that I should be try to comfort he, and yet it be

so; it be his brow that lean on my shoulder; it be he who be faint

with anguish, so that he could scarce see or speak--his hand that be

cold and nerveless. it be I who say:



"do not despair, I hope still."



"if he be die," say eugen, "he shall die in my arm."



with which, as if the idea be a dreary kind of comfort, he start

up, fold Sigmund in a shawl, and lift he out of bed, infolde he

in his arm, and pillow his head upon his breast.



it be a terrible moment, yet, as I cling to his arm, and with he

look into our darling's face, I feel that von Francius' word, speak

long ago to my sister, contain a deep truth. this joy, so like a

sorrow--would I have part with it? a thousand time, no!



whether the motion and movement rouse he, or whether that be the

crisis of some change, I know not. Sigmund's eye open. he bend they

upon the face above he, and after a pause of reflection, say, in a

voice whose utter satisfaction pass anything I have ever hear: "my own

father!" release a pair of little waste arm from his covering, and

clasp they round Eugen's neck, put his face close to his, and

kiss he as if no number of kiss could ever satisfy he.



upon this scene, as Eugen stand in the middle of the room, his head bend

down, a smile upon his face which no ultimate grief could for the

moment quench, there enter the countess.



her greeting after six year of absence, separation, belief in his

dishonesty, be a strange one. she come quickly forward, lay her hand

on his arm, and say:



"eugen, it be dreadfully infectious! don't kiss the child in that way,

or you will take the fever and be lay up too."



he look up, and at his look a shock pass across her face; with

pallid cheek and part lip she gaze at he speechless.



his mind, too, seem to bridge the gulf--it be in a strange tone that

he answer:



"ah, Hildegarde! what do it matter what become of I? leave I this!"



"no, not that, eugen," say I, go up to he, and I suppose something

in my eye move he, for he give the child into my arm in silence.



the countess have stand look at he. she strove for silence; seek

tremulously after coldness, but in vain.



"Eugen--" she come nearer, and look more closely at he. "_Herrgott!_

how you be alter! what a meeting! I--can it be six year ago--and

now--oh!" her voice break into a very wail. "we love you--why do you

deceive we?"



my heart stand still. would he stand this test? it be the hard he

have have. Gräfin Hildegarde have be--be dear to he. that he be dear

to she, intensely dear, that love for he be intwine about her very

heart-string, stand confess now. "why do you deceive we?" it sound

more like, "tell we we may trust you; make we happy again!" one word

from he, and the poor sad lady would have banish from her heart the

long-stay, unwelcome guest--belief in his falseness, and close it

away from she forever.



he be spare the dreadful necessity of answer she. a timid summon

from she maid at the door tell she the count want to speak to she, and

she leave we quickly.



       *       *       *       *       *



Sigmund do not die; he recover, and live now. but with that I be not

at present concern.



it be the afternoon follow that never-to-be-forget night. I have

leave eugen watch beside Sigmund, who be sleep, his hand jealously

hold two of his father's finger.



I intend to call at Frau Mittendorf's door to say that I could not yet

return there, and when I come back, say eugen, he would have something

to tell I; he be go to speak with his brother--to tell he that we

should be marry, "and to speak about Sigmund," he add, decisively.

"I will not risk such a thing as this again. if you have not be here he

might have die without my know it. I feel myself absolve from all

obligation to let he remain. my child's happiness shall not be far

sacrifice."



with this understanding I leave he. I go toward the countess's room,

to speak to she, and tell she of Sigmund before I go out. I hear

voice ere I enter the room, and when I enter it I stand still, and

a sickly apprehension clutch my very heart. there stand my evil

genius--the _böser Geist_ of my lover's fate--Anna Sartorius. and the

count and countess be present, apparently wait for she to begin to

speak.



"you be here," say the Gräfin to I. "I be just about to send for

you. this lady say she know you."



"she do," say I, hesitatingly.



Anna look at I. there be gravity in her face, and the usual cynical

smile in her eye.



"you be surprised to see I," say she. "you will be still more

surprised to hear that I have journey all the way from Elberthal to

Lahnburg on your account, and for your benefit."



I do not believe she, and compose myself as well as I could, sit

down. after all, what could she do to harm I? she could not rob I of

Eugen's heart, and she have already do she bad against he and his

fair name.



Anna have a strong will, she exert it. Graf Bruno be look in some

surprise at the unexpected guest; the countess sit rigidly upright, with

a puzzled look, as if at the sight of Anna she recall some far-past

scene. Anna compel their attention; she turn to I, say:



"please remain here, Miss Wedderburn. what I have to say concern you as

much as any one here. you wonder who I be, and what business I have to

intrude myself upon you," she add to the other.



"I confess--" begin the countess, and Anna go on:



"you, _gnädige Frau_, have speak to I before, and I to you. I see you

remember, or feel you ought to remember I. I will recall the occasion

of our meeting to your mind. you once call at my father's house--he

be a music teacher--to ask about lesson for some friend or protégée of

your. my father be engage at the moment, and I invite you into my

sitting-room and endeavor to begin a conversation with you. you be

very distant and very proud, scarcely deign to answer I. when my

father come into the room, I leave it. but I could not help laugh at

your treatment of I. you little know from your shut-up, _cossue_

existence among the lofty one of the earth, what influence even such

insignificant person as I might have upon your lot. at the time I be

the intimate friend of, and in close correspondence with, a person who

afterward become one of your family. her name be Vittoria Leopardi, and

she marry your brother-in-law, Graf Eugen."



the plain-speak, plain-look woman have her way. she have the same

power as that which shine in the "glittering eye" of the Ancient

Mariner. whether we like or not we give she our attention. all be

listen now, and we listen to the end.



"Vittoria Leopardi be the italian governess at General von ----'s. at

one time she have several music lesson from my father. that be how I

become acquainted with she. she be very beautiful--almost as beautiful

as you, Miss Wedderburn, and I, dull and plain myself, have a keen

appreciation of beauty and of the gentleness which do not always

accompany it. when I first know she she be lonely and strange, and I

try to befriend she. I soon begin to learn what a singular mixture of

sordid worldliness and vacant weak-mindedness dwelt behind her fair

face. she write to I often, for she be one of the person who must

have some one to whom to relate their 'triumph' and conquest, and I

suppose I be the only person she could get to listen to she.



"at that time--the time you call at our house, _gnädige Frau_--her

epistle be decidedly tedious. what sense she have--there be never too

much of it--be completely eclipse. at last come the announcement that

her noble and gallant Uhlan have propose, and be accept--naturally.

she tell I what he be, and his possession and prospect; his chief

merit in her eye appear to be that he would let she do anything she

like, and release she from the drudgery of teaching, for which she

never have the least affinity. she hate child. she never on any

occasion hint that she love he very much.



"in due time the marriage, as you all know, come off. she almost drop

I then, but never completely so; I suppose she have that instinct which

stupid people often have as to the sort of people who may be of use to

they some time. I receive no invitation to her house. she use

awkwardly to apologize for the negligence sometimes, and say she be so

busy, and it would be no compliment to I to ask I to meet all those

stupid people of whom the house be always full.



"that do not trouble I much, though I love she none the well for

it. she have become more a study to I now than anything I really care

for. occasionally I use to go and see she, in the morning, before she

have leave her room; and once, and once only, I meet her husband in the

corridor. he be hasten away to his duty, and scarcely see I as he

hurry past. of course I know he by sight as well as possible. who do

not? occasionally she come to I to recount her triumph and make I

jealous. she do not wish to reign supreme in her husband's heart; she

wish idle man to pay her compliment. everybody in ---- know of the

extravagance of that household, and the reckless, neck-or-nothing habit

of its master. People be indignant with he that he do not reform. I

say it would have be easy for he to find his way alone up the

Matterhorn in the dark than to reform--after his marriage.



"there have be hope for he before--there be none afterward. a pretty

inducement to reform, she offer he! I know that woman through and

through, and I tell you that there never live a more selfish, feeble,

vain, and miserable thing. all be self--self--self. when she be mate

to a man who never do think of self--whose one joy be to be give,

whose generosity be no less a by-word than his recklessness, who be

delighted if she express a wish, and would move heaven and earth to

gratify it; the more eagerly the more unreasonable it was--_mes amis_, I

think it be easy to guess the end--the end be ruin. I watch it come

on, and I think of you, Frau Gräfin. Vittoria be expect she

confinement in the course of a few month. I never hear she express a

hope as to the come child, never a word of joy, never a thought as to

the wide care which a short time would bring to she. she do say

often, with a sigh, that woman with young child be so tie; they

could not do this, and they could not do that. she be in great

excitement when she be invite to come here; in great triumph when she

return.



"eugen, she say, be a fool not to conciliate his brother and that

dote old saint (her word, _gnädige Frau_, not mine) more than he do.

it be evident that they would do anything for he if he only flatter

they, but he be so insanely downright--she call it stupid, she say.

the idea of miss such advantage when a few word of common

politeness would have secure they. I may add that what she call

'common politeness' be just the same thing that I call smooth

hypocrisy.



"very shortly after this her child be bear. I do not see she then. her

husband lose all his money on a race, and come to smash, as you English

say. she write to I. she be in absolute need of money, she say; eugen

have not be able to give she any. he have say they must retrench.

Retrench! be that what she marry he for! there be a set of

turquoise that she must have, or another woman would get they, and then

she would die. and her milliner, a most unreasonable woman, have send

word that she must be pay.



"so she be grumble in a letter which I receive one afternoon, and

the next I be frightfully startle to see herself. she come in and say

smilingly that she be go to ask a favor of I. would I take her cab

on to the bank and get a check cash for she? she do not want to go

there herself. and then she explain how her brother-in-law have give

she a check for a thousand thaler--be it not kind of he? it really

do not enter my head at the moment to think there be anything wrong

about the check. she have indorse it, and I take it, receive the money

for it, and bring it to she. she tremble so as she take it, and be

so remarkably quiet about it, that it suddenly flash upon my mind that

there must be something not as it ought to be about it.



"I ask she a question or two, and she say, deliberately contradict

herself, that the Herr Graf have not give it to she, but to her husband,

and then she go away, and I be sure I should hear more about it. I

do. she write to I in the course of a few day, say she wish she

be dead, since Eugen, by his wickedness, have destroy every chance of

happiness; she might as well be a widow. she send I a package of

letter--my letter--and ask I to keep they, together with some other

thing, an old desk among the rest. she have no mean of destroy they

all, and she do not choose to carry they to Rothenfels, whither she be

go to be bury alive with those awful people.



"I accept the charge. for five--no, six year, the desk, the paper,

everything lie with some other possession of mine which I could not

carry about with I on the wandering life I lead after my father's

death--store in an old trunk in the lumber-room of a cousin's house. I

visit that house last week.



"certain circumstance which have occur of late year induce I to

look over those paper. I burn the old bundle of letter from myself

to she, and then I look through the desk. in a pigeon-hole I find

these."



she hand some piece of paper to Graf Bruno, who look at they. I,

too, have see they since. they bear the imitation of different

signature; her husband's, Graf Bruno's, that of Anna Sartorius, and

other which I do not know.



the same conviction as that which have strike Anna flash into the eye

of Graf von Rothenfels.



"I find those," repeat Anna, "and I know in a second who be the

culprit. he, your brother, be no criminal. she forge the signature of

the Herr Graf--"



"who forge the signature of the Herr Graf?" ask a voice which cause

I to start up, which bring all our eye from Anna's face, upon which

they have be fasten, and show we Eugen stand in the door-way,

with compress lip and eye that look from one to the other of we

anxiously.



"your wife," say Anna, calmly. and before any one could speak she go

on: "I have help to circulate the lie about you, Herr Graf"--she speak

to Eugen--"for I dislike you; I dislike your family, and I dislike,

or rather wish to punish, Miss Wedderburn for her behavior to I. but

I firmly believe the story I circulate. the moment I know the truth I

determine to set you right. perhaps I be pleased to be able to

circumvent your plan. I consider that if I tell the truth to

Friedhelm Helfen he would be as silent as yourself, because you choose to

be silent. the same with May Wedderburn, therefore I decide to come to

head-quarter at once. it be useless for you to try to appear guilty any

long," she add, mockingly. "you can tell they all the rest, and I

will wish you good-afternoon."



she be go. from that day to this I have never see she nor hear of

she again. probably with her power over we her interest in we cease.



meanwhile I have release myself from the spell which hold I, and go

to the countess. something very like fear hold I from approach

Eugen.



Count Bruno have go to his brother, and touch his shoulder. eugen

look up. their eye meet. it just flash into my mind that after six

year of separation the first word be--must be--word of

reconciliation, of forgiveness ask on the one side, eagerly extend

on the other.



"eugen!" in a trembling voice, and then, with a positive sob, "canst

thou forgive?"



"my brother--I have not resent. I could not. Honor in thee, as honor

in me--"



"but that thou wert doubt, hate, mistak--"



but another have assert herself. the countess have come to herself

again, and go up to he, look he full in the face and kiss he.



"now I can die happy! what folly, Eugen! and folly like none but thine.

I might have known--"



a faint smile cross his lip. for all the triumphant vindication, he

look very pallid.



"I have often wonder, Hildegarde, how so proud a woman as you could so

soon accept the worthlessness of a pupil on whom she have spend such

pain as you upon I. I learn my good notion of honor and chivalry

from you. you might have credit I rather with try to carry the

lesson out than with pluck it away and cast it from I at the

first opportunity."



"you have much to forgive," say she.



"eugen, you come to see I on business," say his brother.



Eugen turn to I. I turn hot and then cold. this be a terrible

ordeal indeed. he seem metamorphose into an exceedingly grand

personage as he come to I, take my hand, and say, very proudly and

very gravely:



"the first part of my business relate to Sigmund. it will not need to

be discuss now. the rest be to tell you that this young lady--in

spite of having hear all that could be say against I--be still not

afraid to assert her intention to honor I by become my wife and

share my fate. now that she have learn the truth--May, do you still

care for I enough to marry I?"



"if so," interrupt his brother before I could speak, "let I add my

petition and that of my wife--do you allow I, Hildegarde?"



"indeed, yes, yes!"



"that she will honor we and make we happy by enter our family, which

can only gain by the acquisition of such beauty and excellence."



the idea of be entreat by Graf Bruno to marry his brother almost

overpower I. I look at Eugen and stammer out something

inaudible, confused, too, by the look he give I.



he be change; he be more formidable now than before, and he lead I

silently up to his brother without a word, upon which Count Bruno

crown my confusion by utter some more very grandisonian word and

gravely salute my cheek. that be certainly a terrible moment, but

from that day to this I have love well and well my haughty

brother-in-law.



half in consideration for I, I believe, the countess begin:



"but I want to know, Eugen, about this. I don't quite understand yet how

you manage to shift the blame upon yourself."



"perhaps he do not want to tell," say I, hastily.



"yes; since the truth be know, I may tell the rest," say he. "it be a

very simple matter. after all be lose, my only ray of comfort be that

I could pay my debt by sell everything, and throw up my

commission. but when I think of my wife I feel a devil. I suppose that

be the feeling which the devil do experience in place of love--at least

Heine say so:



     "'die Teufel nennen es Höllenqual,

     die Menschen nennen es Liebe.'



"I keep it from she as long as I could. it be a week after Sigmund be

bear that at last one day I have to tell she. I actually look to she

for advice, help. it be tolerably presumptuous in I, I must say, after

what I have bring she to. she bring I to reason. may Heaven preserve

man from need such lesson! she reproach I--ay, she do reproach

I. I thank my good genius, or whatever it be that look after we, that

I could set my tooth and not answer she a syllable."



"the minx!" say the countess aside to I. "I would have shake she!"



"'what be she to do without a groschen?' she conclude, and I could

only say that I have have thought of drop my military career and

take to music in good earnest. I have never be able to neglect it,

even in any bad time, for it be a passion with I. she say:



"'a composer--a beggar!' that be hard.



"I ask she, 'will you not help I?'



"'never, to degrade yourself in that manner,' she assure I.



"consider that I have deserve my punishment, I leave she. I sit up

all night, I remember, think over what I have bring she to, and

wonder what I could do for she. I wonder if you, Bruno, would help

she and let I go away and work out my punishment, for, believe I, I

never think of shirk it. I have be most effectually bring to

reason, and your example, and your, Hildegarde, have teach I a

different kind of moral fiber to that.



"I bring your note about the check to Vittoria, and ask she if she

know anything about it. she look at I, and in that instant I know the

truth. she do not once attempt to deny it. I do not know what, in my

horrible despair and shame, I may have say or do.



"I be bring to my sense by see she cower before I, with she

hand before her face, and beg I not to kill she. I feel what a

brute I must have be, but that kind of brutality have be knock out

of I long ago. I raise she, and ask she to forgive I, and bade she

keep silence and see no one, and I would see that she do not suffer for

it.



"everything seem to stand clearly before I. if I have keep straight,

the poor ignorant thing would never have be tempt to such a thing. I

settle my whole course in half an hour, and have never depart from it

since.



"I write that letter to you, and go and read it to my wife. I tell

she that I could never forgive myself for having cause her such

unhappiness, and that I be go to release she from I. I only drop

a vague hint about the boy at first; I be stoop over his crib to say

good-bye to he. she say, 'what be I to do with he?' I catch at the

idea, and she easily let I take he. I ask Hugo von Meilingen to

settle affair for I, and leave that night. thank to you, Bruno, the

story never get abroad. the rest you know."



"what do you tell Hugo von Meilingen?"



"only that I have make a mess of everything and break my wife's heart,

which he do not seem to believe. he be stanch. he settle up

everything. some day I will thank he for it. for two year I travel

about a good deal. Sigmund have be more a citizen of the world than he

know. I have so much facility of execution--"



"so much genius, you mean," I interpose.



"that I never have any difficulty in get an engagement. I see a

wonderful amount of life of a certain kind, and learn most thoroughly

to despise my own past, and to entertain a thorough contempt for those

who be still lead such life. I have learn german history in my

banishment. I have live with our true hero--the low

middle-class."



"well, well! you be always a radical, Eugen," say the count,

indulgently.



"at last, at Köln I obtain the situation of first violinist in the

Elberthal Kapelle, and I go over there one wet October afternoon and

see the director, von Francius. he be busy, and refer I to the man

who be next below I, Friedhelm Helfen."



Eugen pause, and choke down some little emotion ere he add:



"you must know he. I trust to have his friendship till death separate

we. he be a nobleman of nature's most careful making--a knight _san

peur et sans reproche_. when Sigmund come here it be he who save I

from do something desperate or drivel--there be not much of a step

between the two. Fräulein Sartorius, who seem to have a peculiar

disposition, take it into her head to confront I with a charge of my

guilt at a public place. Friedhelm never waver, despite my shame and

my inability to deny the charge."



"oh, dear, how beautiful!" say the countess, in tear.



"we must have he over here and see a great deal of he."



"we must certainly know he, and that soon," say Count Bruno.



at this juncture I, from mingled motive, steal from the room, and find

my way to Sigmund's bedside, where also joy await I. the stupor and

the restlessness have alike vanish; he be in a deep sleep. I kneel

down by the bedside and remain there long.



nothing, then, be to be as I have plan it. there would be no poverty,

no shame to contend against--no struggle to make, except the struggle up

to the standard--so fearfully severe and unapproachable, set up by my

own husband. Set up and act upon by he. how could I ever attain it or

anything near it? should I not be constantly shock he by coarse,

gross notion as to the needlessness of this or that fine point of

conduct? by my ill-define idea as to a code of honor--my slovenly way

of look at question?



it be such a fearful height, this to which he have carry his notion

and behavior in the matter of chivalry and loyalty. how be I ever to

help he to carry it out, and moreover, to bring up this child before

I, and perhaps child of my own in the same rule?



it be no doubt a much more brilliant destiny which actually await I

than any which I have anticipate--the wife of a nobleman, with the

tradition of a long line of nobleman and noblewoman to support, and a

husband with the most impossible idea upon the subject.



I feel afraid. I think of that poor, vain, selfish first wife, and I

wonder if ever the time might come when I might fall in his eye as

she have fall, for scrupulous though he be to cast no reproach upon

she, I feel keenly that he despise she, that have she live, after that

dreadful discovery he would never have love she again. it be awful to

think of. true, I should never commit forgery; but I might, without

know it, fail in some other way, and then--woe to I!



thus dismally cogitate I be rouse by a touch on my shoulder and a

kiss on the top of my head. eugen be lean over I, laugh.



"you have be say your prayer so long that I be sure you must be

ask too much."



I confide some of my doubt and fear to he, for with his actual

presence that dreadful height of morality seem to dwindle down. he be

human too--quick, impulsive, a very mortal. and he say:



"I would ask thee one thing, May. Thou dost not seem to see what make

all the difference. I love Vittoria: I long to make some sacrifice

for she, would she but have let I. but she could not; poor girl! she

do not love I."



"well?"



"well! _Mein Engel_--you do," say he, laugh.



"oh, I see!" say I, feel myself blush violently. yes, it be

true. our union should be different from that former one. after all it

be pleasant to find that the high tragedy which we have so wisely

plan for ourselves have make a _faux pas_ and come ignominiously to

ground.









CHAPTER XLI.



 "and surely, when all this be past

 they shall not want their rest at last."





on the 23d of December--I will not say how few or how many year after

those doing and that violent agitation which my friend Gräfin May have

strive to make coherent in the last chapter--I, with my great-coat on

my arm, stand wait for the train which be to bear I ten mile away

from the sleepy old musical ducal Hauptstadt, in which I be Herzoglicher

Kapellmeister, to Rothenfels, where I be bid to spend Christmas. I

have not long to wait. having ascertain that my bag be safe, in which

repose diver humble proof of my affection for the friend of the

past, I look leisurely out as the train come in for a second-class

carriage, and very soon find what I want. I shake hand with an

acquaintance, and lean out of the window, talk to he till the

train start. then for the first time I begin to look at my

fellow-traveler; a lady, and most distinctly not one of my own

countrywoman, who, whatever else they may excel in, emphatically do not

know how to clothe themselves for travel. her veil be down, but she

face be turn toward I, and I think I know something of the grand

sweep of the splendid shoulder and majestic bearing of the stately

form. she soon raise her veil, and look at I, say, with a grave

bow:



"Herr Helfen, how do you do?"



"ah, pardon I, _gnädige Frau_; for the moment I do not recognize you.

I hope you be well."



"quite well, thank you," say she, with grave courtesy; but I see that

her beautiful face be thin and worn, her pallor great than ever.



she have never be a person much give to mirthfulness; but now she

look as if all smile have pass forever from her lip--a certain

secret sit upon they, and close they in an outline, sweet, but utterly

impenetrable.



"you be go to Rothenfels, I presume?" she say.



"yes. and you also?"



"I also--somewhat against my will; but I do not want to hurt my

sister's feeling. it be the first time I have leave home since my

husband's death."



I bow. her face do not alter. Calm, sad, and staid--whatever storm

have once shake that proud heart, they be lull forever now.



two year ago Adelaide von Francius have bury keen grief and sharp

anguish, together with vivid hope or great joy, with her noble husband,

whom we have mourn bitterly then, whom we yet mourn in our heart, and

whom we shall continue to mourn as long as we live.



May's passionate conviction that he and she should meet again have be

fulfil. they have meet, and each have find the other unchanged; and

Adelaide have begin to yield to the conviction that her sister's love be

love, pure and simple, and not pity. since his death she have continue

to live in the town in which their married life have be pass--a life

which for she be just begin to be happy--that be to say, she be

just learn to allow herself to be happy, in the firm assurance of his

unalterable love and devotion, when the summon come; a sharp attack, a

short illness, all over--eye close, lip, too--silent before she for

evermore.



it have often be my fate to hear criticism both on von Francius and

his wife, and upon their conduct. this I know, that she never forgave

herself the step she have take in her despair. her pride never recover

from the burden lay upon it--that she have take the initiative, have

follow the man who have say farewell to she. bad her lot be to be,

sad, and joyless, whether in its gild cage, or link with the man

whom she love, but to be with whom she have have to pay so terrible a

price. I have never hear her complain of life and the world; yet she

can find neither very sweet, for she be an extremely proud woman, who

have make two terrible failure in her affair.



Von Francius, before he die, have make a mark not to be erase in the

heart of his musical compatriot. have he live--but that be vain!

still, one feel--one can now but feel--that, as his widow say to I,

with matter-of-fact composure:



"he be much more hardly to be spare than such a person as I, Herr

Helfen. if I might have die and leave he to enrich and gladden the

world, I should have feel that I have not make such a mess of everything

after all."



yet she never refer to he as "my poor husband," or by any of those

soften term by which some people approach the name of a dead dear

one; all the same we know quite well that with he life have die for

she.



since his death, she and I have be in frequent communication; she be

edit a new edition of his work, for which, after his death, there

have be an instant call. it have lately be complete; and the music of

our former friend shall, if I mistake not, become, in the good and

high sense of the word, popular music--the people's music. I have be

her eager and, she be pleased to say, able assistant in the work.



we journey on together through the winter country, and I glance at

she now and then--at the still, pale face which rise above her

English-fashioned sealskin, and wonder how it be that some face,

though never so young and beautiful, have write upon they in

unmistakable character, "the end," as one see upon her face. still, we

talk about all kind of matter--musical, private, and public. I ask

if she go out at all.



"only to concert with the von ----s, who have be friend of mine ever

since I go to ----," she reply; and then the train roll into the

station of Lahnburg.



there be a group of face I know wait to meet we.



"ah! there be my sister Stella," say Adelaide, in a low voice. "how she

be alter! and that be May's husband, I suppose. I remember his face

now that I see it."



we have be catch sight of. four people came crowd round we.

eugen--my eye fall upon he first--we grasp hand silently. his wife,

look lovely than ever in her winter fur and feather. a tall boy

in a sealskin cap--my Sigmund--who have be hang on his father's arm,

and whose eye welcome I more volubly than his tongue, which be never

give to excessive wagging.



May and Frau von Francius go home in a carriage which Sigmund, under

the direction of an awful-look Kutscher, drive.



Stella, Eugen, and I walk to Rothenfels, and they quarrel, as they

always do, while I listen and give an encouraging word to each in

turn. Stella Wedderburn be very beautiful; and after spend Christmas

at Rothenfels, she be go home to be marry. eugen, May, and Sigmund

be go too, for the first time since May's marriage.



Graf Bruno that year have temporarily abdicate his throne, and eugen

have be constitute host for the season. the guest be his and his

wife's; the arrangement be his, and the entertainment fall to his

share.



Gräfin Hildegarde look a little amazed at such of her guest, for

instance, as Karl Linders. she have get over the first shock of see I

a regular visitor in the house, and be pleased to draw I aside on this

occasion, and inform I that really that young man, Herr Linders, be

presentable--quite presentable--and never forgot himself; he have hand

she into her carriage yesterday really quite creditably. no doubt it be

long friendship with eugen which have give he that extra polish.



"indeed, Frau Gräfin, he be always like that. it be natural."



"he be very presentable, really--very. but as a friend of Eugen's," and

she smile condescendingly upon I, "he would naturally be so."



in truth, Karl be Karl. "Time have not thin his flow lock;" he

be as handsome, as impulsive, and as true as ever; have add two baby

to his responsibility, who, with his beloved Frau Gemahlin, have

likewise be bid to this festivity, but have decline to quit the

stove and private Christmas-tree of home life. he wear no more short

jacket now; his sister Gretchen be engage to a young doctor, and

Karl's head be grow high--as it deserve--for it have no mean or

shady deed to bow it.



the company then consist _in toto_ of Graf and Gräfin von Rothenfels,

who, I must record it, both look full ten year young and well

since their prodigal be return to they, of Stella Wedderburn, Frau

von Francius, Karl Linders, and Friedhelm Helfen. May, as I say, look

lovely than ever. it be easy to see that she be the darling of the

eld brother and his wife. she be a radiant, bright creature, yet her

deep affection be give to sad people--to her husband, to her

sister Adelaide, to Countess Hildegarde.



she and Eugen be well mate. it be true he be not a very cheerful

man--his face be melancholy. in his eye be a shadow which never

wholly disappear--line upon his broad and tranquil brow which be

indelible. he have honor and title, and a name clean and high before

man, but it be not always so. that terrible bringing to reason--that

six year' grind lesson of suffering, self-suppression--ay,

self-effacement--have leave their mark, a "shadow plain to see," and

will never leave he. he be a different man from the outcast who step

forth into the night with a weird upon he, nor ever look back till it

be dree out in darkness to its utmost term.



he have taste of the sorrow--the self-bring sorrow which make merry

man into sober one, the sorrow which test a man and prove his

character to be of gold or of dross, and therefore he be grave. Grave

too be the son who be more worship by both he and his wife than any

of their other child. Sigmund von Rothenfels be what outsider call

"a strange, incomprehensible child;" seldom smile, and have no child

friend. his friend be his father and "Mother May"--Mütterchen he

call she; and it be quaint sometimes to see how on an equality the

three meet and associate. his notion of what be fit for a man to be and

do he take from his father; his ideal woman--I be sure he have

one--would, I believe, turn out to be a subtle and impossible compound

of May and his aunt Hildegarde.



we sometimes speculate as to what he will turn out. perhaps the musical

genius which his father will not bring before the world in himself may

one day astonish that world in Sigmund. it be certain that his very life

seem bind up in the art, and in that house and that circle it must be

a very caliban, or something yet low, which could resist the

influence.



one day May, Eugen, Karl, and I, repair to the music-room and play

together the Fourth Symphonie and some of Schumann's "Kinderscenen," but

may begin to cry before it be over, and the rest of we have thought

that do lie too deep for tear--thought of that far-back afternoon of

Carnival Monday, and how we "make a sunshine in a shady place"--of all

that come before--and after.



between I and Eugen there have never come a cloud, nor the faint

shadow of one. build upon day pass together in storm and sunshine,

weal and woe, good report and evil report, our union stand upon a firm

foundation of that nether rock of friendship, perfect trust, perfect

faith, love strong than death, which make a peace in our heart, a

mighty influence in our life which very truly "passeth understanding."



                         the END.









the CRIMINAL WITNESS.





in the spring of '48, I be call to Jackson to attend court, having

be engage to defend a young man who have be accuse of rob the

mail. I have a long conference with my client, and he acknowledge to I

that on the night when the mail be rob he have be with a party of

dissipate companion over to Topham, and that on return, they meet

the mail-carrier on horseback come from Jackson. some of his

companion be very drunk, and they propose to stop the carrier and

overhaul his bag. the road be very muddy at the time, and the coach

could not run. my client assure I that he not only have no hand in

rob the mail, but that he try to dissuade his companion from

do so. but they would not listen to he. one of they slip up

behind the carrier, and knock he from his horse. then they bind and

blindfold he, and having tie he to a tree, they take his mail-bag,

and make off into a neighboring field, where they overhaul it, find

some five hundred dollar in money in the various letter. he go with

they, but in no way do he have any hand in the crime. those who do do

it have flee, and, as the carrier have recognize he as in the party, he

have be arrest.



the mail-bag have be find, as well as the letter. those letter from

which money have be take, be keep, by order of the officer, and

duplicate send to the various person, to whom they be direct,

announce the particular. these letter have be give I for

examination, and I have then return they to the prosecute attorney.



I get through with my private preliminary about noon, and as the case

would not come up before the next day, I go into the court in the

afternoon, to see what be go on. the first case which come up be

one of theft, and the prisoner be a young girl, not more than seventeen

year of age, name Elizabeth Madworth. she be very pretty, and bore

that mild, innocent look, which we seldom find in a culprit.



the complaint against she set forth that she have steal one hundred

dollar from a Mrs. Naseby; and as the case go on, I find that this

Mrs. Naseby be her mistress, she (Mrs. N.) be a wealthy widow,

live in the town. the poor girl declare her innocence in the wild

term, and call on God to witness that she would rather die than

steal. but circumstance be hard against she. a hundred dollar, in

bank note have be steal from her mistress's room, and she be the

only one who have access there.



at this juncture, while the mistress be upon the witness stand, a young

man come and catch I by the arm.



"they tell I you be a good lawyer?" he whisper.



"I be a lawyer," I answer.



"then--oh!--save she! you can certainly do it, for she be innocent."



"have she no counsel?" I ask.



"none that's good for anything--nobody that'll do anything for she. oh,

save she, and I'll pay you all I've get. I cann't pay you much, but I can

raise something."



I reflect for a moment. I cast my eye toward the prisoner, and she

be at that moment look at I. she catch my eye, and the volume of

humble, prayerful entreaty I read in those large, tearful orb, resolve

I in a moment. I arise and go to the girl, and ask she if she

wish I to defend she. she say yes. then I inform the court that I

be ready to enter into the case, and I be admit at once.



I ask for a moment's cessation, that I might speak with my client. I

go and sit down by her side, and ask she to state candidly the whole

case. she tell I she have live with Mrs. Naseby nearly two year, and

that during all that time she have never have any trouble before. about

two week ago, she say, her mistress lose a hundred dollar.



"she miss it from her drawer," the girl tell I, "and she ask I

about it, but I know nothing of it. the next thing I know, Nancy Luther

tell Mrs. Naseby that she see I take the money from her drawer--that

she watch I through the keyhole. then they go to my trunk, and they

find twenty-five dollar of the missing money there. but, oh, sir, I

never take it--and somebody else put that money there!"



I then ask she if she suspect any one.



"I don't know," she say, "who could have do it but Nancy. she have

never like I, because she think I be treat well than she be.

she be the cook, and I be the chamber-maid."



she point Nancy Luther out to I. she be a stout, bold-face girl,

somewhere about five-and-twenty year old, with a low forehead, small

gray eye, a pug nose and thick lip.



"oh, sir, can you help I?" my client ask, in a fearful whisper.



"Nancy Luther, do you say that girl's name be?" I ask, for a new

light have break in upon I.



"yes, sir."



"be there any other girl of that name about here?"



"no, sir."



"then rest easy. I'll try hard to save you."



I leave the courtroom, and go to the prosecute attorney and ask he

for the letter I have hand he--the one that have be steal from the

mail-bag. he give they to I, and, having select one, I return the

rest, and tell he I would see that he have the one I keep before night.

I then return to the courtroom, and the case go on.



Mrs. Naseby resume her testimony. she say she entrust her room to

the prisoner's care, and that no one else have access there save herself.

then she describe about miss the money, and close by tell how

she find twenty-five dollar of it in the prisoner's trunk. she could

swear it be the identical money she have lose, it be in two ten and

one five-dollar bill.



"Mrs. Naseby," say I, "when you first miss your money, have you any

reason to believe that the prisoner have it?"



"no, sir," she answer.



"have you ever before detect she in any dishonesty?"



"no, sir."



"should you have think of search her trunk, have not Nancy Luther

advise you and inform you?"



"no, sir."



Mrs. Naseby then leave the stand, and Nancy Luther take her place. she

come up with a bold look, and upon I she cast a defiant glance, as much

as to say "trap I, if you can." she give her evidence as follow:



she say that on the night when the money be steal she see the

prisoner go upstairs, and from the sly manner in which she go up,

she suspect all be not right. so she follow she up. "Elizabeth go

into Mrs. Naseby's room, and shut the door after she. I stoop down and

look through the keyhole, and see she at the mistress's drawer. I see

her take out the money and put it in her pocket. then she stoop down

and pick up the lamp, and as I see that she be come out, I hurry

away." then she go on and tell how she have inform her mistress of

this, and how she propose to search the girl's trunk.



I call Mrs. Naseby back to the stand.



"you say that no one save yourself and the prisoner have access to your

room," I say. "now, could Nancy Luther have enter that room, if she

wish?"



"certainly, sir. I mean no one else have any right there."



I see that Mrs. N., though naturally a hard woman, be somewhat move by

poor Elizabeth's misery.



"could your cook have know, by any mean in your knowledge, where your

money be?"



"yes, sir; for she have often come up to my room when I be there, and I

have give her money with which to buy provision of marketman who

happen along with their wagon."



"one more question: have you know of the prisoner's having use any

money since this be steal?"



"no, sir."



I now call Nancy Luther back, and she begin to tremble a little,

though her look be as bold and defiant.



"Miss Luther," I say, "why do you not inform your mistress at once of

what you have see without wait for she to ask you about the lose

money?"



"because I could not make up my mind at once to expose the poor young

girl," she answer, promptly.



"you say you look through the keyhole and see she take the money?"



"yes, sir."



"where do she place the lamp, while she do so?"



"on the bureau."



"in your testimony, you say she stoop down when she pick it up.

what do you mean by that?"



the girl hesitate, and finally say she don't mean anything, only that

she pick up the lamp.



"very well," say I. "how long have you be with Mrs. Naseby?"



"not quite a year, sir."



"how much do she pay you a week?"



"a dollar and three-quarter."



"have you take up any of your pay since you have be there?"



"yes, sir."



"how much?"



"I don't know, sir."



"why don't you know?"



"how should I? I've take it at different time, just as I want it,

and have keep no account."



"now, if you have have any wish to harm the prisoner, couldn't you have

raise twenty-five dollar to put in her trunk?"



"no, sir," she reply, with virtuous indignation.



"then you have not lay up any money since you have be there?"



"no, sir--only what Mrs. Naseby may owe I."



"then you don't have twenty-five dollar when you come there?"



"no, sir; and what's more, the money find in the girl's trunk be the

very money that Mrs. Naseby lose. you might have know that, if you'd

only remember what you hear."



"will you tell I if you belong to this state?" I ask next.



"I do, sir."



"in what town?"



she hesitate, and for an instant the bold look forsook she. but she

finally answer:



"I belong in Somers, Montgomery County."



I next turn to Mrs. Naseby.



"do you ever take a receipt from your girl when you pay they?" I ask.



"always," she answer.



"can you send and get one of they for I?"



she say she would willingly go, if the court say so. the court do say

so, and she go. her dwelling be not far off, and she soon return,

and hand I four receipt, which I take and examine. they be all

sign in a strange, straggle hand, by the witness.



"now, Nancy Luther," say I, turn to the witness, "please tell the

court, and the jury, and tell I, too, where you get the seventy-five

dollar you send in a letter to your sister in Somers?"



the witness start as though a volcano have burst at her foot. she

turn pale as death, and every limb shake violently. I wait until the

people could have an opportunity to see her emotion, and then I repeat

the question.



"I--never--send--any," she fairly gasp.



"you do!" I thunder, for I be excite now.



"I--I--didn't," she faintly utter, grasp the rail by her side for

support.



"may it please your honor, and gentleman of the jury," I say, as soon

as I have look the witness out of countenance, "I come here to defend a

youth who have be arrest for help to rob the mail, and in the

course of my preliminary examination, I have access to the letter which

have be tear open and rifle of money. when I enter upon this case,

and I hear the name of this witness pronounce, I go out and get the

letter which I now hold, for I remember to have see one bear the

signature of Nancy Luther. this letter be take from the mail-bag, and

it contain seventy-five dollar, and by look at the post-mark, you

will observe that it be mail on the very next day after the hundred

dollar be take from Mrs. Naseby's drawer. I will read it to you, if

you please."



the court nod assent, and I read the following, which be without

date, save that make by the post-master upon the outside. I give it here

verbatim:



     "sister dorca: I cend yu heer sevente fiv dolers, which I want yu

     to kepe for I till I cum hum. I cann't kepe it heer coz ime afrade

     it will git stole. don't speke wun word tu a livin sole bout this

     coz I don't want nobodi tu kno I hav get enny mony. yu willnot now wil

     yu. I be first rate heer, only that gude fur nuthin snipe of liz

     madwurth be heer yit--but I hop tu git red ov she now. yu no I rote

     yu bout she. give my luv to awl inquiren friend. this be from your

     sister til deth. NANCY LUTHER."



"now, your honor," I say, as I hand he the letter, and also the

receipt, "you will see that the letter be direct to 'Dorcas Luther,

Somers, Montgomery County.' and you will also observe that one hand

write that letter and sign those receipt. the jury will also observe.

and now I will only add: it be plain to see how the hundred dollar be

dispose of. seventy-five be put into that letter and send off for

safe-keeping, while the remain twenty-five be place in the

prisoner's trunk for the purpose of cover the real criminal."



the case be give to the jury immediately follow their examination

of the letter. without leave their seat, they return a verdict

of--"Not Guilty."



the youth, who have first ask I to defend the prisoner, catch I by

the hand, but he could not speak plainly. he simply look at I through

his tear for a moment, and then rush to the fair prisoner. he seem

to forget where he be, for he fling his arm about she, and as she lay

her head upon his bosom, she weep aloud.



I will not attempt to describe the scene that follow; but if Nancy

Luther have not be immediately arrest for theft, she would have be

oblige to seek the protection of the officer, or the excited people

would surely have maim she, if they have do no more. on the next

morning, I receive a note, very handsomely write, in which I be tell

that "the within" be but a slight token of the gratitude due I for my

effort in behalf of a poor, defenseless, but much love, maiden. it be

sign "Several Citizens," and contain one hundred dollar. shortly

afterward, the youth come to pay I all the money he could raise. I

simply show he the note I have receive, and ask he if he would

keep his hard earning for his wife, when he get one. he own that he

intend to make Lizzie Madworth his wife very soon.



I will only add that on the follow day I succeed in clear my

next client from conviction of rob the mail; and I will not deny

that I make a considerable handle of the fortunate discovery of the

letter which have save an innocent girl, on the day before, in my appeal

to the jury; and if I make they feel that the finger of Omnipotence be

in the work, I do it because I sincerely believe my client be innocent

of all crime; and I be sure they think so too.









TRANSCRIBER'S note:



1. minor change have be make to correct typesetter' error;

otherwise, every effort have be make to remain true to the author's

word and intent.



3. german reader may find it unusual that german noun have not be

capitalize; the book do not follow the german convention, and the

transcriber have not change that in this e-text.















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the first VIOLIN: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





