The project Gutenberg eBook of the Wellfields: a novel. Vol. 2 of 3

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the wellfield: a novel. Vol. 2 of 3



author: Jessie Fothergill



Release date: December 8, 2022 [eBook #69498]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Richard Bentley and son, 1880



credit: Peter Becker, Brian Wilsden and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the wellfields: a novel. VOL. 2 of 3 ***



 Transcriber's note: italic text be denote by _underscore_ and

 bold text by =equal signs=.









  the WELLFIELDS.





  a novel.





  BY

  JESSIE FOTHERGILL,

  AUTHOR of ‘the first violin’ and ‘PROBATION.’





  in three VOLUMES.

  VOL. II.



  [illustration]



  LONDON:

  RICHARD BENTLEY and son,

  Publishers in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen.

  1880.



  [_all Rights Reserved._]









[illustration]









content of VOL. II.





    STAGE II.—_Continued._



  CHAPTER                                              PAGE



    VI. in danger                                         1



   VII. the working of the SPELL                         47



  VIII. the first of BRENTWOOD                           77



    IX. ‘DON’T FRET’                                    115



     X. INDIAN SUMMER                                   133





    STAGE III.



     I. INTERMEDIATE                                    139



    II. LEBENDE BILDER                                  149



   III. the second meeting                              163



    IV. HERR FALKENBERG’S FRIENDSHIP                    185



     V. the LION and the MOUSE                          206



    VI. UNAWARES                                        221



   VII. ‘an ENEMY HATH do this’                       229



  VIII. FATHER SOMERVILLE gather the threads together  249



    IX. ABSCHIED UND RÜCKKEHR                           264









[illustration]









=the WELLFIELDS.=





=STAGE II=—_Continued._









CHAPTER VI.



in DANGER.



  ‘oh death, that mak life so sweet!

   oh fear, with mirth before thy foot!’





when Nita and Jerome again arrive at the Abbey, they find that Mr.

Bolton have return from Burnham, and that the midday dinner, which be

an institution in the family, be wait for they.



‘have you settle anything?—has Nita help you?’ inquire Mr. Bolton.



‘Miss Bolton have be very kind indeed, and have probably save I from

waste a great deal of my small stock of money,’ reply Jerome.



‘ah!’ say Mr. Bolton, appreciatively, ‘that’s always something gain.’



he ask his daughter what she be go to do that afternoon, and Nita

say she be go to drive to the town of Clyderhow to do a little

shopping.



‘why Clyderhow? the shop in Burnham be a great deal well.’



‘because I like the drive to Clyderhow,’ say Nita; ‘and there be a

wonderful milliner there. Aunt Margaret get a bonnet from she with five

ostrich tip in it, and a bird, and three bow of black satin ribbon,

and a great deal of velvet, for the sum of two guineas.’



‘so you go by the quantity of stuff you get for your money when you

choose bonnet?’ ask Mr. Bolton.



‘Aunt Margaret do. she like plume. I think I might perhaps find

something sweetly modest and simple, with one feather and one bow, and

a little flower or sprig for instance, for next to nothing.’



‘be this shopping consider a secret service affair?’ inquire Jerome;

‘or may I go too, if I sit quite still while you be in the shop, and

promise not to look that way?’



‘I be afraid you would think it a great bore,’ say Nita quickly, as

her face flush.



‘I suppose it be because I love to bore and afflict myself that I

ask permission to go,’ he answer, with a smile.



‘I shall be most happy to take you if you would really like to go. will

you come too, papa?’



‘what an idea!—I hope not!’ think Jerome, within himself, and Mr.

Bolton be oblige enough to say:



‘I?—no. I never drive in the afternoon. I be go to my italian, as

usual.’



but as the carriage be not order to be round until half an hour

after dinner, Mr. Bolton propose to Jerome that they should take a

walk round the garden and have a cigar. Nita watch the two figure

as they pace together towards the cloister. the eld man, with the

massive line, broad, sturdy figure, somewhat below middle height,

but still impose in its power and strength; the somewhat bow back

and high shoulder; the round, bull-dog head, with its expression of

dog determination. the young—Nita lean against the side of the

window and fold her arm, as she contemplate he with a strange

mixture of sensation. what a contrast to that dear familiar figure of

the man who be note for his hardness and coldness to other, but who

be so gentle, so tender and indulgent to she, and to the few friend

who compose their small circle of intimate—a contrast indeed! the

new-comer be—unconsciously she recall those line in ‘Esther’—



  ‘he be a lovely youth; I guess

  the panther in the wilderness

      be not more fair than he.’



‘the panther in the wilderness!’ that be an evil comparison; surely

he be good as well as beautiful. be it really only yesterday that he

have arrive—not yet twenty-four hour ago? and how long would he still

be here? and what would the Abbey, everything be, when he be go? she

turn hastily away from the window, and would not venture another look.



the two man pace about the river walk for a time, till Mr. Bolton

ask:



‘do you know any of the people about here?’



‘I meet an old acquaintance this morning—Father Somerville, from

Brentwood.’



‘Somerville! you know he? be he any favourite of your?’



‘as to that, I can hardly say. I like what I have see of he, but know

very little of he. I fancy we have many taste in common. he be a

cultivate man, who have see the world, I think.’



‘ay, ay! he’s clever, be Somerville, and attractive too, I could

fancy. I never let any of those gentry inside my house.’



‘no?’ say Jerome, indifferently. ‘I hope you have no objection to your

visitor know they, for I have promise to go and see he to-morrow.’



‘oh, my visitor do as they please, I hope. so long as he do not

darken my door, it’s all one to I what he do. Nita, I be thankful

to say, be not of an hysterical temperament, for all she be so

slight and delicate. she have never display any tendency to be

over-religious, or go in for Ritualism or that kind of mummery; else

I should have have to send she to a good sharp school.’



‘Miss Bolton have never be to school?’



‘no; her mother die when she be two. by that time I be a rich man;

and as I know I should never marry again, I take Nita’s education

into my own hand. she will inherit my money and my property; and I

have give she the education of a man of business. she will know to a

fraction what she be worth; and if she fall into any snare, it will

be with her eye open.’



‘that be well,’ say Jerome, gravely, wonder a little why Mr.

Bolton, on so short an acquaintance, choose to discourse to he on this

topic. and with Father Somerville’s advice fresh in his mind, he feel

interested in that topic—wrongfully interested.



‘your daughter will marry some one who will administer her fortune

wisely, it be to be hope,’ he say.



Mr. Bolton sigh. ‘I suppose she must marry,’ he say, slowly. a girl

with that money ought to marry. one have hear of wealthy maiden lady

of large property live alone, and exercise power over all around

they; but,’ he turn suddenly to Wellfield, ‘do you ever hear or read

of one, in real life or even in a romance, who be not unhappy? I never

do.’



‘I really don’t feel to know much about the subject,’ say Jerome,

feel that they be skirt delicate ground, wonder more and

more that Mr. Bolton speak thus to he, of all person.



‘Nita have tell I about your sister, and your view about she,’ he go

on. ‘I like you for your behaviour, Mr. Wellfield.’



‘I?’ stammer Jerome, surprised. ‘Miss Bolton must have misunderstood.’



‘no. she tell I you have a half-sister, to whose use you intend

to devote what money you have, while you seek for employment for

yourself. I like to hear of a man treat his sister in that way.’



Jerome be silent—surprised. he feel his tongue tie. his natural

impulse be to please, when his companion show a predisposition to be

pleased. he feel a desire to say something which should still far

excite Mr. Bolton’s goodwill, and make he—Jerome Wellfield—feel on

still well term with himself. but the thought of Sara Ford rise up,

and forbid he to do so. he continue his walk in silence.



‘I have a proposition to make to you,’ say Mr. Bolton, suddenly.

Jerome turn to he with his lip apart, and a quick inquire look

upon his face. could it be that Father Somerville have the gift of

second-sight?



‘it’s not a very brilliant proposition; and it be all found on the

assumption that you know nothing of business; no book-keeping for

instance, no clerkship routine. do you?’



‘no, I do not; I know absolutely nothing of those thing.’



‘well, if I find you capable—excuse my bluntness,’ he say, with

the same pedantic little air which characterise his speech—‘we

manufacturer be apt to be a little scornful of a want of practical

talent; but if I find you capable, and you would care to try, I think

I could find you some employment in my own office. but you would have

to begin by learn the very element of your work from my book-keeper

and cashier. if you like to come over to Burnham two or three time a

week, for a short time, and try, you be welcome.’



‘you be very kind!’ say Jerome, astonish: ‘I have no possible claim

upon such——’



‘you do not in the least know my reason for make you the offer,’

reply Mr. Bolton, with a calm superiority that make Jerome feel

somewhat snubbed; ‘therefore, do not be in any haste to express your

gratitude. my book-keeper will soon turn you out a finished article, if

you be to be turn out at all.’



‘sublime destiny! the god might envy I!’ think Jerome, within

himself; but he say: ‘I shall accept your offer with gratitude. I do

not know how I should have find anything, with my ignorance and my

utter want of influence.’



‘that’s right! and in the meantime take holiday till next week, and

enjoy yourself. there’s Nita’s phaeton go round, I see, and the

groom; I suppose she will be ready.’



with which laconical dismissal of the whole subject, he lead the way to

the house again.



Nita drive a high phaeton, with a spirited pair of roans. in answer to

Jerome’s suggestion that he should drive she look so rueful that he

laugh, say:



‘if that be the case I shall be only too glad to _be_ driven. I be

indolent enough for anything.’



‘I be glad to hear it,’ reply Nita, take the ribbon. very soon

they be drive at a pleasant speed through the lane lead towards

Clyderhow, whose ancient castle, on a mound, confront they for a

great part of the distance.



‘what do Mr. Bolton mean, when he speak of “his italian”?’ ask

Jerome, reflectively.



Nita laugh as she flick the roans lightly.



‘of course you would not understand,’ she answer. ‘italian be papa’s

favourite weakness. do you ever see anyone so unlike Italy as he be?

poor old dear! he always use to read in the afternoon, and one day he

be peruse a little book aloud to I, and I be sewing. there come

some allusion to “the fiery dome and cupola of the city of Dis.” he

ask I what it mean, and I tell he about the “Inferno.” he say:

“that’s very fine—those fiery dome and cupola. I must know some more

about it.” with which he take to study italian, and be now devote

to it. it be very seldom that he fail to give a few hour each day to

it. he be translate the “Inferno,” in his rough, plod way. I be

glad he find something to amuse himself with, for he have have a sad

life.’



‘sad? he have be unusually successful, have he not?’



‘oh, in money-matter, yes. but my mother die just when he hope to

give she everything she desire—and more. and he be—he be very fond

of she.’



‘I see! I might have understand that,’ reply Jerome; and then, after

a pause, ‘Mr. Bolton have be make very kind offer to I.’



‘have he? what manner of offer?’



he tell she.



‘do you call that a kind offer?’ cry Nita impatiently, as her face

flushed. ‘how could he suggest such a thing? oh, really, how hard man

can be!’



‘perhaps you think he should at once have place the half of his

possession at my disposal. be it not well to be “hard,” as you call

it, than an idiot?’



‘well, I suppose it be. but life be such a mystery.’



‘as how—I mean how exemplified in my case?’



Nita laugh with a little embarrassment.



‘I never can explain thing. but it be a mystery. you a clerk! what an

idea! you must feel it to be absurd, yourself, don’t you?’



‘I have not think much about it. it have to be do.



  ‘“when land be go and money spend,”



you know.’



‘pray what would your _sister_ say to it?’



‘Avice? well, really, I don’t suppose she have any clear idea as to

what clerk be, or do. if I tell she I be go to be a tailor, she

would think it all right if I say so.’



‘be she that kind of a sister?’



‘yes,’ say Jerome, in perfect good faith. he imagine indeed that

Avice be that kind of a sister; essentially the right kind of sister.

woman ought all to be like that—blind to the fault of those they

love—when ‘those’ be man. the man to work, the woman to admire; the

worker to rule, the admirer to submit. it be a beautiful arrangement.



‘I daresay it be very nice in she to be like that,’ say Nita, ‘but if

I have have a brother, I should not have be that kind of a sister at

all. I should have tell he very plainly what I think of his doing,

and if I imagine that he be degrade himself, I should have tell he

that too.’



‘would you, at the same time, have provide he with the mean of

act up to what you consider a high standard?’



‘it be a _shame_!’ Nita burst out almost passionately, after a pause.



how naïvely she show her interest, Jerome think, with a little

sense of pleased, flattered self-complacency. how delightfully natural

she be—and what a curious contrast to that woman whose proud lip have

already confess her love for he: to Sara Ford! his heart suddenly

throb as he think of she. dangerous thought! he must not indulge

in it, and accordingly, to turn the conversation, he say:



‘you have singular idea on the subject of brother and sister,

possibly because the relation be purely a matter of speculation to

you.’



‘oh no, it ben’t. Jack be my brother.’



‘John Leyburn?’ he ask, with a feeling of surprise that be not

altogether pleasant. sooth to say, he have forget Leyburn for the

moment, and here he be suddenly crop up again in a manner that be

obtrusive—thrust himself in where he be not in the least want.



‘John Leyburn—yes.’



‘privileged young man! he seem to I, like most cousin, to make the

most of his advantage.’



‘what do you mean?’ ask Nita.



‘he take every opportunity of lecture you. and you—well, you be

consistent, I must own; you do tell he very plainly what you think of

he.’



‘of course I do! and as for John’s lecture, I be accustom to they

by now. they mean nothing, except that we be great friend—more than

cousin; in fact, brother and sister.’



‘and how long, if I may ask, have the fraternity be superadde to the

cousinship—and the friendship? it make a complicated relationship.’



‘it never be superadded. it have always exist—for I.’



‘always?’ echo Jerome, vaguely displeased.



‘yes, of course. I be nineteen, and John be twenty-eight. when I be

bear, we live at Burnham, and so do the Leyburns. Uncle Leyburn

marry papa’s only sister, and be his great friend. they live at

Burnham too, then. John be nine year old then, of course. the first,

or one of the very first thing I can remember, be his show I

picture of bird—he be mad about bird, you know—and take I by the

hand for a little walk, and play with I in general. I suppose I be

about three year old then.’



‘and Leyburn twelve. he be that age when I know he, sixteen year

ago. they have just come to Abbot’s Knoll. yet I do not remember his

ever say anything about you. perhaps you occupy a small place in

his heart than you imagine.’



‘oh no!’ say Nita, with calm conviction. ‘he never talk much about

thing. he would not be likely to talk about I. he always give his

mind to what he be do at the moment; and when he be play and

learn lesson with you, he would not talk about I. besides, we

be still at Burnham. but he be always kind when he come back to I.

John teach I to read, and implant in my mind that love of light

literature which he now pretend to deplore—the great humbug!’



Nita laugh a pleased little laugh, speak of a tender affection for

the absent ‘humbug.’ the course which the conversation have take grow

less and less pleasing to Jerome. he feel a strong desire to displace

John from his pedestal, or at least to make he, in vulgar parlance,

‘step down a peg or two.’ a spirit of perverse folly take possession of

he. lean a little forward, and speak in a discreetly low voice,

mindful of the groom who sit behind, he rest his elbow on his knee,

and fix his eye on Nita’s face, say:



‘then he have never give you cause to suppose that a sister’s affection

would hold a secondary place in his thought?’



‘you speak ambiguously,’ reply Nita, occupy in guide her horse

through a very narrow lane. ‘sister’s affection—secondary place! I do

not understand.’



‘be sister jealous when their brother marry?’



‘oh, I see! certainly not, if they have any sense,’ be the most

decide answer; ‘they may be angry, you know, if the wife their brother

choose be dislike by they; but if they have no ground for dislike

she, they would be selfish and foolish, simply, to be jealous when

their brother marry.’



‘you say John Leyburn be your cousin and your friend and your brother

all in one. suppose he take it into his head to get marry—he must be

lonely in that great house of his by the river.’



‘if John be to marry,’ repeat Nita, slowly and pensively.



her hand be fully occupy; for at this moment they be drive

down a steep hill, and the roans be fresh. she could not have hide

her face, have she wish to do so. as her eye meet Jerome’s, a quick

flush rise on her cheek—a flush which grow deep.



‘if she care for he, there can be no danger in my asking question;

she be in no danger with I,’ think Wellfield, with characteristic

indolence, and also with a characteristic wish to find out whether she

‘care’ irrevocably for John Leyburn. and he say:



‘if John be to marry—yes. what be to hinder he? would his wife

consider he your brother? would she see it in the same light, do you

think?’



‘she would be a very nasty girl if she do not,’ say Nita, with a

heighten colour and flash eye, ‘when I should do all in my power

to be kind to she.’



‘oh, you would do all in your power to accomplish that? then you would

not mind if John get marry?’



‘I should mind it very much if his wife be such an odious woman as

you seem to think she would be. step in and destroy——’



‘the friendship of a lifetime; break every social tie, and so

on. let we put it in another light. suppose he marry, and marry

some one of so generous a disposition as to wish he not to lose his

sister——’



‘I should not call that generous, but merely decent and reasonable.’



‘well, he marry this decent, reasonable woman, and then you marry. do

you think your husband would look upon John in the light of a brother?’



‘Mr. Wellfield, what strange question you ask!’



‘not at all. you would have to consider the subject when you marry.’



‘but I be not go to be marry. I know papa think I shall have to,

but I don’t intend it at all.’



‘intention have less than nothing to do with such a matter. when you

fall in love with some one, and he ask you to marry he, you will do

so of course, since you be neither a nun, nor a lunatic, nor in any

way a perverse or ill-condition person,’ he answer tranquilly,

while Nita look at he in startled amazement, her heart beat

with the same strange sense of a thrilling new emotion as she have

this morning experienced. in all their nineteen year of brother and

sisterhood, John have never dare—be ‘dare’ the word to use? no—it have

never occur to John to speak to she in such a manner as do this

man whom she have first meet yesterday. yet she do not feel resentment

towards he, though she try to think she do, and answer as if she

do.



‘how can you speak to I in that manner? as if I have no strength of

will—as if I be an idiot.’



‘not at all; but as if you be, what you be—a woman, and a good one,’

he reply. then, before she could answer, he go on: ‘but I think you

want to shirk my question, Miss Bolton. you be afraid to look your

position fairly in the face.’



‘I don’t see it.’



‘you have not tell I what you would do in case the man you marry

refuse, or be unable to see, John Leyburn in the pure white light of

brotherhood.’



‘I don’t see the use of discuss such wildly improbable

contingency. But’—she suddenly burst into a laugh—‘if the bad come

to the bad, I should have to sink John to the rank of a friend and

cousin. he would have to—well, he would have to manage as well as he

could. but you be very unkind to shatter my little day-dream in that

way—so wantonly, too! you be the first person who ever care to shake

I out of my pleasant delusion. I have always look upon John as a

brother.’



‘very pleasant for he, as I think I observe before.’



‘why only for he, pray? I owe far more to he than he owe to I.

he have make I well and wise than I ever should have be without

he; not that I be much to boast of in the matter either of wisdom or

goodness; but most of what little I have I owe to John. and then, he be

almost my only friend.’



‘perhaps that be a matter in which I may find cause for rejoice?’



‘_you!_’ echo Nita, turn suddenly to he, and find his sombre

eye fix upon her face. she turn she own quickly away again. ‘I

don’t understand,’ she say, a little confusedly.



‘yes, I; even I. if you have have many friend and many claim upon your

time and your attention, would you have have leisure to do all the

kind thing you have perform for I in the short time since I come

here?—to think all the kind thought which I know you have think?

should I have be able to endure be under your father’s roof if I

have find you engross with other—look upon I as an alien and

an interloper, instead of treat I as you have do? it would have

madden I, I think. no; do not try to deny your own goodness. I have

feel it every hour since I meet you; and to one in my position, every

kind thought and gentle action on the part of other be as another bead

add to one’s string of pearl.’



Nita be perfectly silent. her under-lip quiver a little. tear

rush to her eye and blind she. she have keep up all along a brave

show of light-heartedness and carelessness; but Wellfield have lay his

spell upon she from the first moment of meet he. so long as he

merely talk nonsense to she, she could appear indifferent. the moment

he touch deep spring, her heart give way, and her outward gaiety

collapse. they be both absorb—both in danger. Nita be struggle

to choke back her emotion; but the thought of this poor, proud, lonely

fellow at her side, disinherit, and grateful even for her goodness,

be an overpowering one. Wellfield himself be watch she with an

agreeable sensation of power.



at this juncture, while Nita’s hand retain scarcely any hold on the

rein, they slowly turn a sharp corner in the road, arrive at the

summit of a hill, and be suddenly confront by a panting, groan,

snort traction-engine, industriously toil up the hill with two

huge truck full of block of white stone; and urge onwards by its

engineer and stoker with loud phrase and ejaculation as if it have

be a live creature.



Nita’s roans fail to recognise any kinship in this strange and

hideous monster. they shy, swerve, plunge for a moment; then

bolting, tear along the short space of level ground at the top of the

hill, and proceed to rush at full gallop down the next incline.

Jerome see that Nita turn suddenly pale, and set her tooth. she

know what be come, and he do not. she tighten her hold on the

rein, but the roans be young and strong and fresh; her wrist be

small and slender. they dash round the first curve of the road,

and from Nita’s lip escape a low ‘ah!’ as they see before they a

straight steep hill, at the bottom of which be a deep mill-dam, then

a mill-race, rush swiftly along; a narrow stone bridge span the

stream at the foot of the hill, and on the opposite side rise another

hill as steep as the one down which they be tear.



Jerome quickly lay his hand on her wrist. personal cowardice in

moment like this be not amongst his fault.



‘let they alone!’ say Nita, between her tooth. ‘they don’t know your

hand: you shall not touch they.’



without a word, he put forth his other hand, break she clench finger

apart, as if they have be straw, and take the ribbon from her hold.

the frantic animal feel a new hand—a firm, but a fresh one, and for

the moment their terror increase. down the hill they fly, and the

carriage sway ominously to and fro. Jerome with a side-glance see the

face of the girl beside he, white as death. she do not clutch at the

rail, or in any way try to hold herself fast, but clench her hand

before she on her knee, and look towards the mill-race—towards the

deep, green pool above the bridge and the foaming fall below it, and to

the grey-stone mill sleep peacefully on the other side.



then Jerome perceive that, lumber slowly towards they on the

bridge, be two large lorry, pile with bale of cotton good, and

he know that to run into they mean death. all the despondency he have

feel—all the wish to be rid of life and its unasked-for, uncalled-for

burden disappear, and only the desire to conquer this impending fate

remain behind. he find himself mechanically measure either side

of the road, to see if there be no side-way—no escape from the end to

which they seem to be rush, and his hold on the rein tighten

and tighten till it grow to a strain in which he expend all his

strength.



they be within twenty yard of the bridge, and as yet he have see

no way out of it. he see every slight action of all around he,

and it record itself as indelibly upon his consciousness as if he

have have hour of leisure in which to observe it all. he see how the

two stolid-look carter suddenly become aware of the nature of the

position—see they cast up their hand and run to their horse’ head,

to pull they as far to one side as possible.



‘idiot!’ he think, ‘as if that would do any good!’ and even as

he think it, he perceive to the left hand of the road a square

embrasure, such as be find in the north of England frequently, though

I know not if they exist in the south. in such an embrasure the

stone be pile up which the breaker have to operate upon, and in

this particular one be pile of stone already break: it be wall

round, and below the wall the bank of the field slope steeply down. if

he could not rein in the horse, and they leap the wall, the result

be not agreeable subject of contemplation, but even they would be

less dreadful than the gruesome fate proffer by the mill-race and the

little stone bridge.



he succeed in turn the horse into the embrasure, and they,

confront suddenly by a four-foot high stone wall, plunge madly, and

attempt to force their way out again. but the hand that hold they have

at last master they. they be curb. dance about in the narrow

space, they be force to contain themselves, till the groom jump

down, and one of the carter, come forward, take their head, and

Jerome be at last free to guide they back to the road, and to look at

his companion.



now that the danger be over she have break down. her face be bury

in her hand, and she be shake with hysterical sob. Jerome bend

over she, remove her hand from her face, and say in a gentle,

authoritative voice:



‘be you afraid? look up! it be over now.’



‘oh, my God!’ she gasp. ‘it be my carelessness. they want careful

driving, but they never shy if one keep a firm hand, and I be not

hold they in at all—oh, I think I have kill you!’



‘my dear child, don’t let that distress you!’ he exclaim, still in

the same low voice.



the two carter be now hold the horse’ head, while the groom

look to see if any damage have be do to the phaeton, and stare

with stupid, yet well-mean compassion upon the young lady, whose

agitation to they be quite account for, woman not be reckon

very courageous amongst such as they.



‘don’t, don’t say so!’ she exclaim, in uncontrollable agitation. ‘I

shall never forget it. I think I see you in the water, drown.’



there be an ominous sound as of an hysterical laugh mingle with her

sob.



‘you must control yourself,’ say he, composedly, ‘and get out of the

phaeton for a short time. we will walk about a little, and go into

the mill, and you can rest there.’ he jump out, and take her hand.

‘suppose you alight,’ he add, in a voice which be in reality a

command.



Nita step slowly forth, and waver a little as she touch the

ground. Jerome seat she on one of the stoneheap, and then get into

the phaeton. the horse be now perfectly quiet, but trembling and

bathe in sweat.



‘thank you,’ he say to the man, give they some money. ‘we need not

keep you any long.’



‘eh, but measter, thou tak’s it uncommon cool,’ say one of they,

apparently desirous of improve the occasion. ‘dost know thou wert

nigh on be do for for ever in yon pond?’



‘I know all about it,’ say Jerome, soothingly touch the horse’

neck.



‘it be a mir’cle as thou come na’ to grief o’er yon wa’, too,’

pursue he; ‘they’s skittish critter, I reckon.’



‘skittish or not, I can manage they, and bad than they be. good-day,

friend. I be oblige to you.’



dismiss thus curtly, the man be fain to move their lorry out of

the way, thus leave room for Jerome, follow by the groom, to drive

the phaeton across the bridge and into the stable-yard of the corn-mill

on the other side of the water. he relate what have happen, and soon

receive the miller’s permission to leave the horse there for quarter

of an hour, until Miss Bolton be sufficiently recover to proceed.

then, leave the man with the horse, he go back again to Nita, and

find she seat where he have leave she, and sob still now and then.



‘my dear Miss Bolton, you must try to control yourself, or you will

make yourself ill, and alarm your father needlessly.’



‘Alarm my father!’ she say, look up; ‘what do alarm matter, after

that deadly fear? I tell you, I feel as if I see your face sink

beneath the pond there—all through I! oh, it be horrible! it haunt

I.’



‘it be pure imagination. you be on that side, remember. think what

would have be my feeling if I have have to go home and tell Mr. Bolton

that his daughter be drown!’



‘it would have serve I right. I know the horse. I know they shy if

one do not keep they well in.’



‘do you? well, you see, I manage to restrain they, even after they

have shy. never mind my precious personality, I implore you. you be

safe!’



‘I—miserable little wretch that I be!’ exclaim Nita, in so deep, so

profoundly bitter a voice that he be surprised out of all caution.



‘Nay—that be a strange thing to say,’ he remark. ‘it would never do

for poor old Wellfield to lose all its heir. what would have become of

it if you have be drown? for my sake, don’t talk in that way.’



‘ah!’ she exclaim passionately, ‘do not reproach I with that. do

you suppose that I shall ever again have one moment’s pleasure in that

idea? after know you—what do you take I for?’



‘I take you to be nervous and unstrung, and over-anxious. and I be sure

it be my duty to get you home as soon as possible. come! the carriage

be at the other side of the bridge.’



‘oh, it be impossible to go in the carriage again. I will walk. I be an

excellent walker, and it be only four mile.’



‘and I?’



‘you will walk too, with I. the groom will bring back the carriage

when the horse be fit to come.’



‘and what if I think it well to drive, and make a point of your

drive with I?’



she look up in some surprise, and find he calmly survey she in

a manner which leave no doubt as to his meaning. he be overrule she,

and he intend to be obey. she rebel, momentarily.



‘really, you be very—my nerve——’



‘be quite strong enough to carry you home, and point out to I the way

round by Clyderhow, which be the road I intend to take to Wellfield

Abbey. there be no reason why you should not do your shopping too,’ he

add, gently.



‘impossible!’ say Nita, in so decide a voice that he at once resolve

that it should, on the contrary, become possible. with the exercise of

power grow the delight in it. cost what it might, Nita should go to

Clyderhow, and do her shopping, because he wish it. he know perfectly

well that he have flirt with she, and have draw her attention

from her horse. he know that she would not have be wrong have she

reproach he with having cause the accident; but he be resolve

that, far from that, she should continue to accuse herself, and the

power and authority should remain on his side as before.



‘can you not trust I?’ he ask. ‘I will take great care of you. if

you refuse, I shall know that you be offend, and have lose all

confidence in I.’



his voice be soft, his accent gentle and caressing; the expression

on his lip and in his dark eye have something in it partake of

tenderness. it all subdue Nita’s reluctance, and lay her fear, as

it be, under a spell. within the last day life and her own identity

have grow strange to the girl. she know herself no more. but she still

hesitate, till Jerome say:



‘by this I shall know whether I have lose your confidence or not. if

you let I drive you to Clyderhow, _i_ shall not forget to keep a firm

hand on the rein.’



Nita rise. ‘I will do as you wish,’ she say, with a tremor of the lip.



‘thank you, dear Miss Bolton,’ he reply, a tone of exultation in his

voice, as he draw her hand through his arm, and place his other hand

upon it as if to steady she, he lead she across the bridge to the mill.



in a very short time they be in the phaeton, with Wellfield on this

occasion in the driver’s seat, and Nita, subdue and soothe, be

point out the way to he.



they presently arrive in the main street of the town of Clyderhow,

when Nita make a last abortive attempt to escape from the shopping

expedition. but Jerome would not allow it.



‘you be quite recover,’ he say. ‘you be not go to faint. and

you say you want a bonnet like your aunt’s, with five ostrich

feather in it.’



‘I never do!’ cry Nita, indignation get the well of

reluctance. ‘I think Aunt Margaret’s taste in bonnet be horrible.’



‘well, which be the shop? I shall consider myself entitle to go in and

preside over the purchase, under the circumstance.’



‘that be the shop at the end of the street, if you will go. but I be in

no state to buy bonnet.’



‘no?’ he say, look at she, intently. ‘I should have think—well,

you do look a little pale, perhaps. but I shall be able to tell you

what suit you. here we be.’



he hand she out, and push open the shop-door, he stand by for she

to pass: then follow, see she sudden start and recoil, and hear the

exclamation:



‘Aunt Margaret!’



‘the deuce!’ murmur Jerome, discomfit for the moment; but instantly

recover himself, he too advance, and, like Nita, confront Miss

Margaret Shuttleworth.



she look very stern and terrible. she be stand upright before

a tall glass, attire in the full panoply requisite for a visit to

town—perfectly upright, and perfectly self-possess. one article only

of her attire be want, and that be her bonnet, which lie on a

chair hard by, while over her straight grey hair be visible a little

black silk cap, such as elderly lady wear, or do wear, beneath their

bonnet—and which cap, when not yet cover by the superior headdress,

impart a look of hardness to the gentle countenance. its effect upon

the severe feature of Miss Shuttleworth give an additional terror to

her glance, and additional sternness to her eye. a slight young woman

hold in her hand a bonnet, which she be apparently about to place upon

Miss Shuttleworth’s head, when that lady, with a wave of the hand,

stop she, and reply to Nita’s astonished exclamation:



‘yes, it be Aunt Margaret. what of that?’



‘nothing, aunt dear. but I be so astonished to see you. I think you

have get a bonnet.’



‘so I have, but it do not suit I. put it on now,’ to the young woman,

who tremble visibly, but who obey at once.



it be undoubtedly _the_ bonnet, and it sit upon Miss Shuttleworth’s

head like a plume upon a hearse. no other comparison be for a moment

admissible. slowly, and with dignity, she turn her head this way and

that; and before formulate her objection, condescend to greet

Wellfield.



‘good-afternoon, Mr. Wellfield. have you come to help my niece to

choose a bonnet?’



‘yes,’ say Jerome, composedly.



‘I be sure you look as if you would give she valuable assistance in

such a matter,’ be the reply, ambiguous in its nature. be it to

be consider complimentary, or otherwise? Jerome, with a gravity

as imperturbable as her own, say he should feel highly honoured if

he could be of any use to Miss Shuttleworth in the same matter. she

turn away with a jerk. having always have a monopoly in the sphere of

disagreeable, if dubious remark, she do not appreciate this intrusion

on a province peculiarly her own.



‘Nita,’ she say, sharply, ‘don’t you see what be wrong with this

bonnet? it’s like a plume on a hearse.’



‘it suit you admirably, Miss Shuttleworth,’ say Jerome, blandly.



‘you must alter the feather,’ say Miss Shuttleworth to the young

woman; ‘you must make they lie flatter. you understand what I mean.

otherwise I shall never enter your shop again. now, Nita,’ as she

remove the bonnet, and reach her hand for her old one, ‘what do

_you_ want? let we see whether, with Mr. Wellfield’s assistance, we

cannot find something suitable. poor John never could have help

anyone to choose a bonnet,’ she add, pointedly.



Nita’s face flush. Miss Shuttleworth continue to say disagreeable

thing, and Nita to grow more and more embarrassed, and the more

disagreeable the one become, and the more confused the other, the more

utterly calm and self-possess remain Jerome Wellfield; nor do he

allow a single sharp speech of Miss Shuttleworth’s to go unanswered,

nor do he abstain from pay a single compliment to Nita, in

consideration of the new and discordant element introduce. the whole

affair, a mere joke at the commencement, have grow more serious; for

Jerome’s manner, in proportion as he be goad by Miss Shuttleworth’s

shaft, grow more _empressé_ towards Nita, while she, confuse with

the danger they have pass through, intoxicate and bewilder by the

look which occasionally meet hers when she encounter Jerome’s eye,

anxious to conceal all her emotion from her aunt, scarcely know where

she be or what she be do. nothing suit she: at last she throw

off a bonnet which the young woman have try she on, and say hastily

and decidedly that she would call again another day. she be tired, and

could not decide upon anything then.



‘not even with Mr. Wellfield’s help?’ inquire Miss Shuttleworth,

blandly.



‘as if Mr. Wellfield care anything about bonnet!’ say Nita, sharply.

‘cann’t you see when you be be laugh at, aunt?’



‘Nita!’ ejaculate Miss Shuttleworth, in a tone of the utmost pain and

astonishment.



but Nita be already on her way out of the shop. Jerome speak to Miss

Shuttleworth:



‘Miss Bolton be upset,’ he say. ‘we have have a serious accident, and

only just escape with our life. she be unnerved.’



‘I don’t understand it at all,’ say Aunt Margaret, all her pugnacity

go, and look as she feel, perfectly bewildered.



‘I be sure Miss Bolton will explain later,’ he continue. Miss

Shuttleworth look at he, as if wonder who and what he be that he

should thus take upon himself to make explanation; but with a stiff

‘good-afternoon,’ she go out at the door, and he follow she.



Nita see she, and ask if she would not drive home with they. Miss

Shuttleworth be on the point of refuse with decision and asperity,

but something in her so-call ‘niece’s’ look catch her observant

eye—a weariness, a whiteness, a languor. she say:



‘I don’t mind if I do. that’s to say, if you leave I in peace to the

back seat, for I hate the front one unless I know the driver.’



‘sit where you like, aunt,’ be the reply, as Jerome come forward and

offer his help.



but Miss Shuttleworth refuse, and unaide clamber up to the back

seat, present a liberal allowance of very spare leg and white cotton

stocking to the enraptured view of Miss Bamford’s young lady, who,

from the work-room on the second floor, be gaze down upon the

proceeding with the intense interest, and speculate with a burning

curiosity as to who that gentleman could be who have drive up with Miss

Anita Bolton of the Abbey; who hand she into the phaeton with such

assiduous care, and bent over she with such a look of attention as he

speak a word to she before drive off.



‘he look like a foreigner,’ and ‘he’s very handsome,’ be the most

definite and the most general conclusion arrive at.



meantime the phaeton drive off, and arrive at the Abbey without

further misadventure. Miss Shuttleworth intimate her intention of

come in and staying supper. Jerome whisper to Nita:



‘you will go upstairs and take some rest before supper, _for my sake_!

and I will find Mr. Bolton and tell he: no, I will not alarm he too

much. do not fear. will you promise to rest?’



‘yes,’ say Nita, faintly, as he help she down, and she and her aunt

go upstairs together.









[illustration]









CHAPTER VII.



the working of the SPELL.



 ‘not that the play be worth much, but it be finely act.... but

  that which do please I more than anything in the whole world be

  the musique when the angell come down; which be so sweet that it

  ravish I.... neither then nor all the evening I be able to think

  of anything, but remain all night transport.’—PEPYS’ _Diary_.





rest and quiet, it seem, be not to fall immediately to Nita’s

lot. she conduct Miss Shuttleworth to her room, and sit down in an

easy-chair while that lady make her slow and lengthy, if not elaborate,

toilette for the evening.



‘what’s the meaning of all this, Nita?’



‘all what, aunt?’



‘this drive about with young Wellfield, and have accident, and

lose your temper—_you_, of all people, and insult your old aunt,

and look miserable?’



‘I don’t know why you should seek to attach any meaning at all to it. I

be drive carelessly, when we suddenly meet a traction-engine come

up the hill; the horse bolt, and but for Mr. Wellfield’s get the

rein into his own hand—but for his courage and coolness, we should

both have be dead now. surely that be enough to unnerve anyone!’



‘then if you be so unnerved, what induce you to go to the

bonnet-shop in Clyderhow?’



‘I overrate my strength, I suppose, and in the joy of be safe

imagine myself less shake than I really be.’



‘Humph!’



Miss Shuttleworth go to the drawer in Nita’s wardrobe, which be

sacred to the cap she always wear at the Abbey. look through

her store, she carefully select a yellow and green one; the most

intrinsically hideous and extrinsically least suited to her style of

beauty of any of the collection, and then she return to the glass to

put it on.



‘don’t fall in love with Mr. Jerome Wellfield, Nita. let he fall

in love with you if he like; but don’t _you_ do it,’ she say,

deliberately.



‘Aunt Margaret! do you want to insult I?’ she ask, sit up, pale

and breathless with anger.



‘not at all. I want to warn you. he be very romantic-looking—remind

one of Byron’s hero, only more agreeable in general society than

they would have be; but depend upon it, my dear, it be all look. no

Wellfield ever have a heart for anyone but himself.’



‘oh, I be so tired of listen to that old story, aunt! you would not

say a good word for the Wellfields to save your life. such constant

abuse make one begin to take the side of those who be abuse.’



‘ah, I fear you be very far go already!’



‘how dare you! how _dare_ you speak to I in such a manner! pray, what

have you see in my manner to Mr. Wellfield to make you assert such a

monstrous thing?’



‘Plenty, and I hear plenty more in your voice now,’ be the unmoved,

unwavere retort. ‘and all that an old woman like I can do, be to

keep on warning and warning. don’t fall in love with he, Nita; for if

you do, it will bring nothing but disaster. he be not of the kind that

make loving and faithful husband.’



‘when you be quite ready, I shall be glad if you will leave I alone,’

reply Nita, composedly; ‘or if you do not choose to leave I, I will

leave you, and go to some other room. I be tired, and want to rest

before I come down to supper. all that you say be utterly without

foundation, and it make I very unhappy.’



‘that be odd, if it be without foundation,’ say Miss Margaret,

fasten on a huge lace collar with the utmost tranquillity. ‘I

will say no more to-night, but I shall consider it my duty to repeat

my warning at interval. you be the only young relation I have, and

I should think it wrong to do less. all I say now, be, never marry a

Wellfield in the hope of happiness.’



with that she leave the room. Nita be alone. perhaps she rest;

perhaps not. she throw off her hat, push her hair back from her

aching temple, and bury her hot and throbbing brow in her hand. she

feel no inclination to weep now: only a kind of feverish, breathless

excitement, as the scene with the runaway horse again start vividly

up before her mind’s eye, and she could think of nothing else; could

only live over again what have seem the long eternity of agony she

have feel as they rush down the hill, before Jerome have succeed in

turn the horse aside, and so save they. it be a scene which

she know would be present with she for day, perhaps week. add to

that, the subtle inexplicable meaning in Wellfield’s eye, in the

tone of his voice, and in the touch of his hand; then the home-come,

and her aunt’s calm, monotonous, even-tone voice, as she repeat she

warning—warning, the remembrance of which make the blood rush hotly

to her face, then madly back to her heart, cause it to beat wildly,

and leave her pale and trembling. she feel absolutely ill. should

she send an excuse, and not go to the drawing-room again to-night? no;

certainly not. she would not let anyone see how foolish she be. if

she remain upstairs John would be uncomfortable, and would miss she;

her father’s quiet evening with the savage would be spoil; her aunt

would wave her green and yellow cap-ribbon in triumph, convince that

her warning have take effect, and Wellfield would think she a poor

creature, while she—would not see he, nor speak to he, nor touch his

hand again till to-morrow morning. she start up, and begin to make

she toilette with unusual slowness and care, and with finger which

she could not compel not to tremble.



Downstairs she find, as she have expect, John Leyburn, as well as

Miss Margaret. they be all in the drawing-room, and supper be

announce before she have answer her father’s inquiry or sit down.

this give she the opportunity of retain his arm, and walk into

the dining-room with he. the meal seem a long one. Nita be thankful

when it be over, and they go into the drawing-room again. Wellfield

do not immediately come there. he say he be go for a stroll by

the river, and he go out at the open hall-door into the garden. Mr.

Bolton be not a demonstrative man: he go to his accustomed table

with the reading-lamp, and take up his book. Miss Shuttleworth pull

out a stocking, take a chair (a straight-back one, as might have be

expect), and knit, with a still rocky severity of countenance.

John be arrange cushion on a couch near the window.



‘come here,’ he say to Nita. ‘you be to lie down, and I will sit

beside you.’



‘I’m not tired,’ say Nita.



‘yes, you be,’ he reply, smile his good, pleasant smile. ‘come

here, or I put on my hat and go home this moment.’



‘home! this be as much your home as any other place,’ she say,

comply with his behest.



‘More, since my sister Nita be in it. there!’ he add, take his

place beside she as she lie down, and give a long sigh of relief; ‘now

tell I what you have be do this afternoon.’



‘that you may give one of your favourite lecture, I suppose,’

say Nita, smile. but by degree she tell he the history of the

afternoon’s adventure, while it grow dark within the room, and their

voice sink lower, and Mr. Bolton read on, and Miss Shuttleworth’s

needle click, click, as if they go by clockwork.



‘oh, John! how ashamed I be! I could not look he in the face,’

murmur Nita, at the end of this conversation.



‘Ashamed—of what?’ ask John, in his slow tone, and look at she

with his near-sighted eye.



‘of my carelessness, my folly, which so nearly cost he his life!’



‘and you yours. I tell you what it be, Nita; it must have be a very

engrossing conversation that cause you to loose your hold on the

ribbon. be it allowable to ask what it be all about?’



‘partly about you,’ reply Nita, surprise into the admission by this

sudden appearance in John of an astuteness with which she have not for a

moment credit he.



‘about I? what about I?’



she be silent.



‘you willn’t say—or cann’t. forget, perhaps. I wonder if Wellfield have,

too? I’ll ask he.’



‘he will have forget too,’ reply Nita



‘I think as much,’ say John, and silence fall upon they too.



       *       *       *       *       *



Wellfield wander beside the river into the field—some broad,

pleasant, open field where the river be wide, and form a broad,

shallow, brawl kind of waterfall. to-night there be a full moon,

which, as night fall, replace the day with a soft brilliance.

he muse as he walk, not with the heartbeat and the tumultuous

agitation which have shake Nita, but with vague wonder, and a vague

repining. why have he not know of all this reverse of circumstance a

few month early, before he have meet Sara Ford and learn to love she?

if Sara have not be there, imperiously command his love, how easy

it would have be to accept Father Somerville’s outspoken counsel, to

make love to Nita Bolton (this with a calm obliviousness or ignore of

the fact that what he have do that afternoon be, if not love-making,

at least an excellent imitation of it), marry she, and once more

enjoy his own. it be now quite impossible, of course, and his little

experiment this afternoon have just suffice to show he that have he

only be free, it might have be. he do not wish to be free—not

he! who would wish to be free who be love by Sara Ford? but surely

it be not wrong to picture what might have be if he have never meet

she. he could not tell she of what might have be; but he wish she

could know it—could know what his love for she would stand, what hot

temptation, what fiery trial it would carry he through unscathed.



and now, how to behave towards Nita? of course he must not deceive she:

he must try to enlighten she on the subject of his engagement; it be

only fair. but not to-night: she be too shake and unstrung to-night

to bear more excitement—he tacitly assume that the revelation would

cause excitement to she—to-night he must be gentle and quiet, and let

her rest. so he argue within himself, the truth be that to Jerome

Wellfield it be very much easy and infinitely pleasanter to be on

good than on evil term with a woman—with all woman not absolutely

hideous, and that it be the most natural thing in the world for he

to treat any young woman, especially if she happen to be the only

one there, as if she be the object of his most special care and

attention. then too, he feel himself welcome at the Abbey, and the

sense of this, and the luxury of the sympathy and commiseration, the

admiration and the pity which Nita with every look, every gesture,

every tone of her voice, offer to he, lull he into a sensuous

inactivity—the kind of inactivity to which his nature be always

perilously prone. the pain of planning, and consider, and of con

over adverse circumstance, be great. the pleasure of half-dreamy talk

with a woman whom some inner emotion make beautiful for the nonce,

and who he feel wear that pass loveliness because he have call it

there, and the pleasure of be worship, silently yet subtly, be

also great, and very much easy to he than the other alternative.

to-morrow, he think, he would tell she about Sara; to-night he would

tell she about herself.



he go into the drawing-room, and find the group which have already

be describe. Nita’s little whisper dispute with John be over,

and she lie still. the window be open, and Jerome have enter by it.

the evening be warm, and at the Abbey in summer they never draw the

curtain; and from where Nita lie, they could see the tree outside

shimmer in the ghostly moonlight, and the hoary grey wall of

the cloister beside the river, and near, all the stiff quaint

flower-bed, and clip yew, and oddly-shape shrub and plant.



Mr. Bolton, at the other end of the room, have a table and a little

oasis of lamplight all to himself, and be absorb in a book of

travel. Nita be willnot to say that her father be not happy unless he

daily make an excursion to Burnham _in propria personâ_; a descent

into Avernus with the assistance of Dante the immortal, and an

expedition in the evening into some unheard-of corner of the earth with

some traveller, whose tale she aver could not be too wonderful to

be credible; in fact, the more improbable, the well.



except Mr. Bolton’s reading-lamp, there be no light in the room save

moonlight; and the space be so great that the lamplight be lose in

the other ray.



there be silence as Jerome come in, and just glance at Nita’s pale

face, which look almost ghastly in the white moonlight. he pause,

and ask she if she feel rest.



‘yes, thank you,’ reply Nita, with a little catch of her breath,

which John at least notice. ‘I be all right, but John be a tyrant, and

say if I get up he will go.’



‘quite right, too,’ observe Miss Shuttleworth from her corner.



‘would anyone like a light?’ ask Nita.



‘oh, don’t light up! this moonlight be heavenly. it only want music to

make it complete,’ say John. ‘Wellfield, when you be a precocious

infant of eleven, at which age I last know you, you use to play tune

on the piano, and sing little italian song, which use to fascinate

I. have you forget how?’



‘not utterly, though I have no doubt fall off from the first engage

innocence of childhood.’



‘well, willn’t you give we a speciman,’ say the benighted barbarian—‘if

Nita be not too tired?’ he add, turn to she.



‘I—oh no! if Mr. Wellfield will sing, I should like it,’ say Nita,

utterly unconscious that she be invoke the most powerful of the

weapon of fascination possess by her hero, and anxious only to

preserve a little long the friendly moonlight.



‘certainly, if one could ever sing at all, one would be able to do

so in such a place, and with such surrounding as these, observe

Jerome, carelessly, as he strike a chord or two. ‘ah! your piano be a

Bechstein, Miss Bolton; you might have import it on purpose for I.

all I stipulate be, that you will cry “hold!” in a loud voice, when you

have have enough of it.’



he try his hand with a half-forget impromptu of Schubert’s,

and with each bar that he play the old spirit come back to he.

he have not touch a note since the night he have sing to Sara Ford,

at Trockenau. do he remember it? it may be so, but if he do, he

carefully abstain from give any of the song he have sing on that

eventful night. perhaps the present audience be not worthy. at first

he do not sing at all, but wander on through some strange, cobwebby

melody of Schumann and Chopin—strange melody, such as have probably

never before palpitate through that ancient room, since it be first

build, for an abbot’s refectory. at first he think he would not sing

at all; but with the flow of sound, and the exercise of the beloved

art, the old intoxication and exaltation steal gradually over he. he

pause a moment, strike a couple of weirdly sound minor chord, and

sing the strangely suggestive line begin:



  ‘o death, that mak life so sweet!

  o fear, with mirth before thy foot!

  what have ye yet in store for we?

  the conqueror, the glorious?’



if he wish to recall to Nita’s mind their peril of the afternoon,

he succeed most thoroughly in do so. it all rush over her mind

again, overpoweringly, and the whole truth of it. she know as she hear

his voice that never, never have life be so sweet as when, the danger

over, she have see Jerome Wellfield stand at her side, and have hear

his voice, though scarcely comprehend what he say.



so he sing on, song after song; each one with fresh verve and fresh

pleasure—with a purer delight in the exercise of his power. almost

at haphazard, he sing the song and the _scenas_ which he well

remember, just as they come into his mind—faust make love to

Marguerite, and the Troubadour invoke Leonore; one little german

love-song after another—‘Du bist wie eine stille Sternennacht’ make

the tear rush blindingly to Nita’s eye. John Leyburn still sit

beside her couch: he lean back in his chair, and the music work

pleasant vision in his mind, together with a casual wonder whether

Wellfield have never think of go on the stage, where his voice

would certainly have make he a fortune and bring he fame to boot.

‘but he would consider it degrade, I suppose,’ think John. ‘I fear

he be an out-and-out Tory.’ Miss Shuttleworth cease to knit, fold

her mittene hand one over the other upon her knee, and appear at

least to listen. the green and yellow cap-ribbon be portentously

still, but no sign appear upon her countenance of either approval or

disapproval.



Mr. Bolton, who have at first scarce be conscious of what be go

on, slowly and gradually emerge from an imaginary career over the

arid plain of the Pampas, over which he have be in fancy galloping

madly, hotly pursue by a number of vindictive south american savage,

whose arrow threaten death in the rear, while before he be a deep

and rapid river, through which his exhausted horse must swim, if he

be to reach the territory of the near friendly tribe, alive. he

gradually awake to the consciousness that music of no common order be

be make in his daughter’s drawing-room. he do not quite understand

it all—suddenly he hear italian word which he recognise—passionate,

tragic word:



  ‘per pietà non dirmi addiò!

    Non dirmi addiò!

  Dita priva chè farò?

    Dita priva chè farò?’



he feel that they be beautiful; their passion and their fire stir

the blood in his vein. he listen to the glorious end of a glorious

_scena_, and then he shut up his book and wait for more. then it be

that Wellfield turn to something quite different, and sing:



  ‘Du bist wie eine stille Sternennacht,

  Ein süss’ Geheimniss ruht auf deinem Munde,

  in deine dunklen Auges feuchtem Grunde,

  ich weiss es wohl, und nehm’ es wohl in Acht,

  Du bist wie eine stille Sternennacht.’



it be an exquisite romance, and he sing it to perfection. to Mr.

Bolton’s mind it bring, as well it might, remembrance throng

fast of youth and love, and of a time when he have be young, and

when he have wander through the lane of Wellfield on his Saturday

half-holiday, or for his Sunday out, with a girl on his arm, whose

presence be his paradise. in short, Mr. Bolton soon, to his own

profound astonishment, find tear steal from his eye. he be

think of himself, and of his own far-back joy and sorrow; he

be in a twilight land, where he have long be a stranger—a country

which all of we know, and which yet none of we with bodily eye have

see—the country which be illumine by ‘the light that never be on

sea or land’—the country in which strange plant grow—dry flower to

wit, and lock of hair tie up with faded ribbon, and bundle of old

letter—the kingdom of romance.



Nita have change her position; she have turn over on her side, with

her face towards the sofa-back, so that it could not be see. her

handkerchief be press against her mouth, her temple throb, her

eye be close. she lie quite still, save that now and then a slight

shiver shake she from her head to her foot. if it fill John Leyburn’s

good honest heart with sweet, vague dream which he have never know

before, if it waft her dry, business-like, prosaic father back into

a nearly-forget land of faery and of dream, what do it not do for

she, attune by nature as she be, to passion and romance? and how be

she ever to find peace or freedom again?



the last thing that Jerome sing be Zelter’s glorious song, _infelice

in tanto affani_. when he have finish it, when the last pierce,

heart-break note have die away, the despairing



  ‘Ho, perduto!

  Il mio tesoro!

  Tuttu—tuttu fini!’



he rise quickly from the piano, and close it, observe:



‘I quite forget myself. I be afraid I have be inflict myself upon

you.’



John Leyburn rise too.



‘what a lucky dog you be, Wellfield, to have that voice. amongst more

impressionable people than the English, you could charm heart away

with it, I be sure.’



‘I do not understand music,’ observe Aunt Margaret, rise also, ‘and

I be go.’



Mr. Bolton’s voice then come from afar, pedantic and particular as

usual.



‘we be very much indebted to you, Mr. Wellfield. you have give we a

very great treat, and I sincerely hope you will favour we in the same

way on some other occasion.’



with which he pull his lamp up to he again, and re-open his book.



‘Nita, I be go. John will see I home,’ say Miss Shuttleworth,

while John, stoop over Nita, remark:



‘my child, you appear to have collapse altogether.’



Aunt Margaret have go upstairs to take off the green and yellow cap;

Nita turn round, and sit up. her face be pale, and there be an

expression of suffer upon it.



‘I tell you what it be,’ say John, ‘you want a little fresh air, Nita.

suppose you and Wellfield come with Aunt Margaret and I to the gate.

you be afraid to go alone, you know, be such a coward.’



Nita smile faintly.



‘here’s a shawl,’ pursue John. ‘I’ll put it round your shoulder—so.’



she passively allow he to fold the little cashmere about her

shoulder, and when Aunt Margaret come down, and hand John her

umbrella to carry, she call out:



‘Papa, Mr. Wellfield and I be go to see the other to the gate.’



‘Folly!’ observe Miss Shuttleworth, casually, but no one take any

notice of she. they all go out at the window together, Nita with she

hand through John’s arm.



they go lingeringly through the garden, and down the river walk

to the great cavernous gateway call ‘Abbot’s Gate.’ it be indeed

a glorious night, one in a thousand, perfect, still, and clear, and

around they be everything which can add to the glamour and beauty of a

moonlight night.



they parley a few moment with John and Miss Shuttleworth at the

gate, and then it be shut after they with a loud resounding clang,

which echo through the hollow archway. they be alone again.



‘draw the big bolt,’ say Nita, scarcely above a whisper, ‘then we

shall know it be safe.’



‘safe from whom? Leyburn, or Miss Shuttleworth—or both?’ ask

Wellfield.



‘from all—all evil thing,’ answer Nita.



‘complimentary to they,’ he say, lightly, find the big bolt, and

draw it without difficulty. he know it of old, and having push it

to its place, they stand within the dark space, and look at the flood

of grey moonlight which bathe the river walk that stretch before

they.



Jerome draw Nita’s arm through his, and they pass out of the darkness

into that moonlight. Nita turn her step towards a small wicket,

lead by a nearer path to her home, and the drawing-room window.



‘you don’t mean to go that way, and leave the river walk, and this

glorious moonlight!’ he exclaim. ‘that would be a sin. it be not

late. come this way.’



for a moment she waver; then turn and go with he.



Jerome do not confess it to himself, but down in the depth of his

heart he know he be do what be base.



they go very slowly along the grassy walk, on which the dew lie like

grey gossamer in the moon-ray, and for a little time neither speak,

till Jerome say softly:



‘will you trust I to drive you another day, Miss Bolton?’



‘I? why not?’ say Nita, faintly.



‘will you promise to go out with I another day, that I may be sure you

have forgive I my carelessness?’



‘I—be there anything to forgive?’



‘I think so. if I have not be talk sentimental nonsense to you, you

would not have forget to look after your horse, and then——’



‘do not let we say any more about it,’ say she. ‘I shall never forget

it to my die day, but I hate to think of it.’



‘it have shake you sadly; but will you go out with I another day?’



‘oh yes! to-morrow if you like.’



‘that be truly good of you,’ say he, softly. ‘your shawl be not warm

enough,’ he add, stop, as she shiver a little, and he alter

it and fold it more closely about she. as they stand there, his eye

look into her, and by the moonlight he see that her be full of

fear, and that her face be white, and her expression one of pain.



‘I ought not to have bring you out,’ he say, regretfully.



‘no; I think I should like to go in again, please,’ say Nita.



‘you shall, now that I know how good you be,’ he answer, lift up

the hand that lie upon his arm, and stoop his beautiful head towards

it, he touch the tip of her finger with his lip. ‘what a long time

it seem since we walk here this morning,’ he add, ‘do it not?’



‘a very long time,’ respond Nita, in a voice of exceed weariness.



they enter the drawing-room again, and Wellfield, speak to Mr.

Bolton, say:



‘I be sure Miss Bolton ought not to sit up any long. she have be

more shake than she will own by her accident this afternoon, and——’



‘Nita, say good-night, and go to bed,’ say her father, present she

simultaneously with a candle and a kiss. ‘here, shake hand with she,

Mr. Wellfield. good-night, child. off with you.’



       *       *       *       *       *



Nita, lock in her room, begin her preparation for writing. she have

inscribe the word:



‘how much I have to record! what a day this have be! what a century

of event and emotion have be compress into a brief and fleeting

fourteen or fifteen hour. and how little I think when——’



she break off abruptly, cast she pen down, and start from her chair,

pace about the room; her hand before her face, and short, tearless

sob now and then break from her lip.



‘oh! what shall I do?’ she whisper. ‘what will become of I? I

believe I have well have die before I have see he. but if he love

I—oh! if God would let he love I—what be I say?... I be afraid. I

wish some one be here. I dare not be alone.’



she open the door softly. on the mat before it lie Speedwell; he

raise his head, blink at she, and move his great tail up and down

slowly.



‘Speedwell, come in!’ she whisper, beckon to he. the mastiff

obey. Nita lock he into the room with she, and as he sit look

up at she, inquire why she be troubled, she cast her arm about his

faithful neck, and sob as if her heart would break.



when the paroxysm be over, and she look at he, tear be course

down Speedwell’s nose too.



‘you will never tell anyone, will you, Speedwell?’ she mutter. ‘you

be wise and strong than your mistress, old dog and old friend.’



Speedwell watch beside the bed on which his mistress pass a

restless night; her brain full of the rapidly change image of

alternate hope and anguish, rapture and despair and love, with which

her day have be fill.



when morning come, and she look in her glass, it show she a very

wan, white face, with dark ring round the eye, and a piteous curve

about the lip—a face change indeed from that which, if not beautiful,

have give joy to many, and have hitherto be think a sweet face by

those who love and know it well.









[illustration]









CHAPTER VIII.



the first of brentwood.



 ‘I find myself in a richly adorn temple, in which incense be

  burn, where light be twinkle above the altar, and where the

  music be such as to ravish away my very sense. and as I fall upon

  my knee, the choir, which from its sweetness I could have think

  celestial, repeat many time in move accent, the wish of my

  heart—so that it become verily a prayer—and I pour out my soul in

  unison—_dona nobis pacem_.’





the following day be Sunday, and on the arrival of the letter, Jerome

find two for himself, one bear the elberthal post-mark, the sight

of which make his heart beat. the other be direct in a hand he

do not know, but turn it over, he see print on the flap of the

envelope ‘Brentwood.’



‘it must be from Somerville, of course,’ he think, open it

quickly, and his conjecture be right.



  ‘MY DEAR MR. WELLFIELD,



 ‘will you, if you have no other engagement, and if the evening be

 fine, come up to Brentwood to the evening service? I should like to

 present you to the Superior, and we shall be happy if you will remain

 and sup with we.



  ‘sincerely your,

  ‘pablo SOMERVILLE.’



this invitation give he a sense of relief, inexplicable, but strong.

with Father Somerville he feel entirely at his ease; feel that he be

understand, be not take to be a hero, or anything else that he really

be not. here, at the Abbey, he have the very opposite sensation. he

know that he be look upon in the light of an unusual and remarkable

phenomenon. he know, for he have a keen, sympathetic intuition in

such matter, that Mr. Bolton treat he with a respect he be not

willnot to show to stranger—especially penniless one—that even Miss

Shuttleworth’s pointed and elaborate incivility arise chiefly from a

feeling she have that he be dangerous. John Leyburn alone appear to

preserve his natural, deliberate, unembarrassed manner.



Nita—Jerome feel very uncomfortable when he think of Nita—very

uncomfortable as his eye wander from Sara Ford’s handwriting to

Anita Bolton’s face, which face he see be pale, and the reason of

which pallor he know as well as if some one have arise and proclaim

it aloud to he. they be all, without exception, under a false

impression in regard to he. how easy, exclaim a devoted adherent of

right-doing, to remove that false impression! how very easy casually

to let they all know that he be promise and vow to another woman!

be not the excuse there in the shape of Sara’s letter? why not mention

that it be from the girl he be engage to? what easy? ah! what

to some nature? and to other what more difficult? unfortunately it

be difficult to Jerome. he do resolve, as he look at Nita that

morning, and see the difficulty she have in meet his eye, that he

would not make love to she any more; that he would be cold to she even.

such nature as his be give to make such resolution in momentary

silence and reflectiveness; and when the moment come for not make

love, for display coldness, they never recognise it; it be always

‘not now, another time!’ and this, not for fear of hurt a woman’s

feeling, though they would say so, even to themselves, but because

the flattery of a woman’s love be too sweet a dram to be forbear. it

be easy for Jerome Wellfield as he sat exchange commonplace at

the breakfast-table with Nita—and Nita’s father—to swear to himself

that such commonplace alone should be the yea, yea, and the nay, nay,

of his entire conversation with she. when the moment come, in which

he find himself alone with she, or apart with she, the old trick of

the eye, the old smoothness of the tongue slip back again, as if by

some fatality. so long as she believe he he will make love to she;

so long as she will worship he, he will accept the worship, and will

delight in it—and could not refuse it when it be offer, be the

alternative a plunge into the nethermost abyss of remorse—into the

scorch flame of discovery. therefore, it may be predict with

mathematical certainty that he will read that letter that lie before

he; that it will both charm and distress he—the first by its worship

of himself; the next by make he see that the writer believe he

as single-hearted as she be herself. after read it, he will vow to

himself, much and more, ‘I must tell she—I will tell she.’ and he will

go to she, and will tell she—how precious her sympathy be to he, and

how perfect be her nature, and he will look love, if he do not speak

it.



while he be long to open Sara’s letter, and vow great vow to

undeceive Nita as early as might be, she say:



‘we be go to church this morning, Mr. Wellfield. will you come too,

or would you prefer to stay at home?’



‘I will go with pleasure,’ he answer. be it observe that in

Wellfield’s nature there be not, and never have be, one grain of

scepticism in matter religious. it be true he be utterly indifferent

so far as practice be concern, and that, accord to the company he

happen to be in, he would, for week or month at a time, either go

diligently to some place of worship once, or even twice each Sunday,

or never enter one at all, or even think of the matter. where he go

be also almost entirely a matter of indifference, except that he never

frequent conventicle, not at all because he disapprove of the

tenet hold by their supporter, of which he know nothing, or less than

nothing, but because the service hold in they be so bald and tame,

so ugly and ascetic; they appeal in no way to his æsthetic sense,

but rather repel it. anywhere where he could have a fine service,

hear fine voice read or intone, and where there be good music in

which he could join, be acceptable to he, and all his life he have

wander indifferently whither friend or fancy lead he, to service

and church of all kind, but perhaps more to roman catholic one

than to any other. as a small child he have always attend mass with

his mother, have learn to say his _Ave Maria_ and his _Pater Noster_;

and these remembrance remain with he; part of the influence of

Italy. he remember they as he remember his mother’s dark eye, and

gem-like brilliance of beauty—like a delicious dream of another world.



all this, however, do not prevent his putting on his hat and walk

with Nita and her father down the river walk, across the field to

the church. they sit in the stall, one row of which ‘go’ with the

Abbey property. how well he remember it all. if the service be

not of the most elaborate or beautiful, there be other object in

Wellfield Church which make up for a somewhat bald ritual. there be

for instance, much charm for an æsthetic soul in the magnificent carve

work of the splendid old black-oak stall in which they sit, and in

the many other odd old pew and strange device dot up and down.

the singing be of a nature to make the blood freeze in the vein of

he who have any pretence to be a musician. the choir consist of

a number of young man and woman accommodate with seat in the west

gallery, a conspicuous position, close to the organ; and to do justice

to their exalt place, no doubt, they be in the habit of attire

themselves in the very height of the Wellfield fashion, which fashion,

for brilliance of hue and boldness of contrast, would have put to shame

Solomon in all his glory. Jerome find himself seat next to Miss

Margaret Shuttleworth, who look uncompromise. in the dim distance

he see John Leyburn, alone in a great square carve oak pew, the pew

that belong to his house, Abbot’s Knoll, for free and open bench

be as yet unheard of in Wellfield.



the service over, they nearly all meet at the door, as be the fashion

with country congregation. Jerome, having ascertain that the family

dinner do not come off for the space of an hour and a half, or more,

say he be go for a walk, and wander off in the direction of

the woode hill, the Nab, there to read his letter, and make good

resolution with regard to Nita, with an undercurrent of wonder, all

the time, as to what Father Somerville would tell he he ought to do,

if he know all the circumstance of the case.



Nita and John Leyburn, not notice where Jerome go, presently

stroll off in the same direction. Mr. Bolton remain with his

cousin, Miss Shuttleworth, patiently wait till she have finish she

discourse with an odd-looking character, no less a personage than the

sexton of Wellfield church.



‘I’m sorry to hear, Robert, that you get too much on Monday.’



‘I fear I do, Miss Shuttleworth,’ he say, look rather sheepish.



‘it be deplorable,’ say Miss Margaret, shake her head. ‘how be it?

for your wife could give I no proper account of it, and unless you can

clearly prove that you be lead away, I shall be oblige to show my

displeasure this time. I shall have to withdraw my allowance to Mary.’



Mary be his sick daughter.



‘it be aw along o’ th’ brass band contest, Miss Margit; ’twere, for

sure.’



‘the brass band contest, Robert? I don’t see how the brass band contest

could make you get tipsy and tumble into the grave you be dig, as

I hear you do. be it true?’



‘ay, every word on ’t’s true, Miss Margit—more’s th’ pity.’



‘shame on you! but how do it happen?’



he twirl his hat round by the brim, and a lurk smile and twinkle

of the eye betray his inner consciousness that the affair have a

ludicrous as well as a ‘deplorable’ side.



‘well, Miss Margit, I’d getten th’ grave above half-finish, when

I yeard th’ brass band comin’ along to th’ Plough Inn, and it be

th’ middle o’ th’ arternoon, and I be summan (some and) dry, and I

be vary anxious for to hear who’d win, yo’ know, so I fling down my

spade, and I go off to th’ Plough, and theer I find ’em all—every

man on ’em. and we geet to talkin’, and first one offert I a drop, and

then another, till I geet to’ much—I’m free to confess it. I remember

o’ of a suddent as th’ grave be to be ready again th’ mornin’, and

I jump up, and run to th’ churchyard, and set to work to dig wi’ a

will. and whether it be th’ heat—it _be_ gradely hot—or whether I

be fuddle, I know nowt about it, but I turn dizzy all of a moment,

and I tummle down, and fall fast asleep. Th’ grave be o’er yonder,

at th’ fur end o’ th’ yard, and mappen that be why no one seed I,

and wakkene I oop, but when I do awake, it be well-nigh dark, and

I couldna tell for t’ life of I, where I be. so I set oop and look

around, and there in the far distance I yeard th’ sound of a trumpet.

my heart loupe to my mouth, and I thowt, “Robert Stott, it’s last

trump; up wi’ thee!” and I up and clamber out, and stand still.

Ne’er a soul could I see, and aw’ be as still as death. findin’

mysel’ alone, I take courage, for I know as the more part should be o’

th’ wrong side I’ th’ day o’ judgment—our parson’s olez say so, and

I’ve a feelin’ as he’s reet. then again I yeard th’ trumpet-blast, and

I look around again. “what, no more righteous?” I say to mysel’.

“eh, but it’s a poor show for Wellfield.”’



‘_Robert!_’ be all that Miss Shuttleworth could ejaculate,

horror-strike.



‘yes, Miss Margit?’



‘what you say prove you to be in a very unsatisfactory frame of mind

as regard religion.’



‘well, ma’am, I’ve olez agree gradely well with th’ owd vicar. it’s a

grand thing to be _reet_, Miss Margit—a grand thing it be—and _we’re_

reet. I see my son-in-law a-call to I, so I’ll say good-mornin’.’



with which, before she could stop he, Robert Stott have make good his

escape.



‘now, perhaps you’ll allow we to go to the Abbey, cousin,’ observe Mr.

Bolton, shake in a volley of silent chuckle.



‘I be astonish at you, cousin,’ be all the answer he receive, as

Miss Margaret, with her head in the air, float towards the wicket

lead to the Abbey.



but her head suddenly go down again as she recall her niece’s

word yesterday, ‘don’t you see when you be be laugh at, aunt?’



‘be it possible that Stott be laugh at I? surely he would not have

such insolence!’



ponder upon this tremendous topic, she have eye and ear for nothing

else until Mr. Bolton observe:



‘you’ll walk into the river, cousin, directly. would you like to go in,

or shall we walk about till the young one come back?’



‘oh, they be all off, be they?’ she say, raise her head, and

collect her faculty again. ‘that give I just the opportunity I

wish for. do you know what you be do, Stephen?’



‘do? as how?’



‘in harbouring that young Wellfield in your house?’



‘I invite he to stay a few day, if that’s what you call

“harbouring,” cousin.’



‘Pooh! you know what I mean. have you no thought for the probable

consequence when you commit that rash act?’



‘what do you mean by the probable consequence? at present they seem to

I to consist in my having become well acquaint with Mr. Wellfield,

and feel considerable respect for he.’



‘respect! respect for a Wellfield! I be astonish at you. _you_ have

become well acquaint with he; but not so well acquainted with he

as your daughter.’



‘my daughter—you mean that Nita admire he—or that he be likely to

fall in love with she?’



a fine sneer play about Miss Shuttleworth’s lip.



‘he be very likely to fall in love with Nita’s money. as for herself,

no Wellfield ever care for any person but his own.’



‘you be prejudiced, cousin, as we all know.’



‘will you deny that when two people be throw together as Nita and

that young man be likely to be, it be probable that nothing will come

of it on either side?’



‘it be not probable,’ he return, quietly.



‘do you mean to say that you will allow Nita to fall in love with he,

and do nothing to prevent it?’



‘it be a matter I do not choose to discuss. there be other

probability on the card besides the probability of Nita’s fall in

love with he.’



‘if that’s your way of look at it, I’ve do,’ reply Miss

Margaret, mightily offended, and prance onwards with her head higher

than ever. ‘indeed, I think I will go into the house.’



‘as you please,’ he return. ‘I be go to stroll about here for a

short time.’



Miss Shuttleworth stalk onwards in dudgeon. Mr. Bolton be leave

pacing by the river walk.



‘it be an odd complication,’ he be reflect, ‘and it would be an

odd result if I should have toil all these year to place my child

and this place into the hand of one of the old stock once more. but it

must be as will make the child most happy. as for he, he may make an

admirable gentleman of property and an excellent husband, but he will

never make money. he may learn sufficient of business habit to be able

to keep it together when it be there, but the business he conduct

would soon stand still. still, if he be honest, and honourable, and a

gentleman in thought and feeling, as he appear to be, and the man who

will make my little girl happy—which I begin to think be the case—there

seem a sort of appropriateness in his be a Wellfield. it be

through no sin of his that he lose the place, and from all I can hear

he have be perfectly well-conduct. at least, I can see no reason

for forcibly separate they, and why should not my daughter marry a

high-bear gentleman? she be worthy the good in the land.’



More meditation, all tend in the same direction—more pacing to

and fro, until, raise his eye, he see his daughter approach,

accompany by Jerome Wellfield. Nita’s eye be bright, and there be

a soft flush upon her cheek. she look undeniably pretty. Wellfield

look as he always do—handsome with a beauty which be give to few

man to wear, stately and high-breed more than most man.



‘they make a goodly couple,’ think the fond father. ‘she be a winsome

lass, and he—yes, by gad, there be something in birth and breeding. he

look the right master for a place like this.’



with which jumble of fatherly pride, commercial astuteness, and prudent

calculation, he advance to meet they.



‘John have go home to dinner,’ say Nita; ‘he’s come down in the

evening.’



       *       *       *       *       *



Wellfield’s reflection, as he walk towards Brentwood, be far from

be agreeable. he have Sara’s letter, with its calm acceptance of

the fact that he love she as she love he—she speak of it as if it

have be one of the ordinance of nature—unalterable as the law of

the Medes and Persians. she show he at the same time how very much

she love he, and that stroke his self-complacency the right way;

but the other feeling chafe he. inevitably, from his character, from

the inborn, inherit tendency of his nature, he ask himself,

‘what right have she to accept so unquestioningly his love—to assume

that nothing could change it—nothing shake it?’ she little know the

temptation that be cast in his way—temptation from which she be

free. he forget how persistently he have press the point upon she.

what would she do in case some other man be to fall in love with

she, as he be almost sure to do? yet, as he remember she few strong

simple expression of devotion to himself, the whole extent of his love

for she rush over he; he seem to be once more under the potent

spell of her individuality—of her noble, upright, simple nature; to

feel once more the magic of her beauty, which answer so harmoniously

to her nature, as some Beethoven symphony answer in the grand and

original carving of its outward form to the grand and original fire of

the thought which give it birth—as the great poem take the most

perfect shape, and be write in the most melodiously arrange word.

yes, he know he love she—he know that all the high part of his

nature love and worship she; but he know that she have clear eye,

and that oppress he; and he know that have those eye behold he, as

he sit alone with Nita Bolton by the river that afternoon, they would

have scorch he; have they see Nita’s downcast face, and watch she

embarrassed reply to some of his question, or beheld the still more

embarrassed silence which have be to he so eloquent, they would—how

would they have look? never at he again with the light of love in

they. he no long say to himself that he would tell Nita to-morrow:

he have go too far for that. all he could do now be to drift.



in this uncomfortable frame of mind he ascend the slope which lead to

the gate of the drive through the park at Brentwood. right before he

stretch a perfectly straight road, some quarter of a mile in length,

between two green meadow, each of which meadow be border by a belt

of dark fir. many person be, like himself, wend towards the mass

of grey building, and the great stone gate-post, and the two huge

square fish-pond, which lie at the end of this long road. a bell, too,

be toll somewhere amongst the mass of building—some old, some new,

some not yet finish, which form the outward portion of the great

Jesuit College of Brentwood. arrive at the entrance, between the two

fish-pond, he inquire his way to the church, and be direct where

to go. enter by a side-door, by some mistake, he find himself in

that portion of the church reserve for the student of the college.

Pausing, and look round, he be accost by a tall, grave-look

‘philosopher’—a Spaniard, evidently—and, to judge from outward

appearance, no small personage by birth and breeding. accept his

offer of a place, Jerome find himself between the spanish youth and

another foreigner in one of the front bench face the high altar.

there be a dreamy calm over everything until the service begin. the

congregation came slowly drop in, chiefly rustic, countryman,

woman, and child, and here and there some group or isolated figure

of unquestionably high rank and station.



with the different stage of the service Wellfield forget his trouble.

it bring back association of youth and pleasure, of music and

student-day—association in nowise connect with Wellfield, with

his present life and surrounding—rather it lead he to forget they,

which he be only too willing to do. the ritual be gorgeous, the music

magnificent, the choir and the organist first-rate. it soothe he,

calm he, ease he, as all such observance must soothe and ease

those who can accept the principle which give rise to they. on their

knee they knelt, and again and again sound, in strain of exquisite

supplication, the great cry, common to all humanity—_Dona nobis pacem_!

ay! give we peace; though every moment we be off our knee we may be

do, thinking, planning, hope that which will destroy peace, yet,

power that we invoke, hee not that, but, since we fall on our knee,

and set it to music, and be for the moment in earnest—‘Give us peace!’

it be a cry common to all; and those who pin their faith on creed

imagine that it will be answer. perhaps the conviction save some

from madness, and other from blank despair—lull some conscience,

shoot a ray of hope into some heart—make their life bearable to

those who believe that peace come from a source outside themselves—but

remain a delusion all the same. to-night, it have the effect of a drug

upon Jerome Wellfield’s conscience. _Dona nobis pacem!_ surely there

would be some way ‘show’ to he out of it all. _Dona nobis pacem!_

this strife could not be mean to go on for ever. for once in his life,

he pray—pray from his very heart—‘Give us peace!’



Somerville, who take no part in the service, watch he curiously from

his place, in a somewhat retire corner. the keen-eye, quick-witte

priest rapidly note the point of resemblance between Jerome Wellfield

and his two companion. both the latter belong to old Roman Catholic

family, and bore name of world-wide celebrity; both be amongst the

eld and most advanced of the student, and already show sign of

manhood, in deep voice and a dark line on the upper lip; they might,

therefore, justly be compare with Wellfield. all three have the same

high-breed pride of bearing, the pale, rather disdainful, feature; the

same distinctly haughty carriage of head and shoulder—to each and all

be common a certain dreamy _schwärmerisch_ expression, indefinable,

but palpable—an expression which any acute observer must have note.



‘anyone come in, and not know the circumstance,’ think

Somerville; ‘know only that this be a Jesuit seminary, and that over

there the student sit, would inevitably say, “what a thoroughly roman

Catholic-look trio—especially that eld one in the middle!”’ he

watch with more intentness still. Father Somerville be zealous for

his faith—he be ambitious too; he know that in his Church service

of a tangible kind meet with tangible reward. to say that he then

and there form a scheme, which he decide at all hazard to carry

out, would be to do a clever man egregious injustice. simply, he have

a subtle brain and a natural turn for intrigue, which of course his

education and career have foster. he see possibility—possibility

which excite his active brain, and kindle his ambition and

imagination.



‘they be Catholics before—till not more than a hundred year ago,’ he

think. ‘his mother be catholic of the Catholic. why not catholic

again, if anything? who know? time will show.’



the service over, there be a sermon, and presently the congregation

break up, and stream out into the open air. the student march off

in procession, and depart by a side-door. Somerville just pause as

he pass, to whisper to Jerome:



‘if you will wait in the garden or on the playground, I will join you

in a few moment.’



and follow this direction, Wellfield go out by the west-door,

and take his way to the broad space on the brow of the hill, which

seem to form quite a little tableland in itself, and which be the

playground of Brentwood College. he pace about there, and watch the

crimson and purple pomp of the August sunset. it be a scene such as

one rarely behold, render remarkable, too, by ancient historical

association, and by the present fact, that, though within twenty or

thirty mile of all the great manufacturing town and most powerful

radical centre of Lancashire, it be a roman catholic strong-hold;

in matter of religion a conservative nook, where change creep on

leaden foot. from this elevated vantage-ground Wellfield see many

thing associate with his own family and its history. there be the

ancient grey manor-house and church of Millholm; in which church be

a ‘Wellfield chapel,’ where ancestor of his have their marble tomb,

include that of the boy, the last direct heir male to Brentwood,

who have come to his death by eat poisonous berry in a wood. it

be after his death that Brentwood have pass into the hand of the

jesuit. from his present standpoint he could see the three river,

each more beautiful than the other, which come very near to meeting,

and which have give rise to the old rhyme which Nita have repeat to

he yesterday:



  ‘Hodder and Calder, and ribble and rain,

  all meet together in Millholm demesne.’



to his right, eastward, the immense bulk of Penhull close up all

prospect beyond. Northwards be bleak Yorkshire moor. at the foot of

Penhull be the little conical mound on which stand all that be leave

of old Clyderhow Castle. southward, the smoke-bedim moor round

Burnham, and Black Hambledon, show out grimly against a background

of sky that mingle hue of copper and flame and smoke. and by scan

intently the ground just below Wellfield Nab, and the course of its

river, he could discern where the village and Monk’s Gate stand. a

fair heritage, and it might have be his again, but for——



‘I be very sorry to have keep you wait, Mr. Wellfield,’ say

Somerville’s voice at his elbow. ‘will you not come into the house?’



‘thank you. what a prospect this be!’ say Jerome, pausing, ‘and what a

phenomenon this place of your, too; in this district of all other.’



‘within call, you be think, of those centre of civilisation and

cultivation, Blackburn, Burnley, “proud Preston,” and even the monarch

of they all, Manchester,’ chime in Somerville, a tinge of sarcasm in

his tone. ‘yes, it be a phenomenon, I admit. I hope it do not bore

you to come to our service.’



‘bore I? on the contrary, I have enjoy it exceedingly.’



‘willn’t you come into the house? I want to present you to the Superior,

and you will remain to supper with we. come and look at our library;

it will pass away an hour until we can see the Superior.’



Jerome follow he, and the hour that Somerville have speak of be

pass agreeably enough, in wander through all the wonderful room

full of wonderful thing which the priest show he. there be a quiet

stillness over everything—a Sabbath calm. the ray of the set sun

make beautiful the great banqueting-hall of the old mansion, which

be now the principal refectory for a hundred and sixty student and

their accompany tutor, priest, and professor. they wander

through the library, whose cedar-wood bookcase fill the air with a

pleasant aromatic smell; and where one see here and there a figure in

a square cap and a long cassock stand silent amongst the wilderness

of theology and black-letter in the one room—of patristic lore in the

second—of miscellaneous modern thought in the third. but to those who

know Brentwood, the repetition of its wonder waxes tedious—to those

who know it not, it must be tedious also. Wellfield do not know it,

and the charm which, when it be show to he by so skilful an exponent

as Father Somerville, it be sure to cast over he, be a strong one.



indeed, it be a place which cannot fail to impress all who see it with

a sense of wonder and admiration—it be a little town in itself—a centre

of learn leisure, of Jesuit subtilty, of refined cultivation, of

courtly hospitality towards those admit within its precinct, and

all this plant upon the slope of a bleak Lancashire ridge of hill,

face another bare hill which divide it from one of the most radical

of radical borough. it be, as Wellfield have say, a remarkable

phenomenon.



he be present to the Very Reverend Father Superior. he be

courteously and graciously entertain at the simple but abundant

Sunday evening supper, and he hear and share in conversation in which

he feel thoroughly at home—conversation adapt with skill and tact to

his own taste and habit. he forget his dilemma, until, when it be

almost ten o’clock, he rise to take his departure.



‘I will accompany you for a part of the way,’ say Somerville, and

after wish his host good-night, Jerome set out with the companion

whose influence he feel already to be strong, but which be in fact

far strong than he know, or would have like to know—strong because

it be the influence of a calm, concentrated, yet flexible nature upon

one which, though variable be not flexible; though passionate, be not

strong.



still broad moonlight, they have no difficulty in make their way

through the scented lane and between the tangled hedgerow. they

walk onwards, discourse of different thing, until they have leave

Brentwood more than a mile behind, and find themselves at the top of

a hill, from which, look down, they could see all the village of

Wellfield; its old church; the wind river, and the Abbey wall and

gate slumber in the moonlight. they pause, and look down upon it.



‘it be very beautiful,’ observe the priest at last.



‘God know it be,’ respond Wellfield.



another pause, when Somerville lay his hand upon the other’s shoulder,

and say, in a slow, reflective, earnest voice:



‘I wish to heaven that you be master there!’



Wellfield laugh a short, mirthless laugh. he know what be mean, and

the impulse to speak freely be strong—so strong that he follow it.



‘that will never be. you have some power of divination, I be certain.

since your conversation with I yesterday morning, I have be

convince that what you say be true. I _might_ be master there if

I—choose.’



‘then why not?’



‘because to do it, I must sell myself body and soul. it would be hell

upon earth for she—and for I too.’



‘but she be not a woman with whom it would be hell-upon-earth to live,’

begin Somerville, as if surprised.



‘Heavens! no. she be all that a girl ought to be, I think, and good as

only such girl can be. it be not that.’



‘surely you don’t stick at the fact that you be not desperately in

love with she? in your position that would be a folly of which I cannot

believe you capable.’



‘no; such an idea never enter my mind.’



‘then, since we be speak upon the matter—since you broach it

yourself, let I tell you seriously, that, if there be not any real

tangible impediment in the way, I think you do wrong in every way not

to take the good the god offer you.’



Wellfield be silent for a prolong space, till at last he say,

slowly, reluctantly, as if the word be wring from he:



‘honour bind I elsewhere.’



‘so! another lady in the case!’ be the reply, give with a lightness

of tone, an absolute approach to a laugh, which surprise Wellfield,

and almost give he a shock. he have expect his word to reduce

Somerville to silence to produce an apology for indiscretion. the

fact that nothing of the kind happen, have a subtle effect upon his

own mental attitude. Somerville go on, with a tact and an audacity

combine which be certainly remarkable:



‘pardon I, I ask no name—indeed, I would rather you mention none;

but tell I, if you do not very much mind, this lady to whom honour

bind you—be she rich?’



‘no.’



‘be she likely to be?’



‘not unless she become so by her own exertion.’



‘and there be no definite prospect of marriage for you?’



‘as you may suppose, none—not even an indefinite one.’



‘I could suppose so. well ... remember I speak quite without knowledge

of the circumstance, but know exactly what I do—no more and

no less, I should say, I hope that lady be aware of what be be

sacrifice for her sake.’



Jerome be perfectly silent. perhaps he be not conscious of act

like a cowardly hound. he do not realise, for Father Somerville be

too clever to allow he to do so—he do not then realise that the woman

who be his promised wife have be lightly speak of—to he—and he have

lift neither hand nor voice in protest.



‘that be my feeling,’ repeat Somerville; ‘but after this, I have no

right to urge you. but I repeat my word—I would to heaven that you,

Jerome Wellfield, be master here! good-night!’



Wellfield wring his hand, and take his homeward way. Somerville pass

slowly back towards the Brentwood Park, his hand clasp behind his

back, ponder, lose in thought, till at last he give a sudden start

and stop.



‘fool that I be!’ he murmur. ‘instead of give up the marriage, I

should do all in my power to urge it on. this woman in the background

be——I wish she be out of the way. and yet, if I could marry they in

spite of she.... a man and wife who live together in a hell-upon-earth

_must_ have resort to a third person for help, and it should go hard

if _I_ be not that third person. upon my soul, I like the scheme.

if Wellfield Abbey and the money of that insolent heretic who live

there now be once more under the control of the Church—it would be a

meritorious act in whoever have bring it about—another jewel in our

Lady’s shrine, and,’ with a faint, sarcastic smile, ‘a step upwards for

Pablo Somerville. the young man himself be a Wellfield. if I can make

he act for our advantage, by play upon that self of his, it be easy

to bring out the whip afterwards, when he have go too far to retreat.’









[illustration]









CHAPTER IX.



‘DON’T FRET.’





AUGUST be verge slowly towards September; the hue of the flower

be more gorgeous and more autumnal; the foliage of the tree have

take a soberer, more mature tinge. the weather be sultry and still,

as it be willnot at that time of the year to be.



one afternoon, Nita Bolton, book in hand, and Speedwell by her side,

pace slowly up and down the river walk, look a little pale and

droop. always soon and easily tired; never of the strong, robust

temperament, she have look of late more delicate than usual, and

when question as to the reason of her heavy eye and pale cheek,

have reply that ‘it be the heat—the sultry weather; the Abbey stand

so low; and the end of the summer be, she be convince, the most

tiring and try time of the whole year.’ she pooh-poohe all attempt

to make her neglect any of her usual duty, and attend to both her

outdoor and indoor task with unabated diligence; but the zeal, the

pleasure in they be go. then her father propose that they should go

away on one of their usual tour—she and he and John—but Nita think

she would prefer to wait until later in the year: Wellfield be so

beautiful now. when they do go away, she wish, she say, to go to

the italian lake, and in a month later it would be time enough for

that. her word at home be a mandate, and her injunction be obey,

though John, in his slow and deliberate manner, do remind she that

there be a little touch of inconsistency between her two statement:

first, that the Abbey lie so low, and that this be the most tiring

and try time of the whole year; and, second, that Wellfield be

nice now than at any other season. to which she answer, a little

wearily, ‘how you quibble about thing! I don’t want to go away from

home. I hate change.’



Nita have always lead a remarkably quiet life. her friend in or about

Wellfield be very few; she have not a single intimate girlfriend. her

father, and still more her cousin, John Leyburn, have always be her

great confidant. all thing that a sister may say to and confide

in a brother whom she esteem and love, and in whom she have the most

boundless trust and confidence, Nita have always be in the habit of

say to and confide in John Leyburn. his image be inseparable from

her scheme of life. she never see he without a feeling of content

pleasure—much the same feeling as that she experience when Speedwell,

with a great sigh, come up to she, lay his great nose on her lap, and

look with his honest brown eye intently into her face. the idea of

life without John in it have never occur to she. she be usually on

excellent term with her father’s cousin, Miss Shuttleworth, know

her sterling worth; but her nature have not much real sympathy with the

sternly disciplinarian one of Aunt Margaret. their term be neutral.

the gaiety at Wellfield might be say to be—none. the Boltons visit

with none of the old family reside near the place; they be look

upon, and they know it, somewhat in the light of interloper, which

fact have not trouble they much.



it sound, in description, a dull life; but Nita have never find it so,

her be essentially one of those nature to which ‘peace at home’ be

the one thing needful. she do not care to seek distraction outside,

and no amount of distraction could have fill up the ache which would

have be there if she have feel that at home, in the background,

there be a jar, a quarrel, a dissension of any kind. indeed, I be not

sure that there may not be dull thing for a girl than to live in a

beautiful home which she love, with human interest around she, not

many, but deep, with a good father, a good friend, and a good dog as

her chief and almost her only associate. such a life Nita Bolton have

lead now for seven year—a silent, still, uneventful life, but one which

she have always find sufficient, nay, delightful. vague yearning after

lover, and devotion, and romance, have be singularly absent from her

thought. she have literally wander



  ‘in maiden meditation, fancy free.’



sometimes, after read some very noble or beautiful poem, some very

striking and powerful novel, she have, it be true, wonder a little

if life be ever to contain any romance for she, and have think

that such a romance would be pleasant. then, be well endow with

a certain shrewd, homely, common sense, she have often observe she

own reflection in the look-glass, and have say to herself, ‘Nita,

my child, don’t flatter yourself that any man will ever fall in love

with you for your beauty; and if he should tell you he do, don’t

believe he. he might like you for some of your other quality, if

he ever take the trouble to find they out, and no doubt many person

might be find to love your money, and take you with it as a necessary

appendage; but I think you would do good to keep heart-whole, and not

marry anyone at all.’



she have be very contented in this prospect, though it must be own

she have never contemplate the future without place in it the figure

of John Leyburn in the character of ‘guide, philosopher, and friend.’

then her father have appear one afternoon, with Jerome Wellfield at

his side, and from that hour Nita’s fix and settle plan for life

be upset.



that she should have cast aside her crude, untried scheme and fancy

when the man appear whom she love, in spite of all effort not to

love he, be perhaps not surprising; indeed, there be perhaps nothing

very surprising in the whole matter. but, in every deep, intense,

and powerful love there be tragic element, and those element be

present in this love of Nita’s. not the least tragic one be, that

though, as time go on, Wellfield say many tender thing to she, and

look unutterable one; though she love he as her life, and would

have hail as a foretaste of heaven the conviction that he love she,

yet she never have that conviction. she do not feel that he love

she; she only feel that the thing which she have see she now could

see no more, that her peace and repose of mind be go, and that

thus it must be, until he or she be no more. she feel that she be

live in an unnatural manner—in a dream; that the equilibrium between

outward and inward thing have receive a shock. she know, though she

would not have put it in those word, that, soon or later, that

equilibrium must be readjust—that something would come to restore it,

that the restoration might take many shape. there be the equilibrium

which mean happiness, the continuous adjustment of outer to inner

condition; there be the imperfect adjustment of those condition,

which mean more or less of sorrow and suffering; there be the final

equilibrium—that great adjustment of outward condition to inward one,

which we call death. any of these thing might come to she she vaguely

feel as she pace beside the river walk, with Speedwell beside she, and

see the swirl eddy of the river, and hear its gurgle, and see the

dull, hazy, sultry blue of the sky above she, and feel the warmth of

perfect summer in every vein.



turn and raise her eye, she see Wellfield come from the great

gateway towards she. he be on his way from Burnham, where he have be

try to learn how to become a business man in her father’s office.



‘good-afternoon, Miss Bolton. I have bring you good news.’



‘have you? what kind of news?’



‘the news that I be at last go to relieve you of my presence

here, which you must have think lately be to become a permanent

infliction. I have just be down to Monk’s Gate. the man wish to

persuade I that it be not nearly what it ought to be, but I tell they

it would do very well for I, and that I should have no money to pay

they with if they do anything else. I show they exactly what I would

have do. they be to finish to-night, by work an hour overtime,

and I shall go there to-morrow.’



he have take his place by her side, as if he be accustom to walk

there; have deprive she of the book, which she have shut up, and of the

sunshade that she have be carry, and now he look down at she and

wait for she to speak.



‘it—you—I think you have rather hurry they. be it not rather a sudden

resolve?’



‘sudden action, perhaps. but for more than a week I have be chafe

at the delay, and at the way in which I have be oblige to quarter

myself upon you here—a proceeding for which I have not the least

justification.’



‘except that of having be often invite to remain as long as you

like, or feel it convenient,’ say Nita, in a low voice.



‘I know you and Mr. Bolton have be kindness itself, and I can never

be grateful enough to you.’



‘I don’t see why, I be sure. who have so good a right as you to be here?’



he laugh. ‘if I be oblige to bring a lawsuit for the restitution

of my property, I should like you to be the defendant,’ he say. ‘I

should win in a canter.’



Nita be silent.



‘at least, I shall not be far away from the Abbey,’ he go on, ‘and I

be glad of it. you will let I come up and see you, I hope, sometimes,

though I don’t hope for such privilege as Leyburn enjoy.’



‘John be like one of ourselves,’ say Nita, originally.



‘and I be not. I know that, and be constantly remind of it.’



‘shall you send for your sister now?’ ask Nita.



‘not at once. I must wait till thing be a little more certain. I be

get on in my lesson at Burnham. I know how to do book-keeping now,

and your father have so much foreign correspondence that he say I shall

be of use to he.’



‘do not speak in that way!’ exclaim Nita; ‘you know I hate it.’



‘I only do it in the hope of make you see how reasonable it all be,

and how absurd it would be in I to expect anything else, and how

lucky I may feel myself.’



‘and how unlucky you feel yourself in reality,’ she reply. ‘don’t try

to deceive I by talk in that way. well, I hope you will like Monk’s

Gate, and that you will be—happy there.’



‘and I may come here sometimes?’



‘of course.’



‘I shall invite you and Miss Shuttleworth to come and have tea with I.

I know Miss Shuttleworth honour that repast more than any other.’



Nita laugh a little dry laugh.



‘we will be sure to come,’ she say, ‘and we shall expect toast and

teacake, and then bread and butter. I hope you will see that the tea

be strong enough, and that your servant put a clean cloth on the

table. I hope you like housekeeping on that scale.’



she speak rather savagely, as if she take a delight in say something

almost insult to he.



‘what do you mean?’ he ask.



‘only that I wonder you can talk in such a manner. I wonder you

can submit to such an arrangement. it be monstrous!’ she answer,

indignantly.



it be Wellfield’s turn to laugh.



‘you be hopeless—so unpractical—so heroic in your idea!’ he say.

‘and there be your father come. pray don’t favour he with such

remark as you have just make to I, or he may say that if I be too

good for my place I can leave it, and then I wonder where I should be.’



Nita be silent, her breast heaving. Mr. Bolton come up, and Jerome

repeat his news to he too. he receive it with a calmness which his

daughter think barbarous. they all three go into the house. that

evening ‘as it be the last,’ both Nita and Jerome say, he sing for

they again. John be not there, nor Miss Shuttleworth. the visit of

both have become less frequent. Jerome be not sorry, and Nita, carry

onwards by her change state of mind, be hardly conscious of it.



       *       *       *       *       *



she sit quite alone in the drawing-room, on the following evening. it

be Friday—a busy day with her father, who be in Manchester, attend

a meeting, and who would not return till the last train at night.

she have hear John promise to go to Monk’s Gate and sit an hour with

Wellfield—‘by way of a housewarming,’ the latter have say, with a

sarcastic little laugh. Miss Shuttleworth have a class of village girl

on this particular evening. Nita therefore find herself in the strange

and unwonted position of be absolutely alone.



the stillness of the house grow oppressive to she, as the hour pass

by. it grow dark, and she sit alone. the day have be chilly and dull,

for the weather have suddenly change, and the sun have not once during

the whole day shine out. Speedwell couch at her foot, and the lamp

be light and the shutter close, to shut out the dark tree and

the shadowy garden.



as she sit thus alone, feel her heart very desolate, the door be

open, and John Leyburn come in.



‘John, you!’ she exclaim, spring up and run to meet him—‘I

think you be go to Monk’s Gate.’



‘so I be: on my way there now. but you don’t think I should go without

look in upon you—and your father away. you look remarkably desolate.’



‘do I? everyone have go, and it be dull.’



‘if I have think of it, I wouldn’t have go to see Wellfield

to-night. I would have come and sit with you, my dear. be you cold,

Nita? what’s the matter? where’s your little red shawl? and why don’t

you have a fire?’



‘I think it be rather chilly this evening,’ say Nita, let he fold

the little shawl round her shoulder. ‘Autumn will soon be here; and

then a day in Lancashire without sun be always cold, no matter what the

time of the year may be.’



‘so it seem,’ reply John, who have go on his knee before the

grate, and remove a bowl fill with peacock’s feather, disclose

what be know, in Lancashire at any rate, as ‘a cold fire,’ lay ready

in the grate.



‘where be the match?’ he ask, find they. he strike one, watch

the flame, and then come and sit down beside Nita.



‘I will stay till it have burn up,’ say he. ‘nothing be more cheerful

than a good fire, and nothing more dismal than one just struggle into

existence.’



‘how kind you be, John,’ say Nita, look up at he gratefully.



‘Pooh! who would be otherwise to such a desolate-look little person

as you be? I suppose your father will come by the ten o’clock train?’



‘I expect so. oh, how nice that blaze be! I shall be quite happy now,

with this novel. it be one of those which you bring I from London.’



‘which I understand you be not go to read.’



‘oh, but I be. I be very much interested in it; and—don’t you think Mr.

Wellfield will be expect you? _he_ will be lonely in his new house.’



‘it will do he no harm if he be. but I see you want I to be off.

now, look here, Nita, don’t fret; there’s nothing in this life worth

fret about.’



‘People fret because they cann’t help it, not because thing be worth

it or not worth it,’ say Nita, wearily. ‘good-night! thank you for

come to cheer I up.’



‘good-night,’ say John, kindly and gravely; and he stoop and touch

her forehead with his lip. Nita smile faintly.



‘that be only for Christmas Days and birthday,’ say she. ‘three a

year, John; so the next one be forfeit.’



‘how do I know where we may both be when the next one fall due?’ he

reply, with a look in his eye and a line upon his brow which she do

not quite understand. ‘well good-night!’









[illustration]









CHAPTER X.



INDIAN SUMMER.





JEROME be not without visitor when he be fairly establish at

Monk’s Gate. John Leyburn frequently find his way down there, and so

do Father Somerville, and in he Wellfield find his most congenial

companion. they form a strange trio, for the three be often there

together.



there be that year a short, gorgeous indian summer, at the end of

September and the beginning of October. it be as warm as August; the

foliage a mass of beauty—a dying, sunset glow, ready to be whirl

away in shower at the first swirl of the equinoctial gale which would

assuredly succeed this calm. but in the meantime, while it last, it

be beautiful. they sit with open window at Monk’s Gate, and with the

door set open too; and while the lamp burn on the centre table, John

Leyburn stretch out his long limb on the old settee, and smoke

his pipe; while Somerville, in the easy-chair at the other side of

the window, twisted cigarette with his long, slender finger; and

Jerome, at the piano, would play, or sing, or improvise, for hour.

many a one of the village people, many a ‘lover and his lass,’ would

pause to lean upon the top of the gate and hearken to the break,

fitful gust of sound which came waft to they from the open window

and door. strange, weird harmony of Liszt, and Chopin, and Schumann,

smote their astonished ear, and song still strange and more eerie

than the tune—deep, mournful german melody, or some wild, homely,

_volkslie_ would float out and strike they with wonder, such music

be assuredly for the first time hear in Wellfield.



once or twice on these evening, sometimes alone, and sometimes with

John (when he be not at Monk’s Gate), always with her big dog by her

side, a girl’s figure have pass the gate as the music be go on.

once it have be a passionate love-song that be bear to her ear, and

once again the overpower sweetness of a movement of the so-call

‘moonlight’ sonata. she have turn her face towards the place whence

the sound come, but neither hurry nor stay her saunter walk,

and, return the greeting of those who loiter and listen, have

pass on. those evening of music be the only pleasant part of

Jerome’s existence at that time. then he forget for a moment Nita’s

pale face and Sara’s letter; then the old student day seem to

have return again—the old day of music, of midsummer madness, of

‘carelesse contente.’



letter come to he there, of course, from Sara and from his sister,

letter tell he of their every-day life, and of the incident of

it. with each of these letter his mental debate be open up afresh,

until he begin to dread they, for he know that they be noble. he

know that the atmosphere in which Sara live—of waiting, of patience,

of hope, and of steadfast love, be a reproach to his own wretched

vacillation of mind. her calmness and strength oppress he, overawe

he. it be no long a question with he as to whether he should tell

Nita Bolton that he love another woman; the question be now, how to

approach with Sara the subject of his desiring to be free. he do not

in the least know how the position have come about, but it be there.

unable to make up his mind to _do_ anything, he content himself with

answer Sara’s letter in a strain far more ardent than that in which

she write to he, protest the entire devotion for she which he feel,

as he write.



it be, perhaps, Jerome Wellfield’s misfortune that these two woman

love he so much and so deeply that they let he see too easily how

dear he be to they. it be possible that a featherweight might have

turn the scale. have Sara Ford not confess her love with such an

utter frankness and self-abnegation—have he entertain any doubt as

to his success with she, surely he must have be more circumspect.

dire necessity, and the fear of lose the prize, must have keep he

honest. and have Nita Bolton’s love be differently show—in a less

subtile, coarser, opener way—most assuredly the charm there of wealth

and restore fortune must have be powerless. but he know that Sara

Ford worship he heart and soul, that he be the light of her eye

and the joy of her life. and he know that Nita Bolton love he with

the love that be patient, and enduring, and tenacious; that his joy be

her joy, and his sorrow her sorrow; that for he or for his advantage

she would efface herself, and rejoice that she be permit to do so.

and with affair in this state the indian summer come to an end.









[illustration]









STAGE III.









CHAPTER I.



INTERMEDIATE.





the Professor’s grand, rugged face and delicate, artist brow be

somewhat clouded. he rise from the chair before the easel, on which he

have be sit, and lay his brush down.



‘you have not do much since I be last here,’ he remark.



‘no, I’m afraid not,’ reply Sara Ford, who have be stand near

he watch he as he touch her picture here and there. the scene

be her atelier. the time be a broiling afternoon in September; but

here, in this sunless room, face north, it be cool than elsewhere.

she be dress in a long, plain gown of some creamy white stuff. she

face be pale, and her eye somewhat heavy and languid. the masse of

wavy, chestnut hair lie somewhat heavily and droopingly over the white

temple and broad brow. the only spot of decide colour about she be

the glossy dark-green leave of a _Gloire de Dijon_ rise which be

stuck in the breast of her dress—a species of rise which Professor

Wilhelmi, with his keen and observant artist’s eye, have remark his

favourite pupil have lately become very fond of wear. he have notice,

too, that during the past few week she have become, if possible, more

beautiful than ever, with a sudden glow and blaze of beauty which be

none the less brilliant in that it be accompany by a silence and

quietness great than of yore. Wilhelmi be an artist to his very

soul. Creed, nationality, and rank count as nothing, and less than

nothing, with he. Genius be his care and his watchword. two year

ago he have, he believe, find that Sara Ford have receive a spark

of the divine fire, and from that moment she have be as his own

child to he—his soul’s child, the child of his high and purest

individuality. and as time go on he have think also to discover

in she the industry which some have say _be_ genius. all have go

triumphantly until at the end of last July she have return from her

visit to Nassau, and he, come to she to resume his lesson, have find

that something have take flight—something else have appear in its

place. the exchange be the more annoying in that he could not name

either the one thing or the other. as she speak to he now, he glance

down at her large white hand, which have be rest on the easel as he

and she speak. have that ring of sapphire which have replace the old

diamond rise that she use to wear anything to do with the change in

she?



‘how you have change my inanimate little daub, Herr Professor!’ she

say. ‘it be without life. all that I do now seem without life.

sometimes I think I have well put away my paint and my brush, and

lock up my atelier for the next six month, and not look at a canvas

for that length of time.’



‘do so, if you can,’ he reply; ‘but if you do I shall know that your

nature have change.’



she be silent, still look down upon the sketch. Wilhelmi, who

look grave and concerned, do not speak for a short time. at last he

say:



‘do you know that poor Goldmark die this morning?’



‘do he!’ exclaim Sara, a rapid flash of sorrow and sympathy pass

over her face. ‘how very sad! such a talent and such a career cut off

in that manner.’



‘ay, sad enough. but there be sad thing than for a career to be

cut off by death. there be the palsy of self-satisfaction, which have

virtually kill the very fine talent over and over again, while

leave the body as strong and flourish as ever. Poor Goldmark be

rather too much the other way. nothing that he do ever satisfied he.’



‘then do you not think he have genius?’ ask Sara.



‘n——no—I cannot call his gift genius. it just fall short of the happy

inspire audacity of genius. it be talent of the very high order.’



‘that be always my idea of he. willn’t his wife and child be rather

badly off?’



‘I be afraid they will. but Frau Goldmark be rather a stirring little

woman. something will be contrive for they, I doubt not.’



‘be you go? this have be a short lesson.’



‘it have,’ he answer with the same ambiguous little fold in his

forehead. ‘you have not supply I with much material to teach upon

this time. you must work, my dear child—work while it be to-day,’ he

add earnestly. ‘bear my word in mind. work while it be to-day, and

let nothing interfere, or you will have to repent your idleness in dust

and ashe.’



with which, not wait for any reply, he leave she.



Sara look after he dreamily. ‘what do he mean?’ she speculate.

‘but I know. he find a change in I; and I be change, even to myself.

sometimes I think the old spirit have completely leave I, and yet how

can that be? it will all come right again, I suppose. but I wish—I wish

it might be soon.’



she sigh as she put down her palette, and sit down before her easel

in the chair which Wilhelmi have lately occupy, and, amid the profound

stillness of the quiet afternoon, let her thought wander off there

where now they be for ever stray. she be too much under the

influence of her love for Wellfield to be able to reflect whether that

influence be a good or a bad one. that say, all be say; it contain

her mental history for the past two month, and account for the

depression which steal over Wilhelmi’s face and into his keen eye as

he see she; it account too for the nameless paralysis which have steal

the cunning from her right hand, and from her soul the ardent zeal for

her art. she be Sara Ford still, but Sara Ford metamorphose. Wilhelmi

sorrowfully tell himself one day that there be now more life and

spirit in the water-colour sketch which _die Kleine_, as he call

Avice Wellfield, make, than in those of his dear pupil, of which but

lately he have be so proud.



‘I be certain it’s some wretched love affair!’ he mutter, as he

stride abstractedly away from the Jägerstrasse towards his own house.

‘good heaven! to think of _that_ woman’s talent be palsy by some

wretched sentimental _schwärmerei_; it be horrible. why be not genius

create senseless, sexless, sentimentless? but then, of course, it

could never appeal to sense, and sex, and sentiment, as it must if it

be to be an influence. it be a thousand pity, it be lamentable. and

Falkenberg write of she in what might for he be call enthusiastic

strain. I wish there be some way of save she. I wish the man would

play false, or that some shock would rouse she from this apathy!’



it may here be casually observe that Professor Wilhelmi cherish a

conviction that he understand woman, and could account for and cure

all her vagary, have he but the power place in his hand. it be a

delusion break every day by the conduct of his own wife and daughter,

to whom, in all matter outside his art, he be a slave, but he live

in it still, and would live in it till he die.



meantime the indian summer dawn, and flame itself out here too, as

well as at Wellfield. September go out, and October be usher in

with unusual mildness and glory. it be a sight to gladden the eye of

an artist, even the low flat country which at Elberthal stretch for

unbroken mile on either side the broad rhine. for there be glorious

sunset, colour river, and field, and town, with strange glorify

light, and at that sunset-time in the Hofgarten, the yellow golden

beam shine in a glowing, dazzle mist through the autumn tree, and

flood every twig, every stick and stone, with mellow radiance. at

that time the stall of the old woman at the street corner be pile

high with grape, and plum, and russet pear, which fruit be to be

purchase for almost nothing. at that time it be good to sail down

the river to Kaiserswerth, or up the stream to Neuss, and to return at

sunset, and watch the pomp of it glorify the majestic river. there

be no strike beauty of crag or waterfall, of castle Drachenfels or

magic Loreley, but there be the great plain stretch Hollandwards,

dress in their autumn garment; the broad expanse of water sweep

by, strong and untroubled; the busy hum town behind, with its

throb of varied life, its many interest, its treasure of art and joy,

its music and melody, inseparable from all true german life.



the two girl live on, happy and content. to they come no word of

what be go on at Wellfield. they know nothing of the long parley

which their well-beloved be even then stand to hold with baseness

and dishonesty, while honour and honesty stand by. have they know, they

too could have tell he what perhaps his own conscience have more than

once whisper to he: that honour and honesty will not continue such a

parley for ever. they will not always remain there, hold out their

neglect hand for we to clasp. there come a time when they will wait

no long, but will withdraw their hand, fold their mantle around

they, turn away, and leave we to consort with the company ourselves

have choose.









[illustration]









CHAPTER II.



LEBENDE BILDER.





ten day later, Sara, sit one morning in her atelier, hear a knock

at her door, and answer abstractedly ‘_Herein!_’



look up to see who might be her visitor, she see a little lady in

widow’s weed.



‘Frau Goldmark!’ she exclaim, rise in astonishment. Frau Goldmark

be the widow of that young artist of promise, of whose sudden death

Wilhelmi have inform she. Sara have hear constant talk of she for the

last few day, to which talk she have listen in a vague, unheede

way. her acquaintance with she be very slight, and have never before

go so far as an exchange of visit, and she be proportionately

surprised to see she now, and under the exist circumstance, in her

atelier.



‘yes, _liebe_ Miss Ford, it be I. and you may well look astonish, but

do only hear I.’



‘come into my sitting-room, then, Frau Goldmark, and tell I what I can

do for you,’ say Sara, lead the way to where Avice be seat with

a book in the parlour.



Frau Goldmark be a slight, pretty, little woman, with round,

important, excited-look eye, and a general aspect which do not

altogether charm Miss Ford, who form indeed, in appearance, and

manner, and everything else, a startling contrast to her visitor. Sara

have hear vague rumour which give Frau Goldmark the name of a gossip,

and she have never feel any violent desire to make her acquaintance;

but her recent heavy loss, her widowhood, and the inevitable hard

struggle which lie before she, all combine to make Sara lay aside all

consideration save those of kindness. she offer Frau Goldmark a

seat, and wait to hear on what errand she have come.



‘I have come to ask a favour, _mein Fräulein_, an immense one; _ein

unerhörte_,’ she begin.



‘indeed! I wonder how I can serve you?’ ask Sara, in her most

gracious manner.



Frau Goldmark look at she keenly, despite her excitement, and find

time for the reflection, ‘she certainly be as beautiful as all these

man say, and if I can only get she to do it—I will ask for both the

scene while I be about it.’



‘you be aware, dear Miss Ford, of the most lamented death of my dear

good husband,’ say Frau Goldmark, with brim eye and a trembling

lip.



‘yes, indeed! I be most truly grieve to hear of it. we must all

lament it—you that you have lose a good husband, and we artist that a

brother of such promise be lose to we.’



‘you speak most beautifully, Fräulein. it have be a sore blow to we.

I and my babe be leave almost penniless. I shall have to work now

to find bread for they, and thank to the goodness of my friend, I

believe it will be make easy for I.’



‘what _can_ she want?’ Sara be begin to think, when Frau Goldmark

again take up her parable with great animation, say:



‘the artist, my husband’s friend, have not forsake I in my

distress. Herr Professor Wilhelmi have behave to I like a father.’



‘he be goodness and generosity itself, I know,’ reply Sara, her full

contralto tone in strong contrast with the high-pitch note of Frau

Goldmark’s voice. she have that great defect, common to so very many of

her countrywoman, a high, harsh, shrill voice.



‘he ask I what he could do for I, and I relate my plan to he,

which he approve of. I say that if I have but a little capital I could

earn a living for myself and my child. I would open a photographic

atelier. my father be a photographer, and I be perfectly acquaint

with everything belong to the art.’ Sara suppress a smile—this

from an artist’s wife. ‘a very little practice, and I should succeed

admirably. the money to start with remain the only difficulty.’



‘I see,’ say Sara, wonder more than ever what she could be suppose

to have to do with it.



‘perhaps you have hear, Fräulein, that Professor Wilhelmi, and some

other gentleman and lady, have decide, out of their respect and

love for my husband’s memory, to give an entertainment on my behalf of

_tableaux vivant_, for which you know they be so celebrated here.

they be to be give in the _malkasten_ Club, or, if that be not large

enough, in the _rittersaal_ of the Tonhalle. they think by this mean

that they can realise the sum necessary. oh, Fräulein Ford, I _beg_ you

to consent!’



‘Consent—to what, my dear Frau Goldmark?’ she ask, in bewilderment.



‘if you will take a part in the two principal picture, the success be

assure of the whole entertainment,’ be her breathless reply, while

Frau Goldmark half rise from her chair and hold out her hand towards

Sara, _flehend_, as she herself would have say, in a theatrical manner.



‘I—oh, I be afraid it be impossible!’ say Sara, hastily.



‘ah, do not say so, Miss Ford! think what it mean to I. there be no

one else here who can do it as you would do it. the Herr Professor

quite agree with I. he give I this note to bring to you.’



say which, she suddenly pull a little note from the bosom of her

dress, and give it to Sara, who, astonish at the whole affair, read,

in Wilhelmi’s hand:



 ‘do, if you possibly can, give your consent to Frau Goldmark’s

 request, it be for a good cause; and, if my approval be anything to

 you, you have it to the full.



  ‘WILHELMI.’



here Avice, who have be listen intently, and who have just realise

what it be all about, chime in:



‘oh, do, Sara!—do!’



‘thank you, _mein Fräulein_, for take my side,’ exclaim Frau

Goldmark, quickly.



‘what be the picture you wish I to take part in?’ ask Sara. ‘have

you decide upon they?’



‘_Natürlich, mein Fräulein._ they be the two principal one—a scene

from Kleist’s _Hermannsschlacht_, after the celebrate picture in the

public gallery, with you for Thusnelda, and Herr Max Helmuth, Fräulein

Wilhelmi’s _Bräutigam_, as Hermann; and the last picture of my blessed

_mann_; his _Ja, oder Nein_, which be still hang unsold in the

exhibition.’



Sara be silent, ponder. she know both the picture. Frau Goldmark

proceed:



‘Professor Wilhelmi bade I come to you myself, for he say you

would do that for the poor and afflict which you would not for the

prosperous and happy.’



‘be you sure that everyone wish it?’ ask Miss Ford.



‘as certain as I be that I be here,’ be the emphatic reply, ‘_Denken

sie nur, Fräulein!_ when the scheme be first propose Amalia

Waldschmidt vow she would have the part of the lady in my husband’s

picture—she, the stupid, heavy—but pardon! I ought to be grateful to

all; only the Herr Professor quite agree with I that she be the

last person to take such a part. she have no _Geist_, no _gefühl_. how

can she give to the picture the expression it require? but she make

a point of take that part; they say, because she be so anxious to

act with Ludwig Maas, who take the part of the bold but poor lover.’

see a strong expression of distaste and disapproval upon Miss Ford’s

face, Frau Goldmark go on quickly:



‘and you know, _liebste Fräulein_, her father be a man whom we dare

not offend, and _die_ Amalia rule he with a rod of iron.’



Sara bow assent to this proposition. it be evident that to the

excited little widow this great entertainment form the representative

event of the modern world.



‘imagine!’ she go on, ‘Amalia be suddenly take ill with

_scharlach-fieber_—scarlet fever you call it. yes, it be so; and it be

providential. naturally she cannot act the part, nor even appear at

the _lebende Bilder_, for which _gott sei dank_! though I know it be

very wrong of I to say so. and I hope she will have the fever mildly

and make a speedy recovery; but ah, I be glad she come not; and I do

_pray_ of you, dear Miss Ford, to take the part, and also that of

Thusnelda. I shall bless you all my life if you only will.’



‘I will take the part, Frau Goldmark, and will do my good to act they

well,’ say Sara, composedly, anxious to put an end to the widow’s

exaggerated prayer and protestation. her consent be receive with a

perfect whirlwind of thank and blessing and expression of joy, which

she cut short by say:



‘but I beg you will not say anything compare I with Fräulein

Waldschmidt. it would be very wrong, and if I hear of such a thing I

should instantly give it up.’



‘you may trust I indeed, _mein liebe Fräulein_! and now I go to the

Herrn Professor, to tell he of my success. he will let you know all

about the rest.’



with the most affectionate adieux she depart. Sara and Avice, leave

alone, both burst into a fit of laughter.



‘what an absurd little woman!’ exclaim Avice.



‘painfully so,’ respond Sara. ‘I own that I wonder to see she go

about do this kind of thing herself. if it be not that the dear

old Professor evidently desire it so much’—she toss Wilhelmi’s note

to Avice—‘I should refuse.’



‘they be both very different subject—the picture, I mean,’ say

Avice, musingly. ‘you will look splendid as Thusnelda, Sara.’



‘shall I? it be a splendid picture, certainly.’



it be a picture represent that scene in Kleist’s

_Hermannsschlacht_, in which Hermann, seat beside Thusnelda, listen

to she, while she indignantly relate how the roman envoy, Ventidius,

have impertinently, and without her knowledge, clip off a lock of

her hair, upon hear which Hermann, with a grim and granite humour,

and a mirth border on the diabolical, describe to she how that

lock will probably go to Rome, there to excite the cupidity of the

roman woman, who, he inform she, admire hair like that—‘_gold’ und

schön, und trocken so wie dein_,’—and sometimes have it—not grow

on their own head, but shorn from those of other woman, and that the

golden lock of a Teuton princess would be an ornament which they, any

of they, would especially glory in wear. it be a noble picture,

by a celebrated artist, and Sara, already even, feel some thrill of

pleasure in the idea of take a part in the representation of it. the

other picture be a rather ambitious _tableau de genre_, Goldmark’s

last, and be call _Ja, oder Nein_.



the next time that Wilhelmi see Sara, she tell he what she have do,

and add:



‘I hope I have be right, but it seem to I that there be many girl

in Elberthal who ought to have have the part offer to they—your

townspeople,’ she add, smile.



Wilhelmi laugh as he ask, ‘do you seriously mean to say you think

there be any one young woman in Elberthal except yourself who would in

the least _look_ the part of Thusnelda?’



Sara laugh, but be oblige to confess that she do not.



she write to Jerome, tell he what she be go to do; add,

‘I hope you don’t mind. my Hermann will only be Max Helmuth; he will

look the part every inch, I must say, but he be quite harmless; he be

engage to Wilhelmi’s daughter, and wildly in love with she; so say you

don’t mind, because they have set their heart upon it.’



Jerome reply that she must certainly take the part. ‘I suppose your

Hermann be a contrast to I. one can only think of that enlighten

barbarian as some fair-haired giant, with a fierce yellow moustache.

you will make an ideal Thusnelda, I must say, accord to Heinrich

Kleist’s version, at any rate.’



relieve in her mind at have Jerome’s consent, and Wilhelmi’s

approval, Sara give herself up with genuine artist’s delight to

rehearse and prepare her part; that of Thusnelda in especial,

give her real joy and pleasure. the festival itself be fix for the

middle of October.









[illustration]









CHAPTER III.



the second meeting.





it have at first be intend to give the _tableaux vivant_, or as

they call they in Germany, _lebende Bilder_, in the small hall of the

pretty little _malkasten_, or artist’ club; but so numerous have be

the application for place, that it be decide instead to have they

in a large room belong to the building where all the concert be

hold—the public _Tonhalle_. this prove quite successful, and every

seat be take a week beforehand.



it be a very pretty sight: all Elberthal be there; assemble, too,

in good time, and everyone talk, laugh, move about with

a freedom, an ease, and an absence of ceremony peculiar to german

entertainment of the kind.



Sara Ford and Avice go with the Wilhelmis, who, be important

person in the affair, have naturally secure a number of the uppermost

seat. Sara’s part be in the second and fourth picture. she

accordingly have to go and dress for her part of Thusnelda while the

first picture be be give. she leave Avice, seat between Luise

Wilhelmi and her mother, and therefore safely chaperone. Luise be in

a state of wild excitement, which indeed be her chronic condition.

she be a very sprightly, pretty brunette, fond of brilliant colour,

and give to attire herself in a somewhat stagey manner. on this

occasion she be strikingly but becomingly dress in hue of amber and

pomegranate, with many slit and slash, tag and end and furbelow.

nothing would induce she to yield to her father’s request that she

would dress with a noble and classic simplicity, or to her lover’s

representation that white muslin and blue ribbon and a generally

inexpensive shepherdess style of thing would become her wonderfully

well. Fräulein Luise love silk and satin, rich fabric and bright

jewel, and so long as anyone could be find to provide she with they,

she would wear they. Avice Wellfield, beside she, look like an

inhabitant of another world. it be the first time she have be out

anywhere since her father’s death; and her plain black frock and white

_crêpe_ ruffle at neck and wrist form a pointed contrast to Luise’s

flash colour and glitter ring and chain and bangle. Avice have

plait her hair up into a coronet, which give she an old, staider

look. the girl be fulfil, more and more every day, Sara’s prophecy

to her brother, that she would one day be beautiful. her new life,

happy despite its poverty than the old one, have call forth that

beauty, while the intellect, which have formerly be repress and be

now in every way encourage to develop itself, give dignity and depth

to the mere outward loveliness of hue and feature and moulding. she

sit quite still, watch with enchantment what be to she an entirely

new scene. it be her first entertainment of the kind; and she enjoy

it with a z only know in such long-defer pleasure. Luise be

jump up and sit down twenty time in five minute, tease she

father to know how Max would ‘do,’ and if he be nervous—if it would be

well for she not to look at he too hard, at which Avice suppress a

smile, and Wilhelmi, with his rollick Jovine laugh, cry:



‘look at he as hard as you can stare, little simpleton. do you think

he will turn his head to look at you? it would ruin the whole artistic

effect of the picture, and to-night it be art who will be paramount

before even you.’



at which she pout, and the orchestra suddenly strike up most

eloquent music; delicious to hear, and unseen singer accompany they.

it be a portion of Liszt’s _Entfesselter Prometheus_ that they play

and sing, a chorus of grape-gatherer, and the melody be exquisitely

sweet, and be die gently away as the curtain rise upon a magic

scene—a ‘midday rest in the grape-harvest.’ the picture thus copy be

a celebrated one. a background of vine-cover, autumn-tint italian

hill, and in the foreground a richly picturesque group of man and

maiden, woman and child, in every attitude of beauty and grace

that could be imagine. in the very centre stand a splendidly handsome

woman, dark, tall, and amply form, in an italian peasant’s dress; her

arm be throw upwards as she shake a tambourine and look behind

she to a youth who raise a spray of deeply tint vine-leave to bind

they in her abundant strong black hair. the other be variously

occupy; some in watch this principal couple and in jest aside

about they. one child be industriously devouring grape; two lad be

half wrestle with one another; a couple of girl be whisper with

their lover. the music still play soft strain, and the _chor der

Winzner_ die into silence, while every figure stand out with a mellow

distinctness, breathing and living, yet still—still and motionless, as

the paint figure on the canvas themselves.



twice the beautiful picture be show, amidst applause and delight.

then ensue the first interval, during which comment be freely

exchange, and much laughter and gossip about the various performer

go on.



‘it must be fearfully difficult,’ remark Avice, in an almost

awestruck tone. ‘how could she go on hold the tambourine for so long

without its making even one tiny tinkle?’



‘wait till the next,’ say Wilhelmi, who appear to have pin his

hope on the _hermannsschlacht_ picture. ‘Luise, pray that thy Max may

not lose his heart to the Princess of Germania.’



Luise laugh a heart-whole laugh. the frantic devotion of her huge

lover to his tyrannical little bride be too well-know for she to feel

any qualm of jealousy.



just then the band begin to play a solemn battle march, through

which might be hear, like an undercurrent, the clashing of martial

instrument, and the angry mutter of war. then slowly the curtain

rise. expectation grow so intense, that even applause be hush, and

only a murmur go through the assembly, when at last the picture be

fully display before they. the picture which be copy give the very

spirit of the poet’s dream, as he picture that ancient chieftain and

his princess, and the live picture be an idealisation of the paint

one.



they appear to be seat beneath a mighty spread oak—a primeval

monarch of the forest. the trunk of the tree be at the extreme

left. above, its foliage overhead spread over almost the entire

scene. stretch away to the right from Hermann and Thusnelda,

appear a soft, grassy sward, fallen leave, and forest flower. in

the background, almost in the centre, burn a steady, reddish light,

while to the right a high-flame cresset cast fitful gleam upon

the centre-point of interest—Hermann, Prince of the Cherusker, and

Thusnelda, his wife.



the warrior, in the armour and dress of his tribe, be recline upon

the ground, half raise on one elbow; his short coat of mail, and

small-pointed helmet, with the crest a-top, his long yellow hair and

moustache, wild and fearless blue eye; the massive and almost savage

grace and power of the whole figure be splendid. a half-smile, at

once grim and bitter, curve his lip as he look up into Thusnelda’s

face, and with one great hand lift up a heavy lock of the wave,

golden-brown hair which sweep over her shoulder, and touch the

ground, confine above by a gorgeous diadem of gold and precious

stone, the one which she have previously tell he ‘thou brought’st I

of late from Rome;’ the diadem which Ventidius have arrange for she,

with what intent have she not just hear from Hermann?



Sara Ford, as Thusnelda, be also seat upon the ground at the foot

of the tree, clothe in a loose, flow white dress of some fine soft

web. lean a little over towards the warrior, she rest her weight

upon her left hand, and appear to question he with amazement and

indignation. the music stop, and behind the scene some one read a

portion of that magnificent scene—a scene such as perhaps no one but

Heinrich von Kleist could have write quite in that way.



the unseen reader recite, or read, with dramatic effect.



  THUSNELDA.



  I think thou dream’st, thou rav’st.

  who is’t will shear _my_ head?



  HERMANN.



  who? Pooh! Quintilius Varus and the Romans,

  with whom I just have seal a firm alliance.



  THUSNELDA.



  the Romans! how?



  HERMANN.



  Yea, what the devil think’st thou?

  and yet the roman lady really must,

  when they adorn themselves, have decent hair.



  THUSNELDA.



  have then the roman woman none at all?



  HERMANN.



  none, I say, save what’s black—all black and stiff, like witch;

  not fair, and dry, and golden, like this of thine.



the voice cease, and at this point the applause burst out in a

storm. Avice pass her hand over her eye, start violently at

be thus drag back to the every-day world. so life-like have be

the scene, one seem to be transport to those strange, far-back

primitive day—the day before that dim and distant _Hermannsschlacht_,

about which historiographer be even yet not agree. but far more

wonderful to Avice be the way in which her friend have, as it be,

transform herself from the collect, well-breed, sophisticated young

lady of to-day, into an ancient Teuton chieftainess, a primal Germanic

mother, in whose beautiful face there be not want passion and

fierceness—whoso read the rest of the play may learn the pitiless

brutal vengeance which Thusnelda wreak upon Ventidius—not want

her element of ‘the tiger and the ape.’ and yet how grand she be—how

majestic! and how tameless look this Teuton princess! it be not fear

that trouble she—she feel no fear—but anger, and boundless haughty

astonishment. the roman woman, forsooth! what be she to they, or they

to she? she feel as if she could crush a dozen of they with one blow of

her ample hand.



this picture be show twice. Wilhelmi rub his hand in rapture.



‘Splendid!’ he cry, ‘worth come mile to see. don’t she do it

grandly?—didn’t she look every inch the Teuton queen?’



‘Max might have give I one look!’ say Luise; ‘he _know_ I be in the

very front row. I shall scold he about it.’



‘foolish baby! I forbid thee to do anything of the kind. where would

the picture have be if he have be ludicrously roll his eye about

in search of thee? and why should he look for thee? be not Thusnelda

his lawful consort?’ say her father, delight to torment she if

possible.



Luise be about to make some malicious retort, when an official come

and whisper something to Wilhelmi, who, with an exclamation of

pleased surprise—a ‘_Nun, das freut mich!_’—rose, and make his way

towards the bottom of the crowded room.



the third picture be soon put on the stage. it be a ‘Village

Funeral,’ and be excellently well do, but it lack the poetry and

excitement of the last scene. the curtain go down, and still the

Professor do not return. Sara remain behind the scene; she take a

part in the next picture—the part of a lady of high degree, on whose

‘yes’ or ‘no’ her lover of low degree wait anxiously. there be a long

interval, full of noise and talk and laugh. when the curtain rise

again, Wilhelmi have still not return; and Luise, who be never happy

without he at such a scene, mutter discontentedly, ‘_wo bleibt denn

der Papa?_’



this picture—this _Ja, oder Nein_—had an interest, apart from its style

and subject, in the fact that it be the last one finish by the

artist who have die.



a long, old-fashion, richly-furnish room be display, and,

stand in the midst of the grandeur, plainly dress, proud and

upright, a young man in the costume of the present-day. he be

handsome, and have a fine, open, resolute face. the expression of

earnest, attentive, eager waiting, not degenerate into anxiety or

servility, be admirable. nothing show that he be nervous—he

have not take the trouble to get himself up in visit costume.

it appear that he have be walk: his shoe be dusty and

travel-soil, his dress a rather shabby grey suit, hand gloveless,

wrist cuffless, nothing either costly or fashionable about he;

and yet, one of nature’s gentleman. his white straw-hat lie on a

table beside he. he have be speak, you see, probably strongly,

earnestly, and ardently, and now he wait the answer. the young lady

who stand before he, in a highly fashionable costume of the present

day, as rich and costly as his be poor and worn, hold a fan in one

hand, and with the other seem to be half close it. the attitude be

one of reflection, of pausing; the eye be downcast. will she say

‘yes,’ or ‘no’?



beautiful group of vine-reaper, primæval forest, and historical

legend have their charm, no doubt; but a yet more potent spell be

excited when the poetry be touch which underlie this present-day

life of our—when romance be manifest, clothe in a grey tweed suit

and a fashionable afternoon costume. he be unabashe by her wealth and

splendour. will she resent his audacity, or accept it? in the painting

there be a sweet mystery: none could say, from look at it, what

course would be take by that fair lady. Sara Ford be perhaps think

of some past scene. there be the shadow of an expression upon her face

which cause a murmur:



‘after all, she will say yes.’



it be at this juncture—just when the interest be deepest, when neck

be be crane forward, and whisper exchange—comment upon he

and she: ‘how well Ludwig do it!’—‘Of course she will say yes!’—‘How

_wild_ Amalia Waldschmidt would be if she see Ludwig now!’ and so

on, that Professor Wilhelmi, accompany by another man, return to

his seat. there be an empty chair next to Avice Wellfield, and the

stranger take it, and fix his eye upon the _lebende Bild_ on the

stage. suddenly the face of the lady become no more like the face of a

picture. it change—it be certainly a live face. most distinctly her

eye move, her expression alter; some person say afterwards that

she have start, but that may be a libel. what be quite certain be,

that the expression of the face do change, and that the gentleman who

have come in with Professor Wilhelmi turn to Avice Wellfield with a

smile, and remark in a low voice:



‘Miss Ford have recognise I, and be so surprised to see I that she

have move.’



‘do you know Miss Ford?’ ask Avice, not move her eye from the

picture.



‘yes,’ reply Rudolf Falkenberg. ‘I meet she a month or two ago at

Ems—Nassau, rather, at the Countess of Trockenau’s.’



he continue to gaze intently at the living picture, while Miss Ford

on her part soon have her feature and expression entirely under her

own control again. she pose admirably for the remainder of the scene,

and for the repetition of it which be stormily demand. the shade of

expression on the lady’s face be of the very slight; but it be

enough for the audience to be all of one mind as to what it mean, and

‘she will have he’ be the universal verdict.



at last the curtain finally fall upon this picture, and with it end

Sara’s share in the performance. the two last ‘_bilder_’ be also

admirably do, but they do not excite the interest which have be

call out by the last. one be a scene from Schiller’s _Wallenstein_,

and the other from Goethe’s _Egmont_.



in the bustle of the interval ensue between the two last picture,

Sara come into the room with Wilhelmi, who have be behind the scene

to fetch she away. everyone be stand up, and almost everyone in

animate conversation, so that Miss Ford gain her place almost

unobserved.



not altogether unnoticed, though, for before anyone else could speak,

Falkenberg have hold out his hand with a smile, say:



‘thus we meet again, Miss Ford.’



‘not exactly “thus,”’ say Sara, laugh. ‘I see you suddenly, and be

so surprised that I be afraid I move, or laugh, or something. the

impulse to bow to you, and say “how do you do?” below the breath, as

one do, be almost irresistible.’



‘I ought to have remain in the background where I be, and from

whence I see you in Thusnelda. I would not have disturb _that_ for

the world.’



‘and that remind I,’ here observe Fräulein Wilhelmi in a plaintive

voice, ‘Miss Ford, where be my poor Max?’



‘behind the scene, dress for Egmont,’ reply Sara, laugh.



‘I shall never consent to this sort of thing again,’ say Luise. ‘or

if I do, I shall take a part as well. do you only come to-day, Herr

Falkenberg, or do papa know that you intend to visit we?’



‘no; I only decide yesterday to come, and I only arrive by the

evening train from Frankfort. I go to your house, and find where you

all be, and come here.’



‘of course you be stay with we, as usual?’ observe Luise.



‘your father have kindly ask I to do so,’ he reply, smile.



Sara, watch his face, feel an indescribable satisfaction in it,

and as if an old friend, and one who could be trust, have suddenly

be present. those be the same honest, critical brown eye which

have look kindly upon she, as they sit and speak of friendship in

the little _ruheplatz_ beneath the cathedral wall at Lahnburg. as

for Falkenberg, after the first word of greeting, he scarcely speak

to Sara, but allow himself to be monopolise by Luise, who, true to

her nature, have flirt with he, or try to do so, since she be two

year old. though he do not speak much to Sara, his eye wander now

and then towards she with an inquire, considerate expression. she

be very quiet, but look marvellously handsome, in her black velvet

gown and pearl necklace. Excitement, pleasure, high, strong emotion,

never make her talkative, but they bring a soft glow to her dark grey

eye, which beautify she wonderfully. to-night the pleasure have be

very great, the excitement very strong, and she look proportionately

splendid.



here the curtain go up for the last picture, and when that be over,

come the crush to get out of the hall.



‘look here, _mein Bester_!’ observe Wilhelmi to Herr Falkenberg. ‘my

womenkind will be more than enough for I. will you take Miss Ford and

Miss Wellfield under your charge, and see they home?’



‘with pleasure,’ be the reply; and with an exchange of hasty

good-night, the Wilhelmis be carry forward in the crowd, while

Falkenberg and the two english girl make their way slowly after they.



seat in their _Droschke_, and drive towards the Jägerstrasse,

Falkenberg say:



‘may I call at your atelier soon, Miss Ford, as I be stay here? I

dare say I shall be at the Wilhelmis’ for some little time.’



‘I shall be very glad if you will,’ respond Sara; ‘though,’ she

add, after a pause, ‘I be afraid there be not much for you to see.’



‘to-morrow afternoon,’ he suggest, ‘or will you be too tired?’



‘I shall not be tired at all. pray come, and have coffee with I, if

you care to remain.’



‘thank you. I shall not fail,’ he answer, as the cab stop, and he

hand they out.



‘we all owe you a debt of thank, _mein Fräulein_, for act as you

do to-night,’ he say, as he shake hand with she.



‘I be glad you be pleased, and I hope the affair will bring some

money to poor little Frau Goldmark. then, till to-morrow, Herr

Falkenberg.’



‘till to-morrow. _gute nacht, meine daman._’









[illustration]









CHAPTER IV.



HERR FALKENBERG’S FRIENDSHIP.



  ‘oh, snow so pure—oh, peak so high,

   I lift to you a hopeless eye;

   I see your icy rampart draw,

   between the sleeper and the dawn.



         *       *       *       *       *



   I see you, passionless and pure,

   above the lightning stand secure;

   but may not climb....’





when Herr Falkenberg arrive the following afternoon in the

Jägerstrasse, he find Miss Ford alone in her atelier. she have send

Avice out with Ellen, she tell he, to walk off the excitement of

yesterday.



‘I be glad you have come early,’ she add, ‘while it be yet to-day.

the evening darken down so quickly now, don’t they?’



‘yes, very; but for I, these chilly autumn evening have a great

fascination.’



‘have they? and for I too. do you know, there be nothing I like well

than to put on my hat and shawl on a fine, sharp October evening, such

as this be go to be, before it be quite dark, while the sky be still

light; in fact, just at the time the lamplighter go his round. there

be a strange, unusual feeling in the air, and people go by like figure

in a dream.’



‘I know the feeling. and what be your favourite haunt at such time?’



‘I like to pass through some of the most crowded street first, then

gradually to leave they and walk through the quieter Allee, till I

get to the Hofgarten. I never get tired of it, small though it be.

that well-wear round space, call the _Schöne Aussicht_, remain my

favourite spot. very few people go there at this season, and at that

time in the evening. I can sit, or stand, or pace about as long as I

choose, and watch the Rhine, and the remain of the sunset, and the

bridge of boat, and think of all the village which the distance

hide. it be very beautiful, I think, though you may laugh at I for

say so.’



‘I be not all inclined to laugh, for I like the same kind of thing

myself. I have a special fondness for the “still, sad music of

humanity,” which one comprehend well at such time.’



‘yes, it be a music worth listen to. but the music of humanity be

not always sad, Herr Falkenberg, be it?’



‘no,’ say Rudolf, look down at she. he be stand, Sara be

seat on a low chair, lean forward, and look up at he with an

earnest, large gaze, and in her eye be so deep, so triumphant and

secure a happiness, that he could not fail to see it—it make her face

glorious with its reflection. Falkenberg, look at she, repress

the word of admiration he would fain have utter, and sigh before

he answer she, in his usual courteous, collect fashion. ‘no,’ he

repeat; ‘it be often glad, I think, and when it be so, it be very

glad. pardon I, Miss Ford,’ he go on, with a slight smile, ‘I think

it have be glad for you lately; you look as if your life’s music be

pitch just now in a major key.’



her cheek flush, and her eye fall, as she answer, in a low tone:



‘yes, I have have a great happiness lately. I be very happy.’



‘I be very glad to hear it,’ say he, and he be at no loss to guess to

what kind of happiness she allude. if he have be—his eye fall upon

her hand, clasp upon her knee, and upon the solitary sapphire hoop

which deck the third finger of the left hand, with the broad tight

gold guard above. that be enough. he have observe her hand in day

go by, and then, he know, when they be at Ems and Nassau, she have

wear several ring, old-fashioned, but valuable—a diamond one, and a

pearl and emerald one, and other. they be go. nothing remain but

the sapphire hoop.



‘let I congratulate you on your happiness,’ he add, ‘and forgive my

say that the ring you wear be a good oman. those blue stone mean

steadfastness and faith.’



‘yes, I know. those quality be about the good thing we can have.

don’t you think so?’



‘they be very good thing,’ he reply slowly, as he think within

himself, ‘two can be steadfast: one may steadfastly give up, as well as

steadfastly cle to a thing.’



‘be you not tired with your exertion last night?’ he ask.



‘I—oh no! I be very strong; I do not easily get tired. I should like

always to feel as I do feel last night: as if nothing would ever be

difficult again, as if one’s power would easily sweep away every

obstacle. do you know, in the scene from Hermann and Thusnelda, I be

wish, with all my heart, that I be here in my atelier, with an

appropriate subject. I feel as if I could have paint then.’



‘yes, one live a full life at such moment. that remind I that at

this season daylight rapidly depart. may I not see your picture now?’



‘with pleasure, such as they be,’ she answer, rise, and push an

easel round, so as to show the picture in the good light.



‘this be but a sketch,’ say he, stand before it. ‘have you nothing

finish?’



‘n—no,’ say Sara, pausing; and as she force herself to make the

calculation, she find that she have never finish anything since she

visit to Ems; since she have know Jerome Wellfield.



‘I have finish nothing lately,’ she exclaim, strike with the

thought, and involuntarily speak out her reflection. ‘I finish

nothing now. I begin thing, and then the impulse fade away, and they

be neglect.’



‘it be as well not to insist upon work out every crude attempt,’

he say—and she think his face take an expression of gravity, as he

continue to look at the sketch—‘because if you do that, you be not

an artist any more, but a machine; but it be also well occasionally

to persevere in carry out some conception, even if you do not

find yourself altogether in sympathy with your first idea. that be

discipline, which in moderation be good. what be this?’ he add, so

drily, and so abruptly, that she start.



‘that?’ she answer, a little hurriedly; ‘oh, it be a verse from a

little poem of Sully Prudhomme’s which strike my fancy. where be it?’



she find a scrap of paper on the edge of the easel, on which paper

be scribble Sully Prudhomme’s exquisite little line, _Si vous

saviez_. the verse she have try to illustrate be the one run:



  ‘si vous saviez ce que fait naître

      Dans l’âme triste un pur regard,

  vous regarderiez ma fenêtre

          Comme au hasard.’



‘it be not very good,’ say Sara, apologetically; ‘it be a stupid,

sentimental little thing after all.’



‘as you have sketch it, it be,’ he answer, and say no more.



Sara, with an uneasy thrill of feeling, remember his word to she at

Trockenau: ‘if I think it atrocious, I be afraid I should say it be

so, much though I might dislike have to do it.’



she feel that he have just now say ‘atrocious,’ or something very

like it, and her heart sink. silently she place another canvas above

the first. it be a vague, indistinct scene; what appear some wild,

wind-blow tree on rise ground to the left—cloud riven asunder, and

silver by a moon which do not actually appear; the hint of a deep,

rapid, sullen stream, with tall rush, in the foreground.



‘that be imaginary!’ he say abruptly, ‘you do not go to Nature for

this.’



‘no, not altogether. it be—it be only a sketch.’



‘Scarcely that. be it mean to typify anything?’



‘I believe I be think of Shelley’s stanzas: “away! the moor be dark

beneath the moon!” but it be bad. I have fail,’ she add, a sudden

sense of be very small and insignificant rush over she, and also

a conviction of how entirely she have fail.



‘yes, you have fail,’ he answer, somewhat sarcastically. ‘I should

not imagine, in the first place, that you know what the line mean.’



‘no, I don’t think I do,’ Sara own, deprecatingly.



‘let we hope you never may. the meaning, when you come at it, be

bitter—as bitter as anything well can be. Well’—he turn to she, and

look she in the face, with eye which she feel be full of severity

and full of concern—‘is that all?’



‘it be all I can show you,’ she reply hastily, ‘when I see how

displeased you be.’



‘you be afraid of hear the truth?’ ask Falkenberg, with a mocking

smile.



with compressed lip, and a face which have grow pale, she throw a

cover from another canvas, a large one, on a second easel, and,

leave he to study it, turn away, and stand at the window, look

out, her heart beat so wildly that its throb deafen she. yet she

hear he say:



‘ah! at least one know what this be intend for.’



it be a sketch merely, all except the head of the figure, in neutral

first tint; and there be certainly no mistake the subject. a man’s

figure in imperial robe, lean eagerly forward, stretch out his

hand; his eye fix, his lip part towards the sun, which suddenly

burst with a flood of light into the room, and illumine the desk and

tablet, on which he have be inscribe his great _hymn_. one could

just catch this meaning; and the head of Julian the Apostate, which be

boldly finish and beautiful, be a likeness of Jerome.



‘H’m!’ observe Falkenberg. ‘the Apostate—a curious idea.’ then, after

a pause, ‘I suppose that _be_ all?’



‘All, except the study I be do with Herr Wilhelmi,’ she say,

feel all the pretty conceit with which she have try to gloss over

her work, small in amount, poor in execution, of the last three month,

sweep away, as cobwebs might be sweep from a roof, till not a trace

remain.



‘and have the Herr Professor praise your performance of late?’



‘he have not—he have blame they,’ say she, her cheek burning, but

firmly resolve to confess the bad—to conceal nothing.



‘it would have be odd indeed if he have do so. have he see this last

one that I have just be look at?’



‘no one have see it but yourself,’ she reply, almost inaudibly.



‘it be not quite so bad as the other two. the head show some sign of

good workmanship, but the whole thing be poor and meretricious; and

you know it be. those other two study, or attempt at study, show

a distinct and visible fall off. they be not so good by a long way

as the little sketch you show I at Trockenau. they be careless,

sketchy, weak, and horribly amateurish. they be second-rate in every

way—fit for magazine woodcut—but as work of art! they be dreadful,

and quite destitute of workmanship, and I be very sorry to see they.’



‘oh, Herr Falkenberg!’ she exclaim, aghast. ‘you—but I deserve it.

they be all that you say.’



she speak with a proud humility, but her voice be stifle with

suppress sob. his relentless word have arouse, as if by magic,

the old spirit of eager ambition which, until a few month ago, have

animate she. it be as if some one roughly shake she from some

pleasant drowsy dream back into reality. in her own mind she have

try—not very successfully, it be true, but still with the effect of

lull herself into contentment—to call those inadequate attempt at

picture ‘vague fancy,’ ‘thought too subtle at once to take shape.’

consummate criticism, neutral, calm and unimpassioned, fix its

pierce eye upon they, and instantly pronounce they—daub.



she have come near to he as she speak. now she turn away again,

consume by a feeling of burn, scorch shame, and walk back

to the window, and stand there, feel utterly miserable. ‘love be

enough,’ she have lately read somewhere; but it be not true, she

find—it do not support or comfort she under this just condemnation.

it do not enable she to feel callous and indifferent under the

disapproval and displeasure of such a man as Rudolf Falkenberg.



she remained stand by the window. he have begin to pace about the

studio, his hand clasp behind he. presently he speak:



‘I congratulate you just now on your happiness,’ he say. ‘if this be

to be the result, I must withdraw those congratulation.’



‘Herr Falkenberg, don’t—please don’t say that!’ she implore, in a

voice that be pitiable, though so low.



‘but I must, if you allow it thus to enervate you—to emasculate your

power. pardon my frankness, and what may seem my intrusiveness; but you

know my motive. do you mean to give up your art?’



‘no—oh no! I never think of such a thing.’



‘then look to what you be do. such thing as those you have show

I—such thin, weak, boneless, bloodless thing be a mere prostitution

of one of the noble and most glorious of art. for heaven’s sake, if

you do not intend to do well than that, give it up altogether. surely

you be above such amateur dabbling, such sentimental prettiness—you,

who might do well and worthily, even nobly, I believe, if you only

would. and, if you intend to persevere, let I tell you that the

“happiness,” or the “good fortune,” or whatsoever it may be, which

degrade your power instead of expand they, be _bad_. sorrow

rightly bear, and noble joy rightly worn, should elevate, not degrade.

there be no evade this law, and no escape it for those who have

soul at all; and I be firmly convinced that you have. what have one of

your own countryman say, one of the most consummate art-critic that

ever live? he have say just the same thing—“accurately, in proportion

to the rightness of the cause, and the purity of the emotion, be the

possibility of the fine art— ... with absolute precision, from the

high to the low, the fineness of the possible art be an index

of the moral purity and majesty of the emotion it express.” that be

one of the hard thing ever write, and one of the true. measure

yourself by it, with _those_—and where be you?’



Sara have cast herself into a chair, and with her hand before her face,

be control her sob as well she might. never before have she felt

thus humble and scorch, and burn up, as it be. it be terrible,

yet not one pang of anger or resentment mingle with her emotion. she

know that what he say be just—no more, no less; and be noble, she

like he the well for his have say it. there be no carping,

no prejudice or temper in what he say—no scolding for the sake of

rouse she to retort or to deprecate; there be the sorrowful, stern

condemnation of one who know she have belie herself, and have sufficient

regard for she to tell she so, and she bow to it.



he do not speak for a little time, and gradually her sob grow

quieter. at last he stop before she, and say:



‘Miss Ford!’



Sara remove her hand from before her face, pick up her

handkerchief, dry her eye with it, and look at he. his eye be

full of kindness; they be not hard; his face be not the face of a

hard judge, and his voice be soothe as he say:



‘I do not beg you to forgive I for what I have say to you. if you

be what I take you to be, that be not necessary. I do not say I be

sorry to have wound you. I honour you so much as to feel sure that

you appreciate my reason for so speak. but I ask you, do you know

yourself the reason of this quick and lamentable fall off?’



‘yes, I know it,’ she reply, look at he with a face pale indeed,

but with eye which do not waver. ‘the reason be, that I have dream

of myself and my own happiness to the exclusion of everything else. I

have let my love master I, instead of be myself master of my love.

and I be punish for it.’



‘and will you go on dream? will you not rather try to awaken?’



Sara look at he, and thought of Jerome—of the love she bear he.

Subdue that, make it bondslave to her art, second to something else?

she know that if she mean to be what she have all along striven for—a

great artist, that she must do so; the question be, could she? have

she not be in reality the slave of her love for Wellfield, since it

have arise, since he have tell she he love she? not confessedly so,

but indeed, and in fact? yes, it be so. it suddenly dawn upon she

mind that such love might be absorbing—might be exquisite at the time;

but her nobler self tell she that it be not good to be bind hand and

foot in the bond of this passion, that it be unworthy, that she have

yield to the infatuation that paralyse, not the love that inspire.



‘I cannot be free in a moment,’ say she, ‘but I can endeavour to be

so. I will try, and I give you my hand upon it.’



with a simple, proud gesture, she place her hand in his. he know what

she mean. that love of hers be not to be give up; she hold it holy,

justifiable. but she be no long to be its bondslave.



‘well,’ he think, ‘it be doubtful, but if there be a woman who can do

it, she can.’



he grasp her hand firmly.



‘and our friendship?’ he ask.



‘do you still wish for my friendship, Herr Falkenberg?’



‘now, more than ever, your friendship appear precious and desirable to

I.’



‘it be your, so long as you care to keep it,’ she answer. ‘at least,

do not desert I till I have find the strait and narrow path again.’



‘that be not hard,’ he answer. ‘go to Nature, and paint the humblest

plant you can find—the most rugged visage you may meet in the street,

but paint it—you know how, as well as I do. do not smear into it

your own vague fancy. study it, to find what God have hide behind

its exterior covering. think of it and its meaning; not of yourself,

and what you would like it to be. reverence, reverence, and for ever

reverence, as that same great countryman of yours have say; and I

promise you that if it be but a tuft of dandelion, or the head of the

most weather-beat _mütterchen_ on the marketplace, it shall be more

worth hang up and look at than a thousand of those thing.’



‘your saying be hard, but true,’ she answer, with a return of life

in her cheek and eye; ‘and I thank you for your lesson, though it have

be a stern one. only tell I—you don’t despair of I?’



‘I never feel such confidence in you as I do now,’ he reply, with a

smile, and look at she as if he wish she would return it. but Sara

could not do that yet. she sit still, rest her cheek on her hand,

and he pace about the studio talk to she, his heart beat fast

too, think.



‘fine-temper—true and pure gold. do the man know what sort of a

woman he have win? judge by my own experience of such affair—not.’



when Avice come in from her walk, she find Sara and Herr Falkenberg in

the parlour, look over engraving. then Ellen hasten to bring the

coffee, and Rudolf disburthene his mind of an invitation commit to

his charge by Fräulein Wilhelmi, bid Sara to a musical party on the

follow evening. she promise to go; and he, depart, hold her hand

somewhat long as he ask:



‘you have understand, I hope?’



‘perfectly, and be grateful.’



‘then, till to-morrow evening,’ he reply, bow, and take his

departure.









[illustration]









CHAPTER V.



the LION and the MOUSE.





on the follow evening, Sara, when she arrive at the Wilhelmis’,

find a large, gay party assemble, consist chiefly of those who

have distinguish themselves in the _lebenden_ _bildern_ the night

before, or who have give useful service in prepare they. Sara be

almost shocked to recognise, amongst other, little Frau Goldmark,

for whose benefit the entertainment have be give. to her intense

nature it appear strange and even indecorous that the young widow

should present herself in this sparkle mixed company—under the

circumstance. certainly she do not put herself forward; she sit on

an ottoman, in a rather retire corner, from which she do not move,

and those who desire to have speech of she could do so by go and

talk to she. Sara find herself near she during the evening, and,

at the moment, no one else be close to they. she turn and speak to

she, wish her good-evening rather gravely. indeed, since yesterday

afternoon, she have feel grave, though by no mean sad. she have

reflect upon Falkenberg’s stricture, and the more she think upon

the subject the more convinced she be that he have speak the word of

justice—of truth and soberness.



‘ah, Miss Ford!’ exclaim Frau Goldmark, effusively, ‘how very much I

have to thank you for!’



‘do not mention it, Frau Goldmark. what little I could do, I do with

great pleasure; and I be very glad if it succeed.’



‘_Ach, ungeheuer!_’ cry she, use an exaggerated expression not

beloved of Sara, who wonder more and more that the little woman have

not have the sense to remain at home—‘_Ungeheuer!_ it will be a small

fortune to I. it be entirely your influence, of course, _liebe

Fräulein_, which have induce Herr Falkenberg to be so generous. and I,

who have be think that the picture be only so much bury capital,

that never would be realise!’



‘I be afraid I don’t understand you,’ say Sara, become conscious

that some event of which she know nothing be allude to, and aware,

too, of a disagreeably significant meaning in the smile with which Frau

Goldmark look at she.



‘but you must know surely that, yesterday morning, Herr Falkenberg go

straight to the _Ausstellung_, where my husband’s picture hung, and

that he buy it—buy it then and there; and when Herr Lohe of the

_Ausstellung_ say that it be a fine picture, Herr Falkenberg reply

that to anyone who have see Miss Ford in that character the night

before, it could not fail to be a fine picture. now, what do you think?’



Frau Goldmark laugh, never having imagine that she would have the

good fortune to be the first to communicate this news to Miss Ford. the

reply surprise and appal she.



‘I think your information most uncalled for, and that, if true, it be

not of the slight importance to I,’ reply the young lady, raise

her head to its utmost height, and, without deign another word,

walk away.



Frau Goldmark recoil. she have imagine that the information would be

consider most piquant and gratifying, and behold, the result have be

annihilation almost.



though Sara have walk away with such dignity, a most unpleasant

sensation have take possession of she. it be most unlike all she know

of Falkenberg that he should make such a vulgar remark as that would

certainly have be; and yet the glibness with which Frau Goldmark have

repeat it, stagger she. she stand, absently converse with Ludwig

Maas, the very man with whom she have act in the picture, and be

chiefly conscious of repent bitterly that she have ever take any

part in the affair, and Herr Maas be wonder a little why Miss Ford,

who, with all her dignity, have be so sociable and pleasant to he two

day ago, should wear so cold and unapproachable an expression this

evening, when Falkenberg come up to they.



‘Miss Ford,’ say he, ‘I have be talk to Frau Goldmark.’



‘indeed!’ be the frigid reply.



‘I have well go,’ decide Ludwig within himself; and with a murmur

excuse he leave they.



‘yes,’ pursue Rudolf. ‘I see that she have offend you by something

she have say. she be a tiresome, vulgar little woman, who use to

annoy I a good deal in former day when I have dealing with her

husband.’



‘I can quite imagine it,’ say Sara, ‘but as I feel quite indifferent

towards she, we need not talk about she.’



there be a laugh in Falkenberg’s eye as he say:



‘but I do not feel at all indifferent towards she, find as I do,

that she have be misrepresent I to you.’



Sara’s face flushed, and her head be lift again.



‘pray let we leave the subject,’ she say.



‘no, I must ask you as a favour to hear I. Frau Goldmark have a way of

put the cart before the horse sometimes, which, if innocent, be

still annoying. she tell you that _i_ have say to Herr Lohe—something

which, if I have say it, under the circumstance, would have be the

height of impertinence, though the poor little woman seem to imagine

that it be a charming compliment.’



‘well, and do you not say it?’ she ask, still in the same

unapproachable manner.



‘can you for a moment suspect I of it? I observe to Herr Lohe that it

be a charming picture, upon which he throw up his hand, exclaim,

“_Ach! mein Herr_, it be always charming, but since one have see Miss

Ford in it, it be _à ravir_.”’



Sara smile involuntarily. Herr Lohe be a well-know character in the

Elberthal artist world. the word and the manner be so exactly his,

that she could no long have even a shade of doubt on the matter.



‘I beg your pardon,’ she say, all the stiffness melting suddenly from

her attitude and expression, ‘for ever listen to such a story. it

take I by surprise.’



‘now you look less terrible, and more human,’ he say, laugh; ‘less

like those “snow so pure, those peak so high,” to which the poet say

he lift “a hopeless eye.”’



‘you be laugh at I,’ say Sara, laugh in her turn. ‘I feel

insult, I confess. what a tiresome, mischievous little woman that be!’



‘very. but,’ he add earnestly, and in a low voice, ‘you be not

insult yesterday, when I say some rather strong thing to you, the

reverse of complimentary, and yet now——’



‘that be quite different,’ she reply, her cheek flush again. ‘and

you know it, Herr Falkenberg; but you wish to torment I because you

think I be exaggerate in everything.’



‘since that be your opinion of my opinion of you, let it stand,’ be

all he would reply.



Frau Goldmark sit in her corner, and watch the proceeding from afar.

after having be make so much of for so long, this be a grievous

way in which to be treat. her feeling be assuredly akin to those

express by the oyster when the walrus and the carpenter threaten

to eat they.



  ‘after such kindness, that would be

  a dismal thing to do.’



‘_Lieber Himmel!_’ think Frau Goldmark, who be accustom, even

mentally, to the use of exaggerated expression, ‘how could I know?

but who do know what will please an Englishwoman? not I, I be sure.

I wish I have give she back her stare, but I never have my wit about

I at the right moment, and I dare say she think I be overwhelm

with confusion. and when he come up to me’—here an expression akin to

cunning develop itself upon Frau Goldmark’s face—‘these man think

they have but to speak, and that then we believe they. he “think I

have make a mistake,” indeed. whether I may have be mistake about

that or not, can I not see he now, talk to she, and the look in

his eye? Bah! it be easy enough to see what it all mean. People

like she think they have a right to toss their head if one hazard a

joke. would not she be glad enough to catch he, if she could? and

if she do, will it not be through I that they have be bring

together—their happiness make out of my misfortune? _Ach, ja!_’



which lead one to reflect that there be a celebrate fable concern

a lion and a mouse, which relate how the former magnanimously thank

the latter on be set free from his toil through that humble

agency—lead one also to wonder a little what some mouse might feel

supposing they have receive favour of crush importance from the

kingly beast, and have later be rebuke for flippancy of behaviour.

perhaps the feeling of the mouse on such an occasion might not be

altogether without resemblance to those just now entertain by Frau

Goldmark towards her two most substantial benefactor.



late the follow evening, Falkenberg be pace up and down the space

jut out from the Hofgarten towards the river, and know as the

Schöne Aussicht. (Schöne Aussicht—Belle Vue—Bella Vista: why have we

no name for it in England, we who have so much of the thing itself?) it

be the very hour which Sara have mention as be her favourite one

for stroll about. have Falkenberg have any idea of meet she there?

hardly. he be scarcely the man to go with such a purpose, especially

in the case of Sara Ford. he have come, partly because he wish to be

alone, and partly because she have say she love the place. so much he

confess to himself; nor do it disturb he in that he know it be a

dream that he cherish.



he be think about she now as he pace about, think of what she

have say about love to watch the river, the Rhine. Falkenberg watch

it too, as it flow majestically along, eleven hundred foot across,

from one low flat bank to the other, make a low, sedate music as

he seem to march by, with his grand, broad, unintermittent sweep,

having gather in might and volume during his long journey past

castle and crag and town, between the wall of Mainz and beneath the

frown escarpment of Ehrenbreitstein, between rock and vineyard and

village and hamlet, until he come to proud Cologne, the fair gem in

his crown, and then, broad and strong and old and greyer, go

sweep on past the other village and town, towards Rotterdam and

Holland and the sea.



Rudolf see not another human creature. he cease his walk, and place

himself on one of the bench look towards the river, and, lean

his elbow on the back of it, smoke, and abstractedly watch a

great American Rhine steamer, with _Kaiser Wilhelm_ inscribe on her

paddle-box, which be steam slowly into the harbour to stay there

and be repair before the next tourist season begin. the light on her

poop and deck cast bright ray athwart the sullen grey of the stream,

but he do not see they though he be look at they.



‘I wish she be not engage to this fellow,’ he think. ‘it’s young

Wellfield, I suppose, unless I be very much deceive by what I see

at Trockenau that night. I may do he injustice, but I have an idea

that when all come to the point, he will look first to his precious

self. it be not surprising if he be both vain and selfish, after the

ordeal he have go through of flattery and gratuitous love affair and

desperate case, and girl who have make fool of themselves about

he. but it be a pity that at last a noble woman should have fall a

victim. God forgive I if I do the lad injustice. I hope I do. one can

but wait the event.’



he knock the ash from his cigar, and gaze across the river at the

outline, now very dim, of a batter-look tree on the opposite shore.



‘it be time I come to some conclusion,’ he think. ‘I have be

dangle here long enough. I have her friendship—I see and know that

her love be give elsewhere. it would be simple madness in I to try

to win it. I be only burn my finger and make a fool of myself by

remain here—and get more in love with she every day.... ay, and

I do love she!’



he fling his cigar away, and lean forward, gaze intently out into

the darkness, think.



‘if ever I have the chance of marry she—if by any mean I could

induce she to take I, I would do it, let the risk be what it might....

shall I stay a little long? be the pleasure worth the concomitant

pain? when I know that I may not tell she I love she, any more than

she, if she love I, could tell I so.’



as he thus reflect, and reflect, too, that it be all a

chance—everything be a chance—he watch how two man on the big

steamer throw out a rope to two man in a little boat which be rock

in the swell in the wake of the big one. twice they throw, and miss;

then prepare to cast it out a third time.



‘if they catch it this time,’ decide Rudolf, ‘I’ll stay; if they miss

again, I’ll say good-bye to she to-morrow, and go home.’



a third throw of the rope, a lurch of the little boat, and the cry:



‘_Gut! Jetzt hab’ ich’s._’



‘I stay. _Gut!_ I take my holiday in Elberthal instead of in Rome. what

do it matter to anyone but myself?’



he arise, and walk straight back to Wilhelmi’s house, where there

be, as usual, a large company, many of whom have be invite expressly

to meet he. he go amongst they, and make himself agreeable to they

for the rest of the evening. he promise himself a month’s holiday

from now. the chance be—for something happen to Sara, to Jerome,

to anyone, which should lead event in the direction he desire—one.

against that, ten thousand. and for the sake of the one he stay.









[illustration]









CHAPTER VI.



UNAWARES.



                    ‘what’s this thought,

  Shapeless and shadowy, that keep flit round

  like some dumb creature that see come danger,

  and break its heart, try in vain to speak?’





perhaps Sara Ford be the solitary person who never give a thought

as to why Rudolf Falkenberg pay so long a visit to the Wilhelmis’.

everyone else, from Frau Goldmark upwards, have arrive at the

same conclusion, and feel a just and honourable pride in his own

astuteness—the conclusion that Herr Falkenberg be what be euphoniously

call, ‘pay attention’ to Miss Ford. he know the report well

himself, and know that to the principal person concern—herself—it

be as if it have not be, and not care a straw what be say or

think about he, he take no trouble to enlighten anyone on the

subject. he come and go like an old friend in and out of Sara’s

presence. he be perfectly certain that Jerome Wellfield be keep fully

informed of all that be say and do in their interview, and that

be so, he feel that he have no other person to account to for his

action in the matter. and he know that his presence invigorate and

do she good. she have cast aside all her dreamy fancy, and have go

humbly to Nature, as he have bid she do, and Nature have not betray

‘the heart that love she.’ Sara have make some study, on see

which, Wilhelmi, all unconscious of what have go before, have draw

a long breath of relief, say, ‘_be, Kind!_ you be again come

to your sense.’ Falkenberg have not frown, if he have not smile at

they; he have say:



‘so you have lay hold of the clue at last, which lead back to the

narrow path?’



‘I shall never rest,’ say Sara, cheerfully, ‘until I have do

something which you will not scorn to hang up somewhere near the roof

of your picture-gallery. then I shall feel sure that I not only have

the clue, but be back on the stony road again.’



‘some day you will do something which the world will not allow to be

bury in any picture-gallery of mine. patience, patience, and ever

patience!’



it be the morning after they have hold this conversation. Sara and

Avice be seat at breakfast.



‘I wonder,’ observe the latter, ‘whether Jerome will come over here

for Christmas? do you think he will? do he ever say anything to you?’



‘never,’ say Sara, with a smile. ‘but I have very little doubt that he

will come.’



‘it would be so delightful—a real german Christmas at the Wilhelmis’,

with a tree, and everything proper.’



‘for that matter, you may have a tree here, if you like. but—ah, here’s

the postman. and a letter from Jerome,’ she add, as she take it from

Ellen’s hand, and read it.



  ‘dearest SARA,



 ‘I write in exceed haste to tell you that an excellent opportunity

 offer for Avice to come to England. my friend Father Somerville,

 of whom I have so often speak to you, be travel at present in

 Belgium on business connect with the college. he have to visit

 Cologne before his return, and mean to travel by way of Elberthal,

 Rotterdam, and Harwich, and he have offer to take charge of my

 sister. he will be about two day in Elberthal, and I ask he to

 call upon you at once, to explain his arrangement. I expect it

 will be the end of this week before he arrive. this have all be

 arrange in such haste that I could not possibly let you know before.

 and now I have no time to write as I should wish to do. I have have

 trouble—money trouble. I will explain as soon as I be able to write

 to you. meantime this must go to the post. excuse its hastiness. give

 my love to my sister, and believe I,



  ‘your devoted

  ‘J. W.’



when Sara have finish read this letter, she pass her hand over

her eye, tremble strangely. she could not understand it. it be

like some hateful, inexplicable nightmare. that the hand which have all

along caress, should thus suddenly strike—and strike hard—pass

her comprehension. the voice which have be so tender be in a

moment shout out a harsh command. no reason give—no one word of

explanation as to why Avice be so suddenly to be take away from

she. it be incredible. there have never be any speak or write

agreement, but always a tacit understanding that Avice be to remain

with she until she and Jerome be marry, and that then she should

share their home. it seem it be not to be so.



‘what be the matter, Sara? have anything happen to Jerome—tell I!’



for all answer, Sara hand she the letter. she could not speak—could

not explain it.



‘what—why?’ exclaim the girl, in a tone of dismay. ‘I do not

understand.’



‘nor I, dear!’ be the answer. ‘I know exactly as much about it as you

do.’



‘I be sure I don’t want to go travel with this strange man—carry

off as if I have do something wrong,’ say Avice, less and less

charm with the prospect.



‘if you have to go, I shall see that you do not go alone,’ be all

Sara could answer. she could eat no more. she rise from her chair.

leave Avice with the letter, to follow her own device, she retire

to her atelier, and there try to reason it all out, and comprehend

it—and fail. it grow more inexplicable, and more horrible, the more

thought she give to it, until at last an idea flash into her mind,

which leave her cold and trembling and miserable, with a misery such as

she have never know before. have any change come over him?—did he love

she less? she laugh at it, put it aside, argue it away, and at last

do attain to a pretty certain conviction that she be wrong; but the

misery remain. it be there, like a dead, leaden weight at her heart.

she might argue away her first impression—the first subtle intrusion of

the idea, or the shadow or the ghost of the idea, false, but she could

not get rid of the wretchedness cause by the fact that the idea have

intrude—that something have happen so strange as to open the door for

it to enter by.



she try to paint, but could not. she pass a morning of

misery—heavy, unrelieved, and indescribable. when she return to

Avice, she find she too deject, puzzle, unhappy.



‘I don’t want to go,’ she say. ‘I don’t know what Jerome mean, or

want. if I go to England, he ought to come and fetch I.’



he have say no word of come, as Sara remember, with a heartache.



‘he write in haste, and promise to let we hear again,’ she reply.

‘there be sure to be a letter to-morrow explaining.’



‘I don’t see how it be to be explain,’ say Avice, despondently. ‘but

if Jerome think he can tyrannise over I, he be mistaken.’



her lip close one upon the other with an expression of obstinacy.



‘hush! as if he have any thought of such a thing!’ say Sara, coldly;

but this exchange of idea have not result in lighten the heart of

either one or the other of they.









[illustration]









CHAPTER VII.



‘an ENEMY HATH do this.’





the postman do not call at all the follow morning, and Sara, she

scarcely know why, feel sick at heart. what a martyrdom those four or

five postal delivery per diem of a great town may and do inflict

upon some of those who be eagerly wait for _something_ to come,

and it never appear. the postman go past, or call, with terrible

regularity. scarcely have one bitter disappointment be tide over,

than one see he again, with the bundle of letter in his left hand,

pass along the street, or run up the step. there be the

sharp fall of a letter in the box, the sicken interval before the

servant come in with the salver, and on it a circular, an invitation,

a bill—never the thing one be long for so desperately. under the

circumstance, give we rather by all mean the one delivery during

the day of the dark and barbarous village which be five mile from

everywhere. there one be at least secure of an interval of twenty-four

hour between each ordeal.



Dinner, their midday dinner, be over; and the afternoon be advance.

Sara could not paint; so, say she have a headache, she do not enter

her studio, but remain in the other room with a book. Ellen and Avice

be both in the atelier. ellen with her sewing, which she usually

take there when her mistress be not paint, and sometimes when

she be. Avice be paint. she have a very pretty talent for make

water-colour drawing; and Wilhelmi, out of his regard for Sara, have

give she a few hint on different occasion, by which she have not

fail to profit.



thus Sara have her book, her parlour, and her thought to herself, and

feel the monopoly to be of anything but an exhilarate character.

she scarce see the print page; she be so engross in her wonder

as to what have really be in Jerome’s mind when he write she that

letter, and by the bitter sense of indignity she experience in

the utter silence of to-day. not a line; not a word from he. it

be amazing—incomprehensible! she have not answer the letter. she

be wonder whether she should do so, whether she should wait

another day; in the hope of hear from he that he have be hasty,

ill-advise; that he have decide not to let his sister return with

Father Somerville.



then some one knock at the door, and in answer to she _Herein!_

Rudolf Falkenberg enter.



‘send I away if I disturb you,’ he say, pausing, and look rather

doubtfully at she.



‘not in the least. pray come in, Herr Falkenberg, and try to instil

some of your wisdom into I, for I be a very foolish person.’



‘as how?’ he ask, take a chair near she, when she have give he

her hand; ‘and what have happen, that I find you sit here in the

middle of the afternoon, like——’



‘like a banker on his holiday, or a lady of independent mean, or some

other equally enviable person,’ say Sara.



‘you will own that the position for you be an anomaly, at least.’



‘I suppose it be. I cannot paint to-day. I have other thing to think

of.’ her face cloud. ‘I be go to lose my dear little companion.’



she tell he this as a fact, though she have be debate within

herself whether to wait till she hear ‘certainly’ from Wellfield.



‘Miss Wellfield! be she go?’



‘yes. her brother be ready for she to come home, and as a suitable

escort offer, he have send for she.’



‘I see. and that will leave you alone.’



‘when she be go, and you be go, I shall be quite alone.’



she look at he as she speak with a frank, unconscious regret, openly

express in her glance, and in the tone of her voice, before which

he avert his eye. it be at moment like these that he feel the

‘burn finger’ he have picture to himself, give twinge and pang of

pain which be hard to bear without either word or exclamation. _tout

vient à point à qui sait attendre_, have be a favourite proverb with

he, and he still believe in it a good deal, though he be aware,

as most man and woman who have pass the boundary of youth must

be, either from observation or experience, that these trite, dull,

hackneyed proverb have a trick of realise themselves in a fashion

the reverse of delightful. ‘everything come to pass for he who know

how to wait for it.’ but how do it come to pass? the oracle sayeth

not, and he be a fool who ask. ‘and he shall give they their heart’

desire’—another poetical, grandiloquently sound promise. but how do

they sometimes receive their heart’ desire? often in such fashion as

to break the heart that have be wait and desire so long.



‘I be the bearer of an invitation to you from Fräulein Wilhelmi,’ he

say, not answer her look and tone of regret. ‘or rather, I might

say, a mandate—a command.’



‘what sort of a command? Luise wish to command everyone,’ say Sara,

with a languid smile.



‘she have arrange some private theatrical for to-morrow evening, and——’



‘do she wish I to take part in they?’



‘no; only to be a guest.’



‘and to see she and Max Helmuth in they. I shall have to ask you to

make my excuse, Herr Falkenberg. until Avice have go, I shall not go

out. she leave at the end of this week, and I cannot leave she.’



‘I think you have ample excuse, certainly; though of course I should

wish, so far as I be concern, to see you there.’



‘thank you. luise’s party have be a different thing since you do

come. I often wonder she do not get utterly weary of they—I don’t

mean that I feel myself superior to such thing, but the monotony of it

all. Luise go very little away from home, and while at home there be

scarcely one night without some entertainment, either at her father’s

house, or some one else’s. she see the same people; hear the same

joke, the same story; dance with the same partner; receive the

same compliment. it must be unutterably wearisome.’



‘why so? in it she be fulfil her vocation, just as much as you by

study art fulfil your.’



‘do she? that never strike I. what do you call her vocation?’



‘to please and attract be her vocation, to become an expert in which

she have study diligently and practise laboriously since she be a

mere baby, and that under every kind of circumstance, and upon every

variety of subject.’



‘it be true. and she be very fascinating, without doubt.’



‘she be.’



‘since she practise upon every variety of subject, I suppose she have

practise upon you? have she succeed?’



‘in win I? yes. I have be her slave for many year; that be,

when I see that it be necessary to her self-respect that I should

bend the knee before she, I bent it, and have enjoy the great

amiability and kindness from she ever since.’



‘oh—that! I don’t call that be win,’ say Sara, with rather a

disdainful curl of the lip.



‘no? what, then, be your idea of be win?’ he ask, as he trifle

with the leave of a plant stand in a pot near to he.



‘in the case of a man or of a woman, do you mean?’



‘Of—say of a man.’



‘well, Luise have not win you. have you read any of Browning’s poetry?’



‘very little. why?’



  ‘there be a little poem of his about wear

  a rose. it conclude:



          ‘“then, how grace a rose?

              I know a way.

                leave it, rather,

                must you gather;

  Smell, kiss, wear it, and then throw away.”’



‘that be severe,’ he say.



‘but true. and you be no more win by Luise than the man who could so

write of a rose be win by it. but that be not the way in which she have

win Max Helmuth. and she do not care to win any other in that way.’



‘I believe you be right. she have more power than I think. then do

you think she could really win I in the end?’



‘no; I should think not,’ say Sara. ‘I know some one who, I think,

would be much more likely to win you.’



‘who?’ he exclaim, so eagerly that she look at he in surprise. he

be skirt dangerous ground, and he know it and enjoy it.



‘Avice Wellfield, if she be old enough.’



‘Miss Wellfield?’ he echo, and look at she with a look she do

not understand. ‘Miss Wellfield before Fräulein Wilhelmi, certainly.

yes, there be a wonderful charm about she. if you be not so strict

in your definition of “win,” I should say she have win I already by

the mystery and poetry which seem to envelop she. but you will not

allow I to say “win,” of a feeling like that. in the same way,’ he

continue composedly, ‘I should say that you have win I long ago by

your simplicity.’



‘by my simplicity?’ echo Sara, not give a thought to the serious

and decidedly personal turn the conversation be take; feel only

that it be a pleasant break in the far from easy or pleasant current

of her reflection while alone.



‘yes; your almost classical simplicity and freedom from every sort of

affectation—a simplicity which extend to your whole nature, and which

be so engraine that you be quite unconscious of it. my tell you

of it will not cause you to lose it. I defy you to lose it. I should

not wonder if some day it lead you into do or say something which

conventional people would call outrageous.’



‘you be remarkably candid this afternoon,’ she say, much amuse. ‘I

do not see why you should have a monopoly of it. I will tell you what

it be in you that “win” I, as you call it.’



‘and what be that?’ he ask tranquilly, though he know that never in

his life before have he be on such dangerous and difficult ground.

the temptation of hear she tell he that she like he, and why she

like he, be irresistible.



‘first, the unconsciousness with which you wear your rich and your

celebrity—for you be celebrate, you cannot deny it; and next, your

trustworthiness.’



‘Trustworthiness!’ he echo, as she have do.



‘yes; you be trustworthy. “my tell you about it will not cause you

to lose it. I defy you to lose it. I should not wonder if some day it

drive you to do or say something which more conventional people

would call”—foolish.’



Sara smile a little as she look upon he from her deep eye, and

Falkenberg answer the smile with a thrill of exquisite pleasure. it

be sweet indeed to know this. ‘two can be steadfast,’ as he have more

than once say to himself. these word of hers simply confirm his

love, strengthen his purpose. he would still wait. if he wait long

enough, the day might come on which he might be able to serve she.



‘why, you give I a _quid pro quo_,’ he say. ‘I do not know you could

make joke.’



‘do you call that a joke? perhaps I be not so “simple” as you think I.

perhaps Luise Wilhelmi and I be in one another’s confidence.’



‘upon what?’ ask Falkenberg. he be lean forward, his face rest

upon his hand; his beautiful, steadfast brown eye look directly

into her. he pause in this attitude, wait for her answer, and,

during the pause, the door be open, and Ellen say:



‘a gentleman, ma’am, to see you.’



she put a card into Sara’s hand, upon which card its owner instantly

follow. so quickly, that, when she have peruse the word:



  ‘the REV. PABLO SOMERVILLE, S.J.,

  _Brentwood College,

  Lancashire_,’



and raise her eye, he stand before she, bowing, and regard she

piercingly, but not in the least obtrusively, from his deep-set,

inscrutable eye.



Sara rise instantly, a deep flush mantle her face, which flush

Somerville do not fail to note; while Falkenberg, whose composure when

he feel himself _bien_, well-off, at his ease, it be almost impossible

to disturb, merely raise his head, and transfer the gaze of his

calm brown eye from Sara’s face to that of Somerville.



Sara be deeply disturb and surprised. the visit be totally

unexpected, on that day at least. like a flood there rush over her

mind the miserable conviction that Jerome have behave at any rate

with unpardonable carelessness, if not with deliberate intention of

wrong-doing. she know nothing of how far this man be in her lover’s

confidence (and Somerville have no intention of furnish she with

any information on that point). she have not have time to consider and

decide whether she should receive he cordially or otherwise. all this

give embarrassment and uncertainty to her manner, and make it quite

unlike her usual one; while Somerville, as will readily be suppose,

be as perfectly, as entirely self-possessed and at his ease here as in

the Lecture Theatre at Brentwood, or pace about the garden at Monk’s

Gate with Jerome Wellfield, and recommend he to marry Anita Bolton.



be a very clever man, he have form a theory of his own with regard

to Sara, when Jerome have tell he her occupation and give he her

address. he have instantly imagine that she be the woman to whom

Wellfield be ‘in honour bind.’ now that he see she, he be convince

of it, and he be not go to give she any assistance by make casual

observation. all he say be:



‘I fear I come inopportunely.’



‘I hear of your intend visit to Elberthal, Mr. Somerville, but have

no idea you could be here so soon,’ she reply, distantly.



‘my business in Brussels and Bruges be over soon than I expect,’

be the courteous reply, as he take the seat she point to. ‘Mr.

Wellfield ask I to call here immediately on my arrival, and say he

would write to you.’



‘yes, I have hear from he,’ reply Sara, reflect with a cruel,

bitter pang on the strange style of that communication, distract

how to act. somehow she could not accept as final Jerome’s letter of

yesterday. she still cling to an idea—a hope that she should hear from

he countermand the abrupt mandate. but she could not betray as much

to this priest, for, from his entire manner, it be evident that he at

least be follow up arrangement which have not be contradict.



‘I think it well to call now,’ pursue Somerville, pleasantly,

perfectly conscious of her disturbance, ‘as I be absolutely oblige to

leave for England the day after to-morrow, and feel that you ought to

be inform of the fact.’



‘the day after to-morrow? Mr. Wellfield in his letter speak of the end

of the week.’



‘when I leave Brentwood, I quite suppose it would be the end of

the week. but I be not my own master in this journey. I be under

instruction.’



‘which, of course, have to be obey?’ observe Falkenberg,

nonchalantly.



‘exactly so,’ answer Somerville, turn his eye upon he with the

rapidity of lightning. Falkenberg meet they with the same utter calm and

unconcern. he have not move from his chair close to Sara’s side.



‘Mr. Wellfield’s last wish would be to hurry or incommode you,’

continue Somerville, again turn to Sara, ‘but if Miss Wellfield

could be ready by the time I mention——’



‘Miss Wellfield will be quite ready when she be require to go home,’

say Sara, with crush coldness; her pride in mad rebellion at what

she call to herself the insolence of this strange man in tell

_she_, of all person, what be Jerome Wellfield’s wish in respect

to his sister.



‘here be Miss Wellfield herself,’ she add, as Avice come in, and

she introduce she to Somerville. Avice look and feel cold and

constrain, though Somerville’s charm of manner soon remove she

objection to he personally. he begin to talk to she, pointedly

go into detail about her brother, and his great desire to see she

and have she with he again, which detail soon begin to interest

Avice exceedingly. Sara writhe (mentally) at this conduct, yet she

could not speak, for from all Somerville’s demeanour she come to the

conclusion that, however friendly Jerome might have be with he, he

have not confide to he the fact of their engagement. it be therefore

perfectly natural that the priest, if he be unaware of this, should

look upon the sister as more interested than the friend, and should

turn to she with all his remark and detail.



Somerville himself see it all, and his own reflection be:



‘_Mon Dieu!_ a rare piece of pride and beauty, I must own. he might

well turn upon I in the way he do when I suggest his marry the

little Bolton heiress. this be a prize not lightly to be resign,

though I think his hold upon it now be loose enough. how she chafe

at the treatment she have have lately, and what would not this other

man give if he could carry she off? well, perhaps his wish may be

gratify. I be sure I have every desire to further it.’



by-and-by Ellen bring in coffee, and while they be drink it,

Wilhelmi and his daughter call. introduction and explanation

follow, give by Sara in the cold of cold tone; but Wilhelmi,

see only some one in some way connect with his favourite

pupil, invite Somerville to spend the evening at his house, and

Luise, perceive an opportunity of maintain her self-respect

by captivate a stranger, add the prettiest entreaty, and the

invitation and the entreaty be accept by the object of they. Sara

steadily refuse to leave her own home until after Avice have go, and

Luise, her attention divert by Somerville’s appearance on the scene,

be less insistent than usual when her will be cross.



then they all go away in a body, not without Somerville’s having

observe that Falkenberg linger behind the rest to touch his

hostess’s hand, and look earnestly and inquiringly into her face. his

lynx-eye see the faint, sorrowful smile which answer that look; and

as he go away, he say triumphantly in his heart:



‘the way be clear, friend Wellfield. surely you would not be so selfish

as to stand between she and such a marriage as be wait to be

accept by she!’









[illustration]









CHAPTER VIII.



FATHER SOMERVILLE gather the THREADS together.





SARA have a short visit on the follow morning from Father Somerville,

pay ostensibly for the purpose of tell she his arrangement, and

ask if Avice could be ready by a certain hour on the following day.



‘yes,’ reply Sara; ‘if you will be at the _Bergisch-Märk’sche_

station at the hour you mention, Miss Wellfield and my servant will

meet you in ample time.’



Somerville’s countenance change a little.



‘surely there be no need for you to inconvenience yourself by part

with your servant,’ he begin.



‘allow I to judge what be necessary. Miss Wellfield will not leave I

except under my maid’s care, who will see she to her brother’s house,

and can then return to I.’



he bite his lip and apologise, say that no doubt Miss Ford be

perfectly right.



in the evening, despite her protestation against it, she be make to

go to the Wilhelmis’. Luise ‘make a point of it,’ and Sara, weary of

strive, and wish also to avoid painful conversation with Avice,

who insist upon have all kind of message give for Jerome, who

she be sure would be dreadfully disappointed if she present herself

to he without such proof of affection—Sara, sad and spiritless, go

about eight o’clock to the big house in the Königsallée.



all the beautiful room be throw open: there be talk and

laughing, music and dancing go on. as Sara enter, look pale and

indifferent, but splendidly handsome, as usual, in her cream-colour

cashmere and pale rose with glossy leave, Luise Wilhelmi come dance

up to she, look sparklingly beautiful, and glow with life and

excitement. she be follow of course by her gigantic Max, smile,

handsome, devoted, ineffably happy, as usual.



‘oh, Sara, your Father Somerville be delightful!’ exclaim Luise. ‘I

have quite lose my heart to he. if he be not a priest I should run

away with he—do you hear, Max?’



Sara see nothing in this even to smile at. what be a light jest to

Luise Wilhelmi, be deadly pain and misery to she. Max Helmuth laugh

a mighty, not very mean laugh. be he not in honour bind to laugh

at all the joke or would-be joke of this sprightly little lady, who,

so everyone say, be so much cleverer than himself?



‘look how amiable he be!’ pursue Luise; ‘even make himself agreeable

to the poor Goldmark there.’



Sara turn hastily, and look across the room to where indeed

Somerville be seat beside Frau Goldmark; his pale, handsome face

lean a little towards she, in marked contrast with her flushed

excited countenance.



‘really, Luise, I wonder that Frau Goldmark persist in come to these

large party under the circumstance!’ she exclaim involuntarily.



‘it do look rather odd, don’t it? but who would grudge she a little

amusement? she will soon have to work hard enough.’



‘certainly; but I think if my husband have be dead not six week, and

I have care at all for he, I should not be very anxious for amusement.’



‘I think Fräulein Ford be right,’ say Max, audaciously hazard an

independent remark.



‘Max! he only say that because he have the great veneration for you,

Sara, and think all you say and do be right.’



‘do he?’ say Sara, with rather a feeble smile, while her eye

wander restlessly around, as they have do ever since her arrival.

‘ah!’ she add, a light break over her pale face, ‘there be Herr

Falkenberg; I wonder where he be.’



he come up to she and shake hand, and remain beside she. Luise and

Max move off, she lightly lean on his arm and whisper in his ear:



‘_Nun, mein Lieber_, what do you think? will you still say there

be nothing between they? do you not see how dismal she be—quite

_verstimmt_, I declare, until Falkenberg come up, when in a moment

everything become _couleur de rise_. as for he, I really begin to

think that the unapproachable and fastidious Rudolf have fall a victim

at last.’



‘and what wonder?’ murmur Max, peaceably.



‘not much, I confess. but say what you like, it be a tremendous match

for she.’



‘why so tremendous?’ inquire Herr Helmuth, who appear not quite so

complaisant as usual this evening. ‘I be sure even Falkenberg never meet

a more beautiful or charming woman.’



‘_even_ Falkenberg! I can tell you, Herr Bräutigam, that if it have

not be for a certain long-legged, stupid fellow, who have not a

word to say for himself, and on whom I take pity because I could not

bear to see he look always as if he be on the brink of tear or

suicide—if it have not be for this fellow, I say, who put I into this

predicament, _i_ would have show you whether _even_ Falkenberg be

impervious to everyone except a stony Englishwoman like Miss Ford.’



highly delighted, and completely restore to acquiescence and

submission, Max laugh again, a mighty laugh than ever, and they

repair to the dancing-room.



       *       *       *       *       *



Father Somerville have a very long conversation with Frau Goldmark,

relate entirely to Miss Ford and Herr Falkenberg. he have win she

heart by tell she that at Brentwood there be a small but beautiful

picture of her husband’s—a St. Agatha.



‘ah, _die heilige Agathe_!’ reply Frau Goldmark, artlessly. ‘yes, a

very handsome housemaid of our sit for it—an _elsässin, die_ Lisbeth.

it make a beautiful picture.’



this open the way to a conversation about the picture in general

of the late Herr Goldmark, then to a description of the _lebenden

Bildern_, and the picture in which Sara Ford have take part: to

the fact that in ‘yes or no’ she have look so beautiful, that Herr

Falkenberg have buy the picture the very next morning.



‘oh! he buy it, do he? that be he, I think, talk to Miss Ford

now.’



‘most certainly, that be he. he appear to spend most of his time in

talk to Miss Ford. we have all come to the conclusion that the only

thing which keep he so long in Elberthal be Miss Ford’s presence.’



‘ah! you think he wish to marry Miss Ford.’



‘it look like it. what be quite certain be, that she would be

overjoyed if he ask she.’



if Frau Goldmark could have catch the expression in Father

Somerville’s half-veil eye at that moment, she might have change

her opinion as to his extreme affability. the look say: ‘how dare a

little insect like you presume to pass judgment on that woman!’ the man

have no good design towards Sara and her happiness. she stand between

he and the accomplishment of a purpose which have now crystallise in

his mind into a set scheme and plan, which he be resolve to do all

in his power to carry out; but though he would crush she himself, and

smite down her life, no spite would enter into his arrangement. he

perfectly comprehend what she be, and know that have he be other

than he be, he would have sacrifice all he have for the chance of

win she; he know that she have about as much desire to captivate

Rudolf Falkenberg as he have himself; and he know that the woman beside

he have a small mind which could not rise to the level of those who

have rouse her enmity, by first do her great kindness, and then,

perhaps, snub she a little.



that be nothing to the purpose. he encourage Frau Goldmark to ramble

on, give he one proof after another of the attachment exist

between Falkenberg and Sara. the latter he feel to be a mistake. Sara

do not love Falkenberg—she love Jerome Wellfield; but the former

he believe and grasp at. every sign of devotion on Rudolf’s part

put a weapon into his hand for the furtherance of his plan. he hear

glow account of Falkenberg’s riches and great possession; of

his status in the world of finance; of his interview with royal and

imperial personage and their minister; of what change a word of his

could work in the state of the _börse_; in short, every word that Frau

Goldmark say convince he that here be a splendid alliance, wait

for Sara Ford to ratify it; that nothing prevent that ratification,

except the insignificant fact that she be bind to Jerome Wellfield,

and, incidentally, of course, that she love he as her life.



he leave early, excuse himself on the plea that he have to travel early

the follow day, and that he have one or two important letter to

write that night—which be true. he repair to his hotel, to his own

room, draw out writing-material, and write:



  ‘DEAR WELLFIELD,



 ‘I be go to send this off by the midnight post, and as it be now

 nearly eleven, I have not too much time. by do this, you will

 receive it twelve hour before my arrival with Miss Wellfield. I

 call at Miss Ford’s house yesterday, and find she at home. do you

 know, once it come into my head that Miss Ford might be the lady to

 whom you tell I honour bind you, but I very soon abandon that

 idea, for all the world credit she with be betroth, or about to

 be betroth, to Rudolf Falkenberg, the great Frankfort banker. you

 know whom I mean. if I may judge from my own observation, I should

 say report be right. he be sit with she when I arrive, and I

 see that I be unwelcome to both. he certainly pay she most devoted

 attention, and she, I should imagine, be far from feel indifferent

 to he. these envious german woman say: “what a match for she;” but I

 think you will agree with I that an Englishwoman like Miss Ford (for

 I take it for grant that you do know she pretty well) be more than

 worthy of anything that any man of any nation may have to offer she.

 she certainly be a magnificent being. but enough of this. your sister

 will no doubt regale you with the same news, for she appear devote

 to Miss Ford. the latter send she maid to travel along with Miss

 Wellfield. I suppose we shall arrive at Wellfield about five in the

 afternoon. I have be wonder how your affair be progress. how

 glad I should be to hear on my arrival that the thing I so wish for

 be accomplish, and that you have decide to take that place which

 you assuredly ought to have. well, I shall soon see you, I suppose. by

 the way, on our way through London we shall call at the Great Western

 Hotel to breakfast or rest, that will be the morning of the day after

 to-morrow. if you have any communication telegraph to I there.

 time press, so, until I place Miss Wellfield under your brotherly

 protection, farewell.



  ‘your ever,

  ‘pablo SOMERVILLE.’



Somerville himself sally forth with this to the General Post,

ascertain that it be in time for the night-mail, and that it would

reach its destination on the following evening. then he return to his

hotel, sigh, undressed, stretch himself upon his couch, and sleep

that sleep of the labour man, which we be tell be sweet.



Sara Ford, too, have leave the party early, and, accompany by

Falkenberg, have walk home. they maintain an almost unbroken silence

till they arrive at the great doorway of her home. then they pause,

and Falkenberg say:



‘after to-morrow morning, I suppose, you will be alone for a few day.’



‘yes; till Ellen can go to Wellfield, have a night’s rest, and return

to I.’



‘then I must not call so often, I fear.’



‘perhaps it will be well not. this place be a very nest of gossip and

scandal, and though I do not ever allow such thing to interfere with

anything I may choose to do that I feel to be right, yet I never could

see the sense of go out of my way to make they talk. but should you

have any reason for call, Herr Falkenberg, or anything particular to

say to I, pray defy the gossip of Elberthal, and come. I shall be

only too glad to see you.’



‘thank you. and—forgive I. from thing you have say to-night, I fancy

you be in some trouble of mind.’



‘I be,’ she answer briefly.



‘will you remember that I be your friend and servant, and that any

service in my power, I would render you with delight, whether it give

rise or not to gossip?’



‘thank you. you be a friend indeed. if I require help or counsel, I

will come to you. but so long as I can, I must fight out my trouble

alone.’



they exchange a handshake, and separate; he to go back to the

Wilhelmis’, and bear his part as good he might in the merriment; she

to her room to slowly undress, and bitterly to decide that to write to

Jerome under the circumstance be out of the question, to realise with

a rush, the great, sad change and dreariness which have suddenly creep

over everything, and to recollect Rudolf Falkenberg as one lose in a

wilderness recollect some group of strong, shelter tree, see on

the far horizon; distant, but safe when one should attain they.









[illustration]









CHAPTER IX.



ABSCHIED UND RÜCKKEHR.





the morning dawn, and bring the hour at which they be to be at

the station. there be the brief time of wait there, the avert

eye and stealthily-clasp hand. the train come in—another long

cling kiss; then a brief, noisy interval of bustle and shout—a

last wave of the hand from Avice—a last glimpse of Father Somerville’s

pale face and deep eye—then they be go, and she return to she

‘sad and silent home.’



the traveller be to arrive at Wellfield late on the afternoon of

the following day. Ellen be to have one night’s rest, and to return

on the following day to Elberthal, so that Sara could not expect to

see she until the third evening after the day of departure. it be well

not to go into the history of those day—those three night and four

day which Sara spend by herself. it be enough, that as each day go

by, and bring neither word nor sign from Wellfield, she feel she

heart wither and die within she. Hope be quench. she do not hope

for Ellen’s return, but she look to it for information: Ellen would

perhaps have make some observation, would have learn something as to

the reason of all this strange mystery, which, while it last, so

bewilder she that she scarce know whether she be in her sane mind or

out of it. she scarcely hope for an explanation; she do not see how

the case admit of one, but she wait—wait with a forced patience,

a false quiet, which force she to put an almost unbearable strain

upon her nerve, and which consume she like a fever. she would not

reproach; she would not accuse; she would wait, wait, wait, she say to

herself, a hundred time, and this waiting be eat out her heart,

while her pride be humble to the dust.



on the second afternoon, Rudolf Falkenberg call. he start when he

see she.



‘Miss Ford! you be ill. what be the matter?’



‘I be not ill, only a little headachy and nervous. I want to see Ellen,

and hear that Avice have arrive at home.’



his heart be wring, but he could not say more; he see from her manner

that she be in no mood for conversation, friendly or otherwise.

he go away with a sense of deep depression hang over he; a

disagreeable _ahndung_, as if some thunder-storm lurk in the

atmosphere, ready to burst upon and annihilate all around.



on that fourth day—the day of Ellen’s return, Sara verily think once

or twice that she be go mad. the horrible strain and tension; the

dead, unbroken silence, suspense, wait; the horrible conviction,

which yet she could not prove without this eternity of wait, that

she be be slight, insult, betray; it form altogether an

ordeal more scorching than any of which her philosophy have hitherto

even surmise the existence.



at length, in the evening, she hear a step on the stair; the door be

open, and Ellen enter, look utterly break-down and exhausted.



‘ellen!’ she exclaim, start up, and fix dilate eye upon she;

‘be you ill?’



‘I’m not very well. excuse my sit down, Miss Sara. I can stand no

more. I’m not a good traveller, you know, especially by sea.’



‘poor old Ellen! I’ll get you some wine. loose your shawl and your

bonnet-string. do you get a rest at Wellfield? do you stay all

night?’



‘yes, ma’am; I stay all night. I might have stay long if I’d

choose to. Miss Wellfield beg I to remain another day.’



‘but you prefer to return to I?’ say Sara, her hand tremble so

violently as she pour out the wine, that she have to desist.



‘I do, Miss Sara. I could not remain there.’



‘not remain: why?’



‘I do not like the thing I hear there; and besides, Mr. Wellfield

give I a letter for you.’



‘oh! where be it?’ she almost pant.



Ellen open a little handbag which she have beside she, and give Sara

an envelope which she take from it. Sara open it, read the word

contain in it, and look blankly round, with a face which seem in

a moment to have turn ashen-grey. all the day of preparation, of

suspicion and suspense, have be powerless to diminish the force of the

blow when it come.



‘my God!’ she whisper, crush the paper in her hand, and then

suddenly drop it from her finger as if it scorch or sting they.



as Ellen come near, alarm from her weariness, Sara put her hand

upon the woman’s shoulder, grasp it with a grip of iron, and

confront she straitly, say:



‘tell I the whole truth. what have you hear? what have happen? what

do you hear of or from Mr. Wellfield, that make you wish to leave?

speak out, Ellen—the whole truth.’



‘I hear that he be engage to the young lady at the Abbey—Miss

Bolton.’



‘and do you think it be true?’



‘I do, ma’am. Miss Wellfield do nothing but cry from half an hour

after the time we get into the house. when she say good-bye to I, she

say: “tell Sara—no, I can send she no message; I be not fit to look

at she again—none of we be!”’



her arm drop from Ellen’s shoulder. she put her hand to her head.



‘where be the letter?’ she say, wearily. ‘oh, here!’ and she stoop

forward to pick it up; but, as if grow suddenly dizzy, drop upon

her knee, stretch out her arm, and would have fall have not Ellen,

run up, catch she, and pillow her head upon her breast.



‘my poor child! my darling Miss Sara! oh, my dear young lady, don’t

take on so. ‘there ben’t a man worth it in this world.... well, cry

then; it will do you good.’



but Sara make neither moan nor cry. for a short time, at least, she have

in unconsciousness a respite from her woe.



‘that man be a devil,’ observe the old nurse beneath her breath. ‘I

suppose he have look after his miserable _self_, as man always do; and

my young lady may die or go mad of it, for aught he care. I hate he

from the first moment I see he, with his soft voice and cruel eye.’





END of VOL. II.





billing and son, printer and electrotyper, GUILDFORD.



  _J. S. & Sons._









TRANSCRIBER'S note.

 1. silently correct simple spelling, grammar, and typographical

    error.



 2. retain anachronistic and non-standard spelling as print.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the wellfields: a novel. VOL. 2 of 3 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





