The project Gutenberg eBook of Borderland

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Borderland

        a country-town chronicle



author: Jessie Fothergill



Release date: January 6, 2025 [ebook #75051]



language: English



original publication: London: Richard Bentley & Sons, 1890



credit: Peter Becker, KD Weeks, and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BORDERLAND ***





------------------------------------------------------------------------



                          Transcriber’s note:



this version of the text cannot represent certain typographical effect.

italic be delimit with the ‘_’ character as _italic_.



footnote have be move to follow the paragraph in which they be

reference.



minor error, attributable to the printer, have be correct. please

see the transcriber’s note at the end of this text for detail regard

the handling of any textual issue encounter during its preparation.

















                               BORDERLAND

















                               BORDERLAND





                        a COUNTRY-town CHRONICLE









                                   BY



                           JESSIE FOTHERGILL



       AUTHOR of ‘the first violin,’ ‘kith and KIN,’ ‘PROBATION,’

                     ‘the wellfields,’ and ‘HEALEY’









[illustration]









                                 LONDON



              RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET



        =Publishers in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen=



                                  1890





                        (_all right reserve_)









                                content



     CHAPTER                                                    PAGE

             in childhood                                          1

          I. OTHO’S RETURN                                        11

         II. MAGDALEN—and the neighbourhood                       25

        III. LANGSTROTH’S FOLLY                                   37

         IV. the FACULTY of CLOSE OBSERVATION                     47

          V. GILBERT’S CAUTIOUSNESS                               56

         VI. gilbert’S COUP DE THEATRE’                           62

        VII. MICHAEL, ROGER, gilbert                              78

       VIII. the first-fruit of the wisdom of gilbert            92

         IX. the GODDESS of the TENDER foot                      102

          X. the process of ANNEALING                            111

         XI. OTHO’S LETTER-BAG                                   119

        XII. ELEANOR                                             133

       xiii. TWENTY-eight and TWENTY-two                         145

        XIV. THRUST and PARRY                                    150

         XV. three WOMEN                                         163

        XVI. a FRIENDSHIP EXPLAINED                              172

       XVII. ROGER CAMM’S COURTING                               181

      xviii. a WILD-GOOSE CHASE                                  188

        XIX. INEVITABLE                                          204

         XX. how a thorn be plant                             222

        XXI. work and WAGES                                      237

       XXII. cross-purpose                                      255

      XXIII. QUARREL                                             267

       XXIV. OTHO’S REVENGE                                      277

        XXV. in the ANTE-ROOM                                    287

       XXVI. her HEART’S DESIRE                                  296

      XXVII. recrimination                                       306

     xxviii. at the MILLS                                        316

       XXIX. a false step in good faith                          327

        XXX. SERMON, BY a SINNER                                 343

       xxxi. BRASS POTS and EARTHENWARE pipkin                  359

      XXXII. FIRST ALARM                                         375

     XXXIII. BROKEN OFF                                          383

      XXXIV. how crackpot be scratch                          391

       XXXV. ‘CARELESSE contente’                                400

      xxxvi. the SHADOW                                          409

     XXXVII. the RETURN                                          418

    xxxviii. ADA                                                 432

      XXXIX. the BROTHERS                                        440

         XL. ‘amidst the blaze of NOON’                          449

        XLI. ‘let I alone’                                      460

       XLII. how ADA solve her problem                          465

      XLIII. MAGDALEN. in VALEDICTION                            474





                               BORDERLAND









                              in childhood





one summer, which in point of date now lie many year behind we, four

boy use to play together, and to quarrel and make it up again with one

another—to live together through the long, golden day, that vivid,

eager life peculiar to child, in a curious, old-fashioned garden on

the bank of the river Tees, and on the Durham side of that stream. the

garden belong to a great house, not very old, though it be the abode

of an old family, solemn, not to say gloomy, in its dulness and

stateliness of appearance, and stand out in rather sombre contrast to

the wood which be behind it, and the terrace which slope down from

its front to the river-side. the name of the house be Thorsgarth; many

a spot hereabouts bear some name reminiscent of long-past Danish

occupation and scandinavian paganism. it be a characteristic give a

peculiar flavour to the language and nomenclature of the whole

country-side, and one, too, which have be sweetly sing by at least one

of our english poet. with this fact, these four particular boy be

probably unacquainted, and it be more than probable that if they have

know all about it they would have care less than nothing for the

circumstance. what could it matter to they that, a little far down

the stream, that sweet spot where they love to wade in the shallow,

and not far from which noisy Greta came tumble and laugh into the

arm of sedater tee—where the numerous wasp’ nest be to be find

under the bank, to destroy which nest they have go through such

delicious toil and peril, and where on sunny day the trout would lurk

in the pool amongst the big boulders,—what could it matter to they that

this scene have be immortalise by both poet and painter? to they it

be all their own paradise; the presence of an artist would have vex

and incommode they. there they kick, jump, splash, and generally

misconduct themselves in the sweet solitude and the generous sunshine

of that far-back summer, without a thought of its be hallowed ground.

three of they be not of an age at which the ordinary boy be give to

appreciate poetry. as for the eld of they, if he ever do read it, he

keep the fact to himself.



these four boy be all the son of gentleman, in the conventional

sense of the term—albeit their father be man of widely different

calibre, as regard not only worldly, but also mental and moral

characteristic.



the eld and the third in age be brother, Michael and Gilbert

Langstroth. their father’s be one of the old family in the

neighbourhood, and have be one of the rich, although many people have

begin to say that not much be now practically left to he except the

old house itself, the Red Gables, which stand in genial vicinity to many

other house, both great and small, in the great cobble-stone, slant

square, which form the west end of Bradstane town.



Michael Langstroth at this period be twelve year old, a noble boy to

look at, tall and broad, with a dark face, and a sweet, rather rare

smile. there be a good deal of unconscious pride in his manner and

bearing. perhaps his pierce gray eye, go with this dark

complexion, might really betoken that Norse descent in which his family

glory. all his action be, so far as one could judge, in harmony

with his outer appearance; without fuss or ostentation, but all

partaking of the intrinsically splendid, generous, and lavish. even at

this early time of their life, the other boy know that Michael hate

lie with an intensity which show itself more in sudden, violent

action than in word. they know that he resent any untruth amongst

they as if it have be a personal insult. there be, indeed, no doubt

that Michael be a son in whose proud look a father might glory; while

with all his strength and power there be in he other and quieter

charm, such as a mother might delight in. and Mrs. Langstroth do very

greatly delight in what seem to her her son’s high and noble

quality, during the short time that she be allow to do so.



‘I fear it will never last,’ she would say to herself, watch he with

prayer and trembling, as mother do watch those son who have a way of

turn into something so different from what the maternal yearning

would shape they into if, along with the yearning, the power exist of

fulfil they. ‘I fear it will never last. contact with the world will

harden he. Flattery will make he vain. universal homage will spoil

he.’ Mrs. Langstroth be a sweet and saintly lady, and her son Michael

a brave and noble boy; but what insignificant hen-mother exist who do

not think that the attention to herself and her matchless offspring must

of necessity be universal?



with pathetic, devoted blindness she would have prepare he to meet

this irresistible tide of flattery and greatness by keep he fast at

her own side, and never loose his lead string. the mention of a

public school draw tear from her eye, and set her gentle heart beat

wildly. it be write that her son Michael’s education—every branch of

it—be to be take out of her hand, and place in other, firm,

hard, sterner, and to they who can survive their roughness, kind

hand than even those of a mother.



Gilbert, Michael’s brother, be a well-grow boy, too, of ten, with a

small, rounder head, a narrow forehead, and blue-gray eye, which

have a trick of languish sometimes. he have an exquisitely soft and

melancholy voice, be slow of speech, and possess a graceful, though

by no mean effeminate figure. he be always, and apparently by nature,

courteous and gentle in manner and speech, seldom indulge in the

downright unflattering candour which Michael, for all he be so

gentlemanly, frequently use towards his companion. Gilbert never say

rude thing to any one, but he be not so popular with his comrade as

Michael.



the second boy, in order of year, be swarthy Roger Camm, the son of

the curate of Bradstane. eleven be the year he count in actual

point of time—thirty, perhaps, and those rough one, in his knowledge of

care and trouble, in his painful, enforce acquaintance with grief, with

contrivance and economy, and weary struggle to make both end meet.

for his father be not pass rich on forty pound a year—he be more

than pass poor on something less than a hundred, out of which he have

dolefully to ‘keep up the appearance of a gentleman,’ clothe and feed

his son and himself, and educate the former. his wife, poor soul,

exhaust with the endless and complicated calculation necessitate by

this ever-present problem, have some year ago thankfully close her

eye, and say good-bye to labour and grief. the curate and his lad

struggle on without she as well they could. all that Roger learn,

whether of solid instruction or flimsy accomplishment—little enough be

there of the latter to gloss his manner or appearance—he be teach by

his father, and that with fasting and prayer. along with his latin and

greek declension, he imbibe also the more bitter lesson of decline

fortune; for his father have marry late, and be not promote as he

grow old and more careworn. side by side with the first problem of

Euclid, as with the last, there be for ever present another, which it

would have require more than a mere mathematical head to answer, and

which yet imperiously demand some sort of a solution; it be the

problem which Mrs. Camm have carry with she to her grave, and it run:

‘give, not sufficient income to buy a proper supply of butcher’s meat,

cake, and ale, how to make water-porridge twice a day, with skim-milk

to wash it down, answer the same purpose as the more liberal diet, save

on certain rare and solemn feast-day, not specify in the calendar.’

and along with the invaluable rule, that preposition govern the

objective case (for the Rev. Silas Camm hold fast by the Lindley Murray

of his boyhood), Roger grasp and hold fast the axiom, so that he could

and do mould his conduct upon it, that to bear your hardship in

silence be necessary—that to utter one word of complaint, to look

greedily at occasional dainty, or to gorge in unseemly fashion on the

abundance at other man’s table, no matter what the size of the internal

void to be fill; to betray by word, look, or deed that you ever feel

the pinch of hunger at home—to do this be disgrace of the deep dye,

second only to lie and steal. by the time he be eleven year old,

Roger have digest these lesson thoroughly, and have, as it be,

assimilate they, so that they be in his system. sometimes, at the

abundant ‘spread’ on the Thorsgarth or Red Gables board, his sallow

young face would take a faint glow, his deep-set black eye would grow

wistfully misty, but never a word betray the bareness of the board at

home, nor the fact that his father might even then be ask a blessing

upon a bowl of oatmeal-porridge, sole reward of a hard day’s work. for

the living of Bradstane, although ancient, be not rich, and the parish

priest’s own stipend be not a fat one. Judge, therefore, how exceeding

short the curate must have come!



Roger be on good term with all his companion, and if they sometimes

wonder why he never use to ask they to go and play with he, or have

tea with he, they be quite satisfied with his explanation, that there

be no garden to his father’s house, and they agree with he, that

without a garden to play in there could be no fun. he and Michael

Langstroth, very dissimilar in almost everything, be fast friend,

while Gilbert Langstroth and the fourth and last of this party of boy

hang together in a lukewarm manner, the old and calm of they often

quietly instigate the mischief that the young one perform.



this fourth and young be Otho Askam, the only son of the master of

Thorsgarth, and heir to the sombre-look house, and the grand old

garden in which they all disport themselves. Otho, like his friend,

be tall for his age, and well set-up. one can but guess at the man to

come, in the little father of eight year old. but Otho give strong

sign of individuality even at this early age. the other boy, if they

have speak their mind, would have say that he be fitful and moody in

temper; that no one could tell what would please, what offend he; that,

when he be pleased, it be in a saturnine, mirthless style, strange in

so young a child; that when offend, his wrath be more deep than loud,

but that his brown eye glow, on such occasion, with a dull fire, and

his childish face in its anger take an expression of savage fierceness.

they could also have relate, these other boy, that when angry, Otho

never rest till he have revenge himself, either by damaging or

mutilate some of their cherished ‘thing,’ or by do they bodily

harm, as grievous as his childish brain and small hand could devise and

compass. by the end of the summer they have got use to it. they laugh

at he, and talk about his ‘little rage.’ they be big and

strong than he be. the young of they be two year his senior.

they use to tease he sometimes, on purpose to have the fun of see

what shape his vengeance would take, and would shout with laughter at

its feebleness when wreak.



there be on record one great occasion on which Michael Langstroth have

fail to see the amusing side of an escapade of Otho’s, and have take

upon himself to give he a sound hiding (with due regard, that be, to

the difference in their age and strength). it be sound enough,

however, for Master Otho to make the welkin ring again with his yell;

but the thrashing have be administer in payment, with interest, if

possible, of Otho’s wanton cruelty to a wretched, half-starve cat,

which he have pursue with the vindictive determination not so much to

compass its death, as to secure to it as long a term of torture as

possible, before that death should take place.



‘you cowardly little viper, you!’ Michael have shout, tower over he

after the first half of the pummelling have be administer. ‘don’t you

know that it’s nothing but a coward, and a dirty one, that hurt thing

that cann’t fight back? you miserable little beggar, you!’



‘Michael, I’ll kill you, I’ll kill you! I hate you! I wish the devil

would get hold of you. I’ll kill you some day for this. what do you hit

I for? I cann’t hit _you_ back, you great coward!’



at which there be a great laugh from the other boy, none the less

hilarious when the big lad, look scornfully down upon the little one,

say—



‘I do it for your good, and you ought to be thankful for it.’



Otho snuffle then, but take an early opportunity of lay a crooked

root in an unexpected and obscure spot, over which Michael trip

ignominiously, and nearly bark his shin, when the snuffle become a

joyful chuckle.



later in the same afternoon, Michael Langstroth find himself apart from

the other boy, in a lonely part of the garden, where a broad terrace

end, and rough, uncut grass, dot with wild plant, begin—the top of

the river-bank, in fact. the lad seat himself on this bank, under a

tree, just out of the broiling sun, and a silence and quietness fall

upon he, while he gaze before he into the gurgling, flow river. it

be a pastime he love. Shadowy, half-form thought pass through his

brain at such time, thought as vague as the murmur of the river;

intuition, impulse stir he, whose nature he do not now

understand, but which, for all that, might be not the less blessed and

fruitful in year to come, when he should have forget these, their

first upspringing; for thus it be, as well as in other way, that ‘the

thought of youth be long, long thought.’



the river be the thing which Michael remember long than anything

else. when a babe in his nurse’s arm he have leap at its sudden

shimmer through the tree, and since then its presence have be ever

with he, more or less. it have be his companion and confidant without

his know it. he go unconsciously to its side to think out his young

thought, and it carry all his vague meditation glide down its

stream as it flow between the two fair county of York and Durham. of

course, he be not conscious how potent be its presence in his life; he

would find that out only when he should come to move in other

scene—when he should get man for his companion instead of the stream.



little more remain to be say of they at this time, save that the

mother of the Langstroths and of Otho Askam be both live then,

young and beautiful woman, one of they, at least, wrap up in her

husband and her child. Otho be the only one of the lad who have a

sister, the little Eleanor, three year of age, and so much young than

they that she never share their sport; and they know nothing of she,

save when they see she sometimes walk on the upper terrace, lead by

her nurse or her mother, when she would sometimes stop and look at they

with a pair of great candid eye, and burst into a laugh at some of

their antic. a sturdy-look, not very pretty child, with little

resemblance to Otho in either expression or complexion.









                               CHAPTER I



                             OTHO’S RETURN





it be a dull morning in October, with a gray sky, low-hang cloud,

and muddy lane. the Tees Valley Hunt breakfast that morning at Sir

Thomas Winthrop’s, and the brother, Michael and Gilbert Langstroth,

ride slowly in company towards the house. Michael be now twenty-five,

and Gilbert just turn twenty-three. they have ride and hunt ever

since they have be able to stick on the back of a pony, and, despite

their change fortune—for the house of Langstroth be no more a

flourish house—they ride and hunt still. they feel a deep degree

of interest than usual in this particular breakfast, for it be know to

they, as to all the rest of the neighbourhood, that the long-close

door of Thorsgarth have at last be throw open; Otho Askam’s minority

be over, and he have come, or be on his way, to take possession of the

house of his father, and the abundant revenue and possession which

have be accumulate for he. it be now several month since he have

come of age, but he have not immediately repair to his home. now, Otho

Askam, Michael and Gilbert Langstroth, and their friend Roger Camm, have

all play together as child in the Thorsgarth garden, have shout

through its avenue, chase each other amongst its discolour marble

faun and nymph, and almost succeed, more than once, in drown

themselves in the water of swiftly-rush Tees, who flow beneath the

low terrace of the garden. that have be more than ten year ago, and

many change have take place since then. the Askam fortune have

accumulate; the death of both Mr. and Mrs. Askam have leave their

child—Otho, and a girl, Eleanor, several year young than he—under

the care of guardian, while their property increase. the Langstroths,

on the contrary, have go downhill to a certain extent. poor then, they

have become poor since, till now, Mr. Langstroth, their father, be a

hopeless, helpless invalid; Michael, the elder, be by way of earn

his living as a country doctor, this chance having be give to he by

the kindness of the old family friend and adviser, the little Quaker

Doctor Rowntree, whose assistant Michael be suppose to be. Gilbert

stay at home, tend his father, and devote his distinguished

arithmetical power to an endeavour to extricate the family fortune in

some degree from the confusion into which they have fall. as for Roger

Camm, whose father have be the curate of bradstane-on-Tees, he have

vanish for year past from the scene of his childhood; but he and

Michael, who have be friend in those former day, be friend still,

keep up a close correspondence. and if Roger by any chance imagine

that Gilbert have forget he, he be mistaken. Gilbert Langstroth have

a long memory.



it be not only these brother who look forward with interest to the

possibility of young Askam’s presence at the meet that morning. all the

country-side be more or less agog on the subject. Thorsgarth be a very

considerable house; the Askams be very considerable people in the

neighbourhood. every one be excited; many fair creature have go so

far as to say that they be ‘die to see he,’ die to know what he

be like, and if he be go to be an acquisition, or not, to their

society. People begin to recall thing, and to say to one another, ‘ay,

I remember how his mother use to ride to hound; what a woman she be!

how handsome, and what a temper!’ and then the voice would sink a

little, while for the benefit of some stranger it would be relate how

the late Mrs. Askam have come to her untimely end; how she would go out

one day, despite her husband’s expostulation; how she put her horse at

a certain fence, which he refuse; how she flog he on till he

unwillingly take the leap, and catch his leg in the top rail, pitch

his rider head foremost off he; and how Mrs. Askam be carry home

with a broken neck.



Half-forget thing like these be talk about. amongst all the

wondering and speculation there be little kindness, little personal

feeling. there be no matron who say, ‘ah, his mother and I use to be

great friend; I know I shall like he for her sake.’ for, as a matter

of fact, this reckless young woman, who have so untimely die, have not

make many friend during the year of her married life in Bradstane.

therefore, every one wonder; no one really care what sort of young

man Otho Askam might be.



Michael and Gilbert ride slowly on through the deep lane with their

tangle hedge (for some of the folk thereabout be not as particular

about their clipping as they might have be) in the damp morning air,

and, emerge from the lane, strike the stony road, with its rough

wall, over which they have to travel to arrive at Brigsdale Hall, Sir

Thomas’s place. they be to look at, as goodly a pair of brother as

any in whose company they be likely that day to find themselves.



‘be Magdalen come to the meet?’ ask Gilbert suddenly.



‘yes. she’s drive Mrs. Stamer to it. she’s stay with Miss

Strangforth, and Magdalen don’t know what on earth to do with she.’



‘ah!’ say Gilbert, with his slight, careless smile. ‘a meet must be a

godsend under such circumstance.’ and by and by he make some further

observation, to the effect that it be a picture of a day, and that the

scent would be grand, to which Michael assent cheerfully; and having

get that question settle, they ride up to the hospitable door,

deliver their horse over to a groom, and be show into the

dining-room.



Sir Thomas and his son Byrom be there, and the room be full of man,

old, young, and middle-aged, stand about, wait till their host

should give the signal to be seat.



it be immediately on go into the room that they see Otho Askam—for

he it must be, and no one else—lean his elbow on the shelf of an oak

sideboard, and listen to some remark of a neighbouring squire. he

be at one end of the room as they enter, and they at the other; but

it so happen that there be a little lane or vista from he to they,

so that they see he very plainly.



they look upon a tall young man, as big, as strong, and as broad as

themselves; and there all resemblance end. it would have be

difficult to say whether that face be young or old for its year.

Young Askam have a round, bullet-shape head, a dark complexion, and one

which be also red—a deep, but not yet a coarse red. his forehead,

though narrow, be not devoid of power. his smooth dark hair be clip

close. he wear a slight moustache, a mere line on his upper lip, save

for which his face be hairless, so that the full play of his lip be

see; and there be something fierce in the expression of those lip;

indeed, the whole face be a strange and fierce one. the dark eye be

sullen; the brow have a trick of draw down and together, quickly and

savagely, and then the whole face flush, and the mouth tighten, and

the finger close with a suggestive grip upon whatever might happen to

be in they at the moment. it be truly an angry-look face, devoid of

beauty; and yet, if one come to analyse the feature, it would be find

impossible to pronounce it a plain face. the voice, the manner, be

such as might be expect from the general outward appearance; that be

to say, the voice be abrupt, the sentence curt, and the word often

chop off short in utterance; the manner be brusque, and have a

touch of defiance in they.



at the moment when the Langstroths enter the room, Otho have his eye

fix upon his whip, which he be draw slowly through the finger of

his left hand. he smile, and the smile show a set of very white and

very strong tooth; it be not a gracious or a genial expression. Michael

Langstroth, look at he keenly and attentively, say to himself—



‘Humph! he be a magnificent animal, at any rate. I wonder if he be

anything else. I should not like to pronounce at a venture whether he

be a gentleman or a blackguard; perhaps a bit of both.’



at this juncture, Askam, the curious, sinister smile still on his face,

raise his eye, and encounter those of Michael Langstroth fix upon

he. the smile vanish, the frown descend, above a defiant and

inquire stare. evidently he say within himself, ‘who be that man? I

ought to know he.’



‘Halloa, Michael,’ cry the master of the house, at this point, ‘good

morning to you. I’m glad to see you. how be your father to-day?’



as he listen to this, young Askam’s frown disappear, and his look

clear, as if the thing that puzzle he have be make plain. by the

time that Michael have do talk to Sir Thomas, Otho be at his side.



‘I say—I ought to remember you. you be Michael Langstroth, ben’t you?’



‘yes, I be. I be just come to speak to you. this be my brother

Gilbert; you ought to remember he, too, if you remember I.’



Otho shake hand with they. his countenance be not the well suited for

express pleasure and geniality, but in a certain saturnine manner he

seem glad to see they both, though he do not say he be, but show

it by ask they many question, with an air of interest—question as

to what they have be do ‘all these year.’ and he stand talk with

they, and occasionally with Byrom Winthrop, who join they, until the

voice of Sir Thomas summon they to the table, when, by some mean,

Otho and Gilbert find themselves seat side by side, and Michael be

not very far away from they.



Otho Askam betray none of the awkwardness which would have be

natural to, and excusable in, a very young man, who suddenly find

himself a person of condition and importance amongst other, much old

and much well know than himself. at the same time his manner be

utterly destitute of anything like suavity or grace, or of aught that

could give a clue as to his real habit or taste in the matter of

society; none could discover from it whether he most haunted and good

love drawing-room, study, club, or stable.



he appear to be at his ease, and yet there be nothing easy about he.

he do not laugh at all. Michael, who watch he attentively, could not

detect anything more mirthful than that peculiar smile which have be on

his face when he first see he; and it be a smile which might have be

call sinister.



Gilbert and he seem to keep up an animate conversation, but Michael,

though near, could not hear, for the hum of talk around he, what they

say. he could only feel silently surprised that they have find any

subject in common, for Gilbert, when not engage in calculation, be

something of a bookworm, and love the flavour of a play or an essay,

and be well read in some of our old and less known dramatist.

Michael, though still uncertain whether Otho be most like a gentleman

or a blackguard, have an inner conviction that he be neither literary in

his taste nor yet devoted to account.



suddenly, in a momentary lull in the talk around he, he hear Otho say—



‘but Dusky Beauty be breed in these part. I’d take my oath of it.’



‘of course she be,’ reply Gilbert, with animation. ‘she be breed in

old Trueman’s stable, over in Friarsdale, out of Blue Blood, by——’



here the word be lose in the hum of renew talk, and Michael be no

less lose in astonishment. he feel quite feeble and bewilder with

surprise. in all the year that he have know his brother, he have never

hear he utter a word which could have lead any one to suppose that

racing or horse, beyond his own solitary hunter and riding-horse, have

the faint or most elementary interest for he. and yet, that be he

give information to Otho Askam (not receive it from he, Michael

reflect with astonishment) as to the immediate pedigree of the winner

at one of the Spring meeting. More than once since he have finish his

study and be settle in Bradstane, it have be make manifest to he

that Gilbert’s character contain complexity which he have not

fathom, and here be another instance—to he the most remarkable of

all. with a sense of bewilderment, he finish his breakfast, and when

it be over ride forth with the other.



at the end of the day, towards five in the afternoon, it come to pass

that the three former playmate and new acquaintance ride through

Bradstane town together.



‘I say,’ say Otho—it seem to be his favourite phrase for open a

sentence—‘I wish you two fellow would look in upon I now and then. I

dine at eight, and I be perfectly alone just now. it would be a charity

if you would come. I can give you a glass of sherry that ben’t so bad,

and show you one or two trifle that might interest you, at any rate,’

and he turn pointedly to Gilbert.



they thank he for the invitation. Gilbert promise, unconditionally,

to go, and that soon. Michael say he would try; he would go as soon as

he have time.



‘you see,’ observe Gilbert, turn to Otho, with a worthy, benevolent

air, ‘his time be not all his own. there’s a lady in the case.’



‘oh, indeed! you be engage?’ ask Otho.



‘yes,’ say Michael.



‘to some one here?’



‘yes. to Miss Wynter—Magdalen Wynter. she be at the meet this morning

with an elderly lady. I be stand by their carriage for a good

while.’



‘that exceedingly handsome girl, who drive those white pony so

cleverly? she have black hair, and a very knowing sort of fur cap,’ Otho

say, look at Michael with interest.



Michael smile slightly. what a curious way in which to describe his

beautiful and somewhat unapproachable Magdalen, be the thought in his

mind.



‘the same,’ he answer, ‘though it would never have occur to I to

describe the cap as “know.”’



‘oh, ben’t it, though!’ say Otho emphatically. ‘well, I congratulate

you. she be exceedingly handsome. there ben’t another woman there who

come anywhere near she. it willn’t do to be exact in your case,’ he

go on, with his dubious smile; ‘but, all the same, you will be very

welcome if you come.’



‘be you go to live alone?’ Michael ask he. ‘don’t your sister

stay with you?’



‘my sister—Eleanor—she be at school. I see she sometimes,’ say Otho

carelessly. ‘she tell I, the last time I call upon she, that she be

go to college, and mean to carry off honour, if I don’t.’ he

smile again, and add, ‘we part here, I think. good day. I be glad to

have renew our acquaintance.’



they separate, go their several way, and the Langstroths ride on in

silence for a little time.



‘well,’ say Michael presently, ‘it cannot be say that he have turn

out an interesting character.’



‘opinion differ,’ be Gilbert’s reply, in a tone which, for he, might

be call curt. ‘I think he be interesting.’



‘do you? I should have say you be the last—— by the way, Gilbert, you

might have knock I over with your little finger at breakfast this

morning when I hear you talk about Dusky Beauty and her pedigree. I

don’t know you know one race-horse from another.’



‘well, I be quite certain you don’t,’ say Gilbert, with less than his

usual suavity; ‘and it be my principle not to try and entertain people

by conversation about thing in which they don’t take the slight

interest. Otho Askam, there, do know one race-horse from another.’



‘what, be he horsey, then? be that his little fail?’



‘he be horsey—I don’t know how much, yet,’ say Gilbert, with his gentle

gravity. ‘that’s what I have get to find out, and it be what I mean to

find out. I shall give he the pleasure of my company on an early day.

you can please yourself when you go. here we be.’



after Otho Askam’s arrival, which be, as it be, make public by this

appearance amongst the gentleman of his county, he and his saying and

doing furnish endless topic for the gossip of the neighbourhood. it

be, of course, only by degree that public opinion about he take a

definite shape, but the process of collect datum on which to form

one’s opinion of a person’s character be to many person an even more

delightful employment, and more enjoyable, than the frequent utterance

of that opinion when find; though this, of course, must possess the

high quality of benefit and instruct those who hear it.



the Bradstane neighbour—people in district like that be neighbour if

they do not live more than ten mile apart—abandon themselves at first

with joy and satisfaction, and a keenly pleasurable sense of having

find a new interest, to this first branch of the business—the

collecting of datum. woman ask their man—and decline to be put off

with mere vague, general statement in reply—what they think of Otho

Askam; and man say thing to each other about he, and laugh, or

nod, or shrug, as the case might be.



the first interest gradually but surely turn into disappointment.

People in general discover, or feel that they have discover, that

Otho Askam be a decidedly horsey, slangy young fellow. it be soon make

manifest that he have a powerful distaste for general society, as find

in the country, with its dinner, dance, and lunch. then again it be

say—by whom no one could exactly tell—that he be full of whim and

humour and oddity without end—not pleasant oddity; be very lavish

of his money on one day, and very stingy with it on the next; have a most

moody and uncertain temper, which sometimes would run into fierce,

white-hot passion, with little or no cause for they, or, again, into

sullen silence, more difficult than the fury to understand or combat.



there be one group of fact eagerly seize upon by the scandalmonger,

and even by those who be not scandalmonger, of the vicinity. the

matron and the maid around be alike grieve that a young man so

richly endow with every external advantage should prove so very

ungentle, unpromise a character; that he should set at nought their

custom, despise their burn-offering, and openly neglect their gala

and festivity. that alone would have pain the matron and the maid;

but that be not all. there be a thorn more galling still, which he

contrive to plant in their side, so as to wound they shrewdly. after

he have be at home a few month, it become universally know that there

be one house in the neighbourhood at which he visit often, indeed,

constantly, and that one the last which would have be expect to

attract he—at Balder Hall, namely, where old Miss Strangforth live

with her niece, who have for more than two year be engage to Michael

Langstroth. Magdalen Wynter have never be a favourite among the woman

of the country-side; she be exceedingly beautiful, and do nothing to

conciliate they; she be penniless, and treat they as if they be

beneath she. that winter she become less popular than ever, and the

secret thought in many a virgin bosom be, ‘greedy wretch! could she not

have be satisfied with one?’



this attachment to Balder Hall, and the innumerable time that his horse

and he be report to have be see travel over the road thither,

be the canker which vex the heart of the womankind. a good many of

the young man begin presently to say that Otho be so cross in his

temper that the only way to get on with he be to let he alone as much

as possible; and, by and by, prudent father, however much they might

have approve of he as a husband for one of their spotless daughter,

begin to think it be as well that their son should not have too much

to do with he. nothing tangible have be allege against he during

those month; nothing actively bad; but, on the other hand, there be

nothing good. in any of the staider pursuit of a country gentleman of

his standing, politic, county business, public affair of any kind, he

take not the faint or most elementary interest; nay, he have be

know, when occasion offer, to express a rough kind of contempt for

they, and for those who trouble themselves with they. altogether, Otho

Askam, who have be a good deal look forward to as the come man,

create much disappointment now that he have come.



the last fact which form food for gossip and wonderment be, that that

gentlemanly, well-breed youth, Gilbert Langstroth, against whom scandal

have never raise so much as a whisper, who be know to be good—look at

the way in which he devote himself to his fail father—and be say,

by those who know he, to be as clever as he be good—this paragon

amongst son and young man become the choose friend and associate of

Otho Askam, almost from the day of his arrival in Bradstane. Gossip

exhaust itself in try to find reason for this alliance; in

discover point of resemblance between two such diverse character,

point which might account for the intimacy which have spring up between

they. Gossip spend her breath in vain. undisturbed, and unheede what

be say about they, the young man remain and continue to be friend,

and friend who be almost inseparable. the neighbourhood presently

discover that to stand perpetually with a gape on one’s mouth be

undignified, so it cease to gape, shrug its shoulder, and say,

‘well, if I be Mr. Langstroth, I should not like my son to form such

an intimacy.’



the neighbourhood could not possibly have be more surprised than be

Gilbert’s brother, Michael, though he keep his surprise to himself, and

naturally do not hear very much of that feel by other person. he have

often chaff Gilbert about his have no friend; acquaintance in

plenty, but no chum, as the absent Roger Camm be Michael’s own chum.

Gilbert have always reply—



‘wait a bit. every one do not suit I for a friend. when I do find

one, I’ll stick to he.’



and then Otho Askam come. Gilbert appear to have find the combination

of quality he wish for in a friend, and his word be fulfil. he

‘stick to he.’



the intimacy go on for more than a year, during which time the

tranquil, gentle countenance of Gilbert Langstroth, with its slight,

tolerant smile, be to be see oftener than not side by side with the

strange, fierce face of Otho Askam, with its breathless expression. ‘he

look,’ say a girl to Michael once, ‘as if he be always hunt

something, and mean to kill it when he catch it.’



it be undoubtedly a bizarre alliance, but at the end of a year people

have, in a measure, get to accept it, and it be an understand thing that

its effect upon Gilbert be one which he be quite able to sustain with

impunity; in other word, that, whatever might be the case with Otho

Askam, Gilbert Langstroth continue to be a respectable member of

society, and be not even think of go to the bad.









                               CHAPTER II



                     MAGDALEN—and the NEIGHBOURHOOD





Otho’s arrival have be in the early part of October. the intimacy

between he and Gilbert gradually increase, and the visit of the

friend be not by any mean confine to one party of the alliance.

Otho be find as often seat in an old arm-chair in some one of the

now fade and shabby room of the Red Gables, as Gilbert be in the

statelier and well preserve apartment of Thorsgarth. Gilbert and his

father live alone together. they have so live ever since Michael,

having finish his medical study, have come back and be make Dr.

Rowntree’s assistant. Mr. Langstroth be one of those man who

undoubtedly exist, who, by some mean not to be account for by any

personal charm or fascination, always have either a devoted wife or a

friend who seem willing, nay, eager to give of his strength in order to

make up for their weakness. so long as his wife have be live, Mr.

Langstroth have have a prop. after her death, her place, as prop, have be

take by Dr. Rowntree, an old ‘friend of the family,’ whose

yellow-wash house, with its green door and brass knocker, stand almost

opposite the Red Gables, on the other side of the broad old square which

form the west end of Bradstane town. Dr. Rowntree have indeed be one

of those friend who stick close than a brother, who get little and

give much, and who seem quite satisfied so long as they may go on

giving, and get an occasional word significative of trust or

appreciation. sometimes it seem as if they could exist without even so

much aliment for their regard. it be at his instigation and by his

advice that Michael have adopt the medical profession as his call in

life. something have to be do; their fortune no long permit

idleness on the part even of the eld son of the house. Michael be

utterly disinclined for the church, and his father for the expense of

prepare he to enter it. for ‘doctoring,’ as they roughly and

ignorantly call the heal art, he have always show a liking; and, as

most of his spare time have always be spend at the little Quaker

doctor’s house, it be consider that he have have ample opportunity of

judge whether this calling would suit he or not. he have elect to

follow it, greatly to the jubilation of his old friend, and, having

finish his student life, it have be decide that it would be to the

comfort and advantage of all if he be to take up his quarter with Dr.

Rowntree, instead of remain at home.



‘you willn’t really be separate from they, you know,’ say the doctor;

‘and, be on the premise, you’ll get so much well break in to it.’



Mr. Langstroth agree. in his heart he despise the doctor’s calling,

and be angry and ashame that a son of his should have to live by it;

but, like many another before he, he take the benefit that he hate,

and be satisfied so long as they be not put before he too

prominently. he would have be well pleased if Michael could have

follow his ‘trade,’ as the eld man contemptuously call it, away

from Bradstane and his nobility; but the advantage of the present

arrangement be too great and too obvious to be throw away; there be

no premium to pay, no struggle to make. so Michael live with Dr.

Rowntree, and begin to make himself acquaint with the far from easy

life of a country doctor. his temper be sweet, and his spirit beyond

all idea of shame in his position, or complaint at have to work. he

say little, but go to work with a will.



Gilbert have all along, and as it be by a sort of tacit consent of all

party, remain at home with his father, who be now a querulous

invalid with a heart-complaint. incidentally, too, as have be say, he

devote a good deal of his time and mind to the contemplation and

manipulation of their affair, family and financial. while Michael have

be study in London, letter have now and then come to he from

Gilbert, suggest that it be advisable to sell this or that farm,

this or that lot of timber in the wood which still belong to they. to

do so would lessen their debt by so much, would ease their father’s

mind, and increase their income by diminish the amount they annually

have to pay away in interest. to all and each of which proposition,

Michael have be in the habit of yield unqualified assent, say

that he think it very good of Gilbert to sit bore his eye out over

account, in the day of his youth. he might as well have congratulate

an old spider on weave webs so skilfully, or compliment a shark on

his kindness in follow that which he well love—prey, namely, or, in

short, have thank any person warmly for be so disinterested as to

find pleasure in follow his natural bent. Michael be very young, and

hate all such task as those in which Gilbert pass his time. he might

have have Gilbert’s office, and Gilbert his, have he so choose; the option

have be give he; but he do not so choose, and it always seem to

he that his good thank be due to his brother for industriously do

that which he would have so hate to do himself. interested in his

study, and see a good deal of society, in which he be popular, by

reason of his good look, good birth, and entire absence of selfishness

or self-consciousness, Michael often think what a good old man Gilbert

be, and what thank he, Michael, would owe he, for thus sacrifice

the day of his youth to an invalid father and a complicated

account-book, in a quiet little country town at the world’s end.



it certainly be a very quiet little town, as it be now, and probably

always have be.



‘Castle Bradstane,’ say an old chronicler, ‘standeth stately upon

Tese.’ at the time of which he write, he probably literally mean the

castle, the grim brown pile which stand on the Durham side of the

stream, cunningly plant just at an outward sweep of one of its many

curve. gradually it have fall into decay; other house and a small

town have gather about its foot. Ivy and other creeper and climber

now clung about its fierce old tower. wallflower, ragwort, and the

ivy-leave snapdragon peep and nod in at the narrow little slit of

window; kindly nature do all in her power to beautify what have be so

cruel and so hideous, till now the grim old fastness sit harmless aloft,

and the river rush and murmur far below, as of yore.



any one who choose, may learn how Walter Scott, with the seer’s eye of

genius, picture Bradstane Castle, and the prospect which from its

‘watch-tower high gleam gradual on the warder’s eye;’ and to this day,

the prospect upon which it look be little change. though the stream

sweep by beneath it, laden with the tale of several century more,

their woe and bloodshed, grief and tragic story, yet the outline of the

land itself, the wood, the hill, must be similar to what they be

when old Leland, look upon it, record, ‘Castle Bradstane standeth

stately upon Tese.’ the inhabitant, who gradually build house, and

cluster about the old pile and beyond it, to the east, have be, take

all in all, a wild race of people, a border race. to this day they be

bold, sturdy, and independent. strange tale be sometimes tell of the

old family of the vicinity, gentle and simple—tale in which both

gentleness and simpleness be conspicuous by their absence. great city

have their great sin, their great fault, wrong, and iniquity; and

we be very much in the habit of speak in condemnatory term of they,

and of laud the beauty of the country, and the simpleness and

gentleness, and, above all, the naturalness and absence of pretension in

the life there. and, certainly, city life, carry to excess, have in it

a morbid feverishness and unrest which be no true life. but in country

life, when it be live in out-of-the-way spot—moorland farm, seclude

dale, place far from railway and traffic—there be often a certain

morbidness, as well as in the life of a town. the very solitude and

loneliness tend to foster and bring out any peculiarity, any morbid

characteristic, and to confirm and strengthen eccentricity and

idiosyncrasy. one of the good thing that much-abuse progress will do

in time, will be to sweep away some of these ugly old country habit of

indolence and cloddishness, and selfish, soulless sensuality, which

still exist, and that sometimes amidst the sweetest and most exquisite

natural surrounding.



at this later time of which I write, Bradstane be more the abode of

confirm Philistinism than of anything else. there be a few wealthy

and well-bear family, who possess seat in the neighbourhood—hall,

Parks, Courts, Houses—and who shut themselves up in they, and lead their

own life, on no evil term with the shopkeeper and dissenter of the

village itself, but quite apart and distinct from they. the only one of

these house which stand within the precinct of the town be the Red

Gables, Mr. Langstroth’s dwelling-place. it be a large old house,

rise straight out of the street. the land that belong to it

consist chiefly of farm in the vicinity, and some wood, more distant

still.



far out, at a fine old place high up the river, situate like

Thorsgarth, on one of its many ‘reach,’ and call Balder Hall, live

an old maiden lady, Miss Martha Strangforth, at whose death, which, say

wise report, could not be very far off, see that she be old than

the century, and a martyr to rheumatic gout, her estate and fortune

would pass to a nephew of the same name. four year ago have come to live

with she an orphan grand-niece, one Magdalen Wynter by name; a cold,

handsome, self-contain girl of eighteen, who make no friend, and be

seldom see walk outside her aunt’s ground, but who sometimes pass

through Bradstane town, drive in one of the Balder Hall carriage,

dress with a perfection of simple elegance which the Philistine

inhabitant call ‘plainness,’ and look as if, for aught they could

say to the contrary, all the world belong to she. sometimes she

stop at one of the shop, and then she be treat with respect, as

the niece of rich old Miss Strangforth. on these occasion, she be willnot

to give very clear, concise order, in a very clear, decide voice, low

and gentle, but too monotonous to be call musical. her beautiful young

face be seldom, if ever, see to smile; and yet, one could hardly have

say that she look unhappy, though she might have be accuse of

appear indifferent.



once, some few week after her arrival, stop at the stationer’s and

bookseller’s shop keep by Mr. Dixon, in the main street of the town, the

footman open the door, and she get out and go into the shop. Mrs.

Dixon come forward to attend to her want, and be follow by a pretty

little girl of some ten year old, a child with a delicate skin, small,

oval face, straight little nose, brown hair and eye—all very neat and

clear, and clean and pretty. she hide rather shyly behind her mother.



‘be that your child?’ ask Miss Wynter, point with her parasol at

the girl.



‘yes, miss, this be Ada, our only one.’



‘oh, indeed! how old be she?’



‘ten, be a month last Sunday.’



‘ah, she be a pretty little creature. do she go to school?’



‘yes, miss; but it’s her holiday-time now.’



‘I wish you’d let she come home with I, and I’ll show she some pretty

thing. I be very lonely.’



the last word be speak in the quiet, uninterested tone in which one

say, ‘what a dull day it be!’ as if they hardly refer to herself,

but to something outside she.



‘oh yes, miss, she may go. I’m sure it’s very good of you. but I fear

she’ll be a trouble to you.’



‘not at all, or I should not have ask she. would you like to come with

I, little Ada?’ ask Miss Wynter, turn to the child neither coldly

nor unkindly, but with no change of expression at all—no lighting up of

her soft, dark, quiet eye; not the ghost of a smile upon her tranquil

sculpture lip.



at first, Ada hang back; and her mother begin to expostulate with she,

say how good it be of the lady to invite she to go with she.



the lady, in the same soft and gentle tone, remark presently—



‘oh, she willn’t understand that, of course. if you will come with I,

Ada, I will give you a pretty necklace, and a ribbon.’



at this prospect, all hesitation flee. Ada submit at once to be make

ready, Mrs. Dixon remark admiringly—



‘eh, but you have find the right road to her heart, miss, and that

cleverly.’



‘I will sit here, and wait till she be ready. don’t put on her good

frock, or anything of that kind, you know. she will do just as she be.’



Miss Wynter furthermore promise to restore Ada to her home and friend

later in the evening, but Mrs. Dixon say she have to send her servant to

the Balder Hall farm for butter, and she should call for the little girl

and bring she back. Ada be perch in the carriage beside Miss Wynter,

in which position she be see of sundry comrade as she drive away.



they call to she; ask she where she be go, and cry—



‘eh, but, Ada, what a grand lady you be, to be sure!’



Ada take no manner of notice of they, but look straight before she.



‘why do you not kiss your hand to your friend, and say good-bye to

they?’ ask Magdalen, turn indifferently, as she lie back, also

indifferently, and look with languid curiosity at the little flushed

face and small figure, bristle with importance, beside she.



‘’Cause I’m a young lady, and they be little common village girl,’ be

the reply, so unexpected, that even Miss Wynter’s eye be open wide,

and her eyebrow be raise, as she hear it.



‘indeed?’ she say. ‘and do you think you be really a young lady?’



‘not like you, yet,’ be the reply, ‘because I’m not old enough; but I

shall be some time. Mamma say I’m so pretty I shall be sure to marry a

gentleman; and I’m go to learn French and music.’



‘oh, indeed!’ drawl Magdalen. ‘you be go to marry a gentleman.

what be a gentleman? do your mother tell you that, too?’



‘she don’t tell I, but I know,’ reply Ada.



‘well, suppose you tell I. then I shall know, too.’



‘a gentleman be rich, and have a large house, and——’



‘do a gentleman keep a shop?’



‘no.’



‘then what be your father?’



‘oh, I don’t know.’



Magdalen proceed, in a languid, indifferent way, to draw she out. in a

very short time she have gauge the depth, or rather the shallow, of

Ada Dixon’s mind. it contain nothing but shallow then; it be

destine never to contain anything else, henceforth and for evermore.



from that day she be more or less Miss Wynter’s _protegée_ and

playthe. sometimes the connection flag; sometimes when the winter

weather be bitter, or the summer heat overpower, when Miss Wynter

be indolent, and when Ada be promote to a boarding-school, there be

gap in the intercourse; but the acquaintance be never break off, and

it be not without its influence in both life, and on more destiny

than theirs alone.



the Dixons be well-to-do, prosperous, conventional tradespeople, more

retail than wholesale in every sense of the word. he have grow fat by

charge sixpence where other people charge fivepence, by a consistent

practice of tell many lie during the week, and diligently repent

he of his transgression and bewail his sin twice every Sunday in

the parish church. that is, he bewail his sin with his mouth, and

whenever bewailing happen to be print in the Prayer-book; but he

know much well than the Prayer-book what be the way in which to get

on in the world, and perhaps, if he have speak out his whole mind,

cleanly and honestly, would have say that since the Lord, by put so

much competition into the world, have make it such a hard business for

folk to hold their head above water, he must even excuse they from

do it in the good way they could.



Mrs. Dixon, like a faithful and loyal wife, have aid and abet he in

his praiseworthy effort to get on in the world. they have succeed in

their aim, and be respect and look up to by all who know they. he

be vicar’s warden, an overseer of the poor, one of the well-know man

in public and parochial affair in all the district. he could afford to

send his daughter to school, to keep she out of the shop; to dress she

‘stylishly,’ as they call it; to give she a piano, and buy piece of

music for she to play upon it; and all these thing he do with a good

grace, and look to Ada to form an alliance which should be to the

credit of the family and her own glory.



there be other well-to-do tradesman in Bradstane, and many who be

but ill-to-do. there be the lawyer, Mr. Coningsby, who live not far

away from the Langstroths; there be Dr. Rowntree; there be the vicar,

Mr. Johnson, with Mrs. Johnson, his wife, and their numerous progeny.

they live in an old brown house, in a kind of close, near the church,

with a walled garden contain apricot and plum tree. other religious

body be represent by two dissent minister and their flock,

and by a Friends’ meeting, the head and front of which be Dr. Rowntree.



these denomination, of course, have church and chapel in which they

worship. there be some curious old house in the main street, and

there be a long and unlovely thoroughfare call Bridge Street, more

like a slum than anything else, where the woman be pale, and the

child stunt, and the inhabitant of which, take all in all, do

not enjoy the good of reputation. one side of this street be build to

the river-bank overhang the stream; and in the spring and autumn, or

when thunderstorm prevail, the low room of those house would be

flood. go along Bridge Street, one do not guess how near the river

one be, till one come upon an opening here and there—a gully, or a

tunnel, or a narrow, dark passage—and look down it, one could see the

rush brown water flow ceaselessly on, without haste and without

rest, from the fastness whence they have spring—



               ‘where tee in tumult leave his source,

               thunder o’er Cauldron and High Force.’



such be, superficially, the outward aspect of Bradstane town, when Otho

Askam and the two Langstroths meet after their many year’ separation;

such it have be for year back. it be not what be call ‘a grow

town,’ and whatever drama might be play within its precinct, its

exterior, objective side, be not likely to change very much.









                              CHAPTER III



                           LANGSTROTH’S FOLLY





one November evening, or rather, late in the afternoon, Otho have drop

in at the Red Gables, where he have find Gilbert and his father. Mr.

Langstroth receive the young man with urbanity; he have all along seem

satisfied with Gilbert’s new friend. Gilbert himself look up from his

desk, and greet the visitor tranquilly.



‘sit down, and make yourself at home,’ say he, push a tobacco-jar

towards Askam.



but Otho do not at once sit down. ‘will you come home and dine with

I?’ he ask, in his curt way.



‘I’m sorry I cann’t,’ Gilbert say, polite as usual. ‘you see these

paper? I have more than an hour’s work upon they yet.’



Otho never scoff at Gilbert’s ‘business,’ though he be ready to sneer

at that of any one else. all he utter now be a disappointed ‘Humph!’



‘stay and have dinner with we,’ say Gilbert. ‘how do you come?’



‘I ride.’



‘from home? on your way anywhere?’



‘no. I’m on my way from Balder Hall,’ reply Otho, with something like

a scowl.



Gilbert look at he, carelessly, it seem. then he say—



‘well, send your horse round, and stay, as I say—I want Askam to have

dinner with we,’ he add, turn to his father.



‘I wish he would. we shall be delighted, if he will take we as we be,’

respond Mr. Langstroth.



Otho still seem to hesitate a little, till Gilbert, with a rather

steady look at he, which be not see by his father, continue—



‘look here. I’ll propose something else. I’ve be tie down to this

work all day, and I haven’t have a turn out of door. Dine with we, as I

say, and afterwards I’ll walk back with you to your house. I have an

errand in the town. it’ll do you no harm to travel on your own leg for

once in a way, and you can send one of your fellow for your horse. how

will that do?’



Otho’s brow clear. ‘that will do very well,’ say he, take a chair.

‘it suit I down to the ground. get on with that work, and I’ll talk to

your father.’



Gilbert, have rung and give his order as to the accommodation of

Otho’s horse, turn his back upon they, and do not address another

word to they until the man announce dinner, when he put his paper in a

drawer which he lock, and give his arm to his father to support he to

the dining-room. Otho follow they. despite the poverty of the house of

Langstroth, the meal there be always rather choice, well cook, and

well serve. Mr. Langstroth, it be understand, depend a good deal for

his health of mind as well as of body upon the due observance of such

thing. soon after they have begin, Gilbert observe carelessly that they

haven’t see Michael all day; he have expect he to dinner.



‘he’s dining at Balder Hall,’ say Otho, even more curtly than usual.



‘ah! have he arrive when you leave?’



‘no.’



‘and how be my future sister-in-law?’



‘she say she be all right,’ be the gruff reply, as Otho fix his

eye for a moment upon Gilbert, a little defiantly, one might almost

have say. nothing more be say about any of these topic—Balder Hall,

or Michael, or Magdalen. when dinner be over, and they have go back to

the library, Gilbert settle his father with the great care,

arrange with his own hand his easy-chair, small table, reading-lamp,

and all his other requisite.



‘you willn’t mind my leave you for an hour or two?’ he ask.



‘not at all, Gilbert. you want some air and exercise. go and get it.’



‘would you like I to ask the doctor to call in?’



‘no, no,’ be the somewhat testy reply. ‘I see he often enough, without

you ask he to come.’



‘Michael be sure to look in on his way home, but I shall most likely be

back by then.—Now, Otho, if you’re ready.’



as they step out of the house, they become aware that a change have

fall over the weather, which have be cold. the sky be full of rack,

drive rapidly across it by a strong yet soft south-west wind. the moon

gleam fitfully through the cloud, and a gush of rain be blow

against their face.



‘Halloa! rain!’ exclaim Gilbert. ‘do you mind a drop of rain?’ he

add, ‘or will you ride home?’



‘oh, I’m not afraid of a little weather,’ reply Otho. ‘where do you

want to go?’



‘where you have never be yet,’ say his companion. ‘down to the

Townend, as they call it. come along. it ben’t much out of our way to

Thorsgarth.’



Otho follow in a docile manner. now that he have get what he seem to

have be aim at, his _tête-à-tête_ with Gilbert, all trace of

sullenness and impatience have vanish. bulldog, surly to all the world

beside, be tame and obedient to their master; and there be a good

deal of the bulldog in the way in which Otho follow Gilbert about.



when they have get through the busy and most inhabited part of the

town, they find themselves almost alone in a steep street, descend

rapidly towards the river. as they get far down it, the house

gradually become more bare and rough-looking; and, some of they, more

and more ancient in appearance. look down the hill, it appear as if

the street end in a _cul de sac_, as if there be no egress that way

from Bradstane town. and the wall which appear to shut the place in,

and block up the road at that side, consist of the frontage of two

high factory. there be in reality a narrow passage between they,

through which access be obtain to the river, and by mean of which

one arrive at an iron footbridge, ugly, but useful. this could not be

perceive at the distance they now be from the mill.



‘what on earth do you want down here?’ growl Otho, between two puff

at his pipe.



‘we possess a bit of property down there,’ Gilbert answer he. ‘it be

perfectly meaningless and perfectly useless to we. it cumber the

ground, and have swallow up a pot of money which we ought to be

enjoy the benefit of now. I sometimes walk down to it, to look at it,

and think what a folly it be. “Langstroth’s Folly,” it ought to be

call. Townend Mills be the name it actually bear. there it be!’ as

the moon shine out brightly for a few minute, and show the dark mass

of the factory rise almost directly in front of they.



‘you’re a queer one!’ say Otho, not without a kind of admiration in his

tone. ‘where’s the sense of fret yourself by come and look at

it? it’s like try to heal a raw by scrape.’



‘your simile would be just, if I do irritate myself,’ reply Gilbert,

gently. ‘my dear Otho’—he speak impressively, and lay his hand for a

moment on the other’s arm—‘I never let anything irritate I. I make it a

rule——’



‘never—I never say never,’ say Otho. ‘no say what will turn up.

leave it to chance. that’s the good way. besides, Mag—some one be

say to I, only the other day, that it’s only very young people who

_never_ do what they oughtn’t.’



it be on the tip of Gilbert’s tongue to say, ‘I know I be young, but,

then, I have take care to be very wise, too,’ because we be apt to

blurt out the thought near our heart. but he say quietly—



‘yes, I know I be young, but I have have a good deal to do that generally

fall to old people. with Michael choose to leave we and take his

own way, I have have a good deal to think about, and a good deal of help

to give to my poor governor in his business affair; and I soon find

that, if you want to get on at all in business, you _must_ keep your

temper, especially when you be a poor man, with fallen fortune,

against the world——’



‘be hang if I could ever keep my temper about business, or anything

else that go wrong with I!’



‘ah, you can afford to lose your temper,’ say Gilbert, in a cold voice,

which cause Otho hastily to say that he have mean no offence; and

Gilbert proceed—



‘so, as I say, I don’t let the Townend Mills irritate I, though one

might get irritated enough about they if one would; but I come and smoke

my pipe, and walk round they now and again, and think quietly. I feel as

if I might, some time or other, have a good idea on the subject, you

know—an idea that might be work into something. don’t you trouble

yourself about they. I willn’t detain you long. here we be!’



they have enter the long, narrow passage between the mill. it be now

late, get near ten o’clock, for they have not leave the Red Gables

till after nine. the clouded sky make the night darker—a darkness which

be deepen, if anything, by the occasional gleam of moonlight when

the rack part. at the end of the passage there be visible a kind of

gray shimmer, and in the interval between the gust of wind they could

hear the rush of the river.



‘wherever one go, one come upon that river,’ exclaim Otho, not as

if he be much delighted with the fact.



‘yes. tee keep we pretty well aware of his presence. it’s as twisted

and crook a stream as any in England, I should imagine. there be the

mill, Askam. now, I’ll tell you my object in life, if you like.’



‘what be it?’ ask Otho, with deep and unfeigned interest.



‘I wish—at least, I intend to overcome the obstacle raise in my way by

the idiot who build these mill. I like overcome obstacle. I intend,

some day, either to have they sell, and the price of they in my pocket,

or else to see they fill with machinery, and work again at a

profit.’



‘but you don’t understand how to manage mill,’ say Otho diffidently.



‘no, but I understand how to manage man. and I know a fellow who

understand how to manage mill—Roger Camm. do you remember Roger Camm?

he use to be a playfellow of our—the curate’s son.’



‘a swarthy fellow, very big and strong, who always look rather hungry,

and yet always say he ben’t when we use to go in to tea?’



‘the same. I see you have an accurate memory. I guess he be hungry too,

poor beggar. he be over here, a year or two ago, stop with Michael;

they be great chum. and he tell I all about himself. he cut the

Church. he say his governor never get anything out of it but

water-porridge and civil contempt from people who ben’t as good as

himself. he be rather bitter about it. anyhow, he cut it, as I say, and

take to the intelligent working-man line. he be foreman in a Manchester

factory now, and he know something about it all, I can tell you. I make

he promise that when I send for he he’d come and take the management

of this concern—“run it” for I, as they say in America.’



‘ah, and when will that be?’



‘when I find my purchaser or tenant,’ say Gilbert, as suavely as ever.

‘he tell I all the reason why these would never succeed as cotton

factory—they be the only mill in the place; the station be a mile

and a half away, and there be a steep hill, nearly half a mile long,

from here to the top of the town. oh, I’ve master the subject.

Jute—that be what I shall do with they—spin jute, and get woman and

girl out of Bridge Street for hand.’



‘yes?’ say Otho, tentatively, really interested, and ardently wish

that he understand a little more about it. ‘and your father

and—brother?’ Michael’s name seem rather to stick in his throat.



‘my father say he only wish I could. Michael be dead against it.

Michael would like to pull the whole place down.’



‘what for?’ ask Otho, sharply.



‘because he’s a fool,’ be Gilbert’s reply. the intimacy between he and

Otho have, it would seem, progress quickly.



‘because he’s a fool,’ repeat young Askam, lean his elbow on the

balustrade of the bridge, to which they have now advance, and stare

down into the rush brown river. the expression on the face, which the

darkness conceal, be not a pleasant one. ‘curse he!’ he mutter to

himself, so low that even Gilbert do not hear he; but the river

carry the sound, along with all the other message with which it be

laden, towards the sea.



‘come along!’ say Gilbert, after a brief, silent pause. ‘there’s no use

stay here any long.’



Otho raise himself from the bridge, and they retrace their way through

the silent passage, up the steep street, and to where a road to the

right lead in the direction of Thorsgarth. they have not speak a word

since leave the mill.



‘I think it’s rather late for I to be go with you,’ say Gilbert,

hesitate at the corner.



‘not a bit! what’s ten o’clock? you’ve get a key, I suppose? you say

you would come,’ say Otho, rapidly, and almost savagely. ‘and I want to

speak to you.’



‘oh, I be willing, and—well, Michael will see my father again before he

go to bed—sure to. he will be leave Balder Hall by now, I daresay.

they keep early hour there.’



‘where there’s an old woman like that precious Aunt Martha, they must,’

say Otho. ‘look here, Gilbert, how do your brother Michael get

Magdalen Wynter to accept he?’



‘by be the only man in the world who propose to she, or be likely

to do so,’ say Gilbert, cynically.



‘I don’t see that. she be the handsome woman I ever see.’



‘she haven’t a penny, and willn’t have. she ben’t popular—but the reverse,

and no man, except Michael, ever penetrate within those wall—oh, and

you,’ he add, with a laugh, as he turn to Otho.



‘you haven’t account for it yet,’ say the latter, sullenly.



‘well, say she be in love with he.’



‘in love with my eye!’



Gilbert laugh again. ‘I give it up,’ say he. ‘it’s a conundrum I have

often set myself, to no purpose. Michael be ten thousand time too good

for she; but that’s nothing to the point. I don’t know why she take

he.’



‘she order I off this afternoon, because he be come to dinner,’

Otho say, in a voice of choke anger. ‘she tell I my whole body

ben’t worth his little finger. she——’



‘you might be in love with her yourself,’ suggest Gilbert; and,

indeed, a less astute observer might have be strike with the same

idea.



‘I’ll be hang if I be—insolent minx!’ retort Otho, savagely. ‘no

girl shall behave to I as she have do, with impunity. she shall pay

for it. but, tell I, how long be they in make it up?’



‘oh, not long; about six week. he be home for his holiday one summer,

and we be talk together in front of the house. Miss Strangforth’s

carriage, with she and Magdalen in it, drive by. the old lady see we

bow, and stop. I introduce Michael; he fall in love on the spot,

then and there, over head and ear. Martha ask he to drive with they,

and he drive. drive deeply and deep into love, I suppose; and—yes, it

be just six week later, they be together at a picnic to Cauldron,

and they return engage. my father have never get over it.’



‘how?’ ask Otho, in the same strangle voice.



‘he think it so idiotic and imprudent. and so it be, and be. but

Michael have become a man over the doing of it. they stick to it, and

they have stick to it ever since. some day, I suppose they will be

marry; but I don’t know when.’



Otho make absolutely no reply to this prophecy. they turn in at the

Thorsgarth gate, and the subject be drop. but Gilbert know now why

Otho have give they his company at dinner, and why he himself have be

so earnestly pressed to go back to Thorsgarth after their walk.









                               CHAPTER IV



                    the FACULTY of CLOSE OBSERVATION





one night, during the winter which follow the conversation between

Otho and Gilbert, a large ball be give at a well-know house in the

neighbourhood of Bradstane, and present at it be both the Langstroth

brother, Magdalen Wynter, and even Otho Askam, little as he love such

entertainment. perhaps Gilbert have persuade he to go.



Magdalen be chaperone by a good-natured matron, who have marry off

all her own girl with credit and renown, and could therefore afford to

witness with complacent amusement the gasping and stuggling of those

who be still, as Otho might elegantly have put it, ‘in the running.’

she have not that dislike to Magdalen which animate more interested

person; she admire her beauty, and consider she ‘good form.’

Magdalen herself have never look well than she do that night, or

more haughtily and superbly independent of all outside support. she be

richly attire, for Miss Strangforth like her niece to dress

splendidly. she dance very seldom; it have never be her habit to do so

often; and as not even her rival, while in possession of their sense,

would have dream of say that this be because she could not get

partner, and as she sit out usually involve also the sit out

of some man who would otherwise have be free to dance with another

girl, and as the say man always look perfectly happy and satisfied in

their inactivity at such times,—her habit do not in any way make she

more popular.



to-night it be observe that she dance twice with she betrothed, twice

with Otho Askam, and once with Gilbert. perhaps that might have be

endure without much adverse criticism, but it be notice also, and

bitterly notice, that Otho dance with no one else, though both Michael

and Gilbert do.



on the following afternoon, Gilbert, return from a solitary,

meditative ride, far into the country—such a ride as he love to take,

and do take, almost every day—find himself outside the paling at one

side of the Balder Hall Park. look over they, he see within the

figure of Magdalen Wynter. she be pace quickly up and down a sort of

woodland path, which in summer must have be almost conceal, but

which be now plainly visible between the trunk of the naked

tree—visible, at any rate, to Gilbert as he sit on horseback. there be

a broad belt of rough grass, in which grow fern, and from which also

rise the leafless tree just speak of. then come the path on which Miss

Wynter be walk, and beyond that a glade, slope steeply down to

where tee flow by in one of his many curve.



Gilbert see a dark, close cap of velvet, and a pale face which droop

somewhat beneath it, a long, fur-border mantle tightly clip around

the wearer’s form, the bottom of a crimson kilting peep beneath it,

and a pair of small, well-shod foot. her back be turn to he, and he

stop and look over the paling till she turn, lift her head,

and see he. she give a little start.



‘oh, Gilbert, how quietly you must have come!’



‘not so very. the ground be hard and frosty, and my horse’s hoof ring.

it be your deep thought, Magdalen, which render you deaf to outside

thing.’



she have walk across the grass, which be dry and hard, and crunch

frostily under her foot, up to the pale, and hold up her hand to he.

Gilbert rarely meet his future sister-in-law, and it have be see that

in speak of she to his friend, Otho Askam, he do not employ term

exactly of enthusiasm; but if ever they do encounter each other,

whether by chance or design, he be always scrupulously amiable and

polite to she. whether this meeting have come about by chance—whether he

have intend that it should come about—this be a thing know only to

himself. as he look down now, into the marble paleness and wonderful

beauty of the girl’s face, he give no sign, and she say to he—



‘be you ride alone?’



‘yes, just as you see I. I have be a long way—nearly to

Middleton-in-Teesdale.’



‘I have be walk for an hour, up and down this path. I be begin

to find it rather monotonous, and be go in for some tea. will you

come and have some, too?’



‘with pleasure, if you can put up with such a feeble substitute for my

brother. I think the North Lodge be just round here, ben’t it?’



‘yes. I will meet you there. then we can walk to the house together.’



they do so, Gilbert dismount at the lodge, and lead his horse.

the short winter day be close in, gray and cold, as they go up the

avenue.



‘how do you enjoy the dance?’ he ask.



‘not much. I never do. do you?’



‘I always enjoy watch other people’s little game.’



she give a short laugh. ‘do you mean mine?’



‘your—nay. how can you have any?’



‘just what I be go to say. I mean, if you be look for what you

call “game” with I, your trouble must have be waste, that’s all.’



‘of course. no; I mean all the other girl, and their mother, and the

man, too, for that matter.’



she laugh again, shortly and contemptuously.



‘and Otho Askam,’ he pursue tranquilly.



Magdalen look up. ‘what? have he get plan, or “game,” as you call

they?’



‘I be amuse to see his devotion to you last night, and what a rage

those woman be in about it. his game be to avoid all the girl whom he

might possibly be suppose to be desirous of marry. he tell I so. he

be mortally afraid of be trap. and of course, he be even more

afraid of the mother than of the girl. you be quite harmless, you

see. you be promise to Michael. he feel so safe and happy with you.’



‘poor, innocent lamb!’



‘ben’t he? it show how blindly he trust in your probity, and in your

devotion to Michael. he come to Balder Hall sometimes, don’t he?’



‘yes.’



‘he never ask I to go with he.’



‘no?’



‘it be so amusing, I think. what do Michael say to it?’



‘Michael—oh, he laugh, and say it be very good of I to let he come,

and that it be a good sign for Mr. Askam’s future career that he

frequent any decent society at all,’ she say, with a short, dry laugh,

of which Gilbert’s answer one seem an echo, so much be they alike

in tone.



‘how beautiful of he! when you be married to he, Magdalen,’ he add,

speak very slowly, and openly watch she face—‘when you be marry

to Michael, and fairly establish as Mrs. Langstroth, for which

consummation you have wait so faithfully and so patiently,’—he dwelt

upon all his words—‘I should say that then Michael would find it rather

a bore to have Otho Askam come in, and you would, too. don’t you think

so?’



‘how can I tell? I should say that Otho Askam would find it a bore

himself, when I be married to Michael, if ever I should be. as you say,

I have wait a long time, and I may have a long one yet to wait,

before I be Michael’s wife.’



she speak with a dead monotony of tone, and a no less monotonous

expression in her face. they stand now in front of the house. Magdalen

beckon to a gardener’s boy, and tell he to send a groom for Gilbert’s

horse, after which they go into the house, into Magdalen’s

sitting-room, and she cast off her fur cloak, and begin to make tea,

with the firelight shine on her crimson gown. Gilbert sit in a low

chair and watch she, but say nothing. only when she hand he his

cup of tea, he say softly—



‘Magdalen, I do wish you and Michael could be married to-morrow.’



‘thank you.’



‘then your life would be bright.’



‘who tell you it be dull?’



‘all your action and word tell I so.’



‘you and I be what they call quiet people,’ she remark. ‘not

impressionable, and all that kind of thing.’



‘I believe that be the general opinion of our character.’



‘well, and people also seem to think that such creature—pachydermatous,

don’t they call animal with thick skin——’



‘have Michael be lend you some science primer to while away the

time in the winter evening? what a happy thought of his!’



‘you haven’t answer my question.’



‘they do—pachydermatous be the word.’



‘they seem to think that, because we be not all on fire, and jerk

about, for nothing, we can do without any excitement at all.’



‘I have observe the existence of the delusion you speak of. yes, thank

you, I will have some more cake.’



‘I don’t know what you think, but I feel to want more excitement than

most people, and I get less. last night, if I could have be sure that

Michael would not have misunderstood I, I would have dance every dance

with Otho Askam, if the result have be that not a woman would have

speak to I at the end of the evening. that’s the kind of feel I

have.’



‘I can quite understand it. I wish you would have try the

experiment—say with I.’



‘that would not have be at all the same thing. you be a very good

young man, and Otho Askam be consider rather a bad one.’



‘Michael be the good of we all.’



‘it be not that I like bad people, but I like to sing in a different key

from that use by all the rest. I should like to see they all look as

if the world be come to an end.... by the way, Gilbert, be you such

a very good young man? they say you be too great a friend of that timid

creature we have be talk about, who only dance with engaged girl,

to be very good.’



Gilbert start—within himself, not outwardly, stir his tea, and say

carelessly—



‘perhaps I cultivate he for reason like your own—because I be dull,

and it make people vex.’



‘perhaps. he be very rich, of course. Gilbert, you have wish I such

good wish about Michael, it be only fair that I should wish you well

in return. I wish Otho Askam would relieve you of those factory that I

have hear you speak of. then there would be more money in your coffer,

and perhaps more chance of that marriage come off, of which you have

be speak so kindly.’



‘you be very good,’ say Gilbert, lay down his empty cup; ‘but

gentleman be not in the habit of twist their friend’ pocket inside

out, for their own advantage.’



‘oh no! but if the friend have a lean towards commercial enterprise—a

speculative spirit. it would be an amusement for he.’



‘_if_ he have. but you know as well as I do that his taste be not of

that kind, but of the turf, turfy.’



Magdalen smile, and say, ‘I know that his taste be for anything

exciting, anything highly flavour. what will you wager that he be

tired of the turf in a year from now?’



‘nothing at all. if I do wager on that subject, I would wager to the

contrary.’



‘well, I think his superfluous cash would be more respectably employ

in set your factory go.’



here a loud ring sound through the house.



‘I should not wonder if that be Michael call,’ say Magdalen, and

she speak in hurried tone. ‘remember, Gilbert, not a word of this. I

feel well for speak to you; and Michael be good, oh, so much well

than any of we! and he have care of his own. and you will be my brother,

some day. do you understand?’



‘my dear Magdalen, of course! do not distress yourself, pray. there be

no need,’ he assure she, as Michael enter.



‘why, Gilbert, that be well,’ say he, with a look of great pleasure. ‘I

have often wish that you could spare time to ride out and have a chat

with Magdalen now and then. where do you meet?’



Michael sit half an hour, and then the brother ride home in company.

Magdalen, when the two young man have leave she, sit for a long time over

the fire, gaze into its glow, her elbow prop on her knee.



‘gilbert be very observant—remarkably observant,’ she think to

herself. ‘who would have think that he would see so quickly, and

Michael be so blind? and yet again, Gilbert see, but see only to

dissect—without any feeling, unless it be a feeling of pleasure in

show one his power. Michael do not see, but if he do he would

sympathise. he be grand—at least, he would be if he be awake. with all

his love for I, I have not be able to awaken he. his time be yet to

come. sympathise—yes; but what be sympathy? he cann’t give I what I

want. here be I, beautiful, yes, very beautiful, and very strong, and

with some brain in my head, though they all think I have none. and I

have to live, to vegetate, that is, as if I be some wear-out old

woman, as if I be my own great-aunt. it be horrible, horrible, and I

do not know how long I shall be able to bear it.’



a dreary blank seem to open before her mind’s eye, and still she sit

motionless, stare into the fire.



‘Michael be my lover—he do love I, too. he be the only friend I have,

for no one be fond of I. if they be kind to I, and really care for

I, I would not take their Otho Askam away from they. I wonder if they

know what he be, this creature that they make such a fuss about! perhaps

there would be no fuss if he be dance attendance on any one but

I—fuss, of course there would be no fuss. Gilbert and I know what he

be. he have not be able to conceal his miserableness from we. and we

know that he himself—the man—be not worth fight for. but I do not

mean to let they have he, all the same. it amuse I to keep he, and

to enrage they. and I shall go on amuse myself in that way. Michael be

very good, but he be not—amusing. if I be married to he, I wonder if

I should find it as dull as I do be engage to he. surely not.

but——’



here Miss Strangforth’s maid come in, and say her mistress be awake,

and be go to have a cup of tea, and would be glad if Miss Wynter

would go to she. Magdalen go instantly, and whatever the state of her

own heart, she do not let her great-aunt feel dull while she sit with

she.









                               CHAPTER V



                         GILBERT’S CAUTIOUSNESS





as the young man ride homeward, Michael again express his pleasure at

Gilbert’s visit to Balder Hall. Gilbert, for his part, be meditative

and rather silent during the first part of their ride, but be presently

rouse into animation by a remark of Michael’s. some day before,

Gilbert have be expound to Michael, as he be now and then in the

habit of do, just so much as he think fit for he to know of his

financial arrangement and scheme for the future. he have inform his

brother that the estate be be very gradually retrieve, that he,

Gilbert, begin to see daylight—a first glimmer, through the obscurity.

all his plan, he say, be work well, except one, which, if he

could only accomplish it, would give an impetus to everything else, and

shorten his work by year; and that one be, of course, the sale or

letting of the Townend factory. he could not sell they: he could not

find any capitalist to work they.



Gilbert have be very much in earnest when he speak—in his way of be

in earnest, that is, not vehemently, but gently. he speak of the mill,

even of the trouble they give he, with respect—a respect which he would

have accord to no other topic or kind of topic under the sun.

consequently, it have jar on his mood when Michael, lightly flick

his boot with his riding-whip (for he have look in at the Red Gables on

his way from his daily round), and glance round the room as he speak

with an absent look, ask—



‘then, have we no capital now?’



Gilbert look at he, almost sharply at first, and then with a patient

expression, like that of a conscientious teacher try to instil some

branch of knowledge into a peculiarly dense pupil.



‘not a quarter enough to set the mill agoe,’ he say. ‘and if we have,

it be too risky a venture for capital like ours, that have be snatch,

as it be, out of the gulf it have be fling into.’



‘but if it be too risky for our capital, surely it be too risky for that

of a stranger.’



‘that do not follow at all, as any business man could tell you. it

do not follow that because it would be risky for our capital, it would

also be the same for that of a stranger; it would entirely depend upon

who the stranger might be, and what the extent of his possession.’



to this Michael have make very little reply. Gilbert imagine that he have

forget it, but be undeceive as they now ride together in the winter

moonlight. it be yet early, but dark, save for the clear,

frosty-look crescent in the sky.



‘I meet Sir Thomas Winthrop this afternoon,’ observe Michael. ‘we ride

together for a little while, and we be talk about those factory.

Sir Thomas say he wonder my father do not pull they both down. the

land would sell fast enough, without they, for building, and they be in

want of cottage down there.’



there be a slight pause. then—



‘I daresay Sir Thomas Winthrop do wonder,’ say Gilbert, go

perfectly white with anger. ‘he would give the world to buy the plot

himself and build cottage on it for his farm-labourer and people. do

he think I be a fool?’



‘he never mention your name at all. it be my father of whom he be

speak, to whom the property belong,’ say Michael, a shade of

reserve in his tone, for it be quite true, and have strike even he more

than once, that Gilbert have a way of speak of their estate as though

it be not only manage, but own, by himself. Michael trust and

believe in he implicitly, but be not prepared to be so sharply take

up.



‘he be a meddlesome old imbecile, and I would thank he to mind his own

business,’ say Gilbert, who have somewhat recover his composure.

‘Michael, do you trust I, or do you not?’



as he speak, he almost pull up, and look his brother full in the

face. Gilbert’s countenance, at this period, be an old countenance

than that of Michael. his brow have already get the first coating, as it

be, of the network of little fine wrinkle which afterwards completely

cover it.



‘trust you? why, of course,’ say Michael, almost impatiently.



‘then, hearken to a word of advice. do not let Sir Thomas Winthrop, or

Sir Thomas anybody, even speak to you of our affair. I know what I be

about when I say so. do you think I’d discuss with any outsider the way

you treat a patient? I should know that you know a hundred time more

about such thing than I do, even if I might not suppose you

infallible. and if you trust I to be do the good for we all, you

must not discuss what I be do or not do, with any mortal soul.’



‘I tell you I be not discuss it,’ say Michael, his dark brow

draw together. ‘Sir Thomas begin. I meet he as I be ride from——’



‘Sir Thomas be d—d!’ say Gilbert, so heartily, and with such intense

emphasis, that Michael stare at he. this anger, passion, and violent

language, belong to a phase in his brother’s character of which he have

scarcely suspect the existence. this sudden display might have put a

suspicious man on the alert, but Michael Langstroth be not suspicious;

and, moreover, he be one of those who, while they can fight the world

well enough, can oppose an iron front to their enemy, and treat their

detractor with careless scorn, be very tender, very weak, very

sensitive where their friend and those they love be concern. he see

only that Gilbert be vex, and feel only that he be sorry to have

be the one to vex he. so to change the subject, he say—



‘well, I should be glad enough to see the factory work again; but I

must say I wish I have a couple of thousand to start with. I would be

married to-morrow.’



Gilbert, who have other view for his thousand than, to use his own

phrase, ‘to give they to Magdalen Wynter to buy furniture with,’ feel in

his secret soul that love must make any man small; that it might make

even a generous man selfish.



‘what interest could you pay?’ he ask.



Michael shrug his shoulder, know no reply to that question; and

Gilbert, in the tone of a tutor, who be master of his subject,

harangue a pupil who do not know its A B C, go on: ‘you be my

brother, and, of course, I would like to help you first, if I could; but

we cannot afford it, Michael. we must wait. it be our only course.

marriage must wait, and prosperity must wait. to hand you out a couple

of thousand now, would mean to throw our affair back for year; and as

for my father and I——’



‘oh, of course, I be joke,’ say Michael carelessly. ‘I know there be

no royal road to that kind of thing, but only hard work, and plenty of

it.’



he speak as if he consider the subject at an end, and they ride the

rest of the way in silence. Gilbert’s mind be busy, and his indignation

active in that he have such a mean-minded brother.



‘I verily believe he would accept the situation of overseer to the

parish pump, if it should give he fifty pound a year, and bring he

any nearer be married to that doll,’ he think; and this sarcasm

be, as it be, the froth or scum throw to the surface by an anger, a

fear, and an emotion which be at that time the deep thing he could

feel, and of which it be no more the adequate measure than a yard-stick

would be adequate for measure an ocean. and afterwards, when this

first ebullition of feeling be over, he fall to brood over the

matter in a way which be inevitable from his nature and temperament, as

well as from his upbringing, and the line in which his life have be

cast.



‘what will become of my work,’ he ask himself, as he often have ask

himself lately, ‘if my father be to die, as he might, any day? if he

be to die, and everything be to be divide! all that I have scrape

together with such toil, for so many year. one half of it as good as

fling into the gutter. where would my wage be then? Michael be not fit

to have control over money which have be earn by some one else. he

do not understand the subject, and never will. he would take his

share, marry that girl—if she would have he—and leave I with my life

to begin over again. as for the factory, if he be fool enough to

listen to Sir Thomas Winthrop, and repeat what he say, as if it be

something worth think about—why, if he can do that, he be capable of

follow out Sir Thomas’s idea too. it be enough to disgust any man,

and discourage he from anything like real work,’ Gilbert go on to

himself, ‘to think he have so precarious a hold as I have upon thing

which would not be exist now, but for his devotion. one ought to have

some more secure prospect, if only to give one a little heart in one’s

exertion.’



long after they have part and go their separate way, Gilbert be

silent, revolve this problem in his mind; and the more he think

about it, the big and uglier it grow.



‘Michael care for nothing but to gratify his own wish and impulse,’

Gilbert think, darkly, feel that this tendency of Michael’s

interfere disagreeably with certain plan and project of his own,

which he do not recognise as proceed from the same source.



after that, the conversation between they on such matter grow ever

rare and less expansive. Michael do not dwell on the matter, and, if

he have think about it, would have be too proud to allude to it after

Gilbert have ask he whether he trust he; and something, whether

pride or another feeling, hinder Gilbert from open out. every day

he grow more sedate, and his brow become grayer and more covered with

its network of little fine wrinkle.









                               CHAPTER VI



                      GILBERT’S ‘COUP DE THEATRE’





towards the end of every hunting season, those man in Bradstane and its

vicinity who belong to the institution know as the Tees Valley Hunt,

be in the habit of meeting at the King’s arm in Bradstane, and there

partake together of a luncheon, at which Sir Thomas Winthrop, the

master, preside, and after which he read out the statistic of the past

season, and lay before the assemble company any propose new

arrangement for the following year. nothing be decide then; a regular

meeting be call, to be hold a week later, in which the affair be

discuss in earnest, and real business be do. it have come to pass

with the lapse of year, that the gathering have become a very sociable

one, dear to the heart of those who partook in it; and they would not

have give it up on any account.



this luncheon usually take place in the beginning of March, and be

often a good deal talk about before it come off. it have be December

when the meeting take place between Magdalen and Gilbert, during which

each have silently give credit to the other for much keenness and

acuteness of observation. it have be cold and inclement then, and a

long bleak winter have follow, during which the interview have not be

repeat—at least, no such interview as that. it may be that Gilbert have

many a time ride over the wild road lead from Bradstane to

Middleton-in-Teesdale, for it be his habit daily to take a long walk or

a long ride. he may have travel over this road, solitary and sedate,

as his willnot and humour be, his lip move now and then, when he feel

himself to be quite alone on the silent road, as if he whisper to

himself endless calculation, but never too absorb to recognise an

acquaintance and acknowledge he if he meet he—never too abstract to

know his own whereabout amidst the moor and common, or intricate

cross country road.



and it be more than probable that Magdalen, on her part, have many a

dozen time pace that woodland path on which Gilbert have find she,

try, by the regular mechanical motion which, in her own mind, she

compare with that of a treadmill, to grind down or pace out some of the

suppress savageness and discontent which gnaw her soul. this walk

to and fro be almost her only mode of take outdoor exercise. with all

her veiled eagerness, her bitter sense of the consume dulness of her

life, she never leave the Balder Hall ground on foot, never seek any

companionship with outside thing or people. for she there be no long

ramble, no casual, friendly greeting with farm or cottage folk whom she

might see on the way.



this seclusion on her part be a subject on which she and Michael have

occasional difference of opinion, which could hardly be call

dispute, since Magdalen be in the habit of yield the field at once

to Michael in the matter of argument, merely tell he that no doubt

he be quite right, and simply refuse to change her way because she

do not choose to do so.



‘it be too bad of you,’ say he, ‘when there be so much work cry out

to be do. I could find you plenty of employment in Bridge Street, and

one or two other slum.’



‘I haven’t a doubt of it. I feel not the slight vocation for anything

of the kind.’



‘it be bad to sit aloft in meaningless exclusiveness.’



‘I daresay it be. it be the only kind of thing I care for, here. I hate

district visiting, and people who make themselves common, too.’



‘you could not make yourself common if you try, and it would put more

interest into your life.’



‘no, it would disgust I; that would be all. every night I should think

of all the horrid scene and horrid people I have see in the day. I

should be always see you mix up with they, and I should get to

think you as horrid as they be—you need not look at I in that way.

it’s my nature.... oh, I daresay you be quite right, Michael—indeed,

you always be—but I don’t take any interest in those thing, and I

don’t want to. I prefer to remain as I be.’



‘as I be,’ be exquisite enough in its refinement, hauteur, and beauty.

have any one else so speak, Michael would clearly have discern, and

probably point out, an odious spirit of pride and exclusiveness. as it

be Magdalen, he think, certainly, that she be unreasonable, but he

find the unreasonableness agreeable; he like the shape which it

take—that of fastidiousness—and be not dispose to quarrel with it. the

rare and wonderful creature be his own; he have never even yet feel as

if he fairly understand that fact, or could think enough of it. he

suggest, with a smile light up the dark gravity of his face, that

he should drive her round some day in his dog-cart, when he have not many

place to call at. she slightly lift her eyebrow, and draw out the

silk with which she be embroider.



‘no, sir. when you have a half holiday, and wish to devote it to I, I

will drive you out, or ride with you. at other time—I know it be not

intellectual, or humane, but it be so—I prefer the wood-walk in the

park; I will remain at home.’



she do remain at home, and take her monotonous stroll along the

woodland path, or might now and then be see, alone, in an open

carriage, pale and tranquil and indifferent-look, envelop in her

dark fur and feather, with a huge light gray fur rug fill up the

rest of the carriage, and this even on day when the wind be keen and

the frost bite. she be well aware that not one woman in twenty could

have drive about Bradstane in winter, in an open carriage, without her

countenance assume rainbow hue. she could drive thus, and return home

without a red nose or blue cheek; and it give she a negative, cynical

pleasure to do it, and watch other people on foot, or seal up in

stuffy brougham with both window shut.



the evening before the luncheon already speak of, Michael be with she,

and she ask he if he be go to be present at it.



‘no,’ say he; ‘I’m engage at the time, but Gilbert be go.’



‘Gilbert! why, he surely do not generally go.’



‘no, but he seem to take more interest in sport since he become such a

chum of Askam’s; and, of course, _he_ will be there.’



‘ah, of course,’ say Magdalen.



‘of all the queer partnership I ever know, that one be the queer,’

add Michael, reflectively.



‘do you think so? it seem to I the most natural thing in the world.

would you have have Gilbert take up with a nobody?’



‘my dear Magdalen! I be go to say, a nobody would be well than

Otho Askam; but as he’s a friend of your, too, I suppose there be

excellence in he which my base vision cann’t perceive. and I know what

you mean by “nobody.” that’s poor Roger Camm. well, I’ll leave you your

friend, if you’ll leave I mine.’



‘I have not the slight desire to know anything about Mr. Roger

Camm—certainly not to interfere with he,’ reply Magdalen coldly.

Michael merely smile the sweet smile which Magdalen, in her heart of

heart, consider insipid, and the discussion end.



at two o’clock on the following afternoon, some forty man, young and

old, sit down at the long table, in the great room at the ‘King’s arm.’

the so-call ‘lunch’ be, in fact, a very substantial dinner, as such

luncheon be willnot to be. Sir Thomas Winthrop sit at one end of the

table, and at the other be a very young man, call Lord Charles

Startforth, represent his father. every family of stand in all the

country-side have send a representative, and every man present be more

or less acquainted with every other member of the company.



at Sir Thomas’s right hand sit Otho Askam, with a cross look in his

eye, and a more sullen expression than usual on his brow and mouth. Sir

Thomas be a very worthy, honourable gentleman, ready to take a paternal

interest in any young man of promise; but he be not a student of

character, nor acute in read the silent language of expression, as

see on a human face. from Otho’s quietness, and his monosyllabic

answer to the remark make to he, Sir Thomas augur a milder mood

than usual, and resolve that now or never be the time for he to say

his say; for he have on his mind ‘a few word’ intend for Otho’s

ear—word which he have succeed in convince himself it be his duty

to say. on the opposite side, a little low down, sit Gilbert

Langstroth, and next to he be Byrom Winthrop.



as the wine go round, the talk grow fast and free. man see each

other to-day who have, perhaps, not meet for some time past, and these

meeting call up recollection, bring out question, to which the

expansiveness of the moment produce confidential answer.



at the end of the table over which Lord Charles Startforth preside, a

discussion suddenly begin about some of those who sit near Sir Thomas

Winthrop.



‘what a lowering face that Askam have!’ be the observation which begin

the conversation.



‘his face cann’t be more lower than his temper,’ reply some one

else.



‘hah! I see there’s his inseparable chum, not so far off he.’



‘Gilbert Langstroth, do you mean? oh yes! he’s never so far away from

he. I have hear that that young man have a very long head, and would

not object to go into partnership with Otho Askam—Askam to supply the

money, and Langstroth the brain.’



the other laugh. ‘what, on Arthur Orton’s plan, do you mean? “some

people plenty money and no brain, and other people plenty brain and

no——”’



‘oh, come! that’s too bad. Langstroth be a gentleman.’



‘I never say he ben’t, that I know of. gentleman have get to live,

like other people, though these radical’ (with a growl) ‘seem to grudge

we our very existence.’



‘oh, hang all radical! you say Langstroth be a gentleman—Gilbert, I

mean. his brother be, at any rate. I don’t know a well fellow

anywhere.’



‘no, nor I.’ the assent be general. then some one else say—



‘he don’t seem to get marry.’



‘No; that engagement have be hang on far too long.’



a slight pause, and then, lean confidentially forward, the first

speaker say—



‘somebody else don’t seem to get marry, either.’



a sort of smile go round. then Lord Charles, with the rash candour of

youth, make the remark aloud which every one else have be make in his

own mind.



‘I wonder if Michael Langstroth know that every one say Otho Askam be

sweet upon his intended?’



one man shrug his shoulder.



‘if he do know, what could he do, or say?’



‘I don’t know what he could say, I’m sure; but what he could do would be

to get married to she at once.’



here a rather timid-looking young man, who have hitherto take no part in

the conversation, join in, with a slight stammer—



‘if he have to marry she like that, it would be all spoil for he. he

t-trust she.’



‘ah, yes; very beautiful of he,’ say a sceptical spirit; and then a

feeling seem to prevail that the talk have go far enough in that

direction. indeed, the conversation at the other end of the table have

become somewhat loud, and the speaker with whom we have be concern

begin to look and listen what it be all about.



what have take place be this. Sir Thomas Winthrop, good gentleman,

feel his heart warm within he, take advantage of much loud talk

around he to address a few word to Otho Askam.



‘I’m glad to see you with we to-day, Mr. Askam.’



‘thank you,’ say Otho, with his wooden bow.



‘I hope you find the sport to your liking,’ add the baronet. ‘we

consider it have be rather a good season, on the whole.’



‘it have be nothing to complain of,’ be the gracious reply.



encourage by this admission, Sir Thomas fill his glass, and say—



‘I hope this will not be the last time, by many, that we shall meet on

an occasion like this.’



again Otho bow stiffly, drink his glass of wine, and give ear to Sir

Thomas, as he proceed—



‘I’m glad to see you and Gilbert Langstroth so thick. he’s a very

intelligent young man.’



‘rather!’ observe Otho emphatically, with a nod, and what would have

be a wink, only he remember in time that such a testimony to

Gilbert’s intelligence might be think rather compromise than

otherwise by his interlocutor. in his own mind, and speak to Gilbert

in his own language, Otho call Sir Thomas ‘a rum old party, and green

as grass, you know,’ and this private opinion, which he hold very

strongly, render it a little difficult to he to meet the other now on

equal term.



Sir Thomas go on—



‘he have behave in a very admirable way to his father, and I always like

to see that in a youth. he have almost retrieve their affair, which

be in a deplorable condition.’



his voice take a confidentially funereal tone, and he shake his head.



‘yes, I know,’ say Otho, vaguely, and at this juncture he catch

Gilbert’s eye, and indulge in the luxury of the wink, which, in regard

to Sir Thomas, he have have to suppress. Gilbert’s countenance do not

alter a jot, but he become watchful.



‘of course,’ resume Sir Thomas, for whom the subject appear to have a

fatal fascination, ‘a young man, who have have to do battle with reverse,

as he have, be apt to think his affair be the centre of the universe,

and that every one else be as much concerned in they as he be himself.’



to this Otho say nothing, but he regard Sir Thomas with a curious,

bull-dog expression.



‘I’m afraid he be just a little rash in some thing,’ Sir Thomas go

on. ‘for instance, there’s that property by the river—those Townend

mill. I have hear that he be bent upon set they to work again.’

and as Otho make no reply ‘do you know if he have any project of that

kind?’



in the fulness of his heart and head he have not moderate his tone

sufficiently; and, as the loud conversation about they have somewhat

lull, this question be distinctly audible, not only to Otho, but to

many other, even so far down as where Gilbert Langstroth and Byrom

Winthrop sit. the former, though no name have be speak, know with

unerring certainty, that it be himself to whom the baronet allude; and

Byrom Winthrop say within himself, ‘if only I be near enough to stop

the governor! he’s perfectly infatuate about those factory of Gilbert

Langstroth’s, and he’ll go and say something he ought not to.’



Otho’s answer come quite distinctly too, in bluff, curt tone.



‘I cann’t inform you on that topic. all I know of it be tell I in

confidence.’



‘quite right, quite right!’ say Sir Thomas, with the fatuity of an

elderly gentleman, in whom a solid meal, judiciously mingle with sound

wine, have develop the sense of benevolence to an abnormal degree.

‘that’s only just and honourable. but listen to I. your father be a

friend of mine; therefore, I may be allow to say a word to you. don’t

be incautious, my young friend.’ Byrom Winthrop’s eye be fix in an

agony of apprehension upon his father, as he mark the rubicund visage

beam with too much amiability, and see the finger raise; the eye,

earnest, but unobservant, fix upon Otho; and hear these word—for the

conversation around have almost ceased—‘Don’t let Gilbert Langstroth, or

any one else, let you in for something you don’t know the end of. take

my word for it, Bradstane be not the site for a manufacturing town; and

gentleman have well keep clear of factory. the good thing to do with

those mill would be to pull they down, and build cottage where they

stand; and if you sink any money in the concern, stick to that, stick to

that!’



he lean back in his chair with a smile, a fatuous smile, upon his

visage. it be perfectly evident to the mean observer, that Sir

Thomas Winthrop have become—cheerful, and that he have just say a very

uncomfortable kind of thing; not that there might not be plenty of truth

in the thing, but to have say it aloud be truly unfortunate.



Gilbert Langstroth have start up, his face pale, and be lean

forward, with compress lip, apparently about to speak. Byrom Winthrop

say in his ear—



‘don’t make a row, Gilbert. you know the word “manufacture” always set

he off. it mean nothing.’



then a thing happen which no one be prepare for. Otho Askam, look

round, observe—



‘I see a lot of you have hear what Sir Thomas have be say. all I

can say be, I do not bring on the discussion; but now that it be on,

I’d have every man here know that Gilbert Langstroth be my friend; and

whoever say a word against he, say it against I. the business that

Sir Thomas speak of, have be mention between we. I want to help

he with it, and he wouldn’t let I—if you call that ‘let I in for

something that I cann’t see the end of.’ he say it be a risky thing for

my money. I say, d—n the risk! he’s welcome to half of all that I’ve

get, and if he do not choose to take it, why, I say he do not know

what friendship be. shake hand, Gilbert.’



Gilbert have be listen, white and breathless. Sir Thomas, in feeble

despair, be protest, in the futile way common to people who have

stir up a riot without have the least idea how to quell it, that

really, it be most unfortunate. he never mean—he have no idea; and so

forth.



Gilbert suddenly turn upon he, with his blue-gray eye flash from

his pale face.



‘I do not know what idea you may have have, sir, nor what you mean, but

it be not the first time you have attack I, and say ill thing of I

behind my back. you try to set my own brother against I on this very

subject. you will pardon my presumption in say it, but upon my word I

cannot see what our family affair be to you. I have fight my father’s

battle, and that for my brother and myself, without appeal to you for

help. but,’ he add, with a sudden change of tone which go subtly

home to his hearer, ‘you have do I a good turn to-day, when you

would have do I an ill one. you have show I who _be_ my friend.’ he

strike his hand into that of Otho, which be still hold out, and look

he full in the face. ‘I hear what you say, Askam, and as long as I live

I shall not forget that you have stand by I while my father’s friend

and your father’s friend malign I to you. I think I will say good

afternoon,’ he add, as a stinging parting shaft to Sir Thomas. ‘it

would be embarrassing for we both to remain, and it be fitter that I

should leave than you.’



with which, and with a slight and perfectly self-possess bow to Sir

Thomas and the assemble company, he depart, and Otho Askam with he.



this scene, of course, make a great sensation, and that night be

report far and wide, throughout many mile of Yorkshire and Durham.

every man agree in say that Sir Thomas Winthrop be apt to become

too expansive on these occasion, and that they hope it would be a

lesson to he. as to Gilbert and Otho, and their behaviour, opinion

differ. man speak of their part in the fray accord to their own

feeling and disposition, some say that it be a touching example of

faith and friendship, other lean on the opinion that Otho Askam, in

to-morrow’s stingy fit, would repent he of his reckless generosity

to-day; while one observer say—



‘I suppose there be something real in it. I’m sure there be on Askam’s

side, at any rate; but that Gilbert Langstroth be a queer fellow. I’m

certain, if you could see to the bottom of his heart, you would find

gratitude to Sir Thomas for having give he such a chance. it be very

telling, that slightly tremble voice, and that little side stroke

about having fight their battle alone, and without ask Sir Thomas’s

help. it make Sir Thomas look confoundedly foolish, and as if he have

be do a very mean thing.’



‘and don’t you think he have?’



‘certainly not. he have be do what he think be the very good for

everybody, and in the most disinterested way. only, you know, he hate

what he call tradespeople like poison; and the idea of knock

Gilbert’s factory on the head be just too much for he.’



‘well, I’m much mistaken if he have not give they a good push towards a

fresh start.’



‘I quite agree with you.’ and there be a laugh at the expense of Sir

Thomas.



the poor gentleman hide his diminished head that night, and it be not

till the follow morning that he have so far revive as to be able to

take a tone of dignified bitterness, and grave satire on his own

good-nature. ‘selfishness,’ he inform Lady Winthrop, ‘be the only

policy that pay, and never again would he commit the mistake of

offer disintereste advice to young man, even though they might be

the son of his old friend.’



it never transpire what pass between Gilbert and Otho at any private

interview after this scene, but it be not very long afterwards, that

Gilbert, with a tranquil smile on his face, sit down to his desk and

write the following letter:—



‘DEAR ROGER,



        ‘do you remember, when you be stay with we, my take you

down to the end of the town, to look at those two factory? and I ask

you if you would come and manage they, suppose I ever get they to work

again. you say you would, if you be not tie down to something else,

or in a much well position. Michael tell I you be still in the same

place, and not too well satisfied with it. I be go to claim your

promise. my friend, Otho Askam, have buy the mill; at least, an

arrangement have be make by which they will most likely become his in

time, unless they pay so well that we can afford to repay he his

advance. he entrust the whole direction of they to I, and I intend to

spin jute in they, as I tell you before. I should like to have your aid

and counsel as soon as ever you can give they to I. I hope you have not

change your mind, and that you will not think the salary too small. we

find that we cannot offer you more than £120 to begin with, but it would

be advance on the first possible opportunity; and with the increase

prosperity of the concern the manager would get more, and eventually

have a share in the business, if it should turn out worth anything; and

I intend that it shall so turn out. I need not say that we will

guarantee that you lose nothing in a pecuniary point of view, if you be

willing to help we to start a new thing. I cannot say fair than that;

and in the hope that I may very soon receive your assent to this

proposition, to be follow by your speedy arrival, I remain,



                                        ‘your faithfully,

                                               ‘gilbert LANGSTROTH.’



the result of this letter be, that within six week of its having be

write, there lounge into the library of the Red Gables one afternoon

an immensely tall, broad-shoulder young man, with a great shock of

loose black hair; a pale, rough-hew, plain face, clever and attractive;

and with a wonderfully delicate forehead—a young man who be in the

habit of say the rough kind of thing in the softest of voice.

this be Roger Camm, the former friend and playfellow of the two

Langstroths when they have all be boy together. accord to his own

account, he have turn himself into a work man in order to save his

own self-respect, and because he have no affection for the Church, which

have treat his father so scurvily. accord to Michael Langstroth, he

be the good and true friend that ever a man have. and accord to

Gilbert, he be a shrewd, ‘levelheaded’ man of business, who be go

to help he to start his factory, and, incidentally, set his,

Gilbert’s, fortune go in the right direction.



‘here I be,’ be Roger Camm’s laconical greeting.



‘and not before you be want,’ reply Gilbert, rise to meet he

with outstretched hand and his sweetest smile. ‘you be welcome as

flower in May.’



‘that show my value to be high,’ say Roger. ‘there be not many to be

find, then, in these latitude. where be I to put up till I find

room?’



‘why, here, of course. everything be ready for you. but I believe

Michael expect you to dine with he to-night.’



thus Roger Camm be, as it be, induct into his new position. he tell

himself that night, before he go to sleep, that it be odd that his

life’s course should bring he back to Bradstane, the little country

market-town which he despise; and that his lot, at a critical period,

should again be cast in with these other whom he have know when young,

but from whom he have believe himself to be, practically, finally

sever when he have leave his native place to begin work in a great city.









                              CHAPTER VII



                        MICHAEL, ROGER, gilbert





talk with Michael one day, soon after his arrival, on the subject of

the factory, Roger discover to his surprise that his friend strongly

disapprove of the enterprise.



‘I be not one of the company, you may be very sure,’ he say.



‘I wish I have know. I would have take care to have nothing to do with

it,’ cry Roger, perturb.



‘on the contrary, I be very glad you have something to do with it. I

have more confidence in it since you come. I daresay my reason for

dislike it may sound quite absurd. I know they be not business-like.

I dislike Askam, and I think the friendship between he and Gilbert be

quite unnatural. the more I see of he the more convinced I be of this.

I know for a fact that Otho Askam take the thing up out of pure

speculativeness, for an adventure, partly to please Gilbert, who have get

a wonderful influence over he, but chiefly to vex Sir Thomas Winthrop,’

and Michael briefly recount the scene which have take place at the

‘king’s arm.’ ‘after that, nothing would satisfy Otho but to get the

thing start at once. I don’t believe in the stability of an enterprise

build upon any such foundation, though I have no doubt Gilbert will push

it through, if it be to be do. he say he be quite satisfied with

thing as they be. let they be! I be glad you get anything good out of

it.’



Roger say nothing to this, but he watch Michael when he could do so

unobserved, and he become very thoughtful. he see that his friend’s face

be thin, and his smile less frequent than it have be. there be a

little fold between his eyebrow, tell of a mind not always at ease.

these change have take place in two year, though Michael have be, in

a small way, get on in the world.



six busy month pass, during which Roger have his work cut out for he,

and so much of it, that he could scarce compass each day’s task in its

allotted time. the labour be severe, the pay be not very large; the

enterprise be a risky one. but he be one of those organisation which

seem to thrive and feed on hard work and herculean exertion as other

do on meat and recreation; he enjoy it all, and it seem to put new

life into he. it really look as if Gilbert’s little boast to Otho in

past day, that if he do not know how to manage mill, he do

understand how to manage man, be literally true, so perfectly be this

new-comer of his selection suit for the task offer to he. the

stiffer the work, the high do his spirit rise. the employment be

varied, too. it be not as if he have enter upon a business which be

ready and in smooth working order. the whole concern want ‘float,’

in a small way, and on he fall the burden of do it. there be not

only the new machinery to see about—which Roger thoroughly understand,

and into the detail of which he go with the zeal of an

enthusiast—there be also the repair necessary to the building

themselves, after stand so many year empty and idle; to the boiler

and the engine, all of which it take time and money to set in order.

then there be the get together a sufficient number of hand,

chiefly woman and girl, most of they out of Bridge Street, some from

one or two of the neighbouring village; and again, some skilled

artisan from Barrow-in-Furness, to instruct the novice in their work;

and all this have to be do with the utmost economy possible. it be an

enormous task, which please Roger greatly; and while he be work at

it, he have no time to spare, even for Michael.



when he have come to Bradstane, there have be a question about where he

be to live. this be settle by Dr. Rowntree, who say—



‘come to the barrack, and put up with Michael and I.’



Roger hesitate a little at first, but there be no mistaking the

sincerity of the doctor’s wish, and the young man be very willing to be

persuade; for, to tell the truth, there be no one in the world in

whose proximity he love so well to be as in that of Michael Langstroth.

he therefore soon allow his scruple to be overcome, and so be form

this odd triangular household of bachelor, old and young, and hard work

be the order of the day.



while Roger be full of business, and seem to grow hearty and

strong the more he have to do, Michael, he notice, when he have time to

notice he, be a good deal quieter and staider than he once have be;

not with the dulness of discontent, it would seem, nor of depression,

but, so far as Roger could make out, just with the quietness which come

to nearly all man, as life lays gradually increase burden upon they.

Roger sometimes wonder if his long engagement press upon Michael,

but at the sound of Magdalen’s name there always cross his face that

expression which, the first time Roger have see it, have wring his heart,

because it have tell he that a spell strong than friendship have take

possession of Michael’s be. they do not talk about such thing, or

‘confide’ in each other—such be not the way of man’s friendship, nor,

perhaps, of any deep friendship; and then, Michael, with his outwardly

urbane and gracious manner, be deeply reserve on personal matter; and

Roger, for all his rough exterior, and oftentime untutored tongue, have

what be call, and very generally miscall, ‘the tact of a woman,’ in

regard to such topic.



but Michael have on one or two occasion, when something have stir he

more than usual, let fall a few word as to his own inner experience,

which Roger have treasure up, and rightly so, as evidence of more than

brotherly regard, and of an entire confidence in he on Michael’s part.



speak one day about an illness of old Miss Strangforth, which have

be serious, and in which both he and Dr. Rowntree have be attend

she, there be a shade on Michael’s brow, and a worried, wear look on

his face.



‘be Miss Strangforth likely to die, Michael?’ ask Roger, rouse to a

sudden interest in the matter.



‘oh no! at least, I most sincerely trust not. no; we will pull she

through this time.’



‘Miss Wynter be help to nurse she, of course?’



‘yes, of course—like an angel.’



‘I should be afraid it be rather close work for she.’



‘they have a train nurse to do the hard part of it; and she be

strong. Magdalen be very strong,’ Michael repeat to himself in a

meditative kind of way. ‘and, of course, she do what I tell she about

air and exercise, and all that. I hope it willn’t injure she.’



‘well, she have the good of all possible safeguard in have you there,’

say Roger, with a smile, which be, perhaps, a little forced.



he have intend his remark to be a cheer one, but, to his surprise,

Michael’s answer be a deep sigh. this be enough to rouse Roger’s

uneasiness. hold his pipe suspended, he ask, anxiously, ‘Michael,

what’s up? be you in trouble?’



‘it’s only that what you say remind I that I be no safeguard at all

for she,’ he say, dejectedly. ‘I sometimes think what a selfish brute I

be, ever to speak to she. if I have hold my tongue and keep out of the

way, she might have be marry by now, to some man who could really

have be that protector, which I can only seem to be. after all, what

can I do for she? I cannot save she from experience like this. I cannot

justly afford to marry, for several year to come. it would be gross

selfishness to take she away from Balder Hall to any such place as I

could give she. and yet, if Miss Strangforth be to die—she be so old,

and so feeble—if she be to die, there would be nothing else leave.’



‘and a great deal too good for she,’ be the silent comment in Roger’s

bosom. he find Michael’s remark very difficult to answer. he have an

idea, whether right or wrong, that Magdalen, whom he could not love, let

he strive never so loyally for his friend’s sake to do so, be not the

frail and timid creature that Michael seem to imagine she. Roger feel

sure that the idea as to the impropriety of remove she from Balder

Hall to a humbler abode be her, not Michael’s. he be certain she do

not stand in much need of guardianship, but be well able to fight she

own battle and take care of herself. he hear all the gossip about

Michael and Miss Wynter, which, of course, never penetrate to their

ear; heard, too, Gilbert’s frequent scathing stricture on his future

sister-in-law. he know all about Otho Askam’s constant visit to Balder

Hall. so do Michael; but then, Roger know what be say about those

visit.



he remark at last, with the cowardice characteristic of we all in such

case, and, perhaps, also with a shrewd inkle that it would not be of

much use to speak differently—



‘of course, it be hard line, Michael, have to wait so long. but even

if you be married to-morrow, you cann’t forbid care and trouble to come

to either she or you. there be no life without they. but Miss Wynter

be a brick, I know’ (this with great emphasis, as he feel anything but

sure of it); ‘she ought to be proud of wait for you, and I expect she

be.’



‘do you know,’ say Michael, with the air of a man who announce

something which will surprise his hearer, ‘I believe that if she be

not engage to I, Otho Askam would propose to she to-morrow.’



Roger look at he with part lip. Michael evidently think the news

would be as great a discovery to his friend as it have be to himself.



‘well,’ observe Roger shortly, ‘you don’t mean to say you think that

would be to her advantage?’



‘perhaps not, in some way; but——’



‘not in any one way,’ almost shout Roger, bring his fist on to the

table with a thump. ‘that would be Hyperion to a satyr, without the

shadow of a doubt.’



‘I know nothing about that,’ say Michael, still in the same deject

tone, ‘but I do know that she be all the world to I, and I cannot give

she up; no, by Heaven, I cannot!’



he speak with a flurry, an agitation, and a passion, most unlike his

usual even cheerfulness.



‘give she up? who want you to?’



‘no one. it’s only my own conscience that sometimes suggest what I

ought to do.’



‘if your conscience suggest that, it be deceitful, and a blind guide.

but come, Michael, old fellow, you be morbid to talk in this way. the

idea of a man of six and twenty look at thing so darkly! Absurd! you

have your life before you.’



he go on talk in this strain till he see the cloud gradually clear

from Michael’s brow, and hear he admit that he be sure he must be a

fool; and so, begin to look a little brisker.



but Roger be thoughtful as he go about his work.



‘give she up!’ he say to himself. ‘he’ll never give she up till she

fling he off. poor Michael! that be the only cure for he; and perhaps

it wouldn’t be one, after all. should I be brute enough to wish it for

he?’



and then he think about the change in Michael’s face, so altered from

its youthful pride and carelessness; but, as it seem to Roger, more

beautiful now, with the graver, broad seal of manhood stamp upon

it—that seal which care never let out of her finger, and which she be

perpetually imprint on every brow that carry on it a line worth

reading.



if Roger be concern about the change in Michael, Michael, on his

part, be much strike—concern, be hardly the word—by what seem to

he a great alteration in Gilbert. it appear as if hard work suit

Gilbert as well as it do Roger, for the more his business grow, the

lively he become.



‘lively?’ say Miss Wynter, to whom Michael have one evening be

speak on the subject.



‘yes, lively. it’s the only word I can find with which to describe the

change; and I don’t wonder that you exclaim at it, for “lively” be

hardly a word that fit Gilbert, be it?’



‘no, indeed! pray, what shape do the liveliness take?’ ask Magdalen,

who appear almost interested.



‘oh, I can hardly tell you. a quickness and alertness—I can hardly

describe it. he make joke sometimes, and laugh at a mere

nothing—which be not Gilbert’s way, you know, as a rule. he talk a

great deal, too, which be also contrary to his usual habit. he take my

arm if we meet, and altogether there be something odd and change in his

manner.’



‘perhaps he be in love,’ suggest Magdalen languidly.



Michael shrug his shoulder, smile slightly.



‘he may be, but I don’t think it.’ and so the topic drop, till

Michael return to the town, and during the evening relate this

supposition of Magdalen’s.



‘I don’t know whether he’s in love or not,’ say the doctor, who, for

his part, be certainly not in love with Gilbert; ‘but he be in here

to-day to see you, when you be out; and he say your father intend to

make his will, and he want you to know about it.’



‘to make his will? I should have think he have make it long ago.’



‘so he do, for I be one of the witness; but it have to be alter,

with all these complication about factory and property to be sell,

and such-like.’



‘oh! well, Gilbert will see to it; he have always manage that kind of

thing,’ say Michael carelessly. ‘I don’t see what I have to do with

it.’



‘I should say you have a good deal to do with it. you certainly ought to

look after it.’



‘look after my father’s will! what for? he’s get no one to leave

anything to, except Gilbert and I. he’ll divide between we, I suppose.

I should not like to think that Gilbert get less than I, see how he

have slave all these year in order that there may be anything to leave

at all.’



Dr. Rowntree look impatient, and, Michael having leave the room, the

doctor remark to Roger, in homely phraseology, that he do not know

whether to call Michael a trump, or to tell he he be a bear fool, when

he talk in such a way. to which Roger merely reply that he suppose

man be well leave to decide such matter for themselves.



‘I mistrust that Gilbert; he be too sly for I,’ say the doctor.



‘he have a quiet way. I don’t think he be exactly sly,’ answer Roger,

and the subject of their conversation come in at the moment. Michael, he

be tell, be in the study, and he go there and briefly tell he again

what Mr. Langstroth think of do.



‘all right,’ say Michael, examine some substance under his microscope

with the intense interest. ‘so that he leave as much to you as to I,

I’m agreeable. I hope we shalln’t have to read it for a long time to

come.’



Gilbert cast a look of anger, contempt, and wonder mixed, towards

Michael, who do not even see it. there be a short silence, till

Gilbert observe, in a constrained voice—



‘well, remember, I be not answerable for anything he do.’



‘do!’ echo Michael, his attention at last thoroughly arouse; ‘when

you say “do” in that way, you mean “do” something wrong. what could

or should he do against his own son? have you any idea that he mean to

do something unjust to we?’



‘no; oh no!’ a pause. ‘but it be an important thing. he tell I he mean

to make this will, and I be determined he should not do it till I have

tell you. of course, he do not dream of leave his property away from

we. why should he, as you say?’



Michael, still peer into his microscope, be quite unaware that close

beside he a brother man stand, who have wrestle with spiritual

agency, and have be defeat, during the last two minute.



‘our father have his fault, like most people,’ pursue Michael

reflectively; ‘but I never hear any one accuse he of injustice or

meanness. he wouldn’t be likely to leave his property to a charitable

institution, for instance?’



‘of course not,’ say Gilbert, impatiently.



‘well, then, I really don’t see that we need, or, indeed, can say

anything about it. in fact, I shall not,’ he add, look up rather

suddenly at his brother, as if he have all at once see the thing in a

new light, and arrive at a clear decision. ‘he be my father, and I

trust he. for Heaven’s sake, Gilbert, don’t get to distrust people,

or you may make yourself miserable for ever. take my advice, old fellow,

and let he alone.’



‘yes,’ say Gilbert slowly. ‘I think that, as you say, it will be good

to leave he alone.’



he say scarcely anything more, and soon go away.



‘a pretty fool he be!’ he sneer to himself, when he be outside, as he

walk up and down the pavement in front of their house, smoke an

ante-prandial pipe. ‘Lord! what with “heart,” and not distrust any

one, and respect the aged (who be usually fool), my brother Michael

be likely to lose the use of what little reason he have, it seem to I.

there never be an elephant with a dense head than he have. he have eye

like a hawk’s, and mine be more like those of a boil codfish; but I

think I know which pair can see farth into a stone wall.’



the next morning Michael call at the Red Gables, and find his father

alone. he have be reflect upon Gilbert’s word, it would seem, for

he presently say to Mr. Langstroth that he have hear he intend make

a new will. his father assent, and Michael observe, ‘if Gilbert have

not tell I, sir, as if it have be a thing you rather wish I to

know, I should never have mention it, of course. but since he do, I

just want to say one thing. whatever prosperity we have be due to

Gilbert. he, more than I, have be the eld son. it be just due to

circumstance, I suppose, that it have be so; but I would not like it

to be forget.’



‘I do not forget what Gilbert have be, and be to I, nor the quality

he have display,’ be Mr. Langstroth’s reply; and Michael go away

with his mind at ease, feel that he have discharge his duty.



the day after that, Gilbert, who have not see his brother in the

interim, order his horse early. Mr. Langstroth ask he fretfully

where he be go.



‘only for a little ride,’ say Gilbert; ‘and, by the way, Coningsby be

come at eleven. you tell I to tell he, and I do.’



‘shan’t you be here?’ ask his father, in a tone almost of dismay.



‘well, no, I think not,’ reply Gilbert, with his sweetest smile. ‘it

would hardly do. but if you have not quite make up your mind, I could

send he word——’



‘oh no, no! my mind be quite make up—quite. let he come.’



‘I think it would be good,’ say the considerate son. ‘good morning. I

hope it willn’t tire you much.’ with which he go out.



the ‘little ride’ prolong itself indefinitely, as it seem. far along

the hard, white moorland road he go, past Middleton-in-Teesdale, a

road which seem to have some peculiar fascination for he, since he

choose it oftener than any other. on he go, till he get to High Force

and its solitary wayside inn. here he dismount, to have his horse

water; for himself, when they ask he what he would take, he say,

‘nothing,’ and thank they. to let his horse stand awhile, he stroll

down the dark, pine-shaded path, to the grand waterfall, and stand

beside the river, watch dreamily the thunder surf, snowy,

dazzling, brilliant in the brilliant sunshine. he stoop, take water in

the hollow of his hand, and drink it. this he do several time, but

without a change in the calm serenity of his expression; and then he

return to the inn and again mount his horse.



ride on, he proceed till nothing but pathless moor surround he,

stretch lonely and bewilder in all direction. he be on the

border of Westmoreland, and now the westere sun and the lengthen

shadow tell he that it be time to be return. Tranquil and quiet as

ever, he do turn, and guide his tired horse towards Bradstane. it be

dark when he get in, and he trod softly, as if he imagine there might

be some one ill or dead in the house. he only lay his hat aside, but

do not put off his riding-coat, before he go, still in this quiet,

gentle way, into the library, where he find his father alone.



‘where on earth have you be?’ Mr. Langstroth say fretfully. ‘Michael

have never be near all day, and there I be, leave with Coningsby, to

give all my instruction alone.’



‘Mr. Coningsby would hardly have be likely to take his instruction

from I,’ say Gilbert, with his slight smile. ‘then, you have get it

do?’



‘yes, it be do. Rowntree and Ransom’ (his servant) ‘witness it. but

I want no more of such effort. it have wear I out.... however, it be

some satisfaction to think that thing be settle as they should be.’



during this speech, Gilbert have stand with his foot on the fender, and

his hand hold up as if to shield his face from the glow of the fire. he

now observe softly—



‘I will go and change my thing, and be with you in a few minute.’



when he be alone in his bedroom, he take out his handkerchief and

pass it across his forehead.



‘Disgusting! how overheat one get with a long ride!’ he mutter to

himself.



the hall bell sound through the house. self-possess Gilbert give a

great start, and become suddenly pale than usual.



‘Pshaw!’ he utter aloud, the next moment; ‘he have his key, of course.’



but it seem to take he some time to change his riding-clothe for the

garment he usually wear in an evening. just before he go downstairs,

he seat himself on a chair at his bedside, and draw a long breath.



‘well, it have to be,’ he whisper to himself. ‘there be nothing else

for it. and he be so dense—so dense. one must do the good. it be for

the good.’



then, as if feel himself guilty of some weakness, he draw himself

together with a little shake, compose his countenance, and go

downstairs. nothing be say by father or son relative to either the

ride take by the one, or the business accomplish by the other. quite

late, Otho Askam call to smoke a pipe and have a chat about the mill

and other topic. and Gilbert sleep quite soundly that night.



this be in May. during the summer Mr. Langstroth become somewhat

strong, and thing go on in their usual course until November.









                              CHAPTER VIII



               the first-fruit of the wisdom of gilbert





one afternoon, about the middle of November, Gilbert, look in at the

‘barrack,’ say to Michael—



‘I wish you’d give a little particular attention to my father. it

strike I that he be not so well as he ought to be, or rather, that

he’s bad than usual. I wonder if Rowntree would mind look in, as

well?’



‘of course, we will come. now, do you mean? I’ll go at once, and the

doctor at night.’



he go across to his father’s house and see he. Mr. Langstroth be

certainly very weak and unwell, but not, it seem to Michael, seriously

so. he leave direction for he to be keep very quiet, and return to

his dwelling, promise that he and Dr. Rowntree would both look in

during the evening.



as they sit at dinner, a messenger come hurriedly from the Red Gables,

summon they to go at once to Mr. Langstroth, who be very ill. in a

very few moment they be in the house, but only to find that all be

over, and that Gilbert, white and haggard-look, be stand by the

chair in which their father lay, lifeless. Gilbert say they have rise

from table, and he have support his father to his chair, into which he

have sink, dead. the young man’s pallor and tremulousness be fully

account for to Michael, by the fact of the sudden blank which must now

come in his life, after his year of devoted attention to his father,

who have thus so suddenly depart; and by every silent sign that he know

how to give, he seek to assure Gilbert of the sympathy and

fellow-feeling he experience.



there be a hush and solemnity in both the house during the few day

which elapse between Mr. Langstroth’s death and his burial.



there be but a small following to attend he to his grave. Roger Camm

and Dr. Rowntree form a part of it, and there be Miss Strangforth’s

carriage, and several other send by neighbour and friend, Otho

Askam’s brougham amongst they.



when it be over, the two brother, with Dr. Rowntree and Mr. Coningsby,

return to the Red Gables. it be decide that it would be good to, as

the doctor say, ‘get through with the business of the will,’ then and

there, so that their mind might be free for other thing.



it be one o’clock in the afternoon of a dank, chill November day, when

they part; and Roger Camm, with an inclination of the head to Michael,

to show that he be with he in spirit, if not in the flesh, go to the

doctor’s house, intend there to wait lunch for he.



he go into the study, where Michael and the doctor keep their

professional library, and where odd volume of Roger’s have get mix up

with treatise on medicine and surgery. he pick up a volume at

haphazard, and gaze at the title of it. ‘principle of biology,’ it

ran—‘Principles of Biology’—and though he believe he be try to read

it, he be really very busy thinking thought—thinking of Michael;

wonder how far his father’s affair be retrieve, and if at last

there be some prospect of his happiness be accomplish.



‘since he be so wrap up in that insipid girl, and since she have not

do he the kindness to throw he over before,’ Roger think, in the

pride of his own wisdom, ‘there’s no chance of it now, since his

father’s death must make he more prosperous in a worldly point of view.

she’ll have he, sure enough. they will be marry, and he—will live to

repent it.’



insensibly, he let the book drop, and his thought turn to the day of

long ago; to his comrade and their life, and his life, and to their

play in the Thorsgarth garden, in summer sunshine.



‘Queer, very queer,’ he reflect, ‘that we two, who be companion

then, should be chum now. I wonder what Michael will turn out; how he

will win his spur; what will give he the stamp of finished manhood?

for he’s a dreamer yet, though he do not know it.’



then he begin to think that the doctor be long a-come, and that if he

do not appear soon, he, Roger, would have to eat his lunch alone, and

be off to his work.



the door open. the doctor’s parlour-maid stand there.



‘if you please, sir, they’ve send from Mr. Langstroth’s. Mr. Michael

beg you will step across at once.’



Roger spring to his foot with a vague wonder and forebode in his mind.

he soon measure the distance between the doctor’s house and the Red

Gables. he find the door open and a servant wait.



‘this way, sir. they be in the library.’



in another moment Roger find himself in the well-know room, with the

three familiar figure assemble there.



Mr. Coningsby, the lawyer, who have be present, be go. Roger look

from one to the other of his old friend, all so silent. it be very

strange, and, as he dimly feel, there be something potent, thrilling,

and portentous in that silence. he look last at Michael—why, he know

not—and when his eye fall upon he, he could scarcely restrain a start

and an exclamation. Michael have always be note for be so

easy-go, so slow in judge other, so full of sweet-temper

charity. he do not look very much at peace with himself or the world

just now. he be the first to speak.



‘I send for you, Roger,’ he begin, and his voice be very quiet, and

very incisive. Roger hardly recognise it. ‘I want you to hear something

I have to say. you be my friend; and a friend, as we all know, sticketh

close than a brother.’



‘can this be Michael?’ Roger think, in his bewilderment. ‘I fancy no

one but Gilbert could sneer in that way.’



Roger have yet to learn that there be no sneer so bitter as that which be

call forth by intense suffering, or a very keen sense of injustice. he

think all sneer be the product of a cynical frame of mind, or,

with some person, constitutional. but, think that such a tone be

more like Gilbert than Michael, he be, as it be, suddenly remind of

Gilbert’s existence, and he glance at he. he be seat in a corner of

the old sofa, which have always be his favourite position; his arm

be fold, his face pale, and apparently absolutely devoid of

expression. Dr. Rowntree, though silent, be evidently in a state of the

most cruel mental perturbation, and look in a helpless way from one

brother to the other.



‘yes, Michael,’ say Roger, at last. ‘I be ready, either to do or to let

alone, as you wish. what be it?’



‘boy!’ exclaim the little doctor, unable to contain himself any

long, ‘before it go any far, listen to I. before you quarrel,

before you dispute, for Heaven’s sake consider! you may say thing,

brother as you be, which can never be unsaid.’



‘that be exactly what I mean to do, sir,’ say Michael, turn his

white face for a moment, in the doctor’s direction. Roger, loyal to the

heart, could not but think in this moment that Michael look almost

cruel. again he do not understand that there be no feeling of hate or

of cruelty so strong, and so desolate, as that call forth by spite

or cheat love and trust.



‘you may trust I not to dispute,’ the young man go on; ‘I never do.

Hark to I, Roger!’ he turn now to Roger; and to the latter it seem

as if all Michael’s movement be stiff and mechanical, and under

restraint. ‘my father have die, as you know, and have leave a will, as you

also know. he have leave a good deal more money than it be expect he

would—by I, at any rate. I be his eld son; Gilbert his young. I

wish you to know how he have dispose of his property, and to hear what

course I intend to pursue, in consequence of that disposition. here be

the will. I willn’t trouble you with much of it, but I must ask you to

listen to this passage.’



from the will, it appear that the Langstroth estate be now free of

encumbrance. the income derive from what remain of they be all

require, and would be for some few year, to pay off the remain

interest on some debt, of which the capital be already clear away.

over and above, there be a clear sum of six thousand pound, gain

about a year ago by the advantageous sale of two farm and some wood,

mention in the will. of this, four thousand be leave to Gilbert, at

his absolute disposal; three thousand, as the will state, as his just

half of the property, and another thousand as a sort of payment or

indemnity for his service in retrieve the estate, which, without his

care and diligence, would probably have be rather a debt than an

inheritance. the other two thousand be leave in trust to Gilbert, to be

invest and dispose of for Michael’s benefit, and the income derive

therefrom be to be pay to Michael by his brother; the testator

declare himself to have the great faith and confidence in the

business ability of his son Gilbert. the Townend factory would pay

nothing for a long time to any one but Otho Askam, whose money have find

the mean of start they again. when they should, or if they ever

should begin to pay, their profit be to be equally divide between

Michael and Gilbert, or, fail they, their heir. that is, in plain

term, there be a probability that some eight or ten year hence,

Michael might begin to receive an income from ‘Langstroth’s Folly.’ the

house call the Red Gables, situate within the township of

bradstane-on-Tees, and all the furniture, plate, picture, china,

ornament, and all other household appendage whatsoever, save such as

might be personal possession of Gilbert, be to go to Michael

absolutely, as the eld son.



such be the tenor of the testament, to which Roger listen

breathlessly, as Michael read it in a low, quick, clear voice. when he

have finish, he lay the will on the table again, and Roger, look

intently at his friend, see such a look in his eye, such agony in the

draw line of his mouth, that he go up to he, and, lay his hand

on his shoulder, ask in a low voice—



‘Michael, what do it mean?’



‘it mean that my brother be very clever, and I be a great blockhead. I

be fain to doff before his superior wisdom.’



Gilbert, his arm still fold across his chest, be look at they,

pale, calm, and seemingly self-possess.



‘take heed of what you say, Michael,’ he say, quietly. ‘abuse, even

from——’



‘I be go to do nothing but praise and congratulate you on your great

wisdom and astuteness,’ reply Michael, flash a look of such

trenchant contempt towards his brother, that Gilbert’s own eye sink

before it. it be a new sensation for he to find himself despise by

the man for whose simplicity he have always entertain such a finely

ironical contempt.



‘only,’ resume Michael, speak so clearly that not a word could be

lose of what he say, ‘it be a pity my father do not appreciate you

well. he should have leave you the other two thousand out and out.

unless you take pity on it, it will be useless, for I shall never touch

it.’



‘now, Michael, Michael, madman! beware what you say!’ cry the little

doctor, stamp about, as middle-age do when cash be blasphemed or

lightly speak of.



Michael, having patiently wait till this apostrophe have be

contribute to the conversation, but who heed it not at all, suddenly

bent towards Gilbert, fix his burn eye upon he, and say, in a

low voice, but one which be still distinctly audible to they all—



‘_two thousand_, Gilbert; it be an odd coincidence. do you remember my

say to you long ago, that if I’d two thousand to start with I would

be married to-morrow—eh?’



Gilbert neither move nor raise his head.



‘I know you think that a very imprudent way of spend two thousand

pound. it seem my father must have hold the same opinion, and between

you, you have arrange that I should do nothing mischievous.’



here he raise himself up again, and, turn to the other, go on—



‘I want you all to understand this. that which I be not trust to

handle for myself; that which be confide by my father to my young

brother to take care of, lest I should misuse it—leave so by my own

father, to whom I have be a dutiful and honourable son,—I take God to

witness it;—that be not for I at all. I refuse to touch it. you all

hear what I say?’



there be a low murmur from the doctor and Roger. Michael go on—



‘that be the case, it seem that what I have leave, to call my own, be

my father’s house—the house in which we be both bear and bring up,

where we live as brother, without an unbrotherly thought—on my part at

least; and the house where, when I go out into the world to relieve

the burden which have fall on our affair, I leave you in my place, to

tend my father; to watch over all our interest; to deal justly by I as

well as by yourself——’



there be a very long pause. it seem as if Michael, steady though his

voice have remain, be unable to finish the utterance of the thought

that be in his mind. the other be silent, and Gilbert look

doggedly downwards.



‘that house, as I say, be now all I have, but it be my own, and you have

just give in the account of your stewardship,’ go on Michael, his

lip white and his eye hard, so that Roger feel a kind of fear of he.

‘there it be!’ he lay his hand upon the will. ‘to I, it have be a

fatal stewardship. it have rob I not only of my inheritance, but of

my brother.’ and he advance two or three step near to Gilbert.



the latter rise; perhaps he know what be to come. neither of the other

dare to speak. Gilbert once lift his head and look at his brother,

but instantly his face sink again. he be voiceless, powerless,

defenceless. Michael step aside and throw the door open wide.



‘be my house,’ he say, ‘I order you to leave it now, this instant.

go!’



another pause. silence still. Michael stand wait. Gilbert look

around he, as if he struggle to speak, but could not. he see nothing

to cheer he. Dr. Rowntree with his hand clasp, his kind face look

the picture of woe; Roger Camm frown and silent. Gilbert take two

step towards the door.



‘Michael,’ he say.



‘go!’ repeat Michael, in a stony voice.



Gilbert walk slowly out at the door, into the hall, take his hat, and

leave the house. they hear the hall door close after he, and it be

with two of they, at least, as if the sound strike they like an actual

blow. to turn one’s brother out of door would generally be do

figuratively—morally, perhaps. Michael have do it literally, and with a

resistless determination and strength of will which none of they have

credit he with. his hour have come at last, and the real stuff of

which he be make, good or bad, be begin to show itself.



after a moment’s silence, he turn again to the other and say—



‘I willn’t detain you any long. I wish I could have spare you such a

scene, but as my two near friend, I wish you to be under no

mistake as to what I be go to do. and now I should like to be alone

for awhile.’



Roger heave a deep sigh, and say nothing, but move towards the door.

the doctor, who have a tender heart, and down whose cheek the tear be

run, fall back into old Quaker phraseology, as he almost sob out—



‘Michael, my poor, poor lad, thou’ll come and sleep in thy own bed

to-night, at my house, willn’t thou?’



‘yes, I will, doctor,’ reply Michael slowly; and they leave he alone.









                               CHAPTER ix



                     the goddess of the tender foot





‘the goddess calamity be delicate, and ... her foot be tender. her foot

be soft, he say, for she tread not upon the ground, but make she

path upon the head of man.’



these word, or something like they, be float dimly in Roger Camm’s

mind, as he walk with Dr. Rowntree across the square to the house on

the opposite side. his heart be full to burst. love Michael as he

do, well than any one in the world, he feel to the full the meaning

of the summon he have receive, to hear his friend’s decision. it be not

for a light thing that a man turn out of door the brother in whom he

have all his life feel unqualified trust and confidence; it be not a

casual acquaintance whom he summon to witness the deed, and so Roger

feel. but while he quite appreciate this accident of the thing, the

thing itself bewilder he even yet. it be one of those bizarre,

jarring circumstance which come upon one like a clap of thunder from a

cloudless sky, which one fail to take in properly on the first blush of

they. even yet, Roger could not feel at home with the recollection of

Michael stand erect and stiff, the spirit of anger flame from his

eye, deaf to every remonstrance, and cast scornful eye upon

Gilbert’s pitiful condition.



neither he nor the doctor speak till they be in the house again. it

seem that they have be but a short time away, for there be

everything as Roger have leave it, and the luncheon table set for they.

this bald reality and commonplace of everyday life do not seem to put

thing into any more comprehensible shape; if possible, they heighten

the strangeness and sadness of the situation. but stand together

there, they (to use the vernacular) ‘find their tongue.’ Dr. Rowntree

sit down in his easy-chair, and wipe his eye with a large red bandana

handkerchief, blow his nose violently, and say, in a voice which be

yet full of tear—



‘who would ha’ think it, Roger? who would ha’ think it?’



‘well,’ say Roger, prop his broad back against the mantelpiece, and

stare down at his boot, ‘not I, for one, and I think there will be

precious few to jerk their head and say, “I tell you so,” this time.

and yet I don’t feel half so much surprised as enrage, now that it be

all out.’



‘he should not have fling away what be leave he in that way,’

complain Dr. Rowntree. ‘he should have be cool.’



‘cool, doctor! now, come! would you have be cool? be you cool, as it

be?’



‘no, no, I know. but he ought to have keep cool. he should have carry

it before a court of justice. they do set aside will sometimes, that

be flagrantly unjust; and I think they would, at any rate, have hand

he over that two thousand to do as he like with. I’m sure they would;

it stand to reason. an eld son, with not a penny of cash leave he,

except, as you may say, at the discretion of his young

brother—monstrous, monstrous! as if he have be a spendthrift, or a

ne’er-do-weel!’



‘if it be twenty thousand, it would make no difference,’ say Roger

slowly, for he have be work the thing out in his mind. ‘I can see

where it be. do you suppose Michael could have get beside himself in

that way, just because he be disappoint of money that he have

expect? he think too little of it for that. if every penny have be

leave at his own disposal, I have very little doubt he would have leave it

entirely in Gilbert’s hand, for he think all the world of his

business capacity. it be the treachery, not the money. when I think

how Gilbert have sneak—sneak, all through it——’ Roger stamp his

foot. ‘it show you ought never to trust any one, least of all your

near relation. where Michael trust, he trust with his whole heart,

just in the same way that he love. he trust Gilbert and he trust

his father, and they have cheat and dupe he like a couple of

blackleg. I hope Master Gilbert’s greed will avenge itself on his own

head, and I wish a pest upon every penny of his ill-get inheritance.

it ben’t the money only that Michael have lose; it’s his faith and his

trust: it be his brother, that’s what it be. that ben’t a loss you get

over in a moment, even if your brother die; and Michael have lose

Gilbert in a bad way than if he have be bury he to-day beside

their father. that’s about it. he will never get over it, to be the same

again.’



‘I’m afraid not—I’m afraid not.’



‘he would not be what he be if he could,’ say Roger.



‘how can one console he?’



‘nohow. it ben’t to be do.’



‘what can I say to he, my poor lad?’



‘nothing, if you’ll believe I. I can tell you I shall not speak of it.

there be thing no one ought to meddle with, unless they be open out

to one. I know why he send for I—it be in order that he might not have

to enter into the whole business again. he want it do with, seal

up, that I might know he have no brother any more. you cann’t very well

talk to a man of a relation he haven’t get, and I shall keep my mouth

shut.’



‘I will try,’ say Dr. Rowntree; ‘but if I see he look very

miserable, I don’t think I can keep quiet.’



‘you willn’t see Michael look miserable, I can tell you that. my time

be up,’ add Roger, look at his watch. ‘I must go back to my work.’



he leave the house, with the thought just come into his mind, ‘after all,

I shall have to speak to he. I don’t see how how I can stay in this

shop any long, after the treatment he have have.’



he turn into the office, but it be with difficulty that he succeed

in give any attention to his work; for in his mind’s eye he have the

image of Michael, seat alone in his desolation in that wretched room,

where the wretched scene of the morning have take place. it seem to

Roger that the bad blow have befall Michael which by any possibility

could overtake he—which idea serve sweetly to illustrate his own

extreme ignorance of life, and of the protean form which calamity and

misfortune can assume; also of the marvellously elastic nature of the

human creature, and of that part of it, be it brain, or heart, or soul,

or whatsoever it may in reality be, which suffer.



Roger Camm, repeat to himself the half-forget Greek of his

quotation about the goddess Calamity, never dream for a moment but

that she have stay her course. surely her foot have press with

sufficient weight upon the head which she have select as her

standpoint! could his spiritual eye have pierce that veil, filmy, and

yet dense, which envelop we as we move to and fro on this earth, and

see the guide power about Michael, he would have perceive still

hover amongst they a dark form with a woebegone countenance—she of

the tender foot yet.



he return to Dr. Rowntree’s from his work, and, have no heart to

amuse himself in any way outside, sit with a book, to which he give but

a divided attention, wonder the while whether Michael would go to

Magdalen that night, or wait till the morrow; and wonder likewise

whether she would be of any use to he in the crisis.



‘Gilbert would be a well spec. for she now,’ say Roger bitterly,

within himself. ‘only, not to blacken he more than be absolutely

necessary, he never have the faint fancy for she. in fact, I don’t

believe he would take she with fifty thousand down.’



towards ten o’clock Michael come in, greet they both with great

composure, take his accustomed chair, light his pipe, and make some

few observation to they before they all go to bed. he make not the

slight allusion to what have take place in the morning, and Roger do

not choose or wish to break upon this reserve: the little doctor do not

dare. he find, what he have never suspect before, that his adopt son

have the power of hold he at arm’s length, and while he could not but

admire what seem to he Michael’s strength and self-possession, he be

not quite happy at find it thus, as it be, use against himself.

this dry-eyed composure, this something indescribable in voice and

glance, be, think the doctor, magnificent, but they do not invite

to the sentimental reflection of which he be long to disburden

himself.



they separate at their usual hour, and no one complain the next

morning of not having sleep, though under Michael’s eye there be

ominous purple ring which tell of his having enjoy something less

than perfect repose.



Roger get a few word alone with he before breakfast.



‘Michael, I want to speak to you. after what have happen, I don’t see

how I can stay on at the factory. I don’t fancy be mix up with

those two, when you be my friend.’



Michael pause a moment. ‘I understand what you mean,’ say he. ‘_you_

be loyal, Roger, at any rate. but there be no need for you to feel like

that. it be entirely between he and I, and not another soul in the

world, if you know what I mean. I know what you feel, and I believe I

should feel the same in your place; but can you make a sacrifice for my

sake?’



‘I daresay I could, if I know what it be.’



‘it be, just to remain where you be. I don’t want any one to notice it

for I. I can notice thing for myself—such thing as I wish noticing.’



‘oh, that settle the matter, of course,’ say Roger. ‘I shall

stay—unless they sack I.’



at that moment a note be bring to Michael. he open and read it very

quickly, and then toss it across to Roger.



‘read it,’ say he. ‘you must see I through each stage of this, so that

we need never have to mention it to each other again.’



Roger read it. it be from Gilbert, and the paper on which it be

write be stamp, ‘Thorsgarth, bradstane-upon-Tees.’



‘there be two precious rascal together under the same roof,’ be

Roger’s unspoken comment before he begin to read.



but his face change as he peruse the line. the note be short, but

strong in its very baldness and simplicity; as unlike Gilbert’s ordinary

soft politeness as the inflexible decisiveness of Michael in the same

matter have be unlike his usual conduct.



Gilbert ask Michael for an interview. ‘though you have treat I like

a dog,’ he say, ‘I will show you thing so that they shall be right, if

you will see I. I can make it straight, too, though you do not think

so.’ after a few more phrase of a similar kind, he concluded—‘Do not be

hasty in your reply. think well before you refuse what I ask, for if you

do, I shall never ask again. I can make it right, and the whole future

of both of we may depend upon your answer.’



Roger read this twice over to himself, and look at Michael, who have

go to his desk and be write quickly. as soon as he have finish, he

come again to Roger and hand he his letter, which run—



  ‘I have receive your note, and decline to see you or hold any

  communication with you. your possession be, I believe, at the Red

  Gables. I shall not be there to-morrow, and you will be at liberty to

  fetch away what you choose of your belonging. after that you cfannot

  be admit there.



                                                MICHAEL LANGSTROTH.’



‘Michael,’ say Roger, hold both these document in his hand, and

speak very earnestly, ‘forgive I for even seem to meddle in

your affair. Gilbert have a meaning under that note of his. willn’t

you think twice before you send that answer to he?’



‘I do all the thinking about he that I shall ever give to he

again, yesterday,’ say Michael, trenchantly. ‘do you suppose I

spend all yesterday shut up in that room without come to some

definite conclusion upon matter in general and in particular? that

be the answer I mean he to have, and that be the answer I shall

send he.’



Roger have be far more struck than he would have care to confess,

with Gilbert’s appeal. he feel as if confess it would impeach his

loyalty to his friend, and he be all Michael’s—heart and soul. but

he be a man with a reasonable head too, and he could not thrust out

the feeling, though he be angry with himself for have it, that

Michael be unjust, even though the object of his injustice be so

great a sinner as Gilbert. yesterday, Roger have think no

punishment could be terrible enough for Gilbert and his ‘sneaking;’

now the punishment be begin, and he find himself almost ready

to plead for mercy for the criminal.



‘Michael,’ he say, in a low voice, ‘have you the right to do it?’



‘yes, I have,’ reply Michael, his face grow terribly hard and

set again. ‘nothing that I do to he now can be wrong.’



Roger pause, look at his friend. in his mind be the word,

‘until seventy time seven,’ but he have not the courage to utter

they. in the abstract, and as a christian precept and command,

doubtless they be right, but Michael be his friend; Michael have

be so fearfully, so stupendously wrong and cheat, and by his

own brother. be he to plead Gilbert’s cause to Michael? the idea

seem monstrous. make it right? what could make right or alter that

which he have do, cunningly and secretly, against the brother who

have trust he? ‘put yourself in his place—in Michael’s place,’

say Roger to himself. ‘Michael must be right. and yet—what a curse

thing to have rear its head between two brother!’



‘you will do what you—please’ (he be go to have say, ‘what you

think right,’ but he instinctively feel that that would not have

be the true expression). ‘I know I would give my right hand if it

could be different.’



‘I know you would, but it never can and never will,’ say Michael,

fold and seal his letter; and within a quarter of an hour it

be on its way to Thorsgarth.



‘be you go far to-day?’ the doctor ask Michael at breakfast.

he would have give a good deal if the young man would have

profess himself unable to stir, and so would have give he an

opening for sympathy and condolence. but the young man do nothing

of the kind.



‘yes,’ he answer at once; ‘a good way. I shall not be back to

lunch. I shall get that at the Brydges. then I have to go on to

Cotherstone, but I shall be back to dinner; and then,’ he add, ‘I

must really try to get to Balder Hall. it be age since I be

there.’









                               CHAPTER X



                        the process of ANNEALING





soon after breakfast they separate as be their wonot. Roger and the

doctor come and go as usual, but the November afternoon have grow

to darkness before Michael return, look pale and fag from

his long ride and hard day’s work. take as a whole, the patient in

and around Bradstane be not a very profitable set. for one rich

old lady like Miss Strangforth, say Dr. Rowntree, linger on as a

chronic invalid for year—always want attention, and always

profoundly grateful for all that her physician either do or fail

to do for she, and pay her bill with a cheque by return of

post—for one treasure like this there be a dozen farmer’ wife

and daughter, or sordid, unlovely poor in Bridge Street, call

upon the doctor with a frequency and persistency which they would

never have dream of if they have possess either the mean or the

intention of pay he. other there be, cottager, labourer,

live at immense distance over bad road, and expect a great

deal of attention in return for very small fee—anything but a

profitable _clientèle_—and some of these Michael have be visit

to-day.



he come in, pick up a note which lie on the hall table wait for

he, which he look for as if he expect it—his dark face light

for a moment as he take it, for the handwriting be that of Magdalen

Wynter—put his head in at the library door, remark, ‘I’m wet

through—change my thing—down directly,’ and run upstairs, shut

his bedroom door after he.



‘what a spirit!’ cry the doctor, enthusiastically. ‘what a spirit

he have! he’ll get over it yet.’



‘well than his brother will, I think,’ say Roger, half to

himself; and then, gaze into the fire, he wonder what Gilbert

be do, and wish, as he have catch himself wish more than

once that day, that Michael could have see his way to answer that

note of Gilbert’s differently.



by and by the gong sound. Roger and the doctor go into the

dining-room. Michael be still upstairs. the soup have be serve,

and he come not.



‘go to Mr. Langstroth’s door and say everything will be cold, and we

be wait for he,’ say Dr. Rowntree to the serve-maid, who do

as she be tell, and presently return, speedily follow by

Michael.



Roger give a sharp glance at he, and think he carry his head

very high—high than usual.



‘sorry to keep you wait,’ he say, with an affected, jaunty air,

not in the least like his usual manner. ‘I quite forget how time be

go on.’



he laugh as he speak, and say he be ravenously hungry, but

offend the doctor greatly by scarcely touch what be set before

he.



‘what do you mean by say you be ravenous, and then not eat

anything?’ he ask, crossly.



Michael laugh a nervous, forced laugh, and reply—



‘oh, I must have think I be hungry than I really be. I cann’t

eat anything now. these long ride take it out of a fellow in such a

way.’



‘do you have lunch at the Brydges?’



‘yes. they have quite a lot of people stay there. that be one

reason why I be so late. after lunch I go with Tom to the stable

to see his new hunter. it be a beauty, too.’



Roger sit silent, mislike the unusual volubility of Michael’s

speech and excuse. Michael himself, in the meantime, have go off

on a new tack, and be describe his adventure at a farmhouse on

the moor, and the extraordinary symptom enumerate by the mistress

of it as require his advice. Dr. Rowntree, please to see that

Michael be what he call ‘pluck up a bit,’ do not notice

anything force or unnatural in his manner. Roger’s foreboding grow

every moment dark, and he be thankful when at last they rise from

the table and go into the library. on their way thither, however,

he happen to touch Michael’s sleeve with his hand, and find that

it be wet.



‘why, man!’ exclaim he, ‘you say you be wet through, and you

have get on the identical tog that you come in with. what an ass

you be, Michael!’ he add, gently. ‘go upstairs and change, right

away, or you willn’t get to Balder Hall to-night.’



‘I’m not go to Balder Hall—I think not,’ say Michael, wearily,

as he let Roger push he towards the stair, up which he begin

slowly and aimlessly to climb.



‘there’s something wrong—something wrong—something wrong,’ keep

ring through Roger’s mind. ‘and something more than I know of.’



Michael’s room be over the study. Roger, listen intently, hear

he go into it, move about for a moment, and then all be quiet. he

sit with a book in his hand, and wait till his suspense grow

almost to agony. at last he could be quiet no long. he go

upstairs and knock softly at Michael’s door. there be no answer.

when he have try once or twice again, he open the door and go

in. the candle burn on the dressing-table. Michael be in a large

old easy-chair by the bedside, his head sink on his breast, his eye

close, and an open letter droop from his right hand.



‘still in those wet clothe,’ mutter Roger. ‘he’ll kill himself.’



he go up to he, and touch he on the shoulder. Michael awake

with a start, and look confusedly around he.



‘Roger!’ he say. ‘I’m so sleepy. I don’t know what’s come over I.’

he seem to see the letter he hold, and go on, in an absent way,

‘ben’t it rather too bad of she not to wait till she have see I?

so long—it’s three year since I begin to wait for she and work for

she. but as soon as she hear the first whisper—well, I do write

and tell she what I’d do, and say I would go up and see she

to-night, you know—yes, to-night. but she never wait. she fling I

off,’ and he throw out his arm. ‘she make haste to do it. she must

have be glad to do it! there’s something in her letter which say

so. see!’ he hold it out to Roger. ‘what a lot of disagreeable

thing you’ve have to do for I lately!’ he go on. ‘Good Lord! how

tired I be! I never be so tired in my life. I cann’t imagine the

reason of it.’



Roger, defer for a moment his intention of make Michael go to

bed, stop to read the letter, which run:—



‘MY DEAR MICHAEL,



        ‘I receive your letter this morning, and I be sorry to say

I cannot approve of what you have do. even before I get it, I have

be think for some time about our engagement, and wonder if

it have ever be a wise one. during these three day that you have

not be here, I have have ample time to consider the subject. even

if nothing far have happen, I should have write as I now do;

but I do not disguise from you that the manner in which you have

yourself cut off every prospect of advancement strengthen my

resolution. these thing be well do promptly. it save pain to

all concern.



‘as there be now evidently no prospect of our be marry within

any definite time, I wish our engagement to cease. I desire this

both on your account and my own. in addition to the reason already

state, I do not think it would be for your happiness to continue

it, and I be quite sure it would not be for mine. I shall be glad of

a line from you when convenient, to say that you consent to my

proposal; and with every wish for your happiness and prosperity, I

remain,



                                           ‘your sincere friend,

                                                  ‘MAGDALEN WYNTER.’



‘there’s a speciman of elegant composition!’ exclaim Michael,

suddenly sit upright, and laugh harshly. ‘it could not have

be more proper if she have write it at school, and the head

governess have correct it. what a blessed thing it be when people

know their own mind, and can command plain English in which to make

they know! only it’s a pity that they should take three year to

learn what they do want, or whom they don’t want.’ he give a

disagreeable little laugh at his own pleasantry, and then rise. ‘if

you’ll go down, Roger, I will now change these thing, and join you

directly. but it’s lucky I need not go to Balder Hall, for I feel

more and more tired every minute.’



‘take off your thing, by all mean,’ say Roger, gravely; ‘but you

must not come down. you must go to bed.’



‘to bed!’ exclaim Michael, contemptuously. ‘a man go to bed

because he’s have a long ride in the wet and cold, and find rather a

chilly letter to greet he on his return! I be not such an ass.’



but as he speak, strength seem to forsake his limb; he could not

stand any more, but sit down again in the chair by the bedside.



‘perhaps Askam be sit with she now. I suppose they will be

married,’ he say, betray in his sudden weakness what his secret

fear have evidently be. ‘perhaps she will keep he straight. he

need it, and she have a spirit, though I know Gilbert and my father

never think so; and——’



here he begin to wander in his talk; be shiver and shake with

cold one moment, burn hot the next. the thorough drenching which

he have get after leave the Brydges and ride for mile in the

tooth of the bitter wind and rain; the excited condition of his

brain over Gilbert’s treachery; the receipt of Magdalen’s letter,

with its icy, unyielde egoism, show he that all these year

her own advantage be what she have be think of, and that there

be not a spark of love for he in her dull heart;—these thing

break through even his magnificent health and strength. he could not

shake off the physical chill any more than he could the mental

prostration. an attack of a tedious, wear low fever reduce he

to perfect physical weakness and docility; but far bad than the

fever be the accompany mental gloom, the result of the shock to

the nervous system. the young man, shut up in his room, too weak in

body to move and shake off his demon visitant, go through all the

horror of a complete nervous breakdown, and make intimate

acquaintance with all its attendant crew of ghastly shade—those

pallid ghost which assemble and gibber and mouth at we when we have

so impose upon our hard-work servant, nerve and brain, as to

have render they for the time powerless to answer to our imperious

demand. exhaust, they sink down, and say to we, ‘we can no more,’

and then we be at the mercy of every shadow, every whisper, every

vain imagining and thought of horror.



Michael Langstroth, with his superb constitution and youth and

temperance to back he, and with the devoted nursing of two such

friend as Roger and the doctor, be in the course of a few week

restore to comparative strength. gradually the shade and ghost,

the bat and owl that haunt the dark place of the human mind,

retire before gather physical strength. thing be go that

could never be restore—hope, joy, faith, enthusiasm; thing

which have once seem all-important, appear now almost too

insignificant for notice. under Roger’s eye be the process

accomplish which in his blindness he have long ago wish for his

friend. he be make into a man: go into the valley of the shadow

a youth, for all his six and twenty year, his bone, and his muscle,

and his brain; come out of it alive, sane, whole, if weak, but

strip of every superfluous hope, confidence, or youthfulness.



it be November when he go to his room that night; it be the very

end of December when he come out of it, a hollow-eyed spectre

enough. and it be a month later still when Dr. Rowntree carry he

down to Hastings one day, return himself the next, and leave

his adopt son there to recruit.



so end Michael Langstroth’s youth, as a tale that be tell.









                               CHAPTER XI



                           OTHO’S letter-BAG





a November morning, five year later. the sky gray and brooding, the

tree still and leafless. everything outside betoken the drear

season of the year, and even the trimly keep lawn of Thorsgarth

could not give brightness to this mood of Nature and the time o’

day.



within, in a small room which he generally use for breakfasting,

Otho Askam stand on the hearthrug, with his burly back turn

towards a large fire. a letter be in his hand, to which he seem

to pay more attention than it be usually his habit to give to his

correspondence, for he turn it about, and peruse it often. what

be the change which five year may have work in his trait, or

how many of they have become strengthen and accentuate during

that time?



he would seem, outwardly consider, to have gain something, both

in breadth and solidity, without have in any way weaken or

deteriorate. the line be as sturdy, as burly as before. the

expression of his countenance be distinctly imperious, even more

imperious than of yore. as he stand there, the letter in one hand,

the other impatiently smooth the hair on his upper lip—a dark

line only, which seem to accentuate the sullenness of his face,

without hiding or soften a single harsh trait or feature—as he

stand there his countenance be a dangerous-look one; the

expression or atmosphere which radiate from the man be not

that of sincerity. in repose he have the old fierceness of

appearance—whatever mental or moral change might have take place,

that old look remain; and when he raise his dark eye and lift

his head, there be the same breathless, hunt, or hunt look

about he, as in the day of his very young manhood there have be.



he be alone, and have just finish breakfast. at his foot sit a

dignified Dandie Dinmont, somewhat advanced in year, and with the

self-conscious aspect of a dog which have long be make much of by

human being, so that at last it have come to feel convinced that all

their action, word, and movement have some reference to it and

its doing. it gaze up into Otho’s face and watch his gesture,

and when he speak to it, it seem pleased. animal, even if they

have that keen discernment as to the virtue or vice of the being by

whom they be surround, with which some person credit they, can

conceal their like and dislike, for their own purpose, quite as

cleverly as the man and woman they live with—at least, sophisticate

and humanise dog, like this highly educate Pouncer, can.



look out of the window, one see the drear season of the year

plainly write upon the outward aspect of thing. November, sad

November, but the November of the country, and not of the town. in

southern place, and more favoured spot, tree might still be

cover with fiery autumn tint; but here every leaf have drop,

and upon the black and sodden-look bough and twig hang a damp,

clammy dew, and the grass be hoar and gray with the same. the sky

be leaden; not a branch stir. from here one could see where the

ground slope towards the river, but one could not see the stream

itself. the room be warm; the house be quiet; the master be

vex—so much be plainly to be read on his face. and so much be

audible from his lip too, as he ejaculate in a wrathful tone—



‘beastly folly—and a beastly nuisance, too!’



and the cause of his vexation, the letter he hold in his hand? it be

easy to read over his shoulder, and follow the line, as he peruse

it a third time, with the result, apparently, of increase his

first exasperation.



                                                     ‘BRINSWELL, L——



  ’DEAR OTHO,



          ‘it be a very long time since you write to me,—longer than

  usual. as for your ever come to see I, I have long ago give up

  that expectation as a wild delusion. be you “busy”? country

  gentleman usually be, from what I hear; and from what I’ve see I

  should say they work very hard to make believe they have more to

  do than they know how to manage.



  ‘I wonder if you have realise that I be twenty-two on my last

  birthday? I don’t suppose you have ever give a thought to the

  subject. at least, I miss your usual kind remembrance of I, on

  the occasion.’ [‘what the dicken do she mean? I’ve never be

  in the habit of send her birthday present!’]



  ‘well, it be of no use waste word over thing. I wish to

  explain my situation and intention to you. since Aunt Emily’s

  death, six month ago, Uncle Robert have be quite break up, and

  he don’t seem to get any well. it be a fearful loss to he. no

  one know—of the world at large, I mean—how much they be bind up

  in each other, and how fearfully he miss she. after try

  everything in the way of stay at home and keep quiet, the

  doctor have advise a long voyage and a complete change. it have

  be decide to close Brinswell for a year at least, and he and

  Paul will set out on their travel in a week or two. I think they

  will visit Australia first, as they seem to think the long voyage

  will do he good, and they talk about India and America before

  they return—medicine for a troubled mind. poor Uncle Robert! he

  agree to all, and say he know he be morbid. it seem to be

  think very morbid nowadays if you have a grief that’s past the

  healing for six month, even though it be your dearest in the

  whole world that have go from you.



  ‘I be not go with Uncle Robert and Paul. if it have be a

  short journey, I might have do so. I should have like

  immensely to go to America, for instance. but this be different.

  Paul, of course, go with he, because it would be outrageous to

  think of his go alone; but the doctor, and Paul too, say he

  should not be surround by too many of his own family, as the

  object be entire change. they both think it well for I not to

  go; and I shall do as they think fit. it be very sad every way.



  ‘very sad, it be—so sad that I feel myself a little heartless,

  because I cann’t help be rather glad that I shall leave here,

  and at last make acquaintance with my own home and my own brother.

  you do not know how often I have wish to do so. I be glad I

  shall see my birthplace and my north-country home; very glad I

  shall see you. and will not you say you will be glad to see I,

  dear Otho? it be year since I have see you, and it seem

  unnatural that it should be so. will you come down and fetch I,

  or be you too busy? I propose to leave here a week from to-day.

  let I know about it.



  ‘there be one other thing that I feel I must mention to you, which

  make I very glad to be leave here. about six month ago, Mr.

  Mowbray—you know, he be the rector of the next parish; the Hon.

  and Rev. Percy Mowbray—propose to I. poor Aunt Emily be very

  anxious for I to marry he, but it be a sheer, utter

  impossibility. poor Aunt E——! Mr. Mowbray be rich, I believe, and

  of very good family, but I have never like he, and I could not

  think of it for a moment. it be very painful to I to find how

  annoyed she be with I, even to the last. and of course Mr.

  Mowbray cease to visit here, though I have to meet he sometimes.

  altogether, it will be a great relief to I in every way, to get

  to Bradstane for a time. now you be acquaint with all my

  reason for wish to come to you, and with my plan too, for the

  present. send I a line soon, and believe I,



                                  ‘your affectionate sister,

                                                    ‘ELEANOR ASKAM.’



Otho fling the letter upon the table with temper.



‘why the d—l could not she marry the fellow?’ he mutter angrily,

look darkly at Pouncer, who slightly move his tail and elevate

his ear with a sigh, as if he too wonder why—why she could not

have marry the fellow.



‘what could she wish for more? a girl in her position ought to take

the first opportunity that offer—good, of course—of settle

herself in life. and I’m sure old Aunt Emily know what she be

about. no one keener on family and money in the world. if she want

the match so badly, I’ll go bail it be a good one. of course she

must marry—girl like she always must marry—and of course she cann’t

go and marry a nobody. what a fool she must be! one would think she

be not all there. not that I should think the parson and I should

have hit it off very well as brother-in-law.’ he give a short

laugh. ‘a thunder mistake, that will,’ he go on within himself.

‘such will have no business to be make.’



this reflection refer to a clause in his father’s will, provide

that Otho’s sister, so long as he and she both remain unmarried,

be entitle to a home at Thorsgarth whenever she choose to inhabit

it. in the event of his marriage, there remain for her the Dower

House, which indeed be her for her life if she do not marry—an

old stone house in the square, not far from the Red Gables.



‘I cann’t stop it, I suppose. it be a beastly nuisance, if ever there

be one. as for go to fetch she, I shall do no such thing. go

nearly three hundred mile to fetch back some one I don’t want? not

I!... and what can I do with she when I get she here? good Lord! why

must woman be so stupid? such sentimental nonsense! because I be her

brother—bah! there’s that whey-face Paul Stanley, her cousin,

look as if butter wouldn’t melt in his mouth—she’s know he all

her life, and he have be far more of a brother to she than I have.’



Otho feel vindictive, realise what a grievous thing it be that he

should have to be anybody’s brother.



‘the going on in this house willn’t suit she at all,’ he reflect,

get more and more savage the long he think about it. ‘it have

be a bachelor’s house all these year, and it have come to

something if I’m to turn everything topsy-turvy for a chit of a girl

like that. dog and horse and man, and tobacco and wine and

card—what will she do amidst it all? and what shall I do with she?’



he stop mutter from sheer blankness of mind on the subject,

still fiercely stroke his upper lip, till after a time a look of

relief, though of very ill-temper relief at the good, come over

his face, as he think—



‘I suppose I must go and tell Magdalen about it. she’ll be able to

suggest something. I’ll go this morning, before I answer this

confound letter. Whew—w—w!’



he blow out a kind of ill-temper sigh, and Pouncer wag his tail

in visible and exceed satisfaction.



then Otho pick up another letter—short and, as it would seem,

sweet, to he at least, for his countenance relax visibly.



‘that’s well. it will be rather a relief to have he here if she

come. he know what be the right thing to do when there be

petticoat on the premise. I don’t.’



then he ring the bell, order the breakfast-thing to be take

away, and say he want his horse at eleven.



                   *      *      *      *      *



soon after twelve Otho ride up to Balder Hall, be admit to Miss

Wynter’s boudoir, and proceed to unfold his trouble to she.



she have receive he with the tranquillity which have always be the

chief characteristic of her demeanour, and which seem neither to

have increase nor diminish with year; hear all that he have to

say; and finally, when he pull Eleanor’s letter out of his pocket,

and say, ‘see for yourself what she say,’ Magdalen take the

letter, open it deliberately, and as deliberately read it. she have

never hear much about Otho’s sister; she be not a woman to talk to

man about their feminine relative, and Otho have always be glad to

ignore his sister’s existence as much as possible. this suddenly

announce come of Miss Askam take Magdalen by surprise. she have no

time to decide whether it would well suit her view that they should

be friend or enemy, but the letter would possibly give she a

valuable glimpse into the writer’s mind, perhaps even into her

character, write as it be confidentially to an only brother. as

to the question whether it be honourable or not to read such a

letter, Miss Wynter be exactly the woman to say, if any one have

raise such a scruple, ‘why, Otho give it I!’ go to! she might have

be credit with say—the keep one’s own integrity be enough

work for any person, without tell other when they appear to be

lose theirs.



‘ah,’ say she, when she have finish the letter, ‘it be quite

obvious why she want to come. I do not know your sister be

twenty-two, Otho. indeed, I hardly realise that you have a sister.’



‘no more do I, till she go and do this,’ say Otho, resentfully.



‘and you would rather she do not come?’



‘much rather. but it’s no use thinking of keep she away. I’m not

go to try. she have get the right to come, by my father’s will,

and to stay as long as she like, till one of we get marry. I

cann’t prevent it. the thing be, I don’t know what to do with she

when I get she here.’



‘well, if you make it very pleasant for she, of course she’ll want

to stay.’



Otho nod. ‘of course.’



‘and if you upset all your habit, and make great change on her

account, then she will think you want she to stay, which would be

quite a false impression.’



‘I never think of that.’



‘of course not; only it seem such a very obvious thing. perhaps

that be why it never occur to you.’



‘now, come, none of your chaff. what I think of be, that it’s

simply impossible for a girl like that to settle down in a house

full of my way. I must do something, and what to do I don’t know. I

want your advice.’



‘and pray what right have you to my advice? why should I interfere

between you and your sister? I might tell you it be a just

retribution on you for having alienate yourself systematically from

all such tie. you demand my advice as if you be a highwayman

require my watch and purse.’



Otho fidget and fumble, h’mmed and ha’d.



‘I beg your pardon, Magdalen. I think I have the right—of having

ask before, and receive—advice, you know. and you know I always

do come to you when I be in trouble.’



‘oh yes; I know you do.’



‘would you please tell I what I have well do?’



‘be she good-look?’ ask Magdalen.



‘oh no!’ say Otho, promptly. ‘she have red hair and freckle.’



Magdalen glance at Otho’s own dark trait, and say, ‘now, Otho!’



‘upon my soul and honour she have; and one of those face that flush

up all over, without a minute’s warning. I never could see the sense

of those face. she go into rapture, you know, and cry and

laugh about thing—at least, she do when I see she. in fact,

though she’s be at college somewhere, and be a complete blue—read

Homer, and all such bosh—I think she a regular baby. she’s get

rather a dash figure,’ he add, musingly, ‘but I swear to you,

Magdalen, she be _not_ good-look.’



‘but why, then, do this clergyman want to marry she? a man of

wealth, family, and position? I know quite well who he be. they be

very first-rate people down there.’



‘bah! she have twelve hundred a year of her own, to do what she like

with. whoever hear of a parson, rich or poor, that could rise above

such a thing as that?’ say Otho, with brutality. ‘and then, all

place be not like Bradstane. they may like blue and freckle down

there.... as for his be a man of wealth, family, and position,

you might say that of I;’ and he laugh cynically. ‘she’s as good

as he be, any day.’



‘yes,’ say Magdalen, gently. ‘she be your sister.’ she take up her

work. ‘it seem to I that you be make a great fuss about

nothing. why make any difference at all for she? Thorsgarth be your

house, not her, though she have the right to live there, under

present circumstance. it be large enough in all conscience. half a

dozen family might live there, and hardly ever meet in the

passage. give she a sitting-room for herself, and tell she you be

sorry that your business don’t leave you time to see very much of

she. it will not be long before she find out what a dull place

bradstane be, and I do not think she will care to remain in it very

long, especially with such a sympathetic brother.’



‘you be a gem!’ he say, admiringly.



‘and bring she up to see I as soon as you can, after she come.’



‘the next afternoon, if it’s fine,’ he say, eagerly.



‘yes, the next afternoon, if you like. it will make no difference to

I.’



then, as if she have have enough of the subject, she return the

letter to he, and ask, ‘be there no meet to-day?’



‘no. we get word last night that there wouldn’t be. I’m go down

to Bradstane just now, to the work. by the way, I have a letter from

Gilbert, too, this morning. he’s come down for Christmas, as

usual.’



‘oh, he never fail you.’



‘no; he never do. I must take care not to bring he up here while

his brother be on the premise. when do he come, now?’



‘I know nothing about it. sometimes at one hour, sometimes at

another. and the sure way to bring about a collision be to take so

much care to avoid one. as if there be not room for Gilbert and

he in the house without dodge in that stupid way!’



‘that’s all very fine, but accident will happen. suppose they be

to meet, after all, and have a shindy.’



‘a shindy! really, Otho, you exasperate I. in the first place,

though you might, and probably would, make a shindy under such

circumstance, you ought to know that they would never make one

under any circumstance. and if they wish to, ever so, would they

dare, before I?’



‘Whew—w!’ murmur Otho, under his breath; and then aloud—



‘it seem as if all I say offend you this morning, Magdalen.

however, I’ll be more good-natured than you, and say thank you for

your advice, which I shall follow. I must be off now.’



he get up and stand before she, hold out his hand. Magdalen

survey he in the same cold, direct manner, as before. it be her

old calm, almost expressionless gaze, but the eye which have once

be soft and velvety be now hard. she say good morning to he in

a very indifferent way, and ring the bell. Otho leave the room and

go downstairs.



his inventive genius be apparently not great. he carry out her

advice or instruction, whichever it might have be, almost to the

letter. without wait to go to the work, he first of all call

in at Thorsgarth, and while his horse wait, sit down and write a

short letter to his sister, say that he would meet she at the

station if she would let he know by what train to expect she; that

he be sorry to say he be quite too much engage to travel down to

the New Forest to bring she to Thorsgarth. he be afraid she would

find Bradstane insufferably dull after the social life to which she

have be accustom. with regard to the parson, he add, with

characteristic want of finish in his style, he think it a pity

that she have not see her way to take he, as the match seem in

every way a good one, but he could hear all about that when they

meet, and so he be her affectionate brother, OTHO ASKAM.



then he ring the bell and desire to see the housekeeper; and when

she arrive upon the scene, he give his order with the brevity and

authority of a great general, and of course Mrs. Sparkes could not

know that the say order have originate with Magdalen Wynter. it

be decide that some south rooms—‘the late Mrs. Askam’s suite,’

say Mrs. Sparkes—be to be prepare for Eleanor.



‘yes,’ say Otho, with an uneasy feeling that, since he propose to

leave his sister considerably to her own society, it behove he to

look to her personal comfort as much as possible. ‘and see that they

be make nice—air, you know, and to look—a—bright, and all that.’



‘oh, sir, the room will not need much do to they. it’s not my

system to be take by surprise,’ say Mrs. Sparkes, with a lofty

smile.



‘ben’t it?’ say Otho, with a kind of brusque facetiousness which

have its effect in make he popular with some of his dependant. ‘I

wish I know how you manage to avoid it. this affair—Miss Askam’s

come, have take I very much by surprise.’



‘oh, I don’t mean that exactly, sir,’ say Mrs. Sparkes, please at

the confidence repose in she. ‘there’s some thing cann’t be

provide for, but _i_ mean thing in general.’



‘ah! well, you’ll remember what I say,’ remark Otho; and Mrs.

Sparkes bow herself out.



then he call for his horse again, and set off for his long-delay

visit to the Townend Mills. it need hardly be say that these call

be wholly perfunctory. Gilbert, from his London office, give the

order, and Roger Camm in his Bradstane one carry they out. Otho

have a pleasure in call and look round now and then, because he

know how Michael and Sir Thomas Winthrop hate the Bradstane Jute

Co., Limited, and that Roger Camm hate he, Otho, the man who have

find the money for it. the conclusion to which he have come by the

time that he halt in the mill-yard be that, having settle all

thing, he have now just one week of liberty before he, and, put

his sister from his mind, he resolve to think no more about she

until her arrival should force he to do so.









                              CHAPTER XII



                                ELEANOR





Otho’s week of freedom be over. his sister have come, and on the day

follow her arrival, in the afternoon, she ride with he through

Bradstane town towards Balder Hall.



any one who could have see she, even in the gray and mournful

November light, would have see a very beautiful young woman. she

be tall, and have an admirable figure, full of grace and strength.

no feeble development here, nor niggard trait, nor look of feeble

spine or over-sensitive nerve. whatever the intellect within that

beautiful head, its outward case be not one to find fault with. her

feature be not very regular; harmonious, though, in their very

irregularity. a soft, ivory-white complexion, as healthy as many a

ruddy one; and with this complexion, the red-brown hair and lambent,

tawny eye which sometimes accompany it. her eyebrow be much

dark than either her hair or her eye; and she have a large mouth,

but a beautiful one—beautiful because of its smile in mirth and of

its expression in repose.



there be a vague, indefinite family likeness between she and the

fierce-look Otho. where it lay, in what exactly it consist, it

would have be impossible to say, but it be there, though it be

slight, and perhaps more easily to be detect when they be apart

than when they be together; that be, see one of they alone, an

observer might have think, ‘how like her brother’ or ‘his sister!’

and yet, have the other one appear, and the face be compare,

none could have discern any resemblance.



during the first part of their ride they be both somewhat silent.

she be look about she with quick, keen glance, speak an

observant eye. Otho be wonder what Magdalen would say to he,

what he could say to she, at a later time, when he, after his

offhand description of the other day, have to introduce to she this

beautiful creature now ride with he.



Eleanor, while make her observation on the town and the

surrounding, be also occupy in think thing over. it be a

fact, she tell herself with some mortification, that Otho and she

be stranger to each other. it seem that absence, and long

separation, and the influence of utterly diverse life and habit

do produce that strangeness, even between brother and sister. her

Aunt Emily, in some of their talk, have tell she that this would be

the case, and she have say laughingly that she would defy she

brother to be a stranger to she, or to make a stranger of she. she

have feel very strong; she feel very strong now. that be her chief

feeling, when she think about herself at all—strength of soul and

body, and a happy confidence that truth be great and will prevail.



yet this have not be such a joyful home-come as it ought to have

be. in all confidence she have set out to find the home which she

have only twice visit, each time for a day or two, on some tour

with her guardian, since, at six year of age, she have be bring

away by her Aunt Emily, a motherless and fatherless child. those

visit have both be pay while she be still under fourteen, before

Otho have leave college and take possession. Otho be six year her

senior, and have pursue his public school course and get through his

college career while she be yet in the schoolroom and in short

frock. occasionally, when he have be in town, or anywhere near

they, he have pay she a fly visit; have once, when they have be

in the Highlands, spend a few day with they, to shoot grouse with

his uncle and cousin Paul. on these occasion he have tell she that

she grow a fine girl (fancy it be a nice kind of thing to say to

a sister, though when he say “fine” he mean “tall,” and have take

so little real notice of she, that he have speak in all good faith

when describe she to Magdalen the week before). and he have

uniformly discourage the idea of she come to live at Thorsgarth

(it have never be seriously broach before), say, whenever

allusion have be make to such a thing, ‘oh, you will never want a

home there. you will be marry before that.’



but Eleanor have not marry, and she have come to Thorsgarth to make

her home there.



‘be this all the town there be, Otho?’ she ask, suddenly, as they

emerge from the street into the open road. ‘I’ve almost forget

it. what an odd, little, gray, weather-beat place it be! not a bit

like the south.’



‘of course not.’



‘I feel as if I’d never be here, and I hardly ever meet any one

who have. it look bleak here; that’s what I mean.’



‘well, it be,’ say Otho, vex with such a persistent talk about

the look of a place. as if it matter what Bradstane look like!

‘and it’s November, too. you cann’t expect rose in November.’



‘but I’ve always have they. there be Dijon rose grow over the

south wall at Brinswell when I leave. you remember Brinswell, Otho?’



‘yes, I do; and a dull hole it be.’



‘not any duller than Thorsgarth, I should fancy. it be as lovely a

place as ever I see. we be more there and less in London the last

few year. of course I like London, but I never feel dull at

Brinswell. what fruit and flower! of course, thing cann’t grow here

as they do there. the tree look so small and stunt.’



‘small! why, the Bradstane ash-tree be note all through the

country-side.’



‘well, yes, the ash-tree. they be fine. but, of course, they ought

to be.’ and she hum to herself—



         ‘oh, the oak, and the ash, and the bonny ivy-tree,

         they grow the good at home in the north countrie.’



‘at home,’ she add, half to herself. ‘this be the north countrie,

and this be my home, after all. it’s a shame I don’t know it well.

wherever you look,’ she add, address he directly again, ‘you

seem to see a blue wall in the distance. Otho, do any one ever get

as far as those blue wall?’ and she point towards the north-west,

where Mickle Fell and his brother loom high.



‘blue wall!’ repeat Otho, embarrass by the application of such

term to the moor, which to he represent so many acre of good

shooting, and those in another direction stable for another hobby

of his, of which Eleanor be as yet unaware. ‘how you talk! those

that you be point to be the fell on the Westmoreland border,

and those other one, to the south, be the Swaledale moor.’



‘swaledale moor? but one can get over they, I suppose. what be

there on the other side?’



‘More moor and more dale. it’s bleak enough there, if you like.

there’s some good shooting, though.’



‘I should like to see what there be at the other side,’ say

Eleanor, her eye fix dreamily on the moor. then, as they turn

a bend in the road, ‘be it far to this place you be take I to?’



‘only about another three-quarter of a mile.’



‘this Miss Wynter—be she a very old friend of your?’ ask Eleanor

unconsciously. ‘I don’t ever remember to have hear you speak of

she.’



‘oh yes, you have,’ say Otho, with effrontery; ‘but you’ve very

likely forget. she be my only friend—amongst the woman, that be.’



‘ah! an elderly woman?’



‘about my own—well, she’s a year or so old than I be.’



‘oh! an invalid, I suppose?’



‘why the—— what on earth make you think she should be an invalid?’



‘if she be neither old nor ill, I cann’t understand why I be be

take to see she. what should prevent she from come to call upon

I, in the usual order of thing?’



Otho be embarrassed, and annoy too. this extremely simple

question of Eleanor’s show he, in a sudden flash, that Magdalen’s

behaviour be not exactly courteous. steal a side glance at his

sister, he realise that when she come to meet Magdalen, she might

consider the latter have be insolent in her pretension. eleanor,

to use his own phrase, know what be what, every bit as well as

Magdalen do. free and natural though her manner be, he have know

enough of his Aunt Emily to be aware that no one bring up by she

could remain in ignorance as to any social usage. in his haste to

bring Magdalen’s influence into the field, he have make a mistake,

and she probably do not care whether Eleanor be offend or no.

all he could say to get himself out of his difficulty be—



‘we’re a neighbourly lot here, when we do happen to be friend.

you’ll be disappoint if you expect to find London etiquette at

Bradstane.’



‘I daresay,’ say she, with a light laugh. ‘I’ve generally find

country etiquette far more burdensome than etiquette in London. that

be partly what make I wonder. however, people do get a little

rusty in their manner, I daresay, when they live in one small set,’

Eleanor conclude serenely; but there be a sparkle in her eye as

she speak. her curiosity as to this Miss Wynter be arouse.



Otho burst into a short laugh, as he hear this speech, think

within himself, ‘I’ll keep that for Magdalen, and treat she to it

when she’s pull I up, some day. upon my word, this girl be

enough to make most other look rusty.’



‘Miss Wynter be your only friend among the woman, you say,’ pursue

Eleanor in flute-like tone. ‘how be that? don’t you like the lady

about here?’



Otho’s expression of countenance, on hear this question, be

worthy of study. Eleanor see it, and avert her face. she have

already accurately gauge one phase of Otho’s character. he be

inwardly perturb just now. his trouble be begin already.

here be this girl evidently under the impression that he be

hand-in-glove with all the ordinary society of the place. how be he

to explain to she exactly how thing stand between he and Magdalen

Wynter? he know he could not, in any way that should seem plausible

to one bring up like she. he be bore at have to explain at

all, and in his vexation take refuge in some sweeping general

statement.



‘like the lady about here? no, I don’t. and that be one reason why

I know you would be awfully dull if you come here. you see, it have

suit my taste not to go much into the society here—in fact,

hardly at all; and they have just begin to understand it at last,

and to let I alone—give over invite I, and all that. so you

willn’t find it very lively. but Magdalen be different. I’ve know she

ever since I come here. we be thick at the very first, and have

stick together ever since, because she’s so reasonable and sensible.

as for the others’—he speak with solemnity—‘they be one half shark

and the other half fool. there’s no such thing as meet a girl,

and try to have a friendship with she, before you go any far.

your sex, my dear, be incapable of friendship with a man. either

they try to make he in love with they, and make his existence

miserable, or they fall in love with he themselves—or think they

do; it’s much of a muchness—and if he don’t respond they say he have

deceive they, or trifle with they, or something equally absurd.

suppose you see a nice girl, or a girl that you think look nice.

well, you have a head on your shoulder, and you know she may be a

shrew, for all her pleasantness, just as a horse may be a screw,

though he look all right. you think it worth while to try and know

she a bit well, before you risk anything. you cann’t do it. you may

not do it. it be their one object to get you to marry they without

give you any opportunity to know anything about they. you never

get to know their real thought about any one thing on earth. you

must run the gauntlet of their mother and sister to get even a

word with they. it ben’t fair; it’s deuce hard. why be you to show

up everything, and be slang if you don’t do it all on the square,

while they be not to have any question ask at all? the sister

be bad enough, especially if you be sweet on a young one, but

the mother—oh, Lord! those mother! if you do but look at one of

their precious girl, they be down upon you to know your

“intention.” I say, a man have a right to ask question in his

turn—if their temper be all right, if they’re sound in wind and

limb, and so on. I bolt if I see one of those mother within——’



he be interrupt by a peal of laughter. Eleanor have contain

herself as long as she could, but at each high flight of Otho’s

sombre eloquence it have be more and more difficult to keep she

gravity. now it be impossible. she give free vent to her mirth, and

bent to her saddle-bow in her merriment.



‘oh, Otho!’ she ejaculate at last, turn a face quiver with

laughter to he, and eye dance behind tear of amusement. he

look at she in speechless astonishment, and then by degree

manage to take in the fact that she be laugh at he—at his

solemn and wither denunciation of the man-trap set for the

unwary in social life. he do not remember such a thing to have

happen to he before, and he be stun by the shock.



‘poor dear Otho!’ she say, between new burst of merriment. ‘what a

life you must have lead, with all these woman try to entrap you!

no wonder you be reserve and sad! no wonder you have retire into

private life to avoid the danger that beset you on all side! I

wonder almost that you dare ride out alone. and yet, Otho, what a

great thing to be so seek after!’



Otho’s face be almost purple, partly with breathless amazement,

partly with anger. Eleanor, it seem, do not realise, or do not

care, to what inconvenience he be put by her presence here at all.

she chaff and laugh at he. she now put the crowning point to

this offensive conduct by lean over towards he, and ask, with

a pretence of look round to see that no one be near to look or

listen—



‘Otho, do Miss Wynter warn you of the danger of these harpy by

whom you be surround? woman be always quick to see through the

design of other woman. how good of she to take care of you and keep

you out of danger!’



Otho’s deep colour grow deep still. shrewdly have Eleanor hit the

mark. the language, the turn of expression, be his own, native to

his genius and redolent of his mind; but the substance of his speech

be the substance of score of conversation with Magdalen, in which

she have amuse he by tear to piece the suppose design of

their neighbour of the whole country-side.



‘what bosh!’ he say at last, with sovereign contempt. ‘you’ll be

say next that she have design herself.’ a peculiar smile hover

about his sister’s lip, but she say nothing. ‘no, no. it be quite

different with she, as you will see when you meet she. you can go

and have an hour’s chat with she—or two hour, if you like. she’s

always pleasant, always amusing; no father or mother to be down on

you. and she do not imagine, even if you be to go and see she

regularly twice a week, that you’ve get “intention;” and, what be

more, she have none herself. she can be pleasant, and free, and

agreeable, without all the time be bent upon hook you.

Yes’—the taciturn Otho wax enthusiastic—‘she be my friend. I don’t

care who know it. she’s the only woman in the neighbourhood that I

call upon.’



have Eleanor be well acquaint with ‘the neighbourhood’ and its

annal, she might well have appreciate the honourable distinction

convey in this speech.



‘dear I! she ought to be flatter, I be sure. be this place of

her a large one?’



‘Balder Hall, Magdalen’s? God bless you, no! I wish it be. she’s a

poor penniless niece of an old bedridden woman, Miss Martha

Strangforth, whom they call about here “the Immortal,” for they say

she will never die. I daresay Magdalen wish it be true, for so

long as the old woman live the girl have a home and a position. and

old Martha’s income die with she, and I don’t fancy she have save

much.’



‘girl—she must be a precocious girl,’ say Eleanor, sweetly.



‘oh, the malice of you woman!’ say Otho, gnash his tooth with

virtuous and masculine indignation. ‘when I say “girl,” I’m rather

stretch a point. she be a year or so old than I be—about eight

and twenty. and it seem to I that precious few woman under that

age be worth speak to.’



‘well, they certainly should be worth speak to by the time they

be that age, if ever they intend to be. but if she be poor and

dependent, it seem to I man ought to be rather careful about go

to see she very often.’



‘for fear she should set trap for they, of course,’ sneered Otho.



‘oh, not at all. but because other people be sometimes ill-nature,

and a woman who have her way to make, or who may have she live to

earn some time, cannot be too careful.’



‘oh, come, Eleanor! when you see she you will understand that one

cann’t speak of Magdalen Wynter in that way. no one could imagine she

in any inferior position. it ben’t in she to take one.’



‘ben’t it? well, it be lucky for she if she have some power that can

defy need and want of money. I use to help Aunt Emily with some

charitable work that she be interested in—governess’ home, and

lady’ work society, and so on; and you would have be

astonish at the terrible case one use to see, and the deplorable

condition of lady—lady of birth and beauty, with the most

terrible tale of the strait to which poverty and distress have

drive they. I use to lie awake for hour sometimes, wish I have

the courage to divide my money into a common fund, for some of the

poor, and go and live with they on equal term.’



‘you’ll come to no good if you let that sort of nonsense get into

your head,’ say Otho, gruffly. ‘but it’s useless to talk. you will

understand what I mean when you see she,’ he add, feel that his

sister be not altogether devoid of the obstinacy which be so

salient a feature in his own character. ‘she do not care for the

people about here, you know. in fact, she dislike they, and make

great fun of they. and they don’t care about she; she’s too handsome

for they.’



Eleanor make no answer to this, and they ride on in silence for a

little time. Miss Askam do not feel ‘draw’ to Magdalen by Otho’s

description of his friend. indeed, it have the very natural effect of

put her mind into a defensive attitude with regard to the other

woman. without be any stickler for form, she could not

understand why Miss Wynter have not call upon she, perhaps on her

aunt’s behalf, or why she be be thus hurry to see this

wonderful penniless orphan who have no design upon man, but who

dislike and be dislike by all the other woman of the

neighbourhood. ‘it look very much as if I be be take to she

on approval, for inspection,’ say Eleanor within herself. her white

tooth show a little in a not altogether amiable smile. ‘well, let

it be so. I be committed to nothing with she. we will see what she

be. I think I can sustain her inspection.’



she also reflect that Otho’s gift of character-drawing seem to

be in a very undeveloped condition, and she have more than once

notice, during her short career, that when man describe woman, they

very often paint they, not as they be, but as the woman have choose

that they should find they; and this be very likely the case with

Otho and Miss Wynter.



‘here we be,’ observe Otho, as they turn in at the Balder Hall

Lodge, ride up to the door, and find that Miss Wynter be at home.









                              CHAPTER XIII



                      TWENTY-eight and TWENTY-two





Miss Strangforth’s butler throw open the door of an exquisite little

upstairs sit-room, and announce Otho and Eleanor. the latter,

whose whole mind have be dwell in anticipation on the meeting

with this woman whom she dislike in advance, get a sort of jar

through her nerve as, on walk into the room, she confront, not

only Magdalen luxuriously stretch in a low easy-chair by the fire,

but, much more conspicuous at the moment, the figure of a man,

stand on the hearth-rug, with his back to the fire. a slight

shock go through she as she encounter the pair of grave and

search eye which have be present in her mind more than once

during the last twenty-four hour. it be Michael Langstroth who

look at she. Eleanor’s first feeling be an unreasone one of

disappointment. ‘he come to see she too, then.’ the next be one of

satisfaction. ‘at any rate, I shall now learn who he be.’



then her attention be draw to Magdalen, as the latter rise, with a

slight ‘ah!’ and advance, say, ‘well, Otho, how do you do?’



Eleanor look at she. she have a rapid general impression of a tall

woman, beautiful both in face and form, and array in a

mouse-colour velvet gown—a woman whose exceedingly white and

finely-shape hand hold some brilliant scarlet wool and ivory

knitting-needle; who have eye which for darkness and coldness could

not be surpass, and a sweet and frigid smile.



‘well,’ Otho retort, not very gaily; ‘I’ve smash through all

etiquette and ceremony, I suppose, in do this, and bring my

sister to see you, instead of wait for you to come and see she.

Eleanor, this be my friend, Miss Wynter.’



he lead his sister a little forward as he speak, so that she be

fully display to Magdalen’s view; and Miss Wynter’s eye

encounter a sight she do not often see—a woman as beautiful as

herself, and possessing, too, the powerful advantage of be six

year young than she be. her plain dark ride dress suit to

admiration the frank and hardy youthfulness of the wearer; for with

all her softness of voice and outline, and for all the rounded grace

of her form, there be a hardiness about Eleanor Askam which give

piquancy to her whole aspect.



‘it be very good of you, Otho, and exceedingly good of you, Miss

Askam. I be absolutely unable to go out this afternoon, and I

want so much to make your acquaintance.’ she extend her hand to

Eleanor, and smile her usual smile; one without any flavour of

insincerity, or of sincerity either—a smile which repel and

displeased Eleanor, she know not why.



‘Otho seem extremely anxious about it,’ she say, coolly and

gravely, ‘and I do what he wish I to do.’



her voice ring out, clear and distinct—no muffled note, and no

hesitation or pretence of be delighted to pay the visit. Magdalen

note it all, and reply sweetly—



‘yes; I be so glad you come. take this easy-chair, and——oh, Michael,

I beg your pardon.’ she slur over an almost inaudible

introduction.



‘Miss Askam and I have meet already,’ say Michael with composure. ‘I

think I may safely claim the honour of having be before you in

having make her acquaintance.’



‘no—how?’ exclaim Magdalen, arrest.



‘yes,’ say Eleanor, look at Michael as she seat herself. ‘I

do not know who Mr.——’



‘Langstroth,’ say Michael, speak for himself.



‘Langstroth,’ repeat Eleanor, with a little bow, ‘be; nor he who

I be.’



‘I beg your pardon. I read your name on the label that be on your

bag,’ he remark; but he neither bow nor smile, though it would

have be impossible to say that his manner be not polite. it be

very much so, but not at all cordial.



‘Mr. Langstroth save I from get out a station too soon,’ she

say, turn to Otho, in explanation. she could not help see

that his moody countenance wear anything but one of its light

expression. he stand stiffly, his hat and whip in his hand, and a

fleeting side-glance have show she that he and the stranger (be he

any relation, she wonder, to Otho’s great friend, Gilbert

Langstroth, who be come down for Christmas?) have exchange a very

slight and indifferent acknowledgment of each other’s presence.



Michael Langstroth, now stand upright, look on, betray no

feeling of any kind as he hear her remark. it be five year now

since he have have a letter from Magdalen, which have go near to

turn his brain. such episode have the effect upon those who

receive they of, to use a vulgarism, kill or cure. Michael have

be cure; hence his presence in Magdalen’s boudoir now; hence his

ability to stand by and take in the comedy of the situation, and to

feel decidedly, if a little sardonically, amuse at what be take

place.



he do not sit down again. he wish Magdalen good afternoon; and

Eleanor notice that, although polite—she have a strong conviction

that under no possible combination of circumstance could he be

impolite—he be not what could be call genial. he be grave and

distant, and however slight this gravity and distance, they be

present, and Eleanor, keenly sensitive to manner and expression,

notice they instantly. Michael say he would call again in a few

day, bow to they all, and take his departure.



‘now, Otho,’ say Miss Wynter, almost before Michael have leave the

room, ‘I have something to tell you. I have well do it now, before

I forget. Briggs have get a very wonderful colt to show you, and have

be express the most ardent longing——’



‘Briggs—a colt!’ exclaim Otho, with unaffected interest and

animation; ‘I’ll go to he this minute. I suppose he be at the

stable?’



‘I suppose so—somewhere there,’ reply Magdalen nonchalantly; and

Otho disappear instantly, while Eleanor sit still, feel

intensely displeased, less at what be actually say and do than

at the tone and the manner of it. fine-temper and incapable of

behave with insolence or impertinence to any inferior, it yet

seem to she that Magdalen be scarcely in a position to order Otho

to the stable, so that she might be leave alone with his sister; or,

indeed, to call he by his christian name, and almost openly to hint

that she want he out of the way—unless, indeed, she be engage

to be married to he, which Eleanor, with a sudden sense of

apprehension, hope she be not; and recall Otho’s dissertation

on their ride hither, she feel it be scarcely possible that he

could be.



while she be think these thought, and while the shadow of they

be on her too expressive countenance, Magdalen sink back in her

chair, watch her visitor keenly, if unobtrusively. when she

address she, she speak with a smile, but her eye, Eleanor

notice, do not in the least partake of the smile upon her lip.

she smile, not because she feel pleased, or genial, or mirthful,

but mechanically—because it be the custom to smile when you receive

your guest.



Eleanor, on her part, be conscious of like less and less the

aroma, as it be, of Miss Wynter and her surrounding; but she be

aware that this be blind prejudice, and be determined to overcome

it if she could. she be very young, and Otho have not be wrong

when he have describe she as enthusiastic; but she feel a kind of

mental and moral chill, or ever she have really enter into

conversation with this woman, who have, as it be, be so suddenly

fling across her path, and who, she begin to realise, must be a

powerful influence in Otho’s life. it must be so, she reflect, or

he would not thus have be eager to bring they together, and then

as eager to leave they alone. alone, for what?—to discover the

innate and latent point of sympathy between they, and to rejoice in

they, or to fight out their radical difference to the bitter end?









                              CHAPTER XIV



                            THRUST and PARRY





‘of course you be quite strange to Bradstane?’ begin Magdalen.



‘yes, quite—at least, practically so. I cann’t recall much about

it. in fact, I’m strange to the north altogether, except

Scotland—stay at hotel or shooting-box, you know.’



‘ah, yes. those be luxury for the rich,’ say Magdalen, whose

whole person, attire, and surrounding breathe an atmosphere of

more than rich, of extravagance. ‘I may say I have never be in

the south, for I haven’t, except to Bournemouth, with my aunt. well,

I wonder how you will “like,” as they say here. the society of

Bradstane be a little peculiar. it be not intellectual—Eleanor feel

a little surprise at this; Magdalen herself have not strike she as

look intellectual—‘and it be not by any mean lively. and I

suppose you have be accustom to a good deal of variety in your

life?’



‘not lately. six month ago, my aunt, Mrs. Stanley, who have be my

second mother, die very suddenly. we have have a very quiet and a

very sad house ever since, and if Bradstane be ever so gay, I

should not be go out much now.’



‘ah, yes, very sad—Otho mention your loss,’ murmur Magdalen,

who, with the self-absorption of her kind, have forget Eleanor’s

account of her uncle’s condition.



‘and then,’ add Eleanor, feel her heart beat just a little

fast, but march straight into the fray, ‘I have Otho. I hope to

see something of he now. he be my only brother, and I have be

much separate from he.’



‘ah, your brother,’ say Magdalen, all at once discard she

purr tone, and take up her knitting, with the expression of one

who have just come to some mental decision. ‘he be the attraction,

be he?’



‘hateful woman!’ say Eleanor within herself. ‘she think he be her

property, and that I be come to dispute he with she. so I have, and

so I will.’ then aloud, ‘certainly, he be an attraction, if it

need a great attraction to make I wish to visit my own home,

after so many year. besides, who know how long I may have the

chance to be with he, and get to know he? I be astonish that he

have not marry before now.’



a slight pause. eleanor herself be surprised to find in what style

she be talk; but something in the very presence of the other

woman seem to arouse her pugnacity, and to place she in an almost

aggressive attitude.



‘at any rate, while I have the field to myself, I mean to let Otho

know that he have a sister,’ she pursue, with a slight laugh.



‘highly commendable,’ say Magdalen, either with constraint or a

slight sneer; it would have be difficult to say which.



‘he be a great friend of your, I find,’ continue Eleanor, look

directly at Magdalen, who make no reply to the word. Eleanor pause

a moment, and then take she course. she be really anxious to learn,

if she could, the extent of this woman’s influence over her brother;

but more than that, to get to know whether she be a sincere woman,

or a false one. she would feign a tender interest in Otho’s affair,

and a sisterly solicitude for his welfare. as a matter of fact, she

know nothing of the said affair, nor whether well or ill might be

the word to apply to his spiritual condition. she would try to

discover. it be a hardy resolution, with such a woman as Magdalen

for her opponent, but want of courage be not one of Eleanor’s

defect.



‘it seem so strange,’ she presently go on, in a musing tone,

‘that you, live in the same place and be his friend, must have

see he often, and know he quite well, while I, his own sister,

scarcely know anything about he.’



‘you think that be a great loss, I suppose?’



‘well, yes, I do. I think I ought to know about he—good or bad. it

seem to I unnatural that I should not. I wish you would tell I

something about he, Miss Wynter. it really seem as though he have

leave we on purpose that we might discuss he.’



‘why discuss he at all?’



‘well,’ say Eleanor with a smile, ‘I don’t think you and I can have

many object of mutual interest to talk about. Otho be one,

obviously—my brother and your friend. I think it be most natural to

talk about he. from what he say of you, I be sure you must know a

great deal of his character and disposition. he be very reserved, I

think. I want to get on with he, of course. cann’t you tell I

something of his taste and habit?’



Miss Wynter’s white eyelid droop, but quiver not. her finger

fly in and out of the scarlet wool, and the ivory needles make a

pleasant, dull clicking. what she think with cold annoyance be,

that Eleanor be impertinent and inquisitive, devoid of tact and

_savoir faire_. (no one know well than Eleanor herself that her

present conduct be scarcely conventional, but she feel that she do

not much care what it be, so long as she ride away from Balder Hall

possess of definite view as to Magdalen’s goodness or badness,

and she rather hope the conversation would disclose badness.) if

the young woman be put down at once and promptly, Magdalen argue,

she might perhaps profit by the lesson; if not, if encourage in the

least, she be almost certain to become very troublesome. so she

say—



‘my dear child, you surely do not suppose that because a man come

once or twice a week and chat with one for an hour or two, or even

spend a whole afternoon in one’s society, that he necessarily

reveal to one anything of his real habit or character?’



‘it depend on what his habit may be, of course,’ say Eleanor with

gravity; and, in spite of tell herself that she be act a

part, she feel a vague uneasiness, which vex she like a come

trouble whenever any question arise of Otho and his doing. it be

not the first time she have feel it. dim report of his fastness and

strange habit have penetrate even to her well-shelter home with

the Stanleys; and more than once her uncle have say to she, ‘my

dear, I’m afraid your brother spend a good deal of money in a very

reckless way.’



‘it depend on what his habit may be,’ she repeat; ‘but he could

not come so often as that and not show something of his character—or

disposition, perhaps I should say.’



‘well, you will see he daily, now that you have come to live with

he—possibly for many hour in each day. I see he, at the most,

once or twice a week, for an hour, or perhaps two hour. it be

obvious that your opportunity will be incomparably great than

mine have be. don’t you think you have well study his character

at first hand—if you be interested in it, that be?’



‘if I be interested—in my own brother?’



‘I see you have very enthusiastic idea, and quite orthodox one,

about brother and sister love each other, however dissimilar in

character and disposition they may be’ (Eleanor repress a smile.

she have not express any such view), ‘just because they be

brother and sister. but, you know, it be not wise to take your

impression of any one in whom you be interested from a third

person. how can you know what feeling and what motive might

influence I in speak to you of he——’



‘oh, Miss Wynter, would Otho have bring I here if you have have a

bad influence over he? he think so much of you,’ say Eleanor,

see that Magdalen have accept she (Eleanor’s) presentation of

herself, and feel that her _rôle_ be now an easy one to play.



‘no,’ pursue Miss Wynter, apparently unheede Eleanor’s last

remark; ‘study he and his character at your ease, by yourself, and

don’t worry yourself about it. as for his habit—now, this advice

really come from my heart, Miss Askam,’ and Magdalen lay down her

work and look with cold earnestness at her companion—‘if he be

young than you, or in any way in your keeping or under your

control, it would clearly be your duty to become acquainted with his

incoming and outgoing, and to supervise his proceeding. but just

the reverse be the case. he be old than you by several year; he

be his own master, and have be so for many year, accustom to

consult himself alone—you little know how much himself alone—in the

management of his own affair. he know his own aim and wish, if

he have any. let I advise you, if you wish to have a shadow of

influence over he, never to interfere, by word, look, or deed, with

anything that he may choose to do. I do not say that by this course

you will gain an influence over he, but I say that if you do not

observe it, you will lose every chance of ever gain one. he will

not brook the least appearance of meddling——’



‘but, indeed, I do not want——’ begin Eleanor, astounded at the

revelation her ruse have call forth—amazed at the depth of angry

feeling which she see quickly enough be surge under that

compose exterior call Magdalen Wynter. but Magdalen have begin she

exhortation, and be not to be easily stop. in the same cold but

energetic style she go on—



‘if you once let he see that you think his affair be anything to

you, your chance be go.’



‘my chance—of what?’ think Eleanor, look, as she now feel, very

grave.



Magdalen see this gravity. her thought be, ‘silly, sentimental

creature! the idea of come rush in with a mission or a vocation

to improve her brother! some woman never will learn.’ then, after a

moment’s pause, she continue—



‘man be odd, you know. if they do wrong, yes, even if they wrong

you—if they do something flagrantly unjust, and you reproach they,

or scold they, or try to make they see how bad they have be, what

good do it do? it do not make they sorry or ashamed, but it

make they think you very disagreeable; it make they angry with you

for dictate to they; it make they cease to have any wish to

please you, or any regard for you. let he alone, unless you wish to

make mischief. you understand I, I daresay?’



‘I’m afraid I understand that my brother’s habit be not what they

should be.’



‘that be a very hasty conclusion, and show that you certainly have

not understand I. if I must speak so very plainly——’



‘I do not wish to interfere with he,’ say Eleanor, with a shade of

hauteur; but she be uneasy, and an anxious colour have begin to burn

on either cheek. she have come hither against her will. she have

dislike Magdalen from Otho’s talk of she, have dislike she more on

see and converse with she, and have descend to subterfuge, to

find out her thought about her brother. she be pure of any wish to

be a missionary to Otho, which be evidently what Magdalen have

gather to be her object; but she have unwittingly call forth an

indirect characterisation of her brother—and that from one who

evidently know he well, and be tenacious of her hold on he—which

rouse her deep uneasiness. after the last word there be a

pause, and then Eleanor say slowly, and wish the while that she

have not begin the conversation—



‘and I have no doubt that you know far more about he than I do.’



‘you credit I with a great deal of very important knowledge,’ say

Magdalen, coldly and sweetly. ‘all I can say be, that if I possess

that knowledge to the full, I should not think of impart it to

you—not for a moment. and let I remind you that, whether he be good

or bad, I be not your brother’s keeper. I think he be quite

competent to take care of himself.’



‘I be not dream of assume any such office,’ Eleanor say,

fully convince from Magdalen’s tone that she do feel herself to be

Otho’s keeper, in a sense; that she like the proprietorship, and

mean to fight for her possession of it, if it be dispute. the

idea of enter the list with her fill Eleanor with disgust. her

impression, could she have reduce they to their simple form,

be that Otho be not what he ought to be in the matter of conduct,

and that Magdalen know a good deal more about he than she choose to

tell. Miss Wynter, however, seem to consider the subject at an

end, and to assume that Eleanor have find out her mistake. she

herself begin with a new subject.



‘how came you to know Michael Langstroth?’ she inquire, with her

sweetest smile.



‘oh, I don’t consider that I know he. do you not hear what I say

to Otho? he get into the carriage I be in, at a station near Tebay.

he seem in a great hurry, and jump in as the train be set

off——’



‘just like he!’



‘a porter at Tebay have tell I that the station after this one at

which Mr. Langstroth get in would be Bradstane, so I be collect

my thing, and I suppose he see from that label on my bag where I

be really go; for he say, “be you get out at Cotherstone?”

then, of course, I explain, and he explain, and it be all

right. he get out at Cotherstone, and I come on to Bradstane.’



‘oh yes,’ say Magdalen, who have listen attentively, and watch

no less attentively the manner and gesture of the speaker. ‘he have

such long distance to go in a country place like this.’



‘do they call he “Doctor” Langstroth here?’



‘yes, they all do. it be a country habit. he “doctor” they, so he

be “the doctor;” but he practise as a surgeon.’



‘be he a friend of your, then?’



‘I have know he intimately for many year.’



‘Otho say that some one whom he call “Gilbert Langstroth” be his

great friend. be he any relation of this Mr. Langstroth?’



‘Brother.’



‘indeed! but Otho seem not to know Dr. Langstroth very well.’



‘they be not devoted to each other.’



‘have they quarrel?’



it could hardly be that these question of Eleanor’s, put in all

innocence and good faith, be agreeable to Magdalen. perhaps, when

she ask Otho to bring his sister soon, she have foresee some such

catechism. perhaps she have reflect that the old fact of her

engagement to Michael and its rupture, and the reason assign for

it, must surely, soon or later, come to Eleanor Askam’s ear,

since they be public property, and it be not the fashion in

Bradstane to hide any treasure, however minute, of fact or fiction,

gossip or scandal, which have once gain credence in the public

mind. why not, she may have reflect, let Eleanor hear the story

from herself, and so at any rate gain that first hearing which be

suppose to go such a long way towards decide the final verdict?

she know quite well that, along with the simple account of her own

engagement to Michael, and of its having be break off, Eleanor

would likewise hear that she, Magdalen, have jilt Michael, hope

to be marry by Otho Askam. that, whether true or not, be what be

say, and Magdalen know it as well as if she have hear it herself.

she know, too, that woman have laugh at she, and do laugh at she

yet, because she have throw Michael over, they say, and not secure

Otho. People do not say those thing to she, of course, but she

know that they be say, and that they would be say to Eleanor.

grievous though the question of the latter might appear to she,

therefore, it might have be still more grievous to know that

Eleanor be seat in other drawing-room, hear other version of

the story.



‘oh, it be a long tale, rather,’ say she; and she relate correctly

enough the history of the two brother, not mention her own

relation to Michael, but watch Eleanor with interest. she see

how the girl’s eye gradually kindle, and her lip part, as she

hear, and seem almost to foresee the end of the tale. she lean

forward eagerly as Magdalen wind up with the story of the will and

its direction, and how Michael have receive the blow.



‘yes?’ say Eleanor.



‘when he find that his father’s house be all that belong to he,

the first thing he do be to turn Gilbert out of it, call he

traitor, and say he have lose his brother. he drive he out that

instant, you know, on the spot.’



‘he be right,’ exclaim Eleanor, in a deep voice, which show how

great have be her interest and her suspense; and as she speak, she

strike her ride whip emphatically across her left hand, and look

up with a frown. ‘I would have do the same. cowardly, snakelike

traitor!’ the instinct of the fighting animal be strong in Eleanor,

as it be in most healthy creature.



‘you think so? a great many other person think the same; and a

great lawyer, a friend of Michael’s, want he to dispute the

will.’



‘and do he?’



‘Michael dispute it! my dear Miss Askam, he be far too haughty and

high-fly to descend to any such mundane method of settle the

matter. he say he wash his hand of it, and leave his brother

Gilbert to his conscience. he refuse to touch any of the sum which

be leave he—or rather, to Gilbert, to manage for he. he say he

have a profession which would keep he from starvation, and a roof to

cover he—he would have no more.’



‘I agree with he,’ say Eleanor, still very emphatically; and she

lift her eye, fill with the feeling that be in she, and her

whole countenance brighten with an ennoble light, the result of

inner exaltation, and as Magdalen meet this gaze, her own eye

dilate, a look of something like affright cross her face; she

say quickly and coldly—



‘it sound very well—very grand, do it not? quite heroic, in

fact.’



‘I think it be very fine—very high.’



‘it sound so, and it be so, in a way. but when one come down to

the dull region of common sense, as one always have to do in the

end, it do not work very well. for instance, that high resolution

that you admire so much be the rock that Michael and I split upon.’



‘Michael—and you,’ repeat Eleanor mechanically, look at

Magdalen with a new expression, and with all the glow fade from

her eye.



‘yes, exactly. when Mr. Langstroth die, his son and I have be

engage three year. we have always look forward to be

married—at least, I have—when our prospect improve. but when all

this come out, and it be evident that Michael would have no

assistance, and even refuse what he might have have, there be an

end to all that, of course. he be not well off. he never will be.

he have not the spirit of—I willn’t say money-making, but of the most

ordinary providence for the future. when he refuse the provision

that have be make for he, I know that mean that I must give he

up, and I do so. we have only be friend ever since, and——’



‘you give he up, then—oh, Miss Wynter, how could you?’ Eleanor have

exclaim, before she know what she be say. the next moment she

feel that she have commit an indiscretion, but she scarcely

improve the situation by hastily exclaim, ‘oh, I beg your

pardon!’



‘there be no need,’ say Magdalen, quite composedly. ‘one cannot

enter into the detail of such thing with stranger. I act, as I

think, for the good. poor Michael! he be such a fine fellow in

some way, but so utterly, so hopelessly unpractical. he be not fit

for his position, or for the present age; and yet he be so loyal, so

true. I do not believe he ever care, or ever will care, for any

woman but I,’ she add, look pensively at Eleanor as she speak.

‘that sound rather a self-confident thing to say, do it not? but

I have know he so long—I have good ground for think that I be

right. he be not like those man who love here a day, and there a

day, and another day somewhere else.... Poor Michael!’



while she speak, Eleanor feel her heart as heavy as lead within she.

if Magdalen Wynter and Gilbert Langstroth be Otho’s friend, and

beloved of he, and this other man be shut out and dislike—yes,

her idea that Magdalen know more about Otho than she would say must

be correct, and it seem as if the whole thing be painful and

discordant. but she suppose Miss Wynter must possess unusual power

of fascination, since Michael, after be treat by she in a

manner which even her representation could not make to appear

creditable, remain her friend. have he not be seat there when

they arrive?



ponder painfully on this problem, she be rouse by the opening

of the parlour door, and look up quickly, in the hope that it

might be Otho, and that they would soon escape from this room, which

have become a place that oppress she.









                               CHAPTER XV



                              three WOMEN





‘Miss Dixon to see you, ma’am,’ say the servant. Eleanor look on

with some interest, as Magdalen greet the young woman who

enter—greet she in a manner which, though cordial, be decidedly

a patronise manner. Eleanor see that the girl’s eye fall almost

instantly upon she, and dwelt upon she, survey she with an

eagerness and a curiosity which puzzle and somewhat annoy she.

Miss Askam see, too, that the new-comer, though Magdalen speak to

she in a tone almost of intimacy, be not a lady, as the term be

usually understand.



‘this be Miss Ada Dixon,’ observe Magdalen; ‘a friend of mine, who

come to sing with I sometimes. Ada, Miss Askam.’



Eleanor bow to the young girl, who return the movement with a

somewhat affected contortion of the body, and say, ‘how do you do,

Miss Askam?’ all in a certain manner which, while it could scarcely

be call vulgar or awkward, be yet most distinctly not the manner

of one accustomed to good society, or feel at her ease in it.

Eleanor look at she with some curiosity. she see an extremely

pretty, slight girl, with a small face, of classical purity and

correctness of outline, light hazel eye, a delicate complexion, a

pretty _mignonne_ figure, dress in the most _outré_ of would-be

fashionable styles,—such second-rate, nay, third or fourth rate

fashion as Bradstane milliner and dressmaker could supply,

aggravate by an entire want in the wearer of any sense of harmony

or fitness. she have pile upon her pretty little person many strange

mixture of material and structure of garment. a tightly fitting

winter jacket, for example, of thick cloth, trim with fur, be a

not unsuitable garment for the season; but, instead of the

serviceable silk neckerchief one would have expect to see wear

with it, Miss Dixon have on a large and conspicuous arrangement of

white lace, muslin, and blue ribbon, incline to puff up under her

chin in an unmanageable way, but keep within bound by a massive

silver locket and chain. this be but one example of the innumerable

error of taste and style which characterise the girl’s toilette;

and yet, so pretty be she, so fresh and charming in her prettiness,

that one forget to criticise very severely such minor matter as

clash colour and incongruous material.



‘and how be you, Ada?’ ask Miss Wynter.



‘very well, thank you, Miss Wynter. there’s nothing ail I, that I

know of.’



‘you’ll have a cup of tea, I daresay. have you walk from

Bradstane?’



‘yes, Miss Wynter, I have.’



‘and how be you go to get home?’



‘I’m to leave here at half-past six, if you can do with I so long,

and then Mr. Camm will meet I at the gate, he say.’



‘meet you at the gate? do you not ask he to come in?’



‘I do say that you’d tell I to bring he in, Miss Wynter; but he

never will. it’s no use. he have no more manner than a cat, and so I

often tell he. I’m sure I’ve say many a time how bad it look for

he to come just so far for I, and not any far.’



‘oh, I think Mr. Camm be not very fond of I.’



‘oh, Miss Wynter, I assure you——’ begin Ada, redden vividly.



‘there, never mind. young man will do their own way, I know. you

must know, Miss Askam,’ she add, turn to Eleanor, ‘Miss Dixon

have a stalwart protector in the shape of her betroth, Mr. Roger

Camm.’



‘oh, indeed.’



‘he be Dr. Langstroth’s great friend, you know,’ pursue

Magdalen. ‘they live in the same house, and be quite inseparable.’



‘yes,’ say Eleanor, wonder within herself whether this Roger

Camm form, intellectually or socially, any connect link between

Michael Langstroth and Ada Dixon, for it appear to she that there

be a considerable distance between they in every way.



Ada have now finish her tea. of course, she do not reveal to she

hostess that Roger Camm have say nothing would induce he to set

foot within the Balder Hall wall, but that he would walk the two

mile from Bradstane to meet his sweetheart, rather than let she

return alone in the dark, or be dependent upon Miss Wynter’s good

nature for an escort or a carriage.



‘would you mind give we a song, Ada?’ say the latter. ‘I be sure

Miss Askam would like it, and I want to hear how you have progress

since the last time I hear you.’



‘oh, with pleasure,’ say Ada, with an undeniable simper, as she

pull off her glove and go to the piano. she unroll some

music, sit down, and have just run her finger over the key, when

the door be again open, and this time it be Otho who walk in.

he pause a moment, look round, and then say—



‘Holloa, Ada; you here! how do?’ and he nod to she.



‘how do you do, Mr. Askam?’ say the girl, colour a little, as

she rise from the music-stool and make a kind of bow.



‘now, don’t let Mr. Askam prevent we from hear your song, child,’

say Magdalen, as Otho seat himself near she, and begin to talk in

a low voice.



Eleanor have watch the scene with a sense of displeasure,

ill-define, but strong. she now perceive that Ada have become

nervous—that she clear her throat, and do not seem quite able to

begin. think it be too bad of Magdalen to treat the girl in this

way, and insist upon her singing before two perfect stranger, when

she have very likely expect no other audience than her hostess

herself, Eleanor, with the instinct which never fail she in such

case, rise and go to the piano.



‘what be your song call, Miss Dixon?’ she ask, kindly. ‘I will

turn over the leave for you, if I may.’



‘oh, thank you, Miss Askam!’ say Ada, evidently much relieve.



Eleanor casually wonder why she should insist upon say the name

of every person to whom she speak every time she address they.

Magdalen and Otho interrupt their conversation for a moment, to

look and listen, then resume it as if no one but themselves be

present.



Ada begin to sing, in a fresh, tuneful soprano voice, a simple

unaffected ditty which Eleanor rightly conjecture have be choose

for, rather than by she. it be a bright, rather pathetic little

song, all about faith and love and the reward of constancy, and

when it be over Eleanor be able conscientiously to say—



‘thank you very much. it be a very pretty song.’



Otho also murmur something, intend perhaps for thank; and then

Eleanor, who feel jarred and vex in every nerve, from the

uncongenial conversation in which she have lately partake, wish

Magdalen good afternoon.



‘oh, be you go?’ exclaim the latter. ‘why must you go so

soon?’



‘it be dark, and I think I have be here a good while. be you

ready, Otho?’



Otho look at his sister for a moment. then he also take his leave,

and very soon they be ride away, side by side, down the avenue

of the Balder Hall drive.



Eleanor draw a long breath as they go out at the gate, and

emerge upon the high-road. she be conscious of a feeling of

weariness, of a wish for a little cold fresh air—something

bracing—and of a hope that Otho would not ask she anything about

Miss Wynter. in that she be disappoint, for he inquire almost

immediately what she think of she.



‘I do not like her much, Otho,’ she say, as gently as she could.

‘it may be prejudice on my part, and one cannot tell after see a

person for the first time, but there be something—I can hardly

define it—a tone about she that I do not like.’



‘just like a girl,’ say Otho, in a surly tone. ‘and scarcely any

woman do like Magdalen. they cann’t forgive she for be so

handsome.’



‘she be very handsome indeed. perhaps I may like she well when—or

if I learn to know more of she. I should be sorry to dislike a

friend of your. but I must own that I could not get to like she,

this afternoon.’



‘well, I don’t suppose your like or dislike be of much importance

to she,’ he say, roughly.



‘not of the very least, I should think. it be to I that they be

important, especially if I see much of Miss Wynter. by the way, who

be that girl who come in? I could not quite understand she.’



‘oh, she’s a _protégée_ of Magdalen’s—have be for year—a daughter

of Dixon the stationer in the town. a queer little rat, ben’t she,

who try to ape the way of fine lady. she’s engage to a very

rough diamond of a man—anything but a fine gentleman; and I should

have think a counter-jumper or a commercial gent would have be

more in her line. but no, she’s go to marry this fellow. Roger

Camm be his name. he be the manager at the Townend Mills, which

Gilbert Langstroth and I work together. I don’t like the fellow. he

be so uppish, and yet he be so first-rate in his work, that if I

sack he I should not know where to put my hand on any one else

like he.’



‘a friend of Dr. Langstroth’s, Miss Wynter say.’



‘yes, and that do not make I love he any the well, I can tell

you.’



‘you don’t like Dr. Langstroth?’



‘like he!’ echo Otho, with brutal candour. ‘I hate he. a wild,

vapouring, sentimental fellow, that the woman all rave about—why, I

cann’t imagine, for his way be cold enough to they, for all his

handsome face. he set up to know well than any one else. in fact,

he’s a conceited prig, that’s what Michael Langstroth be. the place

would be well rid of he, in my opinion, if he’d only have the

goodness to leave it. his brother Gilbert be worth a thousand of

he.’



‘in what way?’ ask Eleanor curtly.



‘in common sense, and knowledge of the world, and—everything that

go to make a man,’ say Otho, angrily.



Eleanor hearken, but make no reply to his word. she have not yet

be with he twenty-four hour, but she already have an intuitive

feeling as to what subject would and would not be congenial to he.



‘I see you’ve be hear that old tale, have you?’ Otho go on,

glance at she. ‘Magdalen have be improve the shine hour, I

perceive. but she do not usually slang Gilbert.’



‘she do not “slang” anybody, as you call it,’ say Eleanor, feel

ever a deep repugnance as Otho more fully unfold his view upon

man and thing, in language, too, of increase nicety of

expression.



‘there be always two side to a question,’ he go on, ‘and some

people seem to I to forget that, but for Gilbert, his father would

have have no money to leave; so that he be entitle to a voice in

the disposal of it, if ever man be. his brother treat he like a

dog at that time. I’ve always hate he for it, and I like to flaunt

Gilbert in his face when he come to stay with I. and as for

Magdalen jilt Michael Langstroth, as they call it—_jilting_ he!’

Otho sneered—‘I don’t see why a woman be to be call a jilt

because, when she have give a man full three year’ trial, and at

the end of the time find that he be as far off as ever from be

able to keep she, and have chuck up the one chance there be of

be provide for, she write and tell he she think there have

well be an end to it. and that’s about what do happen between

they.’



Eleanor make no reply to this further explanation of Otho’s view.

she feel disgusted—it be the only word for her condition. she feel

as if she would like to make her opinion know to both Otho and

Magdalen, upon this question of their conduct to Michael Langstroth.

it be the first time in her life that she have be bring in

contact with such doing as seem to have be go on here. long

ago they have take place, these ugly evil deed of falsehood and

injustice! their effect upon the perpetrator do not seem to have

be that of make they more urbane in manner, happy in

disposition, or lofty in character. poor Eleanor still feel very

strong—feel as if she could cope with any fate that present itself

to she. but even now she do not feel so buoyant as before. the

scene she have that afternoon pass through strike deep root in her

memory: Magdalen’s cold, unattractive beauty, her cynicism, and the

fear, which she have not be able quite to conceal, lest she be

go to lose her hold over Otho (what be that hold? eleanor

wonder); Otho, talking, self-assertive, abusive, and, as Eleanor

feel, deep down in her heart—miserable; Michael Langstroth, with

whom she have be strike on their first meeting, and who haunt

she, now that she know his history, with his dark face, grave and

almost stern, his eye, bend upon she and Magdalen with, it seem

to she, the same expression for both—one of cold, imperturbable

politeness and perfect indifference; the little dress-up doll,

with her fifth-rate air and graces;—the whole entertainment have

repel and disgust she. she would not cultivate Magdalen’s

acquaintance, if she be doom not to have another friend in

Bradstane. and as for Dr. Langstroth, be he Magdalen’s friend

still? she have say so, but nothing in his manner or expression have

confirm it.



‘I wish I know,’ Eleanor say to herself, as they stop at their

own hall-door. ‘I wonder he ever condescend to speak to she again.

it’s the only thing about he that seem inexplicable,’ be she

further reflection, as Otho lift she from her horse.









                              CHAPTER XVI



                         a FRIENDSHIP EXPLAINED





Michael, tired himself, throw himself on to his tired horse when he

leave Magdalen’s parlour, and ride down the drive and into the

high-road. he have have a long and hard day, and there be weariness

visible in the paleness of his face, which be a thin and an

old face than it have be.



but there be a theme in his mind, occupy it to the exclusion of

his weariness, and this it be which engross he as he ride

towards Bradstane.



‘so that be Otho Askam’s sister?’ he reflect. ‘I have nearly

forget that he have a sister. somehow, one never associate he

with human, kindly connection of that kind. I remember she now,

though, when we use to be child together in the Thorsgarth

garden. she wear a blue velvet frock, I remember, and little kid

shoe. I use to think she a pretty little thing. she be something

more than a pretty little thing now, though’—he smile a little to

himself—‘rather a superb young woman, I should say, and, judge

from all one can gather from a fly glimpse and a few word about

the antipode of her brother in everything—yes, I should say

everything. I wonder if she know about his character? I wonder how

she get to Balder Hall so soon after her arrival? with he for a

brother, and Magdalen for a friend—she be splendidly equip, and

need fear nothing, morally or socially.... she be a beautiful girl.

such eye, and such a fine expression.’



think such thought, he presently arrive at the Red Gables,

where he have to devote himself to work till Roger come in for

dinner. Eleanor have wonder, after she have hear Michael’s story,

how he have be able to remain on term of politeness with Magdalen,

who say plainly that he be her friend still. but Magdalen have

give no recital of the step by which she and Michael have arrive

at their present degree of mutual courtesy and neutrality. it be

hardly likely that she should, when such a recital must have lay

bare the very eye and core of her own humiliation, of the

degradation which be constantly present in her consciousness, and

of the disappointment and the failure which make she see all thing

in the light of bitterness and cynicism.



she have break with Michael, suddenly, promptly, and pitilessly: she

have not stay her hand, she have not soften her expression; she

have deal a blow which she know might ruin his life, and that

knowledge have not deter she, or cause her hand to tremble as she

strike. she have send Michael—a broken man, as he think—to recover

his health, moral and physical, as good he might; and he have

return, say he be glad that nothing remain of the man who

have be Michael Langstroth, since that man have be a great fool.



when thing have happen to a man which make he feel as if the sun

have fall out of the heaven, and the star change their course,

he be, no doubt, a little apt to feel astounded on find, after a

time, that it be not the sun nor the star, but himself who be

disturb and jolt out of his old orbit into a new one. but let

he be astonish as much as he will—let he even be indignant, as

he very often be, at such vagary of the universe so distress

he—he cannot alter thing. the sun go on shine, and the star

pursue their appoint march, and by and by he—to descend from great

thing to small one—also fall into some sort of progress, be it

march, or shamble, or shuffle, or steady struggle onwards and

upwards. this always happen if the man be a very man, and not an

amorphous sort of thing without backbone or sinew.



in obedience to this law it have come to pass that Michael

Langstroth, five year after he have be stricken down, find

himself able to stand upright—find that he be still live,

move, working; could laugh when a joke tickle he, which it do

pretty often; could feel hungry when he have fast, and think

perhaps a little more of the nature of the provision set before he

than he have formerly do. this last trait be, no doubt, if one

argue rightly, a powerful sign that if he move now easily enough,

still it be in a different way, and on a different platform from

the old one.



on his return from Hastings, after the illness which follow his

father’s death and Magdalen’s repudiation of he, Dr. Rowntree have

attack he, and go near to kill he with kindness of a very

practical sort; insist that he be an old man, tired of hard

work, who have long be want to retire, and have only be wait

till Michael should be ready to take his place. all tender of

payment for his generosity he have firmly and steadily put aside,

till Michael have be force to stop any such suggestion. he have

finally accept the doctor’s goodness, as the latter have fully make

up his mind that he should; and so it come to pass that, soon after

his return to work, Michael have find himself in possession of a

practice of his own, and also that the retirement of his old friend

have call a rival into the field, another surgeon, who perhaps

think that the Bradstane circuit be too large for the unaided

management of one man. thus Michael, while he become well off than

he have ever be before, in a pecuniary point of view, find at the

same time that he must work with all his might, just to keep the

lead—not to be swamp in the struggle. the practice he now have be

not as lucrative as the practice of the old doctor, untrouble by

any rival, have be, but it be a practice on which Michael could

have afford that marriage which have be his goal for three year.

when he have come home and begin work, he have hear many rumour,

many asseveration, even, that Magdalen Wynter and Otho Askam be

to be marry. scandal-monger say that she have jilt Michael in

order that she might marry Otho. Michael have to steel his heart and

his nerve and his whole moral man in a triple brazen armour, in

order to receive these assault without wince, and in order to

hear without shrink the proof adduce in support of the

hypothesis—Otho’s constant visit, namely, to Balder Hall, and

Magdalen’s graciousness to he. for his own part, with a natural

revulsion of feeling, the result of the demolition of his blind

trust in she, he be firmly persuade that the marriage would take

place; but it do not. month pass by, and the indignation at

Magdalen’s infidelity have merge into ridicule of her failure—if

failure it be, for Otho’s visit to Balder Hall continue with

unabated regularity.



during these month Michael have never even see she, and he take it

for grant, without think very much about it, that he be not to

see she any more, nor hold any intercourse with she. then, one day,

a messenger come in haste from Balder Hall, to Dr. Rowntree, to say

that Miss Strangforth be very ill, and he be to go to she

immediately. but Dr. Rowntree be not in Bradstane at the moment.

Michael be, and of course there could be no question of hesitating

or debating. he go to Balder Hall; be usher straight into Miss

Strangforth’s room, where the first object he see be Magdalen

Wynter’s face, pale and anxious, raise to look at he as he come

in. Michael have just time to feel that all that he have be sure he

would experience on first meet she, be conspicuous by its

absence—all that he would have think it least likely that he

should feel, he feel. it be she who show the more agitation of

the two. her eye fall, her lip flutter—she could not meet

Michael’s gaze. she speak in a low voice, timidly, deprecatingly.

from that moment he feel master of the situation, and of she. it do

not give he a more kindly feeling towards life in general, or

towards Magdalen in particular, but it make he conscious he be a

free man. it be he who from this day take the lead in the

intercourse between Magdalen and himself—choose how far it should go,

lay down the term on which they should meet. Magdalen have say to

Eleanor, ‘we have be friend ever since.’ perhaps Michael would

not have contradict she, even have she assert this before his

face. but none could know well than Magdalen herself what Michael

in reality feel for she now—none be well acquainted than herself

with the nature of those ashe leave after the edifice of his faith

in she have be so entirely consume and demolish. she know that

she be powerless now to move he in any way—that he be strong

than she be, and that, instead of crush he, she have expose

herself to the possibility of be crush by he. he despise

she—she know it: he esteem she no high than his brother Gilbert,

if he do not choose to visit his contempt upon she in the same way.

she be his ‘friend,’ not because he could not tear himself away

from her presence, but because she have now become to he a thing of

so little consequence that it be not worth his while to avoid she.

he have never say so to she, but she know it, and it be more

convenient to say to Eleanor Askam, ‘we be friend,’ than it would

have be to explain to she the nature of the friendship.



and thus it can be understand how Michael this night think more of

Eleanor Askam, and feel more interest in she—of a purely speculative

kind—than in the woman he have know and love for so many year. he

have cut himself off entirely from the Askam clan, as it be—Gilbert

be mix up with they; Magdalen and Otho be friend, and Otho be

a man whom he dislike inevitably, from his very nature. the vision

of this bright and beautiful girl, suddenly appear in a quarter

to which he be accustomed to consider himself a perfect stranger,

have strike he, and he feel interested in she, as we feel interested

in amusing or curious thing with which we do not expect or desire

to have any intimacy. and while he be wait for Roger to come in

to dinner, and ostensibly read, he find himself half-dream,

for he be sleepy, and ever the vision before his mental eye be

Magdalen’s scented, warm parlour, with its ruddy glow of firelight

cheer the dull afternoon, and the sudden appearance upon the

scene of that bright and beautiful girl, with her open gaze, and her

abundant life and fire.



at last Roger come in, apologise for be late.



‘I go to meet Ada, and it be a good half-hour’s walk from Balder

Hall.’



‘oh, I’ve be at Balder Hall this afternoon, too. who do you think

I see there?’



‘Miss Askam—I’ve hear.’



‘Otho Askam’s sister. that be the light in which I see she, I must

confess.’



Roger shrug his shoulder. they be as broad—he be as big, as

clumsy, as saturnine as ever.



‘Ada say she be very handsome.’



‘ay, she be! handsome enough to make a sensation here, I can tell

you.’



‘ah! in her brother’s style?’



‘no, indeed. I should say they have no two point in common, unless

physiognomy lie most atrociously.’



‘wish her joy, I’m sure, then,’ say Roger, drily.



‘just what I be think. be you go out again to-night?’ he

add, for they have return to the library, and he see Roger

collect sundry song and piece of music.



‘yes. the usual rendezvous,’ reply Roger.



‘how go the rehearsal?’



‘first-rate; if she would only leave it to I, and not go up to

Balder Hall after every lesson, to get a second opinion.’



Michael laugh a little sarcastically.



‘that must be flattering to your _amour propre_, both as teacher and

betroth,’ he say.



‘very much so. never mind! when we be wed, the Balder Hall alliance

must come to an end.’



‘now, I don’t call that fair, but the very reverse,’ say Michael,

emphatically. ‘she would have just as much right to go to Miss

Wynter and say, “never mind! when we be wed, the Red Gables

alliance must come to an end.”’



‘oh no! there’s a great difference.’



‘yes, there be. there be the difference that you could make her give

up Miss Wynter, and that she could not make you give up I.’



‘no one make I give up my friend,’ say Roger, deliberately;

‘neither wife nor mistress, nor any one else. it be no true wife’s

part to wish to separate her husband and his friend.’



‘a wife have the strict right to say the same thing with regard to

her husband. and you have not a shadow of right, Roger, to say she

shall not know Miss Wynter when she be married to you. if you make

it a _sine quâ non_, you ought to tell she so in advance.’



‘you be very hot about it. I’d as soon she have a serpent for a

friend as——’ he nod expressively.



‘well, I say you have no right to say so,’ say Michael, ‘and I

recommend you to think it over on your way down. you talk about

educate she where she be deficient—poor little thing! but it ben’t

education to say “you shall” and “you shall not.”’



‘you may be right,’ say Roger, deliberately. ‘only, please, do I

the justice to own that I do not say how I should stop the

alliance. I only say it should come to an end. there be such a

thing as persuasion.’



‘oh, if you be go to get out of it in that way——’



‘good night,’ say Roger, amiably. ‘don’t leap so readily to

conclusion another time.’



with which he go out, leave Michael laugh to himself.



the latter have once again to turn out in the raw November air, to

see some patient in the town. as he return, he pass the shop of

Mr. Dixon, the Bradstane stationer, and look up, see a bright

light burn behind the red curtain of the window on the second

story. distant sound of music also come to his ear. he smile and

sigh, both at once; and in his mind there be run thought,

almost identical with those which Roger Camm have think of

Michael’s own engagement, eight year ago, to Magdalen Wynter.



‘if she be the girl to make he happy, well and good. but I wish he

have choose differently. he talk about marry into his own

sphere—such bosh! small shopkeeper be not his sphere, let he say

what he like. if Ada Dixon have be a squire’s daughter, I suppose

he would have discover that after all he be a clergyman’s son,

and a gentleman, her social equal. now it suit he well to call

himself a work man, and say that like must wed like, to be happy.

it be a pity; he might have have a career, only she drag he back.’



he call at Dr. Rowntree’s, and have half an hour’s chat with the

old man; then back to his own house, his pipe, and a treatise on

some new surgical experiment with which it behove he to make

acquaintance.









                              CHAPTER XVII



                         ROGER CAMM’S COURTING





Roger Camm, in the meantime, have carry himself, with his roll of

music in his hand, to see his betrothed at her father’s house, and

be have a less delightful time of it, perhaps, than Michael

picture to himself.



the Dixon _ménage_ have in no way fall off, either in substantial

internal comfort or in outward vulgarity and pretentiousness. Mrs.

Dixon be even more bent upon rise in the world than her husband:

he still adhere to the legitimate mean by which a man may get on,

by steady attention to his business and judicious retail

imposition, which, when count up at the end of the year,

generally amount to a nice little wholesale sum. Mrs. Dixon have,

however, advance in breadth of view as year have pass. she hold

by the doctrine that child be bind to help their parent, and

she look to Ada to help they in push the family fortune.



Mr. Dixon be what himself and his neighbour call a warm man, but

he be cautious about bragging of his comfortableness and his

competence. he look the brag instead of speak it. he have

exalt view as to his own position and importance, but they be

temper by a strong mixture of the strict and sternest common

sense.



Ada have return to they just before she be seventeen, nearly two

year ago, a finished young lady, play the piano, singing,

drawing (from anything but nature), and with a smattering of

execrable French. she have a thousand air and grace, a fine

contempt for her father’s business, and a meritorious sense of shame

whenever it be mention in her hearing, and she be exceedingly

and undeniably pretty.



there have be great discussion as to the part Ada be to take in

the establishment when she leave school. Mr. Dixon fall in with the

wifely resolve that their child should never go behind the

counter—he quite understand that she be neither design nor

finish for anything of the kind. but his transport in other

respect fall short of those of his consort.



‘I don’t see,’ he observe, after Ada have be a few month at home,

‘that she do much that’s useful, or ever go into the kitchen, or

make a pudding’ (infallible criterion of feminine value and worth

to a certain order of masculine mind), ‘or her own clothe; and yet

she often seem to I to have a deal of time on her hand that she

don’t quite know what to do with; and as for money, she have no

notion of the value of it. it’s awful.’



‘and how should she, I should like to know?’ ask Mrs. Dixon,

indignantly. ‘a child like she! she’ll learn fast enough. and then I

expect she to marry well. I don’t know who ought to if she ought

not.’



‘you have to marry very high up indeed to have no need ever to think

of money or housekeeping.’



‘I shall teach she what’s necessary, of course. and you wrong she,

Dixon, when you say she do no dressmaking. I’m sure she’s most

industrious. the time she spend in her room, alter thing, and

try they on—both hat and bonnet, and dress too. if you could

see she, you’d say no more.’



‘perhaps I should be too much astonish,’ say Dixon, with a gleam

of his native Yorkshire shrewdness. ‘there’s such a thing as

think too much of dress, and I’m afraid our Ada——’



‘drat the man!’ say Mrs. Dixon, very sharply. ‘will nothing satisfy

he? first he grumble that she don’t do she dressmaking, and then

he grumble that she do. it’s just like a man. either they be up

in the cloud, or they be down in the depth, or——’



‘that’s the shop,’ say Mr. Dixon, feign to hear the bell, and

alertly run away.



‘cann’t he see?’ Mrs. Dixon say, within herself, when she be leave

alone. ‘Ada will marry a gentleman, of course. she’s as pretty as

she can be, and a wonderful taste in dress, and a perfect lady in

manner, and with Miss Wynter for her friend, and constantly go

up to see she. Miss Wynter see the good of society. besides, I’ve

see the gentleman look at she, many a time. don’t I hear Mr.

Gilbert Langstroth, the very last time he be here, say to she,

quite respectfully, “why, Miss Dixon, I wonder what beauty have

take up her winter quarter in Bradstane”? and Dixon pretend

that Mr. Langstroth be always sneer at people, and that he would

never have say such a thing to any lady, or anywhere where it could

be take seriously! and he that see such high society in London!

and Mr. Askam—didn’t he say to I, “how’s your lovely daughter, Mrs.

Dixon? I hear she’s turn all the young man’s head”? it’s true

Mr. Askam have a free and easy way with he, and they say he mean no

good by any girl he pay compliment to; but then it be I he speak

to—not Ada. straw show which way the wind’s blow, and I say

there’s no knowing what may happen.’



Time pass, and neither of the gentleman whom Mrs. Dixon have

think of become more marked in their attention. Nay, what with

Ada’s magnificence, and the scarcity of match worthy her

consideration, there be even mortification in store for the

maternal ambition. it be a distinct if not an acknowledge

mortification when Mary Metcalfe, a quiet-look girl, with three

sister under she—such a family of them,—a girl with no beauty to

boast of, and not a scrap of fashionable education; a girl Ada’s own

age to a day, and who have once be her playfellow—get engage to

one of the most well-to-do young farmer in all the country round.

not that Ada would have listen for a moment to any farmer but a

gentleman-farmer, and of course young Simpson would never have have

the audacity to ask she. (whether from bashfulness or other reason,

it be quite certain that young Simpson never do ask she.) and yet,

it be distinctly mortify to sit in one’s pew, and hear Mr.

Johnson read out the bann of James Simpson and Mary Metcalfe. no

one grudge Mary a good husband, poor girl; but Ada—it really seem

as if, in the proper order of thing, Ada should have come first.



while the come gentleman of high degree tarry, Roger Camm

appear upon the scene, and very soon make it manifest that he have

the audacity, not only to love, but to declare himself. Ada, to Mrs.

Dixon’s severe disappointment, be much pleased, charm, nay,

self-complacent. Mrs. Dixon alone be really against the match,

say many disparage thing of the suitor’s appearance, position,

and prospect, and of everything connect with he; and persist,

with the tenacity of a weak and vain woman about her favourite

object, that if they would only wait, Ada would do much well.



Mr. Dixon be very firm.



‘Ada could not do much well,’ he say. ‘I couldn’t have wish a

well husband for she: he’s strong, and he’s clever, and he know

what he be about. they trust he absolutely, his employer do. he’s

make an uncommonly good thing out of those jute factory down the

river, and if he ben’t a partner in the concern within a few year,

my name be not Simon Dixon. I wouldn’t force the girl, but she tell

I she want he, and if so she shall have he; and thankful I be

for she to do so well. so let’s hear no more about it.’



no more be say about it, openly; but Mrs. Dixon rebel in

secret. she know Dixon too well to oppose he overtly, but she

think to herself that Ada and Roger be not married yet. she

dislike he heartily: his awkward gait, his rough way; his habit

of laugh at her notion about gentility; the queer, rude thing

he say. and, above all, he gall she by insist upon call

himself a work man, and tell Ada how she be go to be a

work man’s wife.



‘as if I bring she up for that!’ the mother indignantly think.

he be just a bear, she feel, and about as fit as a bear to marry

their Ada.



the engagement have now be go on for six month, and the

marriage, it be think, should not take place for another year.

Roger do not rebel against this. Loving Ada with his whole soul,

and as unselfishly as man could love, he yet see very clearly that

her love for he be not as his love for she. he be sure that

gentleness, and kindness, and the educate influence of

companionship and gradually grow sympathy, would teach she this

love—as he have say to Michael, he have to educate she in some thing

(in the very art or nature of unselfish love, could he but have

know it); and with a kind of sublime patience and sublime

blindness, which might have be ridiculous if they have not be

utterly pure of selfishness, he calmly set himself to wait out the

year that have yet to elapse, and another after it, if necessary, and

in that time to teach Ada to love he as he love she. the process

be not an exhilarating one; the effort be base upon the

assumption of an impossibility—the assumption, namely, that such

love can be teach. but Roger do not know this.



just now he and Ada have find a pastime in which both have something

in common. they be rehearse song for a concert at which the

amateur talent of the neighbourhood be to display itself for the

benefit of the church school, and incidentally for the pride and

delight of its own soul and the edification of the neighbourhood at

large. this great event always take place in the month of December,

and on this occasion Ada be for the first time to appear on the

platform. she be to sing in a duet with her patroness, Miss Wynter,

and Roger be to play the accompaniment for they.



despite this congenial occupation, Roger and his betroth this

evening have several difference of opinion. Ada be excited about

her visit to Balder Hall, relate every incident that have occur,

and every word that have be speak there after her own arrival upon

the scene; dwell upon they with persistency—describe minutely

Miss Askam’s appearance, voice, and gesture, and especially her

graciousness in come and stand by she, Ada Dixon, while she

sing. also Magdalen’s dress, and Otho’s long conversation with she,

and the new-fashioned table-cover which Miss Wynter have on her

small tea-table. all this be inexpressibly gall to Roger, who

hate what he call ‘that lot,’ with an uncompromise scorn. he

would have have Ada stand as coolly aloof from they as he do

himself, but she would not. Balder Hall and its inmate and visitor

be to he the abode of a false woman, unworthy of consideration,

and the rendezvous of her intimate. to Ada, on the contrary, Balder

Hall be the fairy palace where, to speak metaphorically, the roof

be of gold and the window of diamond; the woman in it be her

ideal of beauty, elegance, fashion, and superiority in general, and

the woman’s friend and acquaintance be other bright apparition

belong to the same enchant sphere. she be very eloquent

to-night, partly because she wish to provoke Roger, partly because

her mind be quite fill with the afternoon’s entertainment. he

could, as he say, get neither rhyme nor reason from she, and when

he return to the Red Gables, early than usual, there be a cloud

on his brow.









                             CHAPTER xviii



                           a WILD-GOOSE CHASE





it be nearly a fortnight later, and the dusk of evening creep over

everything. from the window of her sitting-room, face south, with

a little inclination to west, Eleanor could catch a glimpse of the

evening sky, but not of the set sun itself, which come but

little north of west at this time of the year. she could see the

terrace, spread downward to the river-side, and she have a

partial view of the stream itself, leaden in hue, but swift in the

race. the tall, heavy tree stand motionless: one realise all the

stateliness, and with it all the melancholy, of the place. for

Thorsgarth have always be a melancholy house.



Eleanor sit in the embrasure of the window, with a half-open book in

her lap. it have grow too dark to read any long, and she raise

her eye from the page and look out. as the gloaming fall, the

firelight gleam out more strongly, but it do not reach as far as

where she sit, and the cold light of the depart day be all that

fall upon her face. perhaps this cold light lend something to the

impression of sadness, and even of sternness, which have overcast her

countenance since she have come home. whether from that cause or from

some other, it be quite certain that there be a slight expression

of sternness upon her lip; the strength and resolution which lay

beneath her ripe and gracious beauty have decidedly step to the

front.



while she look forth, with this expression deepen on her face,

there come a short, heavy knock upon the door; before she have time

to answer, the curtain be push aside, and Otho come in.



‘Otho!’ she exclaim, for it be the first time he have enter the

room since her arrival.



‘good afternoon,’ he say, glance round. ‘what be you do here,

all alone?’



‘read Homer,’ say Eleanor, promptly, with a rather wicked gleam

in her eye. as she have expect, an expression of slight alarm

cross Otho’s countenance. but he draw a chair forward and sit

down.



‘be that how you amuse yourself here?’ he ask.



‘one way,’ she reply, rather curtly. she have perceive, very

shortly after her arrival, that Otho be vex with her presence,

and have resolve in consequence to take her own course. he have be

disappointed to find that she never utter a word as to the dulness

of Bradstane or its want of society, nor ever mention any idea of

desert it. woman with ‘resource within themselves’ be, of

course, an unknown specie to Otho—he would vaguely have call they

‘blue,’ if ask for his view on the subject. his sister must be a

blue; and after a moment give to reflection on the situation, he

burst into a short, rough laugh.



‘ha, ha! no wonder that you and Magdalen don’t get on. and if that’s

the sort of thing you have a fancy for, you never will. she’s

clever, deucedly clever, be Magdalen, but it ben’t in the _dead

language_ that she excel.’ and he laugh again, as if some inner

thought greatly divert he.



‘if she trouble herself as little as I do whether we get on or not,

she will be very indifferent about it,’ say Eleanor, annoy in a

truly girlish fashion at thus have ‘Magdalen’ always thrust at

she.



‘jealous!’ say Otho, with his great guffaw, rub his hand

together.



Eleanor feel her face in a flame.



‘jealous—of that woman!’ be the thought in her mind, but she have

self-control enough to let it remain a thought. she merely smile.



‘do you learn nothing but greek,’ pursue Otho, ‘when you be at

college?’



‘why, of course, you goose. what would be the use of learn

nothing but greek?’



‘well, I certainly never could see the use of learn it—for I, at

any rate,’ say Otho. ‘but I mean, don’t you go in for French, and

music, and those thing?’



‘well, I should hardly ask such a question as that. one “go in,”

as you call it, for French as naturally as for English. Aunt Emily

always have some french person or other about. but Greek be a labour

of love.’



‘it seem to I that you must be what they call a blue,’ say Otho,

vaguely.



‘do it? I’m not conscious of being of a different complexion from

other young woman. Aunt Emily, poor dear, think the reverse. she

consider that I be bring up too much with Paul, and altogether

too like a boy. she always say that if I have mix more with girl

I should have be more alive to—oh, well, she think it would have

be well for I.’



‘she think that if you have be a bit more like other girl, you

wouldn’t have let that parson slip, but would have marry he

instead of come ramble off here, where you don’t know a

creature, and have to pass your time read the “Iliad”; and I can

tell you I agree with she,’ say Otho.



‘let he slip? I never try to catch he,’ say Miss Askam, touchy,

despite her masculine education, upon this point.



‘I never say you do,’ remark Otho. ‘however, I’m glad you be

intellectual and independent, for now I need not apologise for

leave you alone. I’m go away this evening.’



‘be you? where?’



‘oh, over into Friarsdale, on business. I don’t know when I shall be

back. some time before Christmas, of course, because Gilbert will be

here then. you’ll have to do as well as you can.’



‘I shall do very well, thank you. I shall return a few of those

numerous call I have receive. I like some of the people very much.

I don’t think they look so dangerous as you seem to think they.

but, of course, taste differ. and on the first fine day I intend to

have a ride.’



‘I like he very much when I have he before.... ben’t evening an

odd time to be set off on a journey? where be this friarsdale

that you speak of?’



‘oh, I shall only go to Darlington to-night, and put up with a

fellow I know there. then I shall drive on into friarsdale

to-morrow.’



he still have not tell she where it be, she notice, nor what he

want there. she be not go to ask again, and in a short time

Otho say he must be off, wish her good afternoon, and depart.

he have go in intend to recommend she to cultivate Miss Wynter’s

society, but the conversation which have take place have cause he

to abandon this design.



‘Magdalen and she will never get on. I shall leave they both to it.

it’s plain to I that Eleanor be no fool in some thing, whatever

she may be in other; but I verily believe she’d soon have old

Lady Winthrop for a chum, or one of those charity-blanket Blundell

girl, than Magdalen.’



in which surmise Otho be perfectly correct.



‘it’s a rum sort of thing altogether,’ he reflect. ‘I shall ask

Gilbert what he think about it.’



it be on the following day that Eleanor, look forth, decide

that there be a change in the weather, which decidedly entitle she

to the ride she have speak of to Otho. the cloud have part, and

the blue smile forth, and the sun lend his aid to enliven the

prospect. Eleanor promptly order her horse to be saddle and

bring round immediately after an early lunch. in obedience to this

order, it appear, and she be ready for it shortly before two

o’clock. she find the lad William hold her horse, and Barlow,

the old butler, stand at the door. William, it be necessary to

state, be not a native of Bradstane, nor, indeed, of Teesdale at

all, but of Swaledale, to the south, of which locality he be very

proud, and concern which he be in the habit of relate many

tale of wonder. it be a subject on which his mistress already

love to draw he out, and he be nothing loath to discourse upon

it. he have begin to plume himself amongst the other servant on

be Miss Askam’s own retainer, and would have feel bitterly

injure have she select any one but himself as her attendant.



she tell old Barlow that she do not expect to be back much before

five, and he, by reason of long service, and in the capacity of

‘friend of the family,’ take upon himself to ask if he might venture

to inquire in which direction she think of ride.



‘oh yes, Barlow, you have, perhaps, well know. I think of go

round by Cotherstone, to a place call Catcastle.’



‘it’s a very wild country, miss,’ say Barlow, with a look of alarm.

‘a very bleak road, indeed, Miss Askam, for a winter’s day.’



‘it be not like a winter’s day this afternoon, and I shall do

nothing rash, you may be sure,’ she say, repress with a little

feeling of guiltiness the further information that ‘romantic

Deepdale’s slender rill’ have take such hold on her imagination,

that after carefully consult an ordnance map, and find that

all the three place—cotherstone, catcastle, and Deepdale—be

within a circuit of ten mile, she have resolve to see they that

afternoon.



‘I don’t think Mr. Askam would quite approve,’ begin Barlow, with an

anxious look.



‘oh, Mr. Askam be away,’ say Eleanor, wilfully. ‘and, Barlow, be

sure to have some tea quite ready by five o’clock, for I be sure I

shall want it very badly when I get in.’



so say, she chirp to her horse, and it carry she quickly

round the bend in the drive, William follow she. Barlow stand at

the door, and shake his venerable head.



‘a real Askam for wilfulness,’ he say within himself, ‘but as sweet

as an angel in temper. eh, dear! if poor dear Mr. Otho be but a bit

more like she! I don’t know where he’ll end, I’m sure.’



again shake his head with the true Jeremiah shake of an old

retainer who see his most cherished prejudice overridden by a new

generation, Barlow close the hall-door and retire to his own

quarter.



Eleanor ride quickly forth, feel the air and the sunshine thrill

through she, and rejoice her very soul. she lift her beautiful

face upwards towards the field of blue—albeit a pale November blue,

one could see the colour it be mean for—and inhale the fresh,

westerly breeze, which have in it, could she have understand its

‘feel,’ a promise of north in the not distant future.



they trot briskly through Bradstane town, past the shop, and up

the cobble-stone street, sharply on through long, unlovely Bridge

Street, and so over the old stone bridge under the castle crag, and

upon a road on the Yorkshire side of the river, lead through the

village of Lartington to that of Cotherstone.



‘be that build a church, William?’ she ask, point to one

with her whip.



‘yes, miss,’ he reply, ride up and touch his hat.



‘I think it be the small one I ever see,’ she remark.



‘by your leave, miss, I have see one, and be in it, not above

half the size—at lund,’ he say, his eye grow round, and his

face red, from which sign Miss Askam know infallibly that he have a

tale of wonder to unfold.



‘indeed; and where be lund?’ she ask.



‘if you please, miss, on Abbotside Common, go from Hawes to Hell

Gill,—to Kirby Stephen, that be; it lie off on the common, to the

right. ’tis a rare small ‘un; and there be another peculiar thing

about it, too.’



‘what be that?’



‘well, the folk about be poor, vary poor indade; and they couldn’t

afford a bell. so for many a year th’ sexton use to climb to t’ top

of th’ church—’twere such a vary lile church, you see—wi’ a tin can

full o’ stone in’s hand, and wi’ that he use to shake it to and

fro, so as to mak’ the stone rattle, and a’ call out at the same

time, “boll-loll, boll-loll, boll-loll!” at top of his voice while

t’ congregation get all come in, and then he clammert down again,

and go in hissel! that be i’stead of a bell, you know; they

couldn’t get t’ money to buy one. ay, Lunds church be know for

mile around.’



‘I should think so,’ say Miss Askam, laugh. ‘do you know of any

more custom like that?’



‘no, ma’am; except there be another vary small church where there

be a queer habit, more like than a custom——’



‘indeed,’ say she, amuse within herself at the distinction.



‘a vary lile one it be, too, I’ Langstrothdale——’



‘Langstrothdale—where’s that?’ she ask, quickly.



‘on the other side o’ Cam Fell, miss. they do say that that’s where

the doctor’s and Mr. Gilbert’s family first come fro’, and that

they’re not Durham at all, but Yorkshire. I reckon doctor desarve

to be a Yorkshire-man, choose what Mr. Gilbert——’



‘never mind about that. what of the little church?’



‘only that th’ congrygation there be vary poor too, and it be a

door as they be in want of,—just like I’ lund they couldna get a

bell. so, when service be o’er, they use to stick a big thorn in

th’ doorway, to fill it up; but shape’ (the sheep) ‘use to get in

in t’ winter weather, and make a shelter of it; and they have to be

clear out regular, ivery Sunda’—that’s all, miss,’ say William,

exhaust with his two prolong narrative effort, and fall into

his place behind again.



Eleanor ride on, smile to herself at the picture of the man who

shake a tin can full of stone, and cry ‘boll-loll’ from the top

of the church to summon the congregation. he must have have lusty

lung, she think, that Yorkshire sexton.



Cotherstone be safely reach about three o’clock, and Eleanor must

ride down to the river, and see where Balder empty his water into

tee, and repeat to herself—



              ‘then Balder, one bleak garth be thine;

              and one sweet brooklet’s silver line.’



the ‘sweet brooklet’ be just then rush onwards, muddy and

swollen, in anything but a silver line. Eleanor turn back, and

find that William’s knowledge of the country here become rather

misty, make inquiry in the village as to the near way to

‘Catcastle Crag.’



visible astonishment arise upon the countenance of the rustic whom

she address—an elderly labourer, who make answer, after the wary

manner of the English of the north—



‘it’s a vary rough rooäd to catcastle.’



‘be it? well, would you tell I the near way?’



‘your horse willn’t go within half a mile of the crag.’



‘well, I would like to know how you get within half a mile of the

crag, if you will please to tell I the near way.’



‘Nearest rooäd be o’er yonder,’ be the reply, accompany by a

sweep of a long and stalwart arm, which sweep might embrace some

fifteen or twenty mile of country.



Eleanor laugh, and after some difficulty induce her informant so

far to commit himself as to mention one or two road by name, which

thing he do very reluctantly; but she gather from what he say

that she have ‘three mile and a piece’ to ride, not continue on

the same road, but always keep to the left whenever cross road

come, and that by do this she would arrive as near Catcastle Crag

as her horse would take she; while by skirt round it, still to

the left, she would come to a road lead to Deepdale, and thence

home.



‘but,’ observe her interlocutor, with a look of tolerant pity, ‘I

think it’s something of a fool’s errand, of a day like this. wind’s

change, and we’ll have frost before midnight.’



Eleanor thank he, and set off cheerily, think with a smile

that the tea would have to wait till after five o’clock, and that

she hope Barlow would not be worry his old head about she, or

send in all direction to meet she.



the three mile ‘and a piece’ prove exceedingly like the ‘mile and

a bittock’ of story. that is, the three mile be presently

accomplish, but the ‘piece’ stretch far before they, and the

light be no long so clear as it have be. moreover, the wary

peasant’s prophecy be be fulfil with a startling promptness.

the wind have already shift, and be blow from the north, almost

in her face, keen and pierce. every cloud have disappear, and the

sky be of a crystalline clearness, ominous of come frost; and

still Catcastle Crag—though they could see what Eleanor imagine

must be that remarkable eminence—grow no nearer. they seem to have

get round it, and it still keep provokingly to their left, with the

road, and several field, and a thicket between they and it.



‘I suppose,’ say Eleanor within herself, ‘that they call this part

of the road a “piece,” because they have no number with which to

count its length in mile.’ she have grow thoughtful. Dusk have

fall over her high spirit, as well as over the landscape.



at length she call William, and say she think they have well

leave the crag and keep to the homeward road, a proposition to which

he yield a cheerful assent, and fall back into his place. Eleanor

ride on; she suppose they be on the right road, but it wound on

and on without seem to lead to anywhere in particular. she be

sure, from what she remember of the map, that they ought to be at

Deepdale before now. Deepdale, she know, be a wood. but here be no

sign of any wood to be see. the road be a bare, bleak road, with a

rough stone wall on either side, a road which must have be dreary

and monotonous at any season; but which now, in the grim November

evening, with the dusk rapidly fall—not a sound to be hear but

the faint piping of a bitter wind from the black wall of fell to

the north; not a sight to be see save the bare field on either

side, and at a little distance a clump of tree—be melancholy in

the extreme; and Eleanor, look at the frown escarpment to the

leave, no long feel that she list to



                  ‘Climb Catcastle’s giddy crag,’



as, before set off, she have fondly hope to do ere her return.

she be of a nature at once poetical and highly imaginative, and for

all the hard, stony prose of the road, there be something

attractive to she in the very bleakness and chillness of it;—that

faintly moan wind seem to whisper that it come from the north,

that it have its cradle in the ultimate Thule, where its breath be

more pierce even than here.



she feel all the force of the contrast to this scene which be

present by the sudden appearance of a light gleam out of the

clump of tree before speak of.



‘oh,’ she say, quickly, ‘there must be a house behind those

tree—some place, at any rate, where we can ask if we be in the

right road to Bradstane.’



she ride on, and they presently stop at the door of a wayside

farmlet, if such a term be admissible. William knock, and a young

woman, with a gentle, handsome countenance, and in stature like some

female Hercules, come to the door, look at they with astonishment

in her great clear gray eye, and ask to know their will.



Eleanor prefer her request for information as to whether they

be on the right road for Bradstane; she say not a word now of

Catcastle.



‘for Bradstane! eh, what! but ye’re mony a mile out o’ t’ straight

rooad,’ be the reply, which struck dismay into her hearer.



on further investigation, however, it turn out to be not so bad as

have seem at first. they must keep straight on for half a mile till

they come to the Balder Beck, which they would have to ford, and

then they would be in the right road, and five mile away from

Bradstane.



‘straight along, do we go? and be the beck deep?’ ask Eleanor,

thinking of the darkness.



‘straight down this lane. Deep?—nay, you needna be afeard—not a

little bit, you needna. it’s no a bad ford;—a bit swollen with th’

rain just now, but safe enough. I’d show you th’ way, only my

child’s ill, and I canna lave it. but you cannot go wrong. and th’

doctor’s not be go five minute. happen you may light on he in

th’ lane, and then, if you’re in doubt, you might ask he. he ken

all th’ rooad rarely,—both they that’s bad and they that’s good.’



‘thank you,’ say Eleanor, not derive so much comfort from this

suggestion as the woman seem to think would be natural; for during

her short residence in Bradstane she have not be leave ignorant of

the relation between Michael Langstroth, his brother, her brother,

and Magdalen Wynter. the version of the story give to she by the

latter have be supplement by revise one, explain and

annotate in a very different spirit. Eleanor feel that, take all

in all, she would prefer not to overtake Dr. Langstroth.



it be not, however, very likely that they would do so, for he would

probably ride on quickly, be, as the woman say, well acquaint

with all the road; whereas they have to go very slowly, be

ignorant of they, and the dark fast fall.



she wish the woman good-night, and ride on. presently they come in

sight of the ford, or, at any rate, of the beck which they have to

ford at this juncture. it be rush along, brown, noisy, and

swollen, and Eleanor, though a hardy horsewoman, draw back a little

as she see it. which, and where might be the ford? whether to

venture across, or to return all the dreary way they have ride—ten

mile or more? as she pause, debating, her eye strain through

the dusk on the other side; she almost hope, now, that she might

see a figure; but there be nothing except some gaunt tree, and as

for sound, the rattle of the beck drown they all in the noise it

make.



tired of reflect, and notice a broad mark, as if wheel have

here enter the stream, and a correspond one on the other side,

show that they have safely emerge from it, Eleanor put her horse

at the water, tell William to wait till she be across. the boy

be not old enough, nor possess of sufficient self-confidence, to

make the lady pause till he have try the ford himself; he feel

unhappy, but do as he be tell. she find herself in a moment in

the midst of the roar and the darkness. about the middle of the

stream, her horse display an evident desire to diverge to the

right hand, down-stream. eleanor, see the cart-track faintly on

the other side, a little to the left, and bewilder with the rush

and the noise and the swirl of the water, become somewhat confused,

and persist in push the animal’s head up-stream. in a moment

her horse plunge into a hole, so deeply that she feel the water

washing round her own knee. she give an involuntary short cry, and

hear a loud despairing—



‘oh, Lord, miss, what shall I do?’



the tragic utterance restore she to herself. she give her horse his

head, and he, after another wild plunge or two, and a desperate,

scrape scramble, succeed in pull himself up and take his

own way; go first a little to the right, and then a little to the

left, and emerge in the cart-track.



her servant, follow, come through high and dry, but with

chatter tooth.



‘what be the matter? be you afraid?’ she ask, and be much

astonish to hear the only answer he give—a pierce view-halloo.

there be a moment’s silence, then the halloo be answer from some

distance before they, and William, say, ‘you bide here a minute,

miss,’ ride on.



‘what can he be think of?’ she speculate, in some annoyance.

‘leave I here in the cold! I shall follow he.’



it be a good resolution, but not easy to carry out. she begin to

feel the cold steal over every limb, while her soak habit hung

down, and seem like a mass of ice, drag her downward. she

could now see only a glimmer of the surround country, and the

angry beck—black, fleck with speck of white, rush and roar

as it seem to she with redoubled force. a feeling of fright and

alarm at the loneliness of it, the darkness and the wildness,

overcome she. she feel herself tremble in every limb. a wild

suspicion that William have take flight, and do not intend to

return, seem to turn she to stone.



she jerk the rein, put her horse at the little bank she have

to climb, with the idea that the motion of riding would restore the

circulation to her benumbed limb; but it do not. she feel the cold

seize her very vital; unconsciously she slip from her seat,

cry out almost without know it, ‘William!’



her own voice sound hoarse and far off, yet she dimly hear sound

of other horse come rapidly towards she, vaguely beheld a

rider—two rider, glimmer on her sight. then she hear a voice

say, ‘Miss Askam!’ in tone of astonishment, see a man vault from

his horse—all in vague, magnify proportion; and then for two or

three moment she be so cold that she know nothing at all.









                              CHAPTER XIX



                               INEVITABLE





Michael, after leave the cottage of the tall young woman with the

sick child, and delay a little, to let his horse drink from the

beck, have safely cross the ford which have prove so disastrous to

Eleanor, and be ride peaceably and slowly. in his life there have

always be present one negative blessing which he have not perhaps

recognise with the active gratitude which it deserve; implant in

his heart be a love of Nature and of her thing—a keen recognition

of the beauty of every season and every weather. he be not in the

habit of talk about it; perhaps he do not know himself how

strong it be—how fundamental a part of his mental constitution it

form. but it be there, and it be manifest in the fact that

oftentime, though weary and busy, he could not force himself to

ride onwards in haste, even over the road that be very familiar

to he; could not neglect to notice the page that be silently and

lovingly spread for he by that friend who ‘never do betray the

heart that love she.’ even on an afternoon like this, he find time

to go slowly, and receive the silent influence of the scene into his

heart; and do not refuse to let the brood solemnity of the

darken sky, or the bodeful whisper of the steal wind, tell

their tale to he.



it be this vagrant humour, this unconfessed unwillingness to desert

the ample exterior nature for the shelter and confinement of a roof

and wall, which have cause he to be so little advanced on the

road, that a loud halloo come distinctly to his ear; and after

wait a moment to hear if it should be any preconcerte signal, he

conclude it to be a cry for help, and answer it, turn back

down the lane towards the ford. in a few moment he be meet by the

ingenuous William, panting, and present an appearance of extreme

disorder.



‘what’s the matter? be it you who call?’



‘yes, sir, if you plase, sir, Miss Askam be nearly drown;

leastway, her horse have a very bad tumble in th’ ford. a woman tell

we you be on afore, and I make bold to call upon you.’



Michael make no answer, but ride back to the ford, as fast as the

darkness and the rough road would allow he. his keen eye, well

accustom to search the country by this doubtful light, discern

the form of a woman on horseback; he see that she droop and

waver, and he hear the half-inarticulate cry she give. he spring

from his horse just in time to catch she as she slip from her

saddle, and in so do he discover that her ride habit be

dripping, and heavy as lead with the icy water with which it be

fill. he waste no time in wonder how she have get there, but

place she on a large rough boulder, behind which be the trunk of a

great old thorn-tree, afford some support to she back, and he

feel with one hand in his pocket for his flask, while he hold she up

with the other.



but before he have get the flask, she have recover from the

momentary powerlessness—it be not a faint—which have overtake she.

she open her eye just as William, in a hoarse and terrify

whisper, inquire—



‘be she drown, sir?’



the youth be stand in a droop attitude between his mistress’s

horse and his own, hold a rein of each, and shiver with fear

in every limb. it be on he that Eleanor’s eye fall as she open

they, and she give a little convulsive laugh.



‘how queer he look!’ she say, raise herself, and then stop,

as she see Michael.



‘there, I think you be not so very far go,’ observe the

latter with composure, raise himself from his knee and standing

over she. ‘it be the cold, and the shock. not very nice in the

middle of the beck, I should fancy, be it?’



‘oh, horrid!’ say Eleanor, shiver. ‘it be Dr. Langstroth, ben’t

it?’



‘it be Dr. Langstroth—yes,’ be the dry reply. ‘you have well drink

off this,’ he add, pour out some of the brandy. ‘then, if you

can get on your horse and ride on at once, you may feel no bad

effect.’ he proffer a prosaic flask, in a business-like manner.



Eleanor swallow the portion present to she with docility, and

stand up.



‘I don’t think I faint,’ she remark thoughtfully; ‘but I shall

never forget the coldness of that water when my horse plunge into

that hole.’



‘I suppose you’re not liable to cold or cough much?’ ask

Michael, with apparent indifference.



‘oh dear, no! I shall be all right, if I can but wring some of the

water from my habit. it be so heavy with it.’



she stand up, feel quite strong; and while Michael screw the

top on to his brandy-flask, she raise her soaking riding habit, and

wring out the water as well as she could.



‘it be too bad that you should have be trouble about this,’ she

say, suddenly stop in her operation, as it all at once flash

into her mind that he be wait there entirely on her account. ‘be

my groom there? William!’



‘yes, miss!’



‘you should not have ride away and leave I. if you have wait a

moment, I should have be all right, and Dr. Langstroth need not

have be detain.’



‘do not scold he,’ say Michael, in a low voice. ‘the poor lad be

frighten out of his sense. he think you be drown, and

wish for medical assistance. his promptitude in call for it,

and getting rid of responsibility——’



‘the responsibility of this insane expedition be mine,’ say

Eleanor, shortly, begin to realise the situation. ‘but, indeed,

Dr. Langstroth, do not let I keep you here in the cold. we cannot

miss the road again, and I be ashamed to have trouble you so much.’



‘do not be distressed on my account,’ say Michael, calmly. he have

restore the flask to his pocket, and now he pick up the gauntlet

which she have pull off and throw to the ground, and stand

watch she, in the ever-deepen twilight, in silence, for some

little time after he have speak. he feel something unreal and

dreamlike in the whole situation—in the shadowy woman’s figure, with

its quick, graceful, movement; in the surround dark, the rushing

stream, the sharp night air. Eleanor say nothing to he, for she

feel somewhat embarrassed. she do not wish to trouble he, but when

she think of that five mile of a ride to Bradstane, in the dark,

with no guide but William, her courage do not exactly rise. she

would have feel very well satisfied to be order by a competent

authority to hold her tongue and do as she be bid, and it be

this, in effect, which Michael do tell she when he next speak.



‘here be your gloves’—he see she have wring she habit as well as she

could, and he have note, even in the dusk, the beautiful curve and

strong, flexible power of her white hand and wrists—‘there be your

glove; and when you have put they on, the soon we move forward

again, the well for you.’



‘yes, I be sure of that. I should very soon be chill to the bone

again, if I stand here,’ she say, draw on her glove, and

feel a little thrill of pleased excitement and wonder. ‘this be

the second time he have come to my help,’ she inform herself, with

accurate recollection of the former circumstance.



‘now shall I help you?’ say Michael, in his cold, most civil

tone, as William lead up the horse. he hold his hand for her foot,

and in a moment she be in her saddle, remark—



‘now I shall be not a bit the bad.’



‘perhaps not,’ say Michael, instinctively speak with great

dryness and curtness as he begin to feel a sense of pleasure and

interest in the adventure and the heroine of it. he like she

hardihood; hardy she be, for he know pretty well that she could not

be feel very warm or comfortable, under the circumstance; and

the souse with cold water, and the shock and danger of the

accident would have be, as he well know, excuse enough for

hysteria and nervous attack, in nine case out of ten. she be

evidently no friend to such demonstration. he mount his own

horse, and they start, William fall behind, thankfully enough.



‘we shall go as far as the end of this lane together?’ say Eleanor

tentatively; ‘but you must not let I take you far out of your

way.’



‘my way be where I choose or need to go,’ reply Michael

carelessly. ‘I see your groom have drop behind, but if you will

allow I, I will just tell he to ride on as fast as he can—even he

cannot now very well miss the way. he must see your maid, and tell

she to have lot of dry thing ready for you, and some hot tea or

coffee; and then, perhaps, you may escape without harm. otherwise, I

would not answer for consequence.’



‘but——’



‘oh, of course I will ride home with you,’ he answer to she

unspoken objection. ‘it will be all right.’



Eleanor’s high spirit fail to come to her aid.



‘thorsgarth be so much out of your way,’ she say, in a low tone.



‘not when I choose to go there. wait a moment,’ he answer; and

stop, he call the groom up, give he his direction

succinctly, and bid he ride on. William touch his hat, spur

on, and be soon out of sight in the glimmering, shadowy light.



Eleanor heave a deep, if silent sigh. she have not give way under

the shock of her plunge into the cold water, nor, except physically,

and for a moment, afterwards; but now something lay a strange

oppression over her heart. Michael be very polite to she; he

neglect not a thing which could help she, even to this forethought

about acquaint she maid with what have happen. she have think

about he more than once during the last fortnight; have hear of he

a great deal oftener than once, chiefly from Mrs. Parker, the old

doctor’s sister, with whom she have become acquainted, and from many

other. all she have hear have prepossess she in his favour, but

now that she be with he, actually in his presence, and as it be

under his guidance, for the time, she feel afraid of he—feel a

strange and painful constraint; be nervous, timid, tongue-tie.

woman-like, she have the story of his slight love and his other

wrong, very large and very much present in her mind; and she

credit he with have they before himself in just the same

proportion. then, too, his tone be curt, if civil. it do not

invite to anything like friendly and familiar intercourse.



‘civil, civil,’ repeat Eleanor in her own mind. ‘yes, indeed,

“civil as an orange,” and—oh, if he would but speak!’



he do, exactly at that moment.



‘I have ride over this road for ten year,’ he remark, ‘and I

may have meet an acquaintance on it, perhaps, three or four time,

and the hound now and then. how came you to be here?’



‘I don’t know myself how I get on to this road,’ say she, laugh

a little nervously. ‘but I know what I intend to do when I set

out.’ and then she relate to he the scheme of exploration which

have take possession of her mind.



Michael be divert at the idea of any one set off on such an

expedition with no well guide than her recollection of the

ordnance map, and a groom who do not know any of the cross road.



‘Barlow, our butler, warn I against the expedition,’ she add,

when Michael have once or twice laugh at her explanation. ‘but I

would not listen to he. and I only tell he about Catcastle. I do

not mention either of the other place.’



‘no wonder he warn you,’ say Michael, silently note, however,

with approval, her independence of spirit. ‘why, catcastle alone be

an excursion for a summer’s afternoon and evening.... and well worth

the time it be,’ he add, half to himself. ‘but Deepdale! you

evidently have not the faint idea what kind of a place it be.

it’s one of old Drayton’s “helbeck,” eerie enough at the good of

time, utterly impossible in weather like this. I suppose it be its

“slender rill,” which attract your fancy?’



‘yes, it be, because it be



              ‘“last and least, but loveliest still.”’



‘ha, ha! yes—



                ‘“romantic Deepdale’s slender rill.”



it will be roar away at the bottom of the chasm, just now, in a

manner a good deal more vigorous than romantic.’



‘well, I think it be very disappointing. I set off intend to see

three place, and I have not see even one.’



‘but have get a good drenching in cold water instead. don’t you

think you might take it as an omen?’ say Michael, mockingly still,

for he be determine not to allow himself to be interested in she;

quite resolve not to yield to the pleasure of give his full

appreciation to the music of the round, fresh young voice, with its

soft, southern accent, and unmistakable sincerity of tone. Michael

be more of a connoisseur now, than he once have be, in such item.

and as for the wonder which have just arise in his mind—‘what be the

charm about her?’—that he feel be a problem which it be quite

outside of his province to consider.



‘as an omen!’ she repeat, sweetly. ‘perhaps I might if I choose. I

don’t know that I care much about the drenching.’



Michael scarcely hear she. he be think that he could not even

call to-morrow upon she, to ask she how she do. not that he be

afraid of Thorsgarth, or of Otho; but simply because he have no part

or lot in the Askam clan. he be separate from they for ever, by

circumstance which could never—no, never be bridge over. nothing

could ever make it possible for he to have anything to do with

they. and this girl by whose side he be now ride be Otho’s

sister, and the present mistress of Thorsgarth.



‘I mean to see the place some other day,’ her voice continue; ‘and

the drenching do not alter the fact that Barlow be an old man who

potter about the house, and be rather slow about his work, and that

I be a young woman, accustom to take long ride.’



‘alone, and in a rough country like this, no doubt.’



‘n—no. I must say I have never before ride alone in a country like

this.’



‘well,’ say Michael, indifferently, and more for something to say

than for any feeling he have about it, ‘it be not a safe expedition,

and I rather wonder that your brother allow it.’



‘oh, I know perfectly well that Otho would not allow it, so I seize

upon the opportunity while he be away.’



‘ah, he be away?’



‘yes. he have go to some place call Friarsdale. I don’t know

where that be. can you tell I?’



‘easily. it be over beyond Swaledale and Wensleydale; a good way

off, and very out of the way; but, of course, that make it all the

well fit for your brother’s purpose. it be a good place for the

stable, and capital exercise for the——’



‘stable!’ echo she, quickly. ‘have Otho get stable there?’



‘the training stable, I mean. he have some splendid yearling there.

you should get he to take you over to see they—if you care for

horse, that be.’



‘but, Mr. Langstroth, you do not mean to tell I that Otho have

anything to do with racing—my brother? oh, well, I have hear that

he take an interest in “the turf,” as they call it; but in a racing

stable—impossible!’



Michael suppress a ‘whew!’ of sheer astonishment. the natural

reply to the question, and the one which he would have make to any

man, would have be to laugh, and say, ‘oh, haven’t he, though?’ but

he remember himself in time, and, after a moment’s pause, say,

‘oh, don’t you know? I think every one be acquaint with that

fact. it be certainly no secret; only I rather think you be mix

up two thing. your brother’s place be not what one would call a

“race stable”—that be, it be not a place where they train

race-horse. they breed horse there for racer, and sell they. it

be a purely business kind of thing. I’m surprised you have not

happen to hear of it, because his stable be very well know,

though, it’s true, not perhaps in your world, up to now.’



‘but,’ say Eleanor, anxiously, her mind apparently fix on one

point, ‘he don’t race with they, do he?’



‘with the horse?’ say Michael, laugh, in spite of himself. ‘he

have not run one of his own, so far; but I believe he intend to at

the next Derby, and some people say that Crackpot will be the

favourite.’



‘crackpot—be that the horse’s name?’ ask Eleanor, in the tone with

which one speak of some extremely ugly and repulsive thing, so that

Michael again smile to himself in the dark.



‘yes,’ he say. ‘he’s call after a waterfall in Swaledale, note

for its swiftness.’



Eleanor do not smile at the joke, if joke it be.



‘it seem,’ think Michael, ‘that I have open her eye in an

unexpected manner—by accident. who be to suppose that she could be

so exceedingly simple as never to gather what he be after in

Friarsdale? if she’s go to take that so much to heart, I be

afraid there will be some other rather unpleasant surprise in store

for she.’



at this point she break in again, in a voice which betray she

uneasiness.



‘you speak as if you do not think much of it, Mr. Langstroth; but,

surely, that sort of thing be not for gentleman.’



‘my dear Miss Askam, you have get quite a wrong impression, I assure

you. you must know that some very fine gentleman have to do with

such thing. the only thing be, it be such a frightfully expensive

hobby, and——’



‘it’s a low kind of amusement, I think,’ she begin.



‘not at all—at least, not of necessity. you must excuse I for

contradict you; but——’



‘well, if he keep this place to get money, why not turn

horse-dealer at once?’ say Eleanor, resentfully.



Michael feel that extreme innocence can, and do ask more awkward

question, in perfect good faith, than the most harden wickedness

could possibly devise. if he have speak the truth aloud, he would

have be oblige to say that the fact of be a horse-dealer by

profession could scarcely be consider a reproach to a man,

whatever ignorant young lady might think on the subject; but that

in Otho Askam’s neck-or-nothing way of carry on what he be

pleased to call his ‘business,’ there be matter for reproach, and

that, as a matter of fact, a respectable horse-dealer have the pull

over the master of Thorsgarth, as regard character. but he could

not say this to Miss Askam, who evidently consider the matter in

another light—as a low pursuit, namely,—one, perhaps, of other low

pursuit which her brother be in the habit of follow. it let a

new light into his mind as to her character and her ignorance, and

he follow a natural impulse—the impulse to reassure she.



‘you really think quite too much about it,’ he say, lightly. ‘every

true Yorkshire man—and every true border-man, for that matter—have a

strain of the jockey in he. and when a man live in the country,

and have his soul in country pursuit it be inevitable that horse

should come into the list.’



‘that horse should come into the list!’ repeat Eleanor, in the

same tone of mortification. ‘how many more thing come into the list

of country pursuit? “run factory,” that be one—buying share:

he tell I that his friend, Mr. Langstroth, keep he from plunge

too deep into that.’ she have forget who be with she; and as she

utter the next word, a flash of lurid, hideous light seem to

burn the meaning of it all into her brain. ‘card-party——’ her

breath fail she for a moment. Michael never forget the voice with

which she suddenly ask he, with desperate, urgent haste, ‘Mr.

Langstroth, for God’s sake—be Otho a gambler?’



Michael hesitate for one moment. but he know he could not shirk the

question. so ask, it must be answer truly, however cruel the

blow.



‘I’m sorry you have ask I that question,’ say he. ‘but there be

only one answer to it. he be a bear gambler.’



he await she next word with an eagerness and anxiety which

surprise himself, and when no word come, he be again surprised at

the feeling of chill regret which come over he. for Eleanor make no

answer whatever to his answer to her question. the vibrating

eagerness of her voice, of the voice with which she have ask if

Otho be a gambler, be still. in the darkness, which be now

deep, they ride on in drear, unbroken silence. what she feel, what

she think, she do not betray. she be not make of the stuff that

wail and lament over the discovery that life be not a track of

smooth grass, warm by unclouded sunshine.



‘well,’ say Michael to himself, as this silence grow more and more

oppressive to he; ‘she ask the question. I have to speak the

truth. she must have learn it soon or later. I cann’t imagine how

it be she have not find it out already....’ then an intense, eager

wish. ‘if she would only speak! how she must hate I! yes, she must

hate I for tell she that. how can she help? I expect she be

wish now that she have never see I. it’s a pity for she that she

should have come up here, to be throw into the midst of such

doing. Otho for her brother, Magdalen for her friend, and my

brother—well, for _l’ami de la maison_! a nice company for she to be

in.... and, after all, what be it to I? only it’s a piece of curse

ill-luck that I should have get mix up with she at all.... I wish

she would speak.’



but Eleanor do not speak for what seem a very long time, except

when Michael, who feel the silence absolutely unbearable, say to

she once, in a curt tone, to cover his unhappiness, ‘don’t you think

we have well trot along this road? you will get cold if we go too

slowly.’ to which she reply in a measured voice, ‘yes, no doubt,’

and at once put her horse into a trot, but make no further remark.



this state of thing continue until, having make considerable

progress, they be go up the hill towards the old bridge, and

have about twenty minute more of a ride before they. just as they

have reach the bridge and get into the light, they meet Roger Camm

stride out of the town. he gaze with visible astonishment at

Michael and his companion, raise his hat, and pass on. then

Eleanor speak, quite quietly and composedly.



‘be not that your friend, Mr. Camm?’



‘yes,’ say Michael, with a profound sense of relief. ‘but, if I may

ask, how do you know he be my friend, and what do you know of he?’



‘I hear about he when Otho take I to see Miss Wynter. and Miss

Dixon be there too——’



‘when be that?’ ask Michael.



‘why, the day after I come to Thorsgarth. you be there when we

call. don’t you remember?’



‘I remember that occasion perfectly; but it be a fortnight ago.’



‘well, I have never be since.’ Michael raise his eyebrow. she

have never be since! ‘Miss Dixon come before we leave,’ go on

Eleanor. ‘she say Mr. Camm be go out to fetch her home. Miss

Wynter tell I you and he be great friend.’



‘yes, Roger and I have knock about together a good deal. we know

the good and the bad of each other, I fancy; and if you can stick

together after that it mean that you be friend.’



‘yes, I suppose so. he look—he have an original-look face. be he

clever?’



‘yes, he be very clever. he have a career before he—at least——’



‘at least?’



‘I believe I be go to say he would have, if he be not engage

to Ada Dixon; but I don’t see that she need hinder he so much,

after all.’



‘I do not know Mr. Camm, of course; but I should not imagine she be

his equal, if he be really a clever and able man.’



‘I fear you be right. but Roger have crotchet, and one of they be,

that he be a work man. in a way, he be, as we all be, or ought

to be; but his father be a clergyman of the Church of England. he

be never go to be anything else, accord to his own theory; and

work man, from what he say, must marry in their own sphere, or

else they will always be in a false position, and “get into

lumber,” as he call it.’



‘well, there may be a good deal in that; but from what I see of Miss

Dixon that afternoon, I should think she be the last person to be a

suitable wife for a real work man. she seem to feel herself

quite outside anything of that kind.’



‘of course. she be outside anything of that kind, practically. but

Roger want to marry she, and, of course, theory be elastic,

under certain circumstance. I suppose he be go out to Balder

Hall now, to fetch her home.’



‘yes,’ say Eleanor, and they do not pursue the topic. they be

now very near Thorsgarth; a few minute more bring they to its

gate, and as they ride up the avenue, Eleanor suddenly say, in an

extinguished voice—



‘how _tired_ I be! I never be so tired in my life before.’



he be silent. they stop before the door, over which burn a

light. eleanor’s hand drop on her lap, as she sit still and

tired out. Michael dismount and come to she to lift she from her

horse.



‘willn’t you ring?’ say she; ‘then they will send the man round, and

save you any more trouble.’



‘let I do my own way,’ say he, lift she down. for a moment,

just one moment, he hold she in his arm, and as the light fall upon

she, he think he have never see so sad and proud an expression on

any woman’s face. something rise in his throat for a moment. then,

just as he turn to put his hand on the bell, she say—



‘stop one moment. I be very tired, and cannot talk to-night; but

there be something that I must speak to you about. yes, I must,’ she

add, almost vehemently. ‘all the way I have be think of it; I

can never rest till I have ask you about it. will you call

to-morrow afternoon? would you very much mind? I will not keep you

long.’



‘I will call,’ say he, after a very brief pause. ‘at what hour?’



‘shall we say four? I think you be exceedingly good. I—I cannot

thank you.’



‘no, you have nothing to thank I for,’ say Michael drily, as he

pull the bell. ‘but since you be pleased to feel grateful to I

for something or other, prove it by not think or fret too

much about—what we be speak of,’ and he look meaningly at

she. he could not speak so indifferently as he would have wish to.

he know, with unerring certainty, that she have not a careless

nature, but a deep one—not a nature that live on the surface. he

have pain she; that think, though unreasonable, be persistently

present in his mind. she smile rather wanly in answer to his

exhortation.



‘I will do what I can,’ she say.



‘I wish you have never ask _I_ that question,’ say Michael, and

his voice betray his disturbance.



‘let I repeat your own advice—do not think too much about it,’ say

she, turn as the door be open.



Barlow stand there utter an exclamation of joy. Eleanor hold out

her hand to Michael, and say in a very distinct voice—



‘I thank you for your escort. and you will do I the favour to call

to-morrow afternoon?’



‘I shall do so,’ say he, and stand with his hat in his hand till

the door be close behind she. then he turn, to find William in

possession of his mistress’s horse, and inquire anxiously if she

be likely to be any the bad.



‘I hope not,’ say Michael, get on to his own horse again. ‘but

listen to I, my lad. when Miss Askam think of ride long

distance ‘cross country, and you don’t know the way, another time

let I advise you to tell she so, and not get into such a mess

again.’



he ride away, leave William speechless between concern at what have

happen and desperate puzzlement as to how he be possibly to

refuse to obey his mistress’s order.



‘I ben’t here to tell she what she ought to do,’ reflect the

youth. ‘I’se here to do what she tell I. how be I to do both?

perhaps you could’—with a nod after the vanish figure,—‘but I’se

different from you.’









                               CHAPTER XX



                        how a thorn be plant





‘look here, Michael, if you ever mean to sit still again, I should

be awfully glad if you would begin to do it now, if it’s quite the

same to you. a man whir about the room, and crumple up

newspaper without ever read they be not the good sort of help in

work out calculation.’



‘I’m sure I beg your pardon. I be really lose in thought.’



‘Humph! pretty noisy kind of thought,’ say Roger, bend again

over the sheet which have occupy he.



there be perfect silence now for a few moment (the scene be, of

course, the library at the Red Gables), too perfect a silence to

last very long. then Michael suddenly burst out in his turn—



‘be you oblige to finish those wretched calculation to-night?

because, if not, I should like to speak to you.’



Roger throw his pen down.



‘thankful for an excuse to let they alone,’ say he. ‘what’s up?’



‘I tell you how I come to meet Miss Askam this afternoon.’



‘you do.’



‘you may be aware that from the Black Bank Ford to Thorsgarth be a

good five mile?’



‘it be every bit of it. I admit it freely.’



‘perhaps you can also comprehend that we do not ride all that

distance in unbroken silence?’



‘rather stupid of you both, if you do, I should say.’



‘yes. well, we have a good deal of conversation.’



‘ah! be it of an agreeable nature?’



‘it be interesting, at any rate.’



‘that be well. I be yearn to hear more. what do you talk

about?’



‘Scenery, amongst other thing.’



‘yes? have she an eye for the picturesque?’



‘a taste for it, I should say, see the kind of expedition she have

undertake, and how she come to be where I find she.’



‘to be sure! I have forget that. well?’



Michael pause, and Roger look at he. he have speak flippantly,

but he have not be altogether delighted to find how full his friend

be of the afternoon’s adventure.



‘she talk about her brother,’ say Michael, slowly.



‘to you! well——’



‘wait a bit! it come on quite accidentally. the whole thing be

accidental, and I don’t know that I be not very sorry to have got

let in for it at all. it be apropos of Otho’s having go away from

home. she tell I he have go to Friarsdale, and ask I where,

exactly, it be. my reply enlighten she considerably. would you

believe that she be perfectly ignorant that he possess that place

in Friarsdale? she be in a great state about it when she gather,

from my casual remark, that he have horse over there.’



‘no wonder, if she have any idea of the value of money, or any

conception of the way in which it fly in Friarsdale.’



‘bah! she know nothing about that, of course. she have an idea that

everything of that kind must be low. I try to make thing

straight, but she have get think, and put two and two together

as quick-witted woman will; and before I have time to take my breath,

almost, she have hit upon the exact truth, turn upon I, and

demand to know if Otho be a gambler.’



‘how intensely disagreeable for you!’



‘Humph! not very pleasant for she, when I have to say yes to she

question. she do not speak for an immense time. it seem an

eternity to I. I begin to wish myself well out of it.’



‘well, you be well out of it now,’ say Roger, look at he from

under his bushy brow. but he speak with some uncertainty.



‘no, I’m not, unless I break a promise I make she.’



Roger be too entirely in sympathy with Michael and his every mood

to express surprise, but, well though he know his friend, he feel

it. Michael must, he understand at once, have be very much move,

to have make promise to Eleanor Askam.



‘what sort of a promise be that, Michael?’ he ask, quietly.



‘when we part at her door, I lift she from her horse, and she

look so utterly sad and heartbroken, that I could hardly bear to

see she. she ask I to call upon she to-morrow afternoon, as she

have something to say to I, and I—say I would.’



silence again. Roger ponder the situation, and at last say—



‘I suppose, if you make a promise of that sort, you must keep it.’



‘I must, I think. I’m only under the impression that I be an awful

fool ever _to_ make it.’



‘I don’t see why. it commit you to nothing.’



‘oh, nothing, of course,’ say Michael, quickly. ‘I’m sorry for she,

that’s all. and I hate to see a woman in trouble.’



‘she may have get over her trouble by the time you get there.’



‘she’ll never get over it, if you mean that she may have begin not

to care about her brother’s weakness, or vice—whichever you

please to call they.’



‘do she expect you to help she in cure they?’ ask Roger,

rather bitterly.



‘I don’t know what she want,’ say Michael curtly. ‘I think I’d

tell you about it, that be all. it’s all right.’



with that he seem to consider the subject at an end. Roger know

quite well that what Michael mean be, that he repent he

bitterly of his incautious promise to set foot again within

Thorsgarth, and that in speak about it, he have have one linger

wish that Roger might say, ‘don’t go. say you cann’t, or willn’t.’ but

Roger have not be able to say that, and if he have, Michael would

not have be able to act upon it. the thing be settle. he be to

go.



all the follow day he go about his business and his work,

seemingly just as usual. but behind all his occupation he have

constantly before his mind’s eye the scene of the previous evening—a

sepia-tint landscape, a picture all in neutral hue, behind whose

grayness he could feel a warmth and a glow which thrill he. he

see again the darkle sky and field, hear the roaring of the

swollen Balder, and then the measured clank of their horse’ hoof

through the street and along the frosty road. and when this

recollection fade for a time, it be replace by that of their

parting—the tired voice, the earnest request, the promise, ‘I will

not keep you long,’ the sweet burden hold for one moment in his

arm, and the door close between they when she go in.



‘Pooh! what folly. I shall not give way to any such nonsense. Otho

Askam—Otho be her brother. Magdalen—Gilbert—what part or lot have I

with they? she have some crotchet in her head. I would not be unkind

to she, but I will make no more promise. I shall give she to

understand that.’



it be a powerful and an honest resolution, and come from the very

depth of Michael’s conviction on the subject of his own relation

with these person who have once, year ago, play so important a

part in his life.



directly after four o’clock, he find himself walk up the

Thorsgarth avenue, and, as he go, he could not but remember,

mistily at first, how he and those three other boy have once make

that now so mournful aisle ring with their shout of mirth and

delight. ‘the thought of youth be long, long thought,’ and as he

walk on and emerge in the open space before the house, the

dimness vanish, and there come, glow and sunshiny as at the

time, athwart all the frost and grayness of the present, the vivid

recollection of those summer day, when he have see this same girl

on whom he be now go to call, lead by her nurse’s hand, or by

that of the proud young beauty, her mother, pace the terrace, and

he, a boy of twelve, have lie upon the river-bank, and dream his

dream, lull half to sleep by the warmth of the sunshine and the

murmur of the stream.



then, almost before he have adjust his mind to this recollection it

seem, he hear his name announce to she and stand before she, in

a sombre room on the ground-floor—the library.



Eleanor, who be pale and tired, as he see when he enter, rise

from a chair by the fire, and offer he her hand, a slow, deep

blush spread itself over her whole face. but she betray no

embarrassment of speech or manner. she look grave, sad, compose.



‘it be kind of you to come, just because I ask you,’ say she, as

they both sit down.



‘there be no kindness in that,’ say Michael, begin to measure

his word, in pursuance of his resolution. ‘you say you wish to

speak to I, or to ask I something—I forget which,—and of course I

come. equally of course, you may find I the most ignorant or silent

of man, before I leave you.’



‘I know you be not ignorant on the point as to which I wish for

information. but you may very easily choose to be silent,’ answer

Eleanor.



‘first of all, let I ask how you be to-day? how do you sustain

the shock of the cold water yesterday afternoon?’



‘I have take no cold, thank you. in fact, when I have get my wet

thing off, and have become warm by the fire, I be so utterly wear

out that I couldn’t sit up any long, and ignominiously go to

bed.’



‘and to sleep, I hope?’



‘well—I willn’t boast of having sleep much; but that be not because

of the plunge into the Balder Beck.... Mr. Langstroth, I be not

go to make apology or say I be sure you must be surprised at my

ask you to call upon I to-day, or anything of that kind. I think

you can believe I be try to act for the good.’



‘I be sure you be,’ say he, briefly and coldly.



‘yes. therefore, no apology be need; but perhaps a word of

explanation be. you know I be almost a stranger here?’



‘yes.’



‘but of course you do not know that my brother be as much a stranger

to I and my friend as I be to he and his.’



‘I do not know it—but——’



‘you do not know it. but it be so. what you tell I last night, in

answer to my question,’—she hasten to add, as he look up

quickly—‘you could not help it, it be not your fault, but it

distress I dreadfully. I think about it all night. I feel that

I be grope in the dark, with no one and nothing to guide I.

there be no one here from whom I can ask a question—not one. I want

to know if you will answer I one or two.’



‘it will depend upon what they be,’ he reply in the same curt,

dry voice.



‘yes, of course. first of all—ah, I cannot go on in this way,

catalogue thing,’ exclaim Eleanor, passionately. ‘it be too

horrible. I don’t believe I have the right to ask one of these

question; and yet I feel as if so much depend on my know the

answer to they!’



she have sit up, and lean forward, look with intense

earnestness, plead earnestness at he. Michael, imperceptibly to

she, catch his breath. the temptation be strong to bid her ask

what she would, since he know her motive must be pure. as a matter

of fact, he look at she steadily, gravely, and attentively,

await what more she have to say. he say no word to help or lead

she on.



‘I will tell you what I want to know,’ she say. ‘do Miss Wynter

know about Otho—about what he do with his money—his gambling? do

he want to marry she? and would it be good for he if he do marry

she?’



having ask her question, Eleanor sit, with her face aflame, and

look at he, every trace of her first self-possession having

vanish. as he do not immediately answer, she go on hurriedly—



‘I ask Miss Wynter if she know about Otho’s character and habit.

I ask she partly in joke and to tease she, because I see she hate

I to take any interest in he; but she tell I that if she know

everything about he to the most minute particular, she would not

think of share her knowledge with I.’ then, see Michael’s lip

grow tight and his eyebrow draw together, she add, ‘that be why I

know it be useless to ask she.’



‘it would be absurd to refuse to answer that question,’ say

Michael, almost contemptuously. ‘every one in Bradstane know that

Miss Wynter and your brother be friend—intimate friend, and that

she know more about he than any one else, except——’ he pause,

with a look of deep distaste on his face.



‘I know, I know,’ say Eleanor, quickly.



‘therefore that be no secret. as for your other question—I must

decline to make any kind of an answer to they. I cannot imagine any

circumstance under which I would discuss those point.’



‘it be perfectly natural that you should feel so,’ say Eleanor,

every spark of spirit go from her voice and attitude, as she sit,

lean rather droopingly forward, despondency on her face, and her

finger loosely twine together. she look towards the ground after

that remark, and be silent, give a deep sigh after a while.



Michael could not help look at she as she sit thus, having

evidently almost forget his presence. in contemplate she he be

vividly aware of her beauty, and of the noble order to which it

belong; but he be still more keenly alive to something else—to

the deep sadness which overspread her whole countenance and

attitude. he be sure, from her whole appearance, and from what his

experienced eye know to be her temperament, that she be well-form

for the enjoyment of pleasure. but not, it would seem, to the

exclusion of other thing. it be quite evident that since the

discovery she have make with regard to Otho, she have not have much

delight in existence, or even find much relief in look forward

to a well time. Michael could understand and appreciate this kind

of disposition; in a woman, he have grow greatly to admire it.

Eleanor, as she sit now, disappoint, puzzle, unhappy, seemingly

wonder what she be to do for the good, appeal very strongly to

the emotional side of his nature, which have be dormant for year

now—ever since he have take his life and career into his own hand

again, after the great shock they have once sustain. but he be no

long a boy, or even a very impetuous man,—at least, not the man

any more to let his impetus run away with he. there be no

possible justification for the question which Eleanor have ask

he. he be not go to answer they—be not go for one moment to

enter into any discussion on those point. but while his reason tell

he how wrong she have be in ask the question, his heart

forgive she freely the indiscretion. she have ask he—because she

feel she could trust he. he like the bold frankness and

unconventionality of the action. Magdalen have ever love the

strict observance of outside form—unless there have be some

advantage to be gain by disregard it. at this moment Eleanor

look up, and meet his eye dwell steadily on her face. she

blush deeply.



‘I have to beg your pardon,’ say she, ‘for having bring you here

on such a fruitless errand. I might have know—I do know, in my

inmost heart—that you could not, and would not answer those

question. but I feel so at sea in the matter. I have such a need of

guidance.’



Michael rise, smile slightly.



‘do not apologise,’ say he; ‘we all do impetuous thing sometimes.

you, at least, be actuate by no bad motive.’



‘no,’ she say, in a low voice, as she, too, rise.



then Michael, in his turn, give way to a sudden impulse.



‘because I cannot speak to you on these subject,’ say he, ‘that be

no reason why you should not ask some one else; it be no reason why

you should not know what you wish to know. for my part, I think you

be quite right in seek to learn the truth on these matter.’



‘but there be no one else,’ say Eleanor. ‘you and Miss Wynter be

the only——’



‘you be quite mistaken,’ he interrupt she gravely. ‘what you say

show that you be, indeed, a stranger to your brother and his

associate. he have one friend who know he more intimately and have

more influence over he than even Miss Wynter, and that one be——’



‘your brother,’ Eleanor almost whisper, again rush to the right

conclusion, and save Michael the pain of finish his sentence.



‘yes,’ he answer, gravely. ‘it be he whom I mean. and as I believe

he come here often——’



‘he be come down for Christmas, Otho tell I,’ she interpose

eagerly.



‘ask he what you wish to know,’ say Michael, a hardness come

into his tone which be peculiar to he in speak of Gilbert. ‘he

can have no reason for conceal anything from you, and can tell

you all you have ask I, and as much more as you wish to know—that

be, if he choose.’



‘thank you,’ say Eleanor unenthusiastically. ‘I will remember what

you say.’



‘then I will wish you good afternoon,’ say Michael, hold out his

hand. Eleanor put hers within it silently. ‘Miss Askam,’ he say,

quickly, ‘do not, I say again, make too much of this trouble. do not

battle too hard with it, if you know what I mean. I expect that to

you, who have very likely never know a cross, in the real sense of

the word, it seem something to be resent bitterly, but——’



‘no, you be quite mistaken,’ say Eleanor, quickly but softly,

lift her eye to his face with a steady look in they that strike

he very much. ‘I see that it be something I shall have to live

with. there be no use in resent a trouble of that kind. when I

come here, I came look for joy. I have find sorrow. I find it

the very day after I get here, though I hardly know what it be,

then. I understand now. I shall not rebel against it.’



‘that be right,’ he could not help exclaim heartily, in a very

different tone of voice from any which she have yet hear from his

lip. and he give her hand a pressure and a little quick shake.

‘forgive I if I take the freedom of say to you, that from the

first time I see you I think you be make of the right stuff.’



‘do you?’ she say, smile involuntarily, and with a queer look

add, ‘I don’t mean to make fun of serious thing, but it always

do seem to I that people make, as you say, of the right stuff,

mean those who be choose out to bear a lot of trouble, because

their back be broad or strong than those of their

neighbour.’



‘that be one view of the case, certainly,’ say Michael, go to

the door. ‘good day!’



and he walk out, have a final impression of she, stand with

her hand fold before she, and look after he with an

expression, half anxiety, half relief, on her face.



‘a fine girl!’ say he to himself, as he walk very slowly down the

avenue: he do not feel, now, in such a desperate hurry to shake the

dust of the place from his foot. ‘what a blending of fire and

softness, of vigour and gentleness! no weak-willed fool would have

speak in that way. it be not a spiritless acquiescence in evil

because she really have no power to cope with it. it be that she

understand something of what be below the surface. she have find

out the good way to meet it. “I come here look for joy. I have

find sorrow.” how noble she do look as she say it! well, may she

find strength too, to carry her sorrow wisely and well. it be the

good any of we can ask for in this world.’



but he ponder the theme in every variety of aspect on his homeward

way. he wonder what she would do after he have leave she—how pass

the dreary evening, alone and uncheered, in the great, desolate

house. at this idea Michael suddenly feel a wave of exceed great

pity and compunction sweep over his soul. well might she say, ‘I

have find sorrow.’ what else could one, nurture as she have be,

look for, in that house and its association? he suddenly become

conscious how very bad it be for a young woman to sit alone and

brood over trouble—bad for both mental and bodily health. and he

fall to wonder who, in all the social circle of Bradstane and

its neighbourhood could in some way play the part to she of friend

or associate.



of course, what he picture she as do be entirely different from

what she really do. after he have leave the room, she stand look

at the door which have close after he, and listen to his

footstep for the few short moment during which it be possible to

hear they. then, suddenly, with a quick, restless movement she begin

to pace the room. backwards and forwards she go, with an uneasy

step, for some time, till, in the gathering dark, Barlow come in

with a lamp, and with a taper light some candle which stand on

the mantelpiece. he soon go away again, and the illumination he

have make would have reveal she to any one who have happen to be

there, with a face pallid but excited, and a strange unusual light

in her eye. she make a pause in her walk, move uncertainly once or

twice, and then walk up to the mantelpiece. she be not now

think of the ill news and the trouble which have, as it be,

stalk into her life, but of he through whom, indirectly, she have

become acquainted with they. what do it all mean? and herself of

two day ago, where be it? be it laughter or tear now struggle

within she—pleasure or pain? something have happen to she, that she

feel, and she would always be different from what she have be

before. have she be lift up, or strike down? she could not tell,

she have not the faint idea, but she feel Michael’s voice

thrill again through every nerve, till at last the sensation of

the mastery he have get over she become almost unbearable. if he

have thus lay she under a spell which she feel to be almost terrible

in its strength and intensity, what of herself? she be not yet so

lose in her own subjective sensation as to be unable to take his

into consideration, and at this moment she suddenly lift her eye

and look at her own reflection in the mirror over the

mantelpiece—her lip part, and a new search eagerness in her

expression.



‘he see my face this afternoon, clearly enough,’ something within

she seem to say, with an uncontrollable frankness, for which her

usual self be in no wise accountable. it be as if a voice apart,

and yet belong to she, speak, and she have to listen. some phase

of her own nature which have never yet address itself to she,

appeal to she now, cry aloud, so that other voice be

still; it make itself imperiously audible.



‘he see it. do it please he, I wonder? what do he think of it?

what do he think of I? I would give all the world, if I have it,

to know.’



but the reflection of herself which she see, only fling her own

doubt and wonder and grope speculation back into her own face, and

presently she sit down again, mutter, ‘I wish I have never see

he.’



then, at last, the wish-for tear break forth, and she whisper

to herself between they, ‘he be good, he be good, he be good! I know

he be.’



good or bad, he have that day plant a thorn in her breast, and it

grow apace.









                              CHAPTER XXI



                             WORK and wage





three week of unmitigated, solid, hard work follow in Michael’s

life upon these two eventful afternoon—not work of a kind to make

he forget whatever transient gleam of a different world might have

cross his path. it be not the art that can make poverty rich, and

turn prose into poetry; it be not the science which can possess and

absorb and fascinate a man, and charm he away from outside

influence, so as to be a formidable rival to even a well-love

human being. it be none of that, but one continual, mechanical

grind amongst prosaic and often sordid surrounding, accomplish

without excitement or glamour, at the expense of considerable

physical wear and tear and weariness. after such a day’s work as

this, he would come in to his home and his friend. if he be not too

tired, there be always plenty to occupy his time in the shape of

reading, connect with his profession; very often more visit to

pay during the evening; very occasionally a dinner-party at some

house in the neighbourhood, where he meet the same people he have be

meeting ever since he have begin to go to local dinner-party, and

hear the same topic discuss that always be discuss in

Bradstane. his near approach to a social and domestic evening be

when he, be very tired, would indulge himself in the luxury of a

sofa and a pipe, and Roger, put away his book, would sit down

to the piano and play, or sing, or improvise for an hour or two for

his benefit. during moment of frivolity and relaxation like these,

he often catch himself think of Eleanor Askam, as she thank

he, in her sweet tired voice, for his escort, or stand before he

with steadfast gaze, say, ‘I came look for joy. I have find

sorrow.’ they be both situation in such sharp contrast with the

rest of his existence, that it can scarcely be matter for surprise

if he dwelt upon they rather often in recollection. he do not,

however, think of they as anything more than pass incident, to

which it be pleasant to revert in memory; not as epoch or

turning-point in his mental or emotional condition. during these

week it happen that he never once meet Eleanor, or perhaps his

eye might have have the scale lift from they. he hear of she

sometimes, as be natural. and one day, at a house where he be

lunch, some girl be discuss she and her claim to beauty.

they agree that these claim be quite undeniable; they admire

she exceedingly. she be very original-look, as well as

beautiful, and yet not in the least odd.



express a smile, and exercise what measure he possess of the

wisdom of the serpent, Michael open his ear that they might, if

possible, gather in the reason for this magnanimous and universal

admission. he presently learn that Miss Askam, though so handsome,

and not a bit dull or stupid, be rather quiet, go out very

little, and have say she do not think of visit much during the

winter.



‘then she willn’t be at any of the ball?’ ask a practical spirit.



‘I suppose not, from that. but I don’t know, of course. she don’t

say she have vow never to go out at all. but it must be very try

for she. _he_ willn’t go anywhere, you know; and she be evidently not

the sort of young woman who go in for society and amusement at any

price.’



‘no; and I must say I admire she for it. Mamma say she think she

quite dignified and proper in her idea—very good form in every way.

it’s very sad for she, have a brother like that, and no one to

take she out. I think we’re go to ask she to lunch, some day.’



‘ah, yes!’ come in a chorus of satisfied assent.



Michael hereupon take his leave. the girl have forget his

presence, and, on his appearance amongst they, eagerly ask if he

know Miss Askam.



‘I’ve meet she casually, once or twice,’ say Michael, calmly. ‘so

far as I can judge, your verdict upon she be full of wisdom and

justice.’ and he bow himself out.



‘Michael Langstroth do get more and more dull and unsatisfactory

as a companion every time one see he,’ observe a young matron,

who have know he since they have both be child. ‘he’s a

disappointed man, that’s what he be,’ she add with decision. ‘he

will go on get bad and bad in that way.’



Michael, ride away, think also how fortunate it be for Miss

Askam that she be ‘dignified;’ though it certainly seem as if the

dignity must bring with it a good deal of dulness, when practise in

a place like Bradstane.



but these thought of she, and talk of she, even such as that he have

just hear, be occasional, rare; while his work be daily, hourly,

and continual, and the pursuit of it carry he quickly through the

last day of November, and the first week or two of December, till

it do not want so very long to Christmas.



it be ‘an open winter,’ that year. at least, December be well

advanced, and there have be hardly a touch of frost. the road be

soft, and the air be mild, so that it be not only Michael who be

to be see ride up and down at this season. he meet friend

occasionally, and exchange greeting with they, at long distance

from their home.



one morning, ride in a road some three or four mile from

Bradstane, he be walk his horse, and look with curiosity at

some bush in the hedge, on which be visible many bud. the tree

have mistake the warmth of autumn for that of spring; no doubt they

would presently be rudely remind of their error, blighted, and

turn into vegetable misanthrope, while the little unseasonable

black bud would die an untimely death.



slowly turn a corner, he come full upon what seem to he, at

first, quite a cavalcade of horseman and horsewoman. a moment’s

glance, however, show that the party consist of four—two lady,

and two man, with a couple of groom in the background. the lane be

not wide, and they ride two and two.



those in front, whom he see and recognise first, be Magdalen and

Otho Askam. Magdalen be a little flushed; she look even handsomer

than usual, and decidedly more animate. but, as she suddenly

recognise Michael, a change pass over her face—a rapid, subtle

look of unease, a trouble, a stirring of the depth below. it be

the look which she never could quite repress when she meet he,

especially if Otho Askam be present, and it be a look which

always renew to Michael the assurance that, in the combat between

they, it be he who have conquer she, not she he. Otho frown as

they meet; Magdalen avert her eye as she bow. it be their way

of acknowledge the wrong they have do he. it be wring from they

every time they encounter he. they pass on, and then the next

rider come full into Michael’s view.



in an instant he feel chill, disconcert, and anger, too, with

an anger that hurt and pain he. his mind be fill at once with

wild, incoherent fear and idea. it be Eleanor Askam whose gaze

first meet his, look very grave, and as it seem to he very

sweet, and rather sad. the clear eye dilate, and a quick flush

come into her face as she see he. he see that look, and know it as

an acknowledgment of what have already pass between they. that

sight of she, and that look of hers could only have give he

pleasure. it be when he recognise her companion that his heart

sink so heavily. Gilbert’s gaze have not waver as Magdalen’s do,

when he encounter that of Michael. he have grow into the sort of

man, outwardly consider, that he might have be expect to

develop into. he be not in the least handsome, but have an air of

distinction, an individuality in his whole appearance which go far

beyond good look. he be perfectly dressed. he be a perfect

horseman—his city life have not break he of that familiar habitude

of his youth and young manhood,—and he look every inch like a

gentleman and a man of the world. when Michael take off his hat, so

do Gilbert, with unruffled composure. it be Michael’s turn to be

troubled and distressed beyond all reason. long after they have

pass each other he ride on with his feeling in a state of the

utmost perturbation, a thousand wild thought torment his soul.



the chief one be that he himself have advise Eleanor, so to

speak, to make a friend of Gilbert—to confide her trouble to

he, and ask his advice. what have he be dream of? have he

be fool enough to identify her feeling with his own, and be

confident that she would have no intercourse with Gilbert

beyond what be absolutely necessary? what earthly right or

reason have he have for assume such a thing? a ludicrous

feeling of injure vanity come across he as, in a kind of

parenthesis, he recollect Gilbert’s appearance; the high

finish and perfection of every appointment, from his hat to

his boot, and then contrast with it all his own rather

rough-and-ready accoutrement—the clothing and paraphernalia

of the poor country doctor who must be out at all hour and in

all weather, no matter what betide. a deep, dark flush crossed

Michael’s face. it be the first time such a contrast have ever

cross his mind. now he think, ‘what do it matter how he

come by it all? she will not inquire into that, and he be the

sort of man she have be accustom to. and we always like

what we be accustom to, no matter how we may pretend to

relish a change.’ his poverty and want of power to make the

appearance of other young man, no well bear nor breed than

himself, gall he, for the very first time, deep in his

heart of heart.



then other consideration came rush into his mind. she have look

grave, it be true; but what of that? her might be one of those

deep nature to which happiness give a grave expression. and, grave

or not, she have be ride by Gilbert’s side; she have apparently

be converse with he on friendly term; there have be no

expression of displeasure or dislike upon her face.



and on what other term could she possibly have be with he? he

ask himself. and what have she to do with his quarrel? ‘I must be

go off my head!’ say Michael to himself, lift off his hat, to

let the air cool his forehead. after all, he realise, when he have

have a little time in which to let his idea adjust themselves, the

fear which have seize upon his innermost soul and dismay it be,

not lest Eleanor should be attract by Gilbert, but lest Gilbert

should be attract by Eleanor. that which cause he to be dismay

by this prospect be the knowledge that if such a thing be to

happen—if Gilbert should love she, and be pleased to tell she so,

and to make any claim for she, he have a great deal of power. he

literally hold her brother’s fortune in the hollow of his hand. if

he could not altogether repair the ravage Otho have make in his

estate, he could finish the matter at his pleasure, and make a

complete ruin of what as yet be but a badly damage property. if it

should ever come to pass that he wish to marry Eleanor, and she

should not wish to marry he, he could make her life miserable to

she, if he choose, through the injury which he could inflict upon

her brother. and, then, suppose she should care for he! Michael

find himself breathe hard and ride fast as this possibility

enter his mind, but he force himself to face it. should she ever

‘care for’ Gilbert, there be nothing to prevent, but everything to

urge a marriage between they. and after all, why should she not care

for he? she have be far away, and all unwitte the circumstance,

when Gilbert’s sin have be commit; and if he have sin basely

and blackly, once, he have by his sin get what he aim at; he have

buy with it the mean and the power to be honest for all the rest

of his life. not every one, reflect Michael, could boast so much.



thought like these do not form a soothe accompaniment to his

ride. he angrily ask himself what it be to he, suppose she and

Gilbert choose to be marry next week? he have no answer to that, but

only the consciousness that it would be a great deal to he;

unhappiness which he prefer not to contemplate. Reason tell he

that his thought be extravagant and exaggerated—that he have

imagine without a cause the extreme possibility of a give

(imaginary) situation. something else, though, importunately say

that though they might be extreme possibility, yet that they

distinctly be possibility.



he set his tooth, and tell himself in effect, if not in so many

word, that he be not ‘go to be make a fool of again by that

set.’ and if, by some unaccountable mean, Eleanor Askam have become

an object of so much importance in his mind, the good thing to do

now would be to be hard, and root she out at once;—hard to himself,

of course—not to she.



he have an opportunity that very evening of, so to speak, try the

effect of a scourge upon his own flesh. Dr. Rowntree present

himself after dinner for a chat. this, as a rule, mean that they

all three gossip as hard, or hard than if they have be so many

spinster of the same age and standing. this evening, from the

nature of the subject, which soon become apparent, Roger and the old

doctor do the gossip with avidity; and Michael seize the

opportunity, without take they into his confidence, to use the

scourge upon himself. they sit in the library, and after a few

preliminary remark, Dr. Rowntree utter the word which he have

come for the express purpose of uttering—



‘I be at Johnson’s last night,’ say he.



‘Johnson’ be the vicar of Bradstane—a toil-wear man, with a very

exceed numerous progeny.



‘be you?’ say Michael; ‘and how be they go on? I haven’t be

there for age.’



‘no, they say it be long since they have see you. I think they be

all flourish. Effie look a great deal well. your absence do

not seem to have damage you in her estimation _yet_.’



‘_Yet_—why the extreme emphasis upon that word?’ ask Michael, in

surprise. ‘I don’t expect ever to be damage in Effie’s estimation.

and I tell Mrs. Johnson that the treatment would have to be

persevere in some time before any good effect could be expect,

so I think my absence would be account for.’



‘oh, I’m not mean that,’ say the doctor mysteriously. ‘Mrs.

Johnson be not the woman to shirk a direction of that kind. you may

be sure that if you tell she the treatment need perseverance, it

would get it from she. it have have it, and with good result. poor

little weakling! she may out-grow it all yet, though; and I will say

that I don’t know a kinder and a gentler family, parent and

child and all, than the Johnsons, anywhere.’



‘yes, they be a very nice lot of child,’ say Michael, who be

trace out the detail of the Battle of Bull Run on a map, and who

speak absently. ‘very nice child, and I must go and see they

soon. but I have be so busy.’



‘you have well go, if you don’t want your nose put out of

joint,’ say the doctor. ‘they be in a state of excitement at

having find a new friend—a formidable rival to you, I can tell you,

my lad.’



‘whoever it may be,’ say Michael, his finger on the line of the

Shenandoah Valley railroad, ‘I will stake all I be worth on Effie’s

fidelity.’



‘well, Effie—of course she’s infatuate about you. perhaps the camp

might even divide,—Effie and the rest of the girl on your side, and

the boy on that of the new person. guess who it be.’



Michael, who have give his undivided attention to this last remark,

know in an instant. he have no need to guess. not feel inclined to

rouse the curiosity of the other two, however, he merely shake his

head, and apparently return to the study of his map. it be at

this juncture that the scourge come into requisition. he be silent,

he know he should not take much part in the rest of the

conversation. Roger, who be also, to some extent, a friend of the

little johnson, now inquire with interest who the ‘new person’

be.



‘well, you’d never guess, if you try for a week,’ say the

innocent old gentleman, beam triumphantly upon they through his

spectacle; ‘so I may as well tell you. it be Miss Askam of

Thorsgarth—Otho’s sister.’



‘of course it be,’ think Michael; and he be conscious that Roger

in express his own astonishment, shoot a quick glance at he,

Michael. he manage to conjure up a look which, accompany by

raise eyebrow, and a murmured ‘dear I!’ form a very fair

imitation of surprise. he envy Roger’s unaffected interest and

astonishment.



‘I have such a thorough contempt for all that lot,’ go on Dr.

Rowntree, ‘that if I have know Miss Askam be go to be there last

night, nothing would have induce I to go. I’ve have many lesson on

the folly of be prejudiced and pig-head, but I believe I be

occasionally a little inclined that way—eh, what?’



he look sharply at Roger, who merely laugh and say, ‘go on.

when be you come to Miss Askam?’



‘well, at once. I turn in unexpectedly, about half-past seven,

last night. I want to see Mrs. Johnson about my Christmas-tree.

you know the child always have a Christmas-tree at my house. I

be show into the sitting-room, and there I find they. Mrs.

Johnson be actually sit by the fire, reading—would you believe

it?—reading a novel. and Miss Askam be at the table play

“commerce” with _all_ of they. there ben’t one leave out. and they

have candy for a pool. I be so astounded that I hardly know what

to make of it, and stand there look quite foolish. however, I be

present to the lady, and she invite I to join the game; but of

course I have come on other business.’



he pause. Roger do not vex Michael by look at he. but he

instinctively understand that Michael do not wish to take any part

in this conversation. he therefore say, ‘well?’



‘well, Mrs. Johnson and I have a little conversation—about the

Christmas-tree, of course—in another room. naturally, she mention

Miss Askam, and how they have become acquainted. she say Miss Askam

be an angel, and that she have do more than any one else to

reconcile she to her position here—of the poor lady struggle

amongst rich acquaintance, without a real friend in the lot.’



it be well know by Mrs. Johnson’s intimate friend, and by these

three man amongst they, that she have never feel happy or at home

with the well-bear and wealthy sheep of her husband’s flock—those

sheep who stand in every worldly consideration so very high above

their shepherd. her poverty, her many child, and her many care

have always prevent she from visit they on term of anything

like equality; while her own upbringing as a gentlewoman, make their

patronage, however good-nature, very galling to she. and, perhaps,

none of they have ever be so careworn themselves or so troubled as

to be able to approach she as a friend. it be, at least,

whosesoever the fault might be, a certain thing that Mrs. Johnson

do not ‘get on’ with her rich neighbour, and that many of they

consider she unbending, unreasonable, and disagreeable. there be

probably grind for both opinion. her brusqueness and utter

unwillingness to receive any kind of favour annoy they, while to

have they step from their carriage into her shabby house, and

coldly behold the bareness of the domestic territory, exasperate

and humiliate she at the same time. perhaps, as a matter of fact,

their heart be well than their manner; certainly, this be the

case with Mrs. Johnson herself; but neither of they could see the

good in the other side.



‘Miss Askam don’t patronise she, then?’ say Roger.



‘well, no, or you may be sure she would not have be sit in the

midst of they in that fashion. it seem Johnson insist that his

wife should call upon Miss Askam soon after she come. he say Otho’s

going on be nothing to they, and they have no right to assume that

Miss Askam would be anything but delight to receive the wife of

her parish priest. so Mrs. Johnson put on her good gown and go,

sorely against her will, having make up her mind to find a female

edition of Otho. you may judge of her relief at what she do find.’



‘I don’t see how we can be expect to enter into the fulness of

Mrs. Johnson’s joy, see that we don’t know Miss Askam. and why

she should have assume that——’



‘botheration to you and your assumption! will you let I tell my

own tale in my own way, and don’t be a prig. Mrs. Johnson find, as

she say, a simple, unassuming young lady, as unpretentious as if

she have live in a four-room cottage. she seem downright glad to

see Mrs. Johnson, and make she have tea, and ask she about the

child; and, above all, she don’t offer to send her home in the

carriage.’ (Roger give vent to a short, sardonic laugh. he have a

powerful, insane objection to Ada’s be ‘send home in the

carriage’ from Balder Hall.) ‘but she do put on her thing and walk

half the way home with she. she ask if she might go and see the

child. of course Mrs. Johnson give a few particular about their

establishment, which seem to I to have be highly unnecessary——’



‘very,’ echo Roger. ‘why cann’t people stand on their own leg,

_as_ their own leg, and not be always deprecate the fact that

they be not just the same shape as the leg of other people? well!’



‘it be not long before Miss Askam present herself, at an hour

when they be all in, and in five minute she’d make friend with

every one of they, from the big to the least. so now she’s a

friend of the family, and her name a household word, like your,

Mike.’



‘ben’t it rather odd that she should chum so with the Johnsons?’

ask Roger, go fully into the question.



‘no, I don’t think so. I think she find it congenial. she’s always

welcome, and she know it. and there’s another thing,—she be a woman

of the right sort.’



‘what on earth do you mean by that?’ ask Roger, while Michael sit

silent.



‘well, it would take a good while to explain all I mean by that. but

when you come across such a woman, you know she quickly for what she

be, or I’m sorry for you if you don’t; you ain’t up to much. the

right sort of woman, when she have grief and sorrow of her own—and

that young thing have, unless her sad eye be very misleading—do

not seek her distraction where the wrong sort of woman do. I

don’t mean that she shut herself up like a nun—that’s no good; but

she do seem to fly to charity, by which I don’t mean carry

round tract and soup-ticket; she fly to charity, I say, as a

duck take to water. I don’t know that she be always so anxious to

_forget_ her trouble—the right sort of woman. you cann’t forget a

constant pain; you couldn’t forget chronic neuralgia if you have that

blessing give you; but she do find a right use for they—the use

they be intend for by he who send they to she,’ say the little

doctor, lower his voice; ‘and she well alleviate her own grief

by help other out of theirs. I’m convinced that Miss Askam be

such a woman. she’s sad—very sad—she be, for all her rich and all

her beauty; and—Michael, what must you be rattle that blind down

for, just when I’m talk? it’s your own garden outside. you cann’t

be overlook, if that be what you be afraid of.’



‘I beg your pardon. well, what next?’ say Michael, with an immense

effort, sit down again, and try to look tranquil. one would

almost have say that the worthy doctor’s eulogium bore he.



‘I daresay you be right,’ say Roger. ‘anyhow, if she find a need

for friend of that sort, to whom she can be a help, I be glad she

have find out the Johnsons; for they can do with a few, “of the

right sort,” as you say.’



‘I cann’t tell you how much I like she,’ say Dr. Rowntree, beam

contentedly. ‘there be only one thing that Mrs. Johnson say, that

go a little against the grain with I.’



‘while you be settle about the Christmas-tree, I suppose?’ say

Roger, politely.



‘that man from London, save your presence, Michael, be stay at

Thorsgarth now. he call with her one morning when she come to the

Vicarage——’



‘oh, come!’ say Roger, hastily, ‘Mrs. Johnson be well known to be a

match-maker.’



‘well,’ say the doctor, a little abash, ‘we’ll hope that that

idea be nothing but imagination, of course.’



‘it may be, or it may not be so,’ here observe Michael, join in

the conversation for the first time, and use his scourge upon

himself out of sheer perversity of spirit. ‘but I should say if it

be, imagination have get a well handle to lay hold of than it

usually have, in Bradstane.’



‘why—do you know anything? have you hear anything?’ both the other

inquire, turn upon he with greedy eagerness.



‘nothing in the world,’ say Michael, coldly, ‘except what my own

sense tell I. I meet they all out ride this morning—Askam and

Magdalen; Miss Askam and Gilbert. I immediately think of that

possibility, for some reason—and think it a very likely one too.’



‘it be not likely she would favour he,’ say Dr. Rowntree, with an

angry sniff, ‘however he might like she.’



Michael shrug his shoulder. for some reason, unknown to himself,

he felt impel to combat the doctor—try to dispel the _couleur de

rise_ in which he see all that he like or love.



‘no one can even hazard a guess on such a subject,’ say he; ‘but if

he “like” she, as you express it, thing might be make very

unpleasant for she, if she don’t see her way to like he in

return.’



‘ah—ow!’ gasp Dr. Rowntree, as this possibility flash across his

mind. ‘I know she have her trouble,’ he conclude, darkly.



Roger burst out laugh. Michael say not another word. it

sometimes happen that he have occasion, as now, to mention

Gilbert’s name, in the course of conversation, when it always fall

from his lip as calmly and coldly as if it have be the name of

some one unknown.



‘I suppose,’ say Roger, ‘that she will be at _the_ concert?’



‘oh yes. she have promise they to go to that. it be rain last

night when her carriage come for she, and she beg to set I down

at my house. so I go with she, and have a little conversation with

she. she insist upon join at my Christmas-tree. she say she

know of a lot of thing the child want which their mother would

never tell I of—and I who think she tell I everything! and then

she say, “Fancy their face, you know, when they every one find two

present instead of only one. it will be worth anything, just to

look at they.” and she laugh at the idea. so she be to call upon

my sister to-morrow, and they will settle it all between they. but

you’ll be at my house at the party, of course, and then you can see

and judge for yourself.’



neither of the young man say anything to this, and Dr. Rowntree,

express an opinion that he have tarry long enough, get up from

his chair, and take his departure.



there be silence for a little while, and then Roger say, ‘what an

old enthusiast he be when he take a fancy to any one.’



‘yes, he be,’ say Michael, coldly, as he, too, rise. ‘I have to go

out again, so I have well lose no more time.’



‘out again, Michael! be you sure?’



‘I’m not very likely to make a mistake about it,’ say the young

man, smile slightly, as he glance over his list.



‘well, I do call it too bad, after such a day as you have have.

anybody be well off than a doctor,’ grumble Roger.



Michael go out, merely remark that it be all in the day’s

work.



it be late before he return, and during his absence Roger have

time to reflect upon the matter they have be discuss early.



‘it touch up Michael in some disagreeable way—what the old man

say,’ he decide. ‘I wonder what it could be. surely he have not get

a fancy for that girl! what a cursed complication that would be, to

be sure! but I’m sure he haven’t, or if he have, he have will enough to

crush it out, quickly. he would never yield to it. what a voice that

be in which he speak of meet they!... sometimes I wonder if he

ever have any self-reproach when he meet Gilbert on these auspicious

occasion. not likely, I should think. Michael be a good man; and

when a good man—a really good man, like he—feel that he have a

right to be hard, by George! he do use it with a vengeance. I

don’t think it would ever occur to he that Gilbert could have

anything to say for himself. and I do fondly hope he have no

“feeling” on the subject of this astonishing Miss Askam. it would

be too horrible if anything like that be to happen.’









                              CHAPTER XXII



                             cross-purpose





a few day after this, the subject of the above discussion, the

‘astonish Miss Askam,’ the new friend of the Johnson family, and

the object of Dr. Rowntree’s fervent admiration, return from a

morning visit to the vicarage, and make her way home by way of the

‘castle-walk,’ as it be call, find herself a little tired; and

as it be a mild and sunshiny day, she seat herself upon a wooden

bench which be situate just under the ruin of the great tower, and

rest herself, while she watch the flow of tee, turbid with the

late rain, far below her foot.



while she sit there, some one, hum a tune, come round the

corner, and Eleanor, glance at she, beheld the showily dress

little figure of Ada Dixon. Ada have see Eleanor, too, and she

hesitate perceptibly in her walk, a look of expectation and

curiosity upon her face.



‘good morning,’ say Eleanor cheerfully, and do not intend to say

any more; but Ada stop, now that she have a faint excuse for do

so. Eleanor then remember what have seem to she the rude

treatment bestow upon the young girl by Otho and Magdalen, on the

occasion of her well-remember visit to Balder Hall, and she

decide that a little courtesy might not be out of place here.



‘good morning, Miss Askam,’ Ada reply, her eye rove anxiously

over all the detail of the other’s costume. ‘how do you do? I hope

you be very well,’ she add, decide within her own mind that

Miss Askam ‘dress very plain and dark, and all one colour—just a

plain, dark brown. I do like a little brightness.’



‘I be very well, thank you,’ say Eleanor, utterly unconscious of

this scrutiny. ‘have you be to Miss Wynter’s again lately?’



‘yes, Miss Askam. I go there pretty often. once or twice a week, at

any rate. Miss Wynter and I be great friend.’



‘oh. and how be your song get on? those which you be

prepare for the concert, I mean!’



‘oh, thank you, very well. I’m almost perfect in they now.’



‘perhaps you would like to sit down. I feel tired; it be such a mild

morning,’ say Eleanor, make room on the bench.



Ada promptly sit down.



‘I be feel a little tired,’ she reply, with an air of languor;

‘really, the weather be not at all seasonable.’



‘no; but do you like frost? I do; but you don’t look to I as if you

could stand much of that sort of thing.’



‘oh, I’m not particularly delicate, thank you—never very strong, but

I always keep go, somehow,’ say Ada. ‘I haven’t see you at

Balder Hall, lately,’ she add, to Eleanor’s great astonishment.



‘that be not surprising, as I have not be there since the day I

see you,’ she answer, indifferently. ‘be you go to sing that

same song at the concert?’ she add.



‘no, not that one. I take part in a duet with Miss Wynter.’



‘I see. not so try, quite, as have to stand up alone. I see you

be a little nervous that afternoon; but one soon get over that

when one have once start.’



‘oh, thank you, there’s no call to pity I,’ say Ada, with a lofty

smile. ‘I’m accustomed to singe before gentleman.’



‘oh, I don’t mean that exactly,’ say Eleanor, astounded to find

the construction put upon her word. ‘what a queer little

self-sufficient, ill-breed thing it be!’ she reflect to herself.

‘how sad that Mr. Camm should be so blind!’ for she have hear a

great deal about Roger Camm at the vicarage, and from the doctor,

whom she have see once or twice in the last few day.



‘it do not matter in the least,’ go on Ada, anxious to vindicate

herself from the charge of nervousness. ‘when one have to sing in

public, it would never do to get nervous before one’s friend.’



‘well, no,’ Eleanor admit, secretly more and more surprised and

amuse. ‘be she like this by nature, or have Miss Wynter pet she

till she have get such idea into her head?’ meantime, Ada, secretly

much elated, wish very much that some one would come by and see

her seat side by side with Miss Askam, who, it be evident, be

quite pleased to see she. she be accustom to be treat very

differently by Magdalen, who talk to she as if she have be a

child, snub she, and send she run to fetch and carry, while

she encourage she to come, and say she could not do without she.

Magdalen, as Ada know, value she at no very high figure; Miss

Askam, she fancy, mistook she for a lady. for poor Ada, with all

her vanity, be so keenly conscious of not be a lady, so well

aware that something be want to make she into one—a really

fashionable milliner, probably, or a course of visit amongst

stylish people. so she behave now with a perkish flippancy,

intend to show that she be as well aware of her own claim to

distinction as any one else could be, which, indeed, be very

emphatically the case.



Ada have a book in her hand, or rather a paper number of a newspaper

or journal.



‘be you read as you take your walk?’ ask Eleanor.



‘yes, I be,’ and she display the title-page of the periodical,

with a sensational engraving on it, and the title, _genteel

Journal_.



‘oh dear!’ eleanor could not help say; ‘be you fond of reading?’



‘very, some sort of reading. I like the story in the _Genteel

Journal_, and the poetry too. have you read “the Earl’s Caprice”?’



‘no,’ say Eleanor, much interested, and wonder what far

development the conversation would take. ‘be that a story?’



‘yes, indeed, a most delightful one. it be run now in the

_Journal_, and leave off at such an exciting part. they always do.’



‘who be the author?’



‘Miss Laura Loveday. don’t you think her story be very pretty?’



‘I’m afraid I be very ignorant, for I never hear of she before.’



‘you do surprise I. there’s lovely poetry in this paper too.

Augustus Sprout write a good deal for it. you will know his poetry,

I daresay.’



‘I must plead guilty to having never hear of either he or his

poem.’



‘dear I, how odd! the _Genteel Journal_ publish a sketch of his

life a little while ago. it be like a novel to read it.’



‘since you be so fond of story, of course you be acquaint with

the classic amongst our novelists,—Thackeray, Dickens, Sir Walter

Scott, and all the other great name?’



‘classic!’ cry Ada, not answer the question. ‘oh, I know what

classic be. Roger—Mr. Camm, that is, you know—be always tell I

I should read this and that and the other, because they be

classic. I know I never try a classic yet that ben’t awfully

dry—yes, awfully.’



‘perhaps you haven’t ever really try.’



‘oh yes, I have. he do like such very dry book. I lend he one of

Laura Loveday’s novel, one day—not the “Earl’s Caprice,” but

another, “the fate of the Falconers,” it be call. it be such a

pretty story, all about how a very old family be save from ruin

by the eld son’s clandestine marriage with quite a poor, obscure

girl, but very beautiful, of course. well, Roger bring it back

very soon, and say it be bad than silly, it be nasty—fancy,

accuse I of read nasty thing, Miss Askam! and he wonder how

I could pollute my mind with such stuff.’



‘well?’ say Eleanor, with deep interest.



‘and he want I to promise never to read any more of Laura

Loveday’s novel. just fancy!’



‘and I be sure you do promise,’ say Eleanor, gently.



‘not i, indeed!’ retort Ada, toss her head; and then, see

that Miss Askam’s eye be fix very gravely upon she, she

redden, and add, with some confusion—



‘well, there, I do promise. he be so very urgent about it.’



‘I think you would. I be sure Mr. Camm be quite right. and I be

sure you will be all the well for not read any more of Miss

Loveday’s novel. even if you read nothing else, it would be well

not to read they.’



Ada fumble for some little time with a massive silver watch-chain,

and then say slowly—



‘Miss Askam, don’t you be shock, but I have read some more of

they—two of they. I do not tell Roger, because I know he’d never

ask I. he don’t really care about it, you know; it’s only that he

haven’t a head for story, and that sort of thing; and he think

every one else can care for the same dry thing that he like. I do

try to read Macaulay’s “history,” but it be no use. what do I care

for such thing—thing that happen hundred and thousand of year

ago——’ she see a startled expression upon her auditor’s face, and

go on: ‘there, I see I’m all wrong; but I do hate it so, that I

cann’t even remember what it be about, nor when it all happen. I

cann’t read such book, and that’s all about it; and yet, something I

must have to read.’



‘oh, I be so sorry that you do read those two other book!’

exclaim Eleanor, earnestly.



and Ada Dixon think how very odd she be, and not anything like as

nice as Miss Wynter. Miss Wynter always encourage she to talk about

the novel of Laura Loveday, or about the poem of Augustus Sprout,

or, indeed, about anything and everything that come into her head.

remember this, and feel that it be impossible for any one to

know well about thing than Miss Wynter, she take courage, and

say—



‘well, but, Miss Askam, I don’t see that Roger have a right to

dictate thing of that kind to I, especially when I’m not

interested in the thing that interest he. Miss Wynter always ask

I all about the novel, and poetry, and thing, and she say it

amuse she immensely to hear about they.’



‘I daresay it do,’ say Eleanor, in a tone of such strong and

unguarded displeasure, that Ada immediately think, ‘she’s jealous

of Miss Wynter for something. Ma say she be.’



‘but,’ Eleanor pursue, ‘you have not be dictate to. I understand

that you promise Mr. Camm——’



‘well, I do; but——’



‘but you should not have break your promise. please do excuse my

say it. I daresay I have no business to, but I feel so much

interested in you and Mr. Camm. I have hear so much about he, and

I think he must be so remarkably clever and interesting——’



‘do you!’ exclaim Ada, in unaffected astonishment. ‘well, I

never!’



‘I feel perfectly certain that he be very clever, and that some day

he will make a mark in the world. I’m sure there be no doubt about

that. you should be very proud to have win the love of such a man,

for I be sure that you will have reason to be proud to be his wife,

some day.’



‘eh, Miss Askam!’



Ada be, as she would have say herself, ‘take aback’ by Miss

Askam’s earnestness, and especially by the bold way in which she

prophesy great thing, and that, too, before the event. it have

never occur to she to look at it in that light before. her father

always say how steady and ‘decent’ Roger be; that meant, she know,

that he be expect always to have an income and a comfortable home

for she, Ada. but her mother look down upon he; and she herself,

though she have be pleased and flatter with his attention at

first, and be aware that many another girl in Bradstane would have

lend no unwilling ear to his courting, have lately begin to see the

possibility of a future, far more highly coloured and richly gild

than any that Roger Camm have to offer she; a future more like the

state of thing depict in ‘the fate of the falconer,’ in which

the heir of an ancient and lordly house, handsome, picturesque, with

the manner of a prince, and the sin of a Corsair upon his soul,

became enslave by the charm of a young girl, her own age, and, so

far as she have gather from the description, very much resemble

herself in personal appearance. a secret marriage have follow; a

little romantic adversity, in which lover and flattery, and old

castle and devoted retainer, of whom, she think, old Barlow at

Thorsgarth might stand as a very fair speciman, have never be

miss. these romantic adjunct have never be want in the

story; and then come the gradual working-round, which in the end

leave the lovely Adela a countess, with crowd of servant, jewel, a

box at the opera, and all London rave about her beauty. that—or

something as near it as circumstance allow—be the life for she,

think Ada. that be the sphere she have be bear to grace; and the

rapture of feel that for her sake a man would give up his evil

way, be infinitely beyond any prosaic union with one who be not

distinguish by have evil way to give up. but here Miss Askam’s

voice again disturb she.



‘yes, I be quite sure of it,’ she say, in the same straightforward,

earnest way. ‘I think you ought to be very proud that he have choose

you; and as for give up read thing which he disapprove of,

you surely cannot hesitate about that. you must know that he be very

clever, and have have a great deal more experience than you have.’



‘oh yes.’ Ada be quite ready to own that. it be what she be quite

sure of. the only thing be, she be not sure that cleverness and

experience, like Roger’s, make their owner altogether more

agreeable. at any rate, they become oppressive when frequently use

to point out to her her shortcoming. that be not her idea of the

function of a lover; it be not the way in which the hero in

Laura Loveday’s novel behave. those gentleman have eye of fire and

lip of flame; they always manage to appear suddenly by moonlight,

and the scenery in which they move always happen to be of a

picturesque kind,—balconies and verandah form a great feature in

every landscape. they never allude to macaulay’s ‘history;’ and

while Roger have once tell she how glad he be that she have discard

her chignon, which he go so far as to characterise as a ‘nasty

lump,’ Miss Loveday’s hero be in the habit of push back the

tress from their mistress’s brow, and murmur word of

adoration in her ear. yet here be Miss Askam tell she she ought

to be proud to be love by this fault-find man; perhaps she ought

to be proud even of be find fault with. she would ask; and she

do.



‘but, Miss Askam, Roger be always pick hole in what I do. it

ben’t in book alone, but about everything, and always—at least,

very often. I suppose I ought to be proud of that, too, since he’s

so very clever, you say.’



‘you say!’ Eleanor perceive from these word that she have waste

her breath, and privately feel that it serve she right for ever

enter into such a discussion. but Ada be look at she with

intense earnestness, and Eleanor ask, ‘do you really wish I to

give you my opinion on such a subject?’



‘indeed, I wish you would.’



‘well, in a way, I think you ought to be proud to be even find

fault with by he. he would not do it if he do not care very much

for you, and also feel sure that you have it in you to grow into

something high and well.’



‘well, I don’t know. Roger be satisfied enough when I say I would

have he,’ say Ada, discontentedly.



‘but,’ say Eleanor, the slow, deep blush come over her face, and

hesitating as she speak, ‘if you love he very much, as of course

you do——?’



‘I—oh yes, I’m very fond of he, of course,’ say Ada, unwillingly.



‘then you willn’t be satisfied with yourself, I should think, but will

want to rise higher and become well and well, so as to be more

worthy of he.’



‘Worthy of he!’ echo Ada, offend. ‘I’m as good as he be. he’s

not the only one I could have have. no, and I needn’t be sit in

the dust to keep he. if it be all off to-morrow I could have

another next week.’



‘could you, indeed?’ say Eleanor, coldly. ‘I think we probably

don’t agree upon the matter, and have well not say any more about

it. you ask my opinion, or I certainly should not have speak to

you on such a subject.’



she rise, and see Ada’s flushed and discomfited look, could not

continue vex with she.



‘I be sorry if I have annoy you,’ she say, frankly, and smile

her bright smile. she offer Ada her hand, add, still with a

smile, ‘you must forgive I, and don’t let Mr. Camm know that you

have be get lecture from some one else. I expect he prefer

to keep a monopoly of they.’



Ada could not rise to the occasion. she shake hand rather

sheepishly, mutter something about it ‘not matter,’ and the two

separate.



after lunch, late in the afternoon, and when it be grow dusk,

Eleanor be sit in the library. she have find that when she do

this, Otho, especially now that he have a friend with he, would

sometimes stroll in towards evening and sit for an hour. this

afternoon he do so, follow by Gilbert. they have be shoot,

say they be thirsty, and crave for tea, which she give they.



if Eleanor look grave in these day, the gravity be partly cause

by the fact that she could not reconcile the Gilbert Langstroth of

whom she have hear so much, and from so many person, with the

Gilbert Langstroth who be Otho’s guest, and her own frequent

companion. she naturally abhor what she have hear of he; she have

receive he with cold civility, and be in every way dispose to

keep he at a distance and cherish exalt thought of his brother.

but she have find it impossible. strongly bias though she be

against Gilbert, and for Michael, she could not succeed in find

Gilbert detestable. reason as she would, she could not make herself

find he personally disagreeable, or be bore, vex, or harass by

his company. he have great power, she have have to confess—power to

make himself welcome, look for, agreeable, his opinion valuable,

and his influence desire; while his marvellous command over Otho

call forth her gratitude, and force she into an attitude of

half-cordial, half-reluctant civility to he and respect for he. it

be the effort to reconcile this Gilbert Langstroth who have suddenly

appear in her life, with the Gilbert Langstroth of year ago, of

whom and of whose treachery one uniform story be everywhere tell,

that help to make her grave, and give a shade of embarrassment to

her manner towards he.









                             CHAPTER XXIII



                                QUARREL





it be two day before Christmas that this great event usually take

place,—an event speak of by Mrs. Johnson as though it have be a

solemn feast, with an appoint date in the Church’s year; and it

form almost the most trying of the many try occasion which

chequer her earthly career. this season, thank to the valuable

assistance of Miss Askam in the dreary business know as

‘decorate,’ Mrs. Johnson feel her difficulty much lightened, and

look forward to the evening’s entertainment with a kind of

‘rest-and-be-thankful’ feeling, rare indeed in her experience.



Eleanor feel less comfort than Mrs. Johnson, in the anticipation of

the evening. she hardly know how it be, or with whom the invitation

have originate, whether with Otho, herself, or Magdalen’s self—but

an invitation have certainly be give to the latter to dine at

Thorsgarth, and go with the party from there to the entertainment.

‘the party’ mean all of them!—Eleanor, Magdalen, Gilbert, and Otho.

Eleanor have be unaffectedly astonish when Otho have say he be

go. she have promise Mrs. Johnson to be there herself, and do

not intend to fail she; but she have expect to go alone, call for

the doctor’s sister, Mrs. Parker, on the way, and under the decent,

if not highly distinguished chaperonage of that lady, sit through

the concert, and derive from it what enjoyment she might. she have

resolve to know nothing about Gilbert and his arrangement, and to

ignore Magdalen, except by a bow, and a few word. this new scheme

have completely change the aspect of thing. she have have to send a

note to Mrs. Parker explain that, so far from be alone, she

would have a party with she, and must remain with they. and then

there be the prospect of the concert itself, and of the company of

her brother and Gilbert Langstroth, and of Magdalen Wynter, who

would, of course, join they as soon as her part in the performance

should be over. it be a thoroughly painful prospect to she; not the

less so, in that there be absolutely no excuse for she shirk the

ceremony.



she return to Thorsgarth from the vicarage, in the afternoon, and

presently go upstairs to dress for the evening’s entertainment.

the most competent authority have assure she that at these

concert it be the custom for the lady of the vicinity to go in

full dress, or, at any rate, in unmistakable evening dress, in order

to do honour to their town and townspeople, and to show that they

do not labour under the idea that ‘anything would do’ for a

Bradstane concert. follow out this tradition, Miss Askam have

cause she maid to array she in a quaint-look but handsome gown

of velvet and brocade. she know that dress of this kind, more

splendid than airy, suit she, and wear they by preference to any

other.



she stand now before the toilet glass, while her Abigail put the

finishing touch to the dress, right glad to see some of the finery

wear once again. it appear to she that her mistress’s beauty, of

which she be proud, and her accomplishment, of which she have hear

people speak, be utterly and entirely throw away in a place like

this. Eleanor stand a little undecided what ornament to wear, when

her maid be summon away, and presently return, bear in she

hand a bouquet, with a card dangle from it.



‘if you please, ma’am, I be to give you this, with Mr. Langstroth’s

compliment.’



‘Mr. Langstroth!’ suddenly exclaim Eleanor, a quick change come

over her face; and then, take the flower, she lift the card and

read: ‘with Mr. Gilbert Langstroth’s compliment;’ and just below,

‘Miss Askam wish for some double violet for this evening, which

G. L. hope do not arrive too late to be of use.’



Eleanor have hold her breath as she peruse these word; she now

breathe again, quickly, and say, as she give his flower again

into her maid’s hand—



‘put they down, and just twist these pearl through my hair. I shall

wear they, I think.’



‘yes, ma’am,’ say Louisa, and add as she survey the

flowers—‘They’re really lovely, ma’am. could Mr. Langstroth have get

they in England?’



‘of course he could. one can get anything by send to Covent

Garden,’ reply her mistress hastily. ‘pray be quick, Louisa, for I

hear that Miss Wynter have come, and be wait for I.’



Louisa lay the flower—exquisite double violet, both blue

and white, whose delicate perfume have already make itself feel

in the warm air of the room—upon a table and obey the

injunction in silence. Eleanor sit before the glass, with eye

cast down, and feeling in which vague apprehension and

uncertainty be predominant. Gilbert Langstroth have be with

they a fortnight—surely not a very long time; but in that

fortnight he have succeed in make she feel that he be a

power, and a great one, in everything that concern she

brother’s affair; that if she wish to have any permanent

hold upon Otho, she must take Otho’s friend, and that friend’s

will and pleasure into account; that only by cut herself

entirely adrift from Otho could she act or plan without

reference to Gilbert. that be surely matter enough for

consideration; and, in addition to that, she have begin to feel

during the last week, that Gilbert have some idea of be a

power in her affair too. she rebel against this; she

revolt against it, but she tremble, and she literally do

not know what course to take. the appearance of the violet

now only add to her embarrassment.



she be rouse by Louisa’s voice.



‘there, ma’am. these always suit you well than anything else, and

they go perfectly with this dress. and I think, if you would let I

put a small bunch of the violet here, in front of your dress,

instead of any more ornament——’



‘no, certainly not,’ say Eleanor, hastily. ‘I will not wear they.’

then, see a look of surprise at her vehemence, she add,

hesitatingly, ‘I will carry they in my hand. I—it would be a pity to

spoil the bouquet by take any out of it; it be so beautifully

arrange. be I ready now? I will go down.’



she go into the drawing-room, frame in her mind some kind of

apology for be so late. but on enter the room she find that

Magdalen be not alone. Otho be there with she. he be stand on

the hearthrug, ready dress for the evening, with his back against

the mantelpiece, and his hand clasp behind he. there be a smile

of anything but a genial nature upon his lip, and his eye be

fix upon Miss Wynter with an expression which strike Eleanor

instantly as be unusual, but which she could not quite fathom.

Magdalen be repose in a low chair, with her fan close in her

hand, which be lightly fold one over the other. she be

tranquil, calm, unmoved; her marble eyelid a little droop, and

the faint smile upon her lip. she be look marvellously

handsome, in a black velvet gown, and with scarlet geranium in her

breast and hair.



‘I be sorry to have be so long in come, Miss Wynter. I really

be keep upstairs; but I see Otho have be with you, so you have not

be entirely alone.’



‘perhaps it would have be well if I have,’ respond Magdalen

nonchalantly, as she rise to shake hand with Eleanor. ‘Otho and I

have be quarrel, and when he quarrel no one can be more

nasty.’



Eleanor smile slightly, take it for a jest, and one in rather

doubtful taste; but she be enlighten when Otho, with a scowl

significant of anything but jesting, say with something like a

snarl in his voice—



‘you be right, Magdalen. “Nasty” be the word, and nasty you shall

find I, since this be the way you treat I.’



‘really,’ say Magdalen, with a taunt little laugh, ‘how absurdly

you talk! treat you in this way! you be too ridiculous!’



Eleanor stand look from one to the other. Magdalen be still

stand, speak lightly, in an attitude of careless grace, and

with a disdainful little smile upon her lip; but it seem to

eleanor that there be a strained look in her eye.



‘have you be really quarrel?’ she ask, doubtfully. ‘why, he

think so much of you.’



‘I do,’ say Otho; ‘but it’s d—d difficult to go on think so

much of a woman who carry on as she do. she’s in my house now,

and I hope I know what be due to my guest; but wait till we be out

of it, and on neutral ground, that’s all.’



‘oh, Otho!’ begin his sister, shock. but he have walk sullenly to

the door, and open it. then he turn and look towards they

again.



‘remember, Magdalen, you shall pay I with interest for every bit of

this night’s work, and that before long.’



‘that will be as I choose,’ she retort, but her lip have grow

thin. Otho be bang out of the room, when Gilbert Langstroth,

come in, catch hold of his arm.



‘now then, Otho, what be the matter?’



‘don’t hold I!’ say Otho, look wrathfully at he. ‘I’m in a bad

temper, and you have well let I alone.’



with which he leave they, and Gilbert come forward, look a little

seriously at both the young woman.



‘Miss Wynter,’ exclaim Eleanor, ‘what can have happen, and what

be to be do?’



‘oh,’ say Magdalen, ‘pray don’t heed he. he will be all right

again before the evening be over.’



Eleanor feel great doubt as to the correctness of that theory, and

be annoy, too, to hear Otho speak of as if he have be a pet

child, who must be humour, though indeed, as she have to admit to

herself, his behaviour give only too good ground for such treatment.

and despite Magdalen’s lofty word, she seem not able to cast off

the constraint leave by the late disagreeable scene; but, pick up

the _spectator_, open it as wide as it would unfold, and seem to

read it. Eleanor feel her eye turn involuntarily towards Gilbert;

it be not that she wish to appeal to he, but she be intensely

conscious that he alone be capable of give counsel (if counsel

be to be have) in such a situation, and she look at he, just as

one would send for the near doctor, if one be attack by some

strange and inexplicable illness. she find his eye also fix upon

her, attentively, carefully, and admiringly. she feel with a cold

thrill of certainty that what she have suspect and fear be true,

and he be now think of she, and not of either Magdalen or Otho.



he hand she a chair, and seat himself beside she. his very first

word only heighten her uneasiness.



‘I hope you do not think I too officious in send for the

violet,’ he say in a low voice.



Magdalen lower her paper, and give he a look, which he receive

and return; and, with a dark expression on her face, she resume

her ostensible occupation. perhaps Gilbert know all about what have

pass, and be mock her futile effort to appear unconcerned.

Magdalen have always feel that Gilbert’s sin and hers have have such

very unequally mete reward. he have be so successful after his

sin, and she have fail so wretchedly and so tantalisingly after

her.



‘officious—no. they be beautiful flower,’ say Eleanor, uneasily.

‘it be very kind to take so much trouble; for, after all, it be

only a whim of mine.’



‘you have so few whim, that when one be vouchsafe a hint of one,

one be only too glad to gratify it.’



‘oh, I hope I be not so exact as to expect such

gratification.... I—will Otho—what be Otho do just now, do you

think?’ she add, in a still low voice, unable to shake off the

disagreeable impression she have derive from his look and word.



‘don’t trouble yourself about Otho,’ rejoin Gilbert, in the same

tone, but in a still low voice. ‘do not let any thought of he

disturb your enjoyment this evening.’



‘enjoyment; do you suppose I be expect enjoyment!’ Eleanor have

exclaim almost before she know what she be say.



‘if you cannot have it, no one else deserve a grain of it,’ say

Gilbert, deliberately. ‘but, really, I wish you would calm your

fear. just let we reason about it. what can Otho possibly do

to-night, that can cause you any uneasiness? we shall go straight to

the concert-room, and once there, he be safe.’



‘he may not go at all.’



‘well, if he do not, you will; and why should you allow your mind

to be engage in imagine he do something disagreeable? your

apprehension be exaggerated, I assure you. tell I what you be

afraid of.’



‘he say,’ reply Eleanor, almost in a whisper, so that Magdalen

could not possibly hear, ‘that he would make her repent, and that

before long. I think he might, perhaps, if he go to-night, say

or do something rude—or at dinner—I do not know what he will do when

he look so dangerous.’



Gilbert laugh a low laugh, speak of amusement and enjoyment

too.



‘Otho have other method of punish she,’ he say. ‘do not alarm

yourself; I will see to it. And’—he bend his head close to her, and

her finger tighten one over the other—‘please excuse the

question; but I always see two side of a thing. do you mean to tell

I that you would be very sorry for she to be punish, a little, if

it could be do unobtrusively?’



Gilbert certainly know what he be about when he ask this

question. the eye that be suddenly lift towards his own hold

confession in their glance. she shake her head silently; but the

very silence imply that he have guess aright.



‘I think you might have whim for other thing, as well as double

violet,’ say Gilbert, with a slight smile, which make her feel

that he be very much strong than she be, and very much well

acquaint with human nature. she be silent; but Gilbert have get an

object to gain, and he say, ‘you owe I some little reward for

having guess so correctly. willn’t you tell I what you have do

with those flower?’



‘I—oh, I leave they in my room.’



‘there to wither and die, I suppose? poor thing! I have a great

weakness for flower—those flower, especially. if you dislike they,

will you do I the cruel favour to return they? I mean it, really.’



‘but I do not dislike they. I—it—I think I would carry they in my

hand to-night,’ she say, distract at the extent of the

concession he be wring from she, but perfectly aware that when

he promise to see that Otho behave himself, and then begin

instantly to talk about violet, he convey a hint which she must

accept on pain of his displeasure.



‘you do! I could not possibly wish for more than that,’ he say,

and there be triumph, intense, if repress, in his smile and his

tone.



Eleanor could only feel wretched, and wish she be a hundred mile

away from Bradstane; all the more fervently when, on look up, she

find that Magdalen have lay the newspaper down, and be look at

she with a mocking smile—the smile of one who, be in difficulty

herself, be not sorry to see some one else entangle.



here the door open. Otho come in, with Barlow behind he, to

announce dinner. the master of the house offer his arm to Miss

Wynter, who take it, treat he with what seem a compose

cheerfulness. during the meal, Otho be portentously gentle and

polite to every one he address. there be no trace in voice or

manner of his late anger; only in the sullen glow which still lurk

in his eye. Eleanor, who have acquire the sad habitude of notice

such thing, observe that he scarcely touch wine. in his whole

demeanour there be a most unusual softness and courtesy. she could

not shake off her constraint; the shock of the unbridled fury which

she have see on his face when she have go into the drawing-room be

not to be easily obliterate. never before have she feel so strongly

his likeness, with all his goodly outward apparel of strength and a

kind of beauty, to some savage, wild creature—some beast of prey,

whose spirit sit in his heart, and look out of the window of his

eye. with all the dread and foreboding that he have begin to inspire

in she, she always think of he as ‘poor Otho.’









                              CHAPTER XXIV



                             OTHO’S revenge





when Michael Langstroth go into the concert-room that night,

rather late, he find the place crowd with an audience, watchful

and attentive as only country audience can be, all in their

war-paint and feather, as Roger remark, and the choir, in a row

on the platform, lustily singe of how



        ‘the oak and the ash and the bonny ivy tree,

        they grow the good at home, in the north countrie.’



go up the room, he find himself near the top of it without

having find a seat, and he stand look about he, when a

demonstration a little to one side cause he to turn, and he see a

small, lean hand beckoning to he, and a thin, eager-looking face,

brim over with pleasure, ask he, as loudly as silent

expressiveness can ask, to come and sit beside she, and, what be

more to the purpose, point out a space close to she for his

accommodation. it be his little patient, Effie Johnson, radiant in

the proud consciousness of a new frock, and an unheard-of treat—that

of be the only one of her brother and sister privilege to be

present at the concert. he nod and smile, and gradually make his

way to she, receive many a greeting on his way from ‘all sort and

condition’ of man and woman. Effie be on a side-bench, he find,

and his place be beside she; but it be a side-bench at the end

near the platform. her mother sit at one side of she, and greet

Michael with a nod, and an unusually serene smile. when he be

seat, Michael find that amongst his near neighbour be Eleanor

Askam, who have find a seat beside Mrs. Parker, after all; and

beside Miss Askam, his brother Gilbert. he do not see either Otho

or Miss Wynter, and be a little puzzle; for Dr. Rowntree have tell

he of Eleanor’s note to his sister, explain why she could not go

with she.



if he do not see Magdalen or Otho, he do see very distinctly upon

Eleanor’s face an expression of gravity and even anxiety, impossible

to be mistake; a very different expression from the one of hope and

strength and light-heartedness which she have wear when he have first

see she. Gilbert’s countenance wear an expression of composure and

even contentment.



Michael sit still, and the crowd, light room, and loud voice of

the singer seem to disappear. he be alone with his brother. in

all the year that have pass since his breaking with Gilbert, in

all the occasion on which Gilbert have be in Bradstane since then,

they have never meet thus closely, and, as it be, side by side. a

deep oppression come over Michael’s heart. what be this thing that

he feel? he scarcely seem to himself the same man he have be,

even five minute ago. Gilbert and Eleanor, sit side by side,

and, as it be, alone; that be all of which he be really

conscious.



‘where have you be for such a long time, Dr. Langstroth?’

whisper Effie, as she nestle up to his side with the confidence

of childhood—that confidence which be seldom at fault.



‘I have be very busy, Effie, and I have neglect you. I be go

to amend my conduct very soon.’



‘but you never forget we, do you?’ say Effie.



‘no, I never forget you, my child; I will come and see you soon.’



content, she be silent, and observe the scene with her bright,

keen childish eye look from her little thin face.



Michael be uneasy and unhappy. at last, unable to endure his

suspense any long, he lean over to Mrs. Johnson, and ask, in a

cautious undertone—



‘have not Otho Askam and Miss Wynter come?’



‘yes,’ she reply, in the same tone, and with a significant look.

‘they have both go into the room where the performer wait. some

people think he be go to volunteer a song.’



Michael nod, as if satisfied with the explanation. he could not

help give a glance towards Eleanor, and he see that the look of

unease on her countenance have deepen. she look constrained and

uneasy. just at that moment, Gilbert bend over she and say

something to she, with a smile, and as he speak to she, he raise

his eye, and encounter those of Michael. Michael feel, he know

not what, as he meet that glance. be it anger, or grief, or pain

that clutch he? it be a hot and burning feeling, which seem to

surge up within he. he do not know—yet—what it be, but he feel as

if he must at all risk avoid meet Gilbert’s eye again. he have

never experience pain like this in any meeting with Magdalen, after

their separation. he have think that he have put Gilbert away from

he altogether; that he have become no more to he than Magdalen, or

than the mere stranger on the road. this terrible emotional

disturbance show he that he have be wrong. but how? what do it

import?



the next thing he see, just as the closing note of the glee be

sound, be Roger Camm, who walk quickly up the room, and go

into the waiting-room, speak of by Mrs. Johnson. then the music

cease; the singer receive their meed of applause and leave the

stage, and then there be a little pause, which be, of course,

employ as such pause usually be, in a general uprising, talk,

questioning, and laugh. it be wearisome to Michael, who, while

anxious above all thing to avoid look at Gilbert again, could

still not prevent his eye from be draw in Eleanor’s direction.

she recognise and greet he gravely, but, as he keenly feel, not

indifferently. she be still, as he could not but see, practically

alone with Gilbert, as neither Otho nor Magdalen make their

appearance, and Mrs. Parker stray away to converse with her

friend. then he see some neighbour—some of those ‘charity blanket

Blundell girl,’ as Otho gracefully call they, and poor Sir Thomas

Winthrop (glare distrustfully at Gilbert, who stand erect and

half-smile, all the while), come and talk to she, and Michael do

not move from his place, but sit still, listen vaguely to Effie’s

prattle, and feel again and again the same strange, strong and

painful feeling shake he from head to foot. then people begin to go

back to their place. the noise and bustle settle down, the pause

be over. the next thing be a round of applause, and Michael,

look up, see that Roger Camm have appear upon the platform, and

be go to the piano with some music in his hand. it be Michael’s

turn to begin to feel uneasy, when he see Roger’s face. there be a

savage scowl upon it; no holiday expression, but one of the dark

anger and displeasure. he look neither right nor leave, but march

straight to the piano, seat himself, and strike some chord, as if

to try the instrument; then sit and wait. Michael consult his

programme, and find that the piece be a duet for soprano and

contralto, and that the singer be Miss Wynter and Miss Ada Dixon.

for the first time he begin to connect Eleanor’s anxious look, and

Roger’s angry expression with the word Mrs. Johnson have speak

about Otho and Magdalen having go together into the little room

where the performer wait.



at that moment there be more clapping, and then appear what

seem to Michael the key to both the black frown and the anxious

look which he have see. from the room which open on to the

platform, and where they have be wait, emerge three person.

first come Ada Dixon, who, as soprano, take precedence, and lead

she by the hand in the most approved fashion, and with every

manifestation of devotion, admiration, and respect, Otho Askam, who,

all the time that he lead the girl forward, be stoop towards she,

and say something that cause she to simper, and mince her step

in a manner at once gratify, nervous, and self-important. the

nervousness be quite visible, but the gratification and

self-importance outweigh it. Ada evidently feel herself a star of

the first magnitude—the personage of the evening, and be swell

with conscious pride in thus be single out for honourable

distinction. Michael at first only see the broadly farcical side of

the affair, and be inclined to burst into a shout of laughter; but,

as these two first figure advanced to the front, and the other

become fully visible, he at once begin to realise that there be a

very different side to the picture, and that it might prove anything

but a laugh matter to those concern.



Magdalen be perfectly alone, perfectly dignified and compose in

her demeanour. with marvellous dexterity she contrive to throw

something into her manner which place an immeasurable distance

between herself and the two buffoon on whose step circumstance

cause she to follow. the audience might stare and gape, laugh and

point the finger at they; it be impossible to do so at she. she

walk straight to her place, and stand there, face the audience,

unmoved, and apparently immovable, while Otho, with a final flourish

of his hand, present Miss Dixon with her music, and retire to a

chair at the back of the platform, apparently to be ready to hand

she back again when the performance be over. Ada turn, lay she

handkerchief upon the piano, after the most approved manner of

distinguished artiste, and—climax of impudence, think Michael,

who be now watch every movement of the actor in this

tragic-comedy with the intense interest—nod to Roger to begin.

he look at she with his deep-set eye from his white face—for it

be quite white, and Michael know the storm that be rage beneath

the impassive expression—look at she thus, and begin.



during the playing of the symphony Ada look at Miss Wynter, and

try to catch her eye—in vain. the distinguished soprano fumble

with her glove and her music, and look ill at ease, despite the

great glory which have so unexpectedly (to the spectator, at any

rate) descend upon she. Miss Wynter, heed she no more than if

she have be a spider on the wall, stand in calm and motionless

dignity, her hand lightly fold in front of she; her eye, cool

and calm and unembarrassed, move deliberately from one face to the

other of the audience—perfectly able to stand alone before they all,

even under an open slight, even while a man who be speak of, far

and wide, as her particular friend, flout she, in the face of the

assemble county, in favour of a chit like Ada Dixon. in a negative,

analytical way, Michael could not but respect she—respect, at any

rate, the undaunted fortitude of the front she present. and when

her eye meet his, and her set lip quiver for a second, he

render homage to her bravery, by a grave and respectful bow.



the duet begin; it seem hour before it be over, but it be

finish at last; and then the same grotesque performance be

go through, as have take place before, but that this time

Magdalen, calmly sweep past Otho and Ada, leave they behind,

and walk first into the waiting-room behind the scene. then

Otho and Ada disappear, hand in hand, as before; and as

before, Michael feel a wild inclination to burst into peal after

peal of laughter—inextinguishable laughter, which inclination

be once more check by the sight of Roger’s white and wrathful

face, as he pick up some sheet of music, and disappear in

his turn.



all this have take place in so public a manner that no one present

could fail to be cognisant of it all, and it have be watch with

breathless interest and suspense by the whole audience, who, when

the actor in the scene have disappear, seem as it be to draw a

long breath; and then there burst forth a perfect storm of talk,

comment, and laughter. this laughter jar upon Michael’s every

nerve. though he know what a vulgar farce it all be, and have see

its ludicrous side easily enough, yet he could not bear that other

should make merry over it, and he could imagine only too well what

it must be as it beat upon Eleanor’s brain. he refrain at first

from even look at she; but at last his fascinated mind draw his

eye in her direction, and he see that she have make a movement as if

to rise and go. she be young than Magdalen, he reflect, and not

so harden to the standing boldly in a false position. she want

to get away from this, naturally, and she intend to go; he see it

in her look, and see, too, how Mrs. Parker’s hurried expostulation

be of no avail. then he see Gilbert for a moment lie his hand upon

her wrist, and say something in a low voice—only a few word, but

they have the effect of make she sit down again, with a look of

indignant resignation on her face.



Michael never know how the performance come to an end. the thing he

have see have set he in a state of great agitation. what he see

afterwards only make he feel more bewildered and more anxious.

after the first part of the concert, Otho reappear, and Magdalen

with he. she be walk alone, and have nothing to say to he. she

take a seat beside Eleanor, who appear to exert herself to talk to

she. of course, Michael reflect, it be out of the question that

Miss Askam should even appear to countenance her brother’s

behaviour; and Magdalen, be the insult person, have to be

treat with courtesy and apparent cordiality. he could imagine with

what an effort this courtesy would be display, and he think she

play her part very well.



Otho be seat at the other side of Magdalen, and he occasionally

address she. she answer he gravely, but with a cold politeness.

Michael could not understand it.



he be an involuntary witness of one other scene in the drama. in

the throng, go out, he find himself near the Thorsgarth party;

see Gilbert fold Eleanor’s cloak about she, and overheard what be

say amongst they.



‘Miss Wynter,’ inquire Eleanor, ‘how be you go to get home?’



‘the brougham will be there for I, thank you.’



‘oh, that be all right, then. because we could have drive you

round, if——’



‘my dear Miss Askam! five mile round, on such a night! they say it

be snow.’



here Michael see that Otho fix his eye upon Magdalen’s face, and

without speak, offer she his arm. Michael watch, with a

neutral but strong interest, to see what she would do. she take the

offer arm, without any smile, certainly, but without any

appearance of be angry or offended. neither of they speak. they

drop behind Gilbert and Eleanor, who be also arm in arm.



then when they stand outside, Michael, pause to see if Roger would

join he again, hear Miss Askam’s voice—



‘there be our carriage. we have well let it go round again, and

wait till Miss Wynter have get off, as she be alone.’



‘no,’ say Otho, sign to the Thorsgarth coachman to stop. ‘you

get in, Eleanor; Langstroth will look after you. I’m go to see

Magdalen home.’



‘_Otho!_’ exclaim his sister, in a vehement whisper, ‘how _can_

you behave in this manner?’



but Magdalen appear to accept the announcement with the utmost

calm, say—



‘well, there be the carriage, Otho, come after your.’



then Michael see how Gilbert lead Eleanor, who look like a person

in a dream, to her carriage; hand she in, follow she, and they

be drive away. Michael, before step forth himself, give a

glance at the figure of the other two; see Otho say something with

a laugh to Magdalen. then the Balder Hall brougham drive up. Michael

wait no long. it be evident that Roger must have go when Ada

do. it be useless to wait for he, and he take his way home.









                              CHAPTER XXV



                            in the ANTE-ROOM





when the Thorsgarth party arrive at the concert-room, before all

the disturbance have take place, Magdalen go straight to that

waiting-room where the performer sit, and which be just behind the

platform. she walk quickly thither, and do not know, until she

have enter the room, that Otho have follow she. but on turn to

close the door, she see he there, and he walk in after she, not

look at she at all, but cast a quick glance round the room, to

see who might be already present.



those who be there, be Ada Dixon, and one or two other girl who

belong to the choir, and be go to assist in the part-song.

Ada look very pretty, if a little commonplace and vulgar, in her

blue frock, and white fleecy shawl. she sit apart from her

companion in solitary dignity, and appear to be study she

song; and it be in this situation that Magdalen and Otho find she.

Ada look up as they come in, and rise with a heighten colour.

Magdalen take no notice of Otho, but shake hand with Ada.



‘well, Ada, how be you, and how be your song?’



‘oh, I’m ready with mine, thank you, Miss Wynter; and there’s no

need to ask you about your.’



‘good evening, Miss Dixon,’ here say Otho, and he too advance, and

shake hand with she. Ada look both alarmed and conscious. he have

never do this before—at least, in Magdalen’s presence.



‘so long as you be here,’ pursue Otho, address Ada, ‘thing

cannot go very far wrong.’



‘oh, Mr. Askam, what nonsense!’ say the girl, half-please,

half-confuse, and wholly astonish, at this public manifestation

of favour and interest. she give a furtive glance behind she, and

be not displeased to find that the audience have be augment by

the arrival of more youth and maiden.



‘Otho,’ observe Magdalen, in her clear, low tone, ‘excuse I if I

remind you that this room be set apart for those who take part in

the performance, and I don’t think you ought to be here.’



‘I’m go to take part in the performance,’ say Otho, throw his

head back, and flash a curious glance upon she—a glance which Ada

saw, and in her silly little soul at once decide that Otho be

pay she more attention than be agreeable to Miss Wynter. that

be delightful to she, and she simper complacently.



‘you!’ exclaim Magdalen, who have also see the glance, and who have

hard work not to betray the tremulousness she feel.



‘yes, of course,’ say Otho, carelessly. ‘what’s to prevent I if I

choose?’



he bring forward a chair, and place it for she with a polite bow,

and a wave of his hand, invite she to be seat. Magdalen behave

as if she be paralyse, as in truth she be, in a manner. she have

absolutely no precedent from which to judge the meaning of Otho’s

conduct just now. she have study he, humour he, flatter he,

make he the object of her supreme interest and supreme attention,

for more than five year; and within the last year, she have begin to

confess that her pain have be in vain—that he have never intend

to proceed to anything more than friendship, and be not likely now

to change his mind. and then her own deed have avenge themselves

upon she, for in confess this, she have suffer torture, and in

try to act upon it, and to shake off her intimacy with he, she

have find that she could not. he have make himself master of what

heart she possess. her resistance this evening to a demand of his

have cost she a pang, and this conduct of his, in consequence,

bewilder she. she be throw off her guard; she feel that she be

grope in a fog, and she know not how to battle with he. she

repent she now, in her soul, of having thwart he just to-night,

since this be the way in which he choose to revenge himself. she

could see nothing except to maintain an unruffled personal dignity,

which she know come easily to she, and, if necessary, to retire

altogether from the arena. she be calculate altogether without

her host in the matter, as Otho soon prove to she.



she take the chair he offer she, and sit down; and then Otho,

take no far present notice of she, turn to Ada, and, under

Magdalen’s eye, proceed to inaugurate a flirtation with the young

girl, in the most outrageously bad taste, and with a persistency and

determination from which, as Magdalen very well see, a more resolute

girl than Ada could with difficulty have withdraw herself. the only

method of resistance would have be for the object of his

attention to close her lip, and entirely refuse to converse with

he; and that, of course, be a method which do not for a moment

occur to Ada, whose inflammable vanity, utterly unbalanced by common

sense, take fire at his attention, and construe they into proof

of the most flattering regard.



Magdalen sit quite passive under this behaviour until the choir have

go to the concert-room, to sing their glee about ‘the oak and the

ash, and the bonny ivy tree,’ and then she say, coldly and

deliberately—



‘Ada, I want to speak to you.’



‘oh, never mind she!’ say Otho, carelessly, almost contemptuously.

‘a sermon should not come before a song, especially such a song as

Miss Dixon be go to give we.’



but old habit be yet strong in Ada. never before have Miss Wynter

address she without receive instant and profound attention, and

she receive it now. Ada give it almost instinctively.



‘what be it, Miss Wynter?’ she ask.



‘only this, that I don’t know what Mr. Askam mean by behave as he

be do, and I be quite sure you do not; but one thing be

certain,—that Mr. Roger Camm will be here directly, and I would

advise you to moderate your transport, and behave a little more

like a reasonable being before he come.’



‘Roger Camm, indeed!’ exclaim Ada, nettle. ‘he’s not my master

yet, nor ever will be, Miss Wynter. he may come twenty time for

aught I care.’



never before have she address Magdalen in such a tone. it would

appear that the latter be in earnest in her remonstrance, for she

now appeal to Otho.



‘listen to I, Otho. if you be conduct yourself in this way in

order to vex I, you have quite succeed. I’m ready to own it, and

I will give you whatever explanation you like after this be over;

but for heaven’s sake go back into the concert-room before Roger

Camm come. you have no right to behave as you be do, and he

will very speedily let you know that he think so.’



‘right!’ exclaim Otho, with a laugh. ‘I never ask about right. I

do what I have a fancy for.’



‘pray what harm can Roger say of I?’ say Ada pettishly.



‘I would rather ask, what good he can say of you, if you let he see

you make yourself ridiculous in this fashion. in any case, you

belong to he, and——’



‘not yet!’ exclaim both Otho and Ada in one voice. Magdalen look

at they both, and show what be with she a rare sign, betoken

strong emotion—a heighten colour in her cheek.



‘Otho,’ she say, slowly and deliberately, and with a glitter in her

eye, ‘I believe you be a downright bad man; and, Ada, I be certain

now that you be a complete fool. you be both do what you will

rue to the last day of your life.’ Magdalen speak with a suppress

passion, so unusual with she as to cause her physical pain in the

effort to control it—passion which would have astound Otho now, if

he have not be too angrily determined to do his own way to heed

she.



‘to the last day of your life,’ she repeat. ‘but I have speak,

and I leave it between you. I wash my hand of you both.’



she get up, and go to another chair at the extreme end of the

room, and seat herself at the table, rest her chin on her hand,

and fix her eye on the floor. Otho whisper something to Ada,

who be not quite so happy as she have be, now that she have hear

the denunciation of Magdalen. while he stoop towards she, and she

be laugh in a nervously pleased manner at his word, the

suddenly open door let in a loud burst of music from the front.

it be close again.



‘oh, I’m not so late, after all,’ begin Roger Camm’s voice, and then

he come to a dead stop, look from one to the other, speechless.

Otho, who be lean over the back of Ada’s chair, raise his head

as Roger enter, and look at he with the disagreeable smile

which show his white tooth and his frown brow.



‘good evening, Camm,’ he say, carelessly, and in so condescend a

tone that Magdalen look up.



Roger advance a step.



‘what do this mean?’ he ask, and his hand have clench

themselves, and his face have grow pale.



‘what do what mean?’ ask Ada, laugh flippantly, to conceal

her dismay.



‘what be you do here?’ ask Roger, stand directly in front

of Otho, and look at he with a frown as black as night.



‘what I please,’ reply Otho, insolently, and not raise himself

from his too familiar attitude.



‘that be an odd answer to give I,’ observe Roger, incisively,

‘when you be apparently amuse yourself with my future wife.’



‘Roger!’ exclaim Ada, flush fiercely, and speak in a choke

voice.



‘ha, ha!’ laugh Otho.



at this juncture Magdalen again rise, and come forward once more.

she be pale even to her lip, and she walk up to Roger Camm, lay

her hand upon his arm, and say—



‘Mr. Camm, you must listen to I. I believe I be the cause of this

scene, but I swear it be without fault of mine that it have arise.

he wish I to promise he, early in the evening, when I be at

his house, that I would let he hand I on to the stage when our

song come, and say he would remain in this room while I be here. I

say he have nothing to do with the concert, and that I would not

consent to it. he reply that he would have his revenge—very manly

and nice of he, of course. I suppose this be it, and I must say it

seem pitiful to I. if I have know, nothing would have induce I

to come here. I can only say he be beside himself, and——’



‘that will scarcely do,’ say Roger, turn away. ‘he be not

acknowledge as a lunatic yet, nor shut up, whatever he ought to be,

and I will thank he——’



here the door again open, and all the performer come into the

room. Magdalen say imploringly to Roger—



‘please go and play the prelude. I will _make_ he behave himself.’



there be no time to be lose, and Roger, after hesitate a second

or two, follow her direction. Magdalen turn to Otho. for once

she find he deaf and senseless to her word. she bid he go to

the concert-room. he flatly refuse to do so, with a bow and a

smile. she say she would not go in herself, if he do not do as she

tell he; to which he reply, that in that case he would himself go

forward, and say that since Miss Wynter be in a bad temper and

refuse to sing, he offer himself as a substitute. all this pass

in low tone, the pantomime being eagerly watch by those who have

come in, and who could see the gesture of the speaker and their

face, without hear their word.



the man’s vindictive determination prevail. if he be mad there

be method in his madness. he be prepared to throw all appearance

to the wind, and to say or do whatever come uppermost. Magdalen be

not; and she have little time in which to decide. Otho offer his

arm to Ada, and they go on to the stage in the order before speak

of.



when they all return to the ante-room, Ada be more uneasy and

less triumphant than she have be; and greatly embarrassed too, by

Otho’s mark attention in the face of the other performer, who,

so far from be awestruck at the distinction confer upon she,

seem to be titter amongst themselves at the absurdity of the

whole affair.



Roger walk up to Ada, and ask she gravely and quietly if she have

to sing again.



‘no, Roger,’ say she, in a subdued voice.



‘then I think you have well let I take you home,’ he say gently,

and offer she his arm. Ada take it instantly.



‘oh, nonsense!’ begin Otho. ‘we cann’t do with that. she——’



‘be good enough to stand out of the way,’ say Roger, fix his

eye upon he with a steady look that bode anything but peace

between they in the future. ‘I will take Miss Dixon home now. there

have be foolery enough to-night. I will settle with you to-morrow.’



this promise be give heartily enough, if in a low voice. Otho,

with a sneer laugh, let he pass, and then turn to Magdalen.



‘I suppose you be not too overcome to go into the other room,’ he

say. ‘shall I take you there?’



‘I shall go when I be ready,’ reply Magdalen, coldly. ‘you be at

liberty to go as soon as ever you please.’



‘not I!’ say he, throw himself into a chair near to she. ‘I’ve

work hard enough to get your society. I’m not go to quit it the

instant I have secure it.’



here the choir be again summon to the front, and they be leave

alone. Otho have speak of having work hard to obtain Magdalen’s

company, but he sit in silence till towards the end of the chorus,

when, as it be the last thing in the first part of the concert,

Magdalen rise, and begin to gather up her shawl.



‘now I shall go,’ she remark.



‘all right!’ say he. ‘but listen to I, Magdalen; you must let I

see you home, and I’ll tell you the meaning of this.’



‘as if I require to know the meaning of it!’ she say, bitterly.

‘it be pure malice and viciousness on your part, Otho. meaning,

indeed!’



‘you know nothing in the world about it.’



‘I cannot talk about it now. I be not go to enter into an

argument with you. you have make I feel ill already.’



‘then settle matter by promise that I shall go home with you; or

I vow you shall hear I in this very room. I intend to have it out

with you to-night, do you hear?’



‘very well—as we go home,’ say Magdalen, very coldly.



and, as the door open to admit the return performer, and the

interval have begin, they take their way to the concert-room, and

join their party.









                              CHAPTER XXVI



                           her HEART’S DESIRE





when the Thorsgarth carriage have drive away, and the Balder Hall

one come up, Otho hand Magdalen in, follow she, shut the

window, and turn to she. after the bright light around the

concert-room door, they seem suddenly to plunge into utter and

outer darkness, and Magdalen be glad of it, for she would not

have have Otho see her face now for a great deal of money,—perhaps

not even if his see it would have secure to she the object for

which she have toil so long and so unsuccessfully—the position of

his wife. she do not know what he be go to say to she, but

she believe she could guess. she believe that the new line she

have lately take towards he—to-night, and on one or two other

occasion recently—have so anger his imperious and exact

temper that he be now go to tell she that their friendship be

at an end, unless she would submit to take a low position with

regard to he than she have yet do. she know—she have be so

unhappy as to have to consider the subject, in reckon with

herself about Otho and his ‘intentions’—she know that she have no

‘dishonourable’ proposal to fear from he. she have maintain

always a footing distinctly forbid such possibility; but she

dread and fear that he have shake off what influence she have

have over he—that he find he could exist without the counsel and

advice for which he have often come to she, and which he profess,

have often be of service to he. she believe he be angry that

she have dare to thwart he in a whim which he consider to be

harmless, and a kind of amusing joke, and that after make the

bizarre and humiliating exhibition of himself, she, and Ada, which

he have accomplish this evening, he be now go to let she

understand that he be about to shake off her influence once and

for all. and what be it that she experience in this idea?

scarcely what might have be expect. neither anger, contempt,

nor indignation, but grief, sorrow, soreness; a yearning

unwillingness to part, and a dread of the day when she should not

see he; an almost passionate speculation as to whether she could

not concede something—keep the man at her side, somehow.



thus she be glad when the darkness hide her face. he could not see

the thrill that shoot through she, as she wonder what the next half

hour be to bring forth for she, and she manage to control her

voice, and to say calmly—



‘pray be quick. I do not know why I have grant you this favour at

all. it be far beyond your desert.’



‘as for that, there may be two opinion. if you’d hear I out

to-night, instead of pounce upon I as you do——’



‘do not allude to that. it be over, and I have not repent my

refusal to you. it be quite obvious what people think when you

appear with that girl on your arm. not for world would I have put

myself into such a position.’



‘position—position! you spit out that word just as woman do when

they want to make out that their dear friend be do something

bad. I’ve hear that your friendship be a dangerous kind of thing,

Magdalen, but I have never heed such report. I don’t know whether

they be true or not, but I know you have often talk a lot about

friendship, and the duty of stick to your friend when you have

get one. I wonder whether you dare show every one that you be

my friend to-night.’



‘Absurd! to show myself your friend in that fashion mean one of two

thing—either that I be engaged to be married to you, or else that I

show myself a bold, vulgar woman, whom any other man might well be

afraid to marry. that be not friendship; it be senseless bravado; it

be be loud and fast, and all to no purpose. such a proceeding

could serve no possible end.’



‘I know that. do you think I be a fool?’ say he. ‘but when you

begin to pitch into I, without lose any time, you make I so

wild, that I be resolve to pay you out, cost what it might.

Magdalen——’ his voice sink, and it thrill through she, and with it

a sense of dread and terror, and the miserable consciousness that

she, who have so long contrive to have the rein in her own hand,

be now the one to be dominate with bit and bridle, and make to

turn this way and that, at the will of another. she listen,

stoop a little forward, in a crouch attitude, wait to hear

her doom. ‘I’ve get what they call a bad character. whatever it be,

good or bad, it be a pretty correct estimate they have make of I.

they’ll tell you that I drink, and I dice, and I bet. so I do, and

like they all; and, of course, they’ll tell you I’m no fitting

husband for a decent woman. as for decent, I know nothing; but from

what I’ve see of woman, I should judge it want a bold one to

undertake I. if you would, Magdalen—_Magdalen_! I don’t say I’d

make you happy, for I know I should make you miserable, but whatever

I seem—I cann’t always answer for myself—whatever I seem, I’d

love you to the end of my life, ten time well than I do now. dare

you do it?’



Silence. the carriage roll softly on over the snowy road. Otho have

seize hold of her two hand. his face she could not see, but she

hear his breath, laboured and heavy. a very strange, wild sensation

surge through her whole being. as in a flash of lightning, in a

kind of revelation, she seem to see all the terrible possibility

of the dim future—all that could be imply by his ‘dare you do it?’

he do not urge she when she do not answer; his passion seem to

have soften into patience. he wait and wait for she to reply.



‘Otho!’—her face almost touch his as she spoke—‘I know what you

be. I have be try to tear you out of my heart. I do not want

you there. I cannot kill the love I have for you. I dare do anything

for you.’



as she cease to speak, their lip meet in a clinging kiss—a kiss

which bind their two fate together from henceforth, for evermore,

and which make her heart beat chokingly with terror and passion, but

which be utterly devoid of the joy and spring rapture it might

have have. when Magdalen say, ‘I know what you be,’ she speak the

truth. she be nearly a year old than he be, and have all her life

see very clearly out of her passive eye. when he say, ‘dare you

do it?’ that mean, and she know that it mean, not that he be

go to give up his evil way for her sake, and try to become mild

and human and gentle, and a fitting husband for a civilised lady,

but that she accept his evil way along with himself, and endure

they as well she might.



they sit silent for a while after this, till at last he say—



‘Magdalen!’



‘well?’



‘you be not a good young woman, you know. you have not always stick

to people as you promise you would. they say—every one say—that

you jilt Michael Langstroth,—did not keep your promise to he,

you know.’



‘they say what be quite true; and Michael Langstroth may thank I if

I do jilt he. he be not make for I, nor I for he. I daresay he

know it by now.’



‘he take his dismissal,’ pursue Otho, with a sneer, ‘and never

raise his hand. but let I advise you not to try that game with I,

or there might be murder do, or something as bad. I’m not Michael

Langstroth. do you understand?’



he speak in a fierce whisper, and in Magdalen’s laugh, as she

answer he, there be a hysterical sound.



‘do you suppose I don’t know that! for every one of Michael

Langstroth’s good quality, you have half a dozen bad one. if you

waste your whole life in try, you could never get as much

goodness into your whole body as he have in his little finger; and

oh, how tired I be of it—how tired I be, before it be all over.’



‘H’m! well, I can promise that you shall never tire of my oppressive

goodness and piety—that’s all.’



‘I know you be a complete pagan; sometimes I think I be too.

there’s one thing, Otho—you must not ask I to marry you yet; my

aunt would faint at the idea that I be engaged to you, and I be not

go to tell she, and leave she, and break her heart. do you

understand?’



‘I understand that you think more of that old woman than of any one

in the world,’ say Otho, surlily, ‘whatever you may profess; but I

suppose you must have your way. and, Magdalen’—he drop his

voice—‘confess that you be worst to-night. you find your

master.’



‘if I do, he might have be more generous. it be an odious thing

that you do, to flout I, and openly play the gallant to a little

chit who have always look up to I with reverence. I can never have

anything more to say to little Ada, now; and I can tell you, the

child be almost my only amusement. I don’t know who will afford I

any entertainment now.’



‘I will,’ say Otho, with generous promptitude.



‘you cann’t. here we be, and it be snow, actually,’ she add, as

she let down the glass, and look out. ‘heavy snow! how on earth

will you get home?’



‘I’ll walk, of course,’ say Otho, jump out, and hold out his

hand to she.



‘walk!’ repeat Magdalen, pause before she get out, to

expostulate with him—‘walk over three mile in this drive snow—and

on such a road! indeed, you must not. if you wait, they will get you

a gig, or a dogcart, or something; it will be light than the

brougham, and you could put it up at your place till to-morrow.’



‘I’ll walk, I tell you. come out; you’ll get your death of cold,

sit there,’ say Otho, gruffly and impatiently. ‘what’s a few

flake of snow to I, now? haven’t I be in a fever all night? I

tell you, I want to work it off, so let I alone.’



she have get out of the carriage, and they stand on the step. she

be go to expostulate again, but Otho tell the man to drive to

the stable, he be go to walk home; and they, nothing willing to

turn out again on such a night,—a contingency which they have already

discussed,—obeyed with alacrity. the two figure, dark and shroud,

stand within the porch, and Magdalen stretch out her hand towards

the bell.



‘stop a minute!’ say Otho. ‘Heugh! what a wind!’ as a screaming

blast from the north-west whistle past the vestibule.



‘Otho, you must not walk home——’



‘be quiet, I tell you; let I alone! if I’ve a fancy, I’ll sleep in

the vestibule, or anywhere I choose. now, Magdalen,’—he seize she

hand in a grasp that hurt them,—‘swear that you will not go back

from what you have say to-night’



‘I swear I will not, Otho.’



‘and that when the time come—we shall both know when it do—you’ll

marry I, and follow I, as truly as I’ll go on love you.’



‘yes, I swear I will.’



‘and that whatever happen, you be mine—you don’t cut yourself

adrift from I as you do from Michael Langstroth.’



‘there be no need for I to swear that, for I could not, if I

would.’



‘all right! give I a kiss, and let I get home.’



Magdalen put she two hand on his shoulder, and say—



‘I have swear a good many thing to you; I want you to swear nothing

to I; but remember this, whatever wrong you do I, directly or

indirectly, from this time forward, you do to your _wife_, for you

be mine now, as much as I be yours. good night!’



she kiss he on his mouth, and be turn away. Otho suddenly put

his arm about her neck, lay his head for a moment on her breast,

and say in a rough, broken voice—



‘you have be very good to I, and very patient with I, Magdalen.

you’ll get your reward, I hope.’



then he turn on his heel, ram his cap on to his head, and

plunge into the darkness and the snow, which drive blindingly in

his face.



he have choose to walk—persist in walk, perhaps with some idea

of cool, in the wintry blast, the fever of his hot heart; for it

be hot, and it beat and toss with restless pain.



‘the big throw I ever make,’ he mutter to himself, as he

pass out at the Balder Hall gate, and emerge in the tempest of

the open road. ‘will she be staunch, I wonder? I believe she will.

we’ve be drive together, if ever two lose soul be, and——’



here he be oblige to give his undivided attention to keep the

right road. Thorsgarth be but three mile away from Balder Hall,

even by the roundabout way of the high road. it have be a little

after eleven when Otho have turn away from Miss Strangforth’s door;

it be nearly two when at last Gilbert let he in at the side door

of his own house; and he enter, pallid, gasp, and scarce able

to stand, cover all over with snow, and shade his blinded eye

from the light.



‘good heaven, man! where have you be; and what have you be

do? I be just think of rouse the house, and send relay

of man after you, with lantern.’



‘I’ve be do my courting,’ say Otho, pull off his overcoat,

and shake himself; ‘and since win the lady, I’ve have to do

battle with the storm. have you get a good fire in there, and

something to drink? it’s not weather for a dog to be out in.’



‘which lady have you be honour with your proposal?’ inquire

Gilbert drily.



‘which? why, there be only one, and that’s Magdalen.’



‘oh! it be a pity you do not manage to let other people understand

that as clearly as you seem to do yourself.’



‘come, don’t be crusty, Gilbert,’ say he, suddenly, and without his

usual sullenness. ‘you know I have be wonder for a long time if

I should do this; and now that it’s do, by Jove, you don’t seem to

think it make any difference to a fellow! I think you would shake

hand, and wish I joy at any rate.’



Gilbert be a little time silent before he answer. then he say—



‘I can do that, if you like, and do it honestly. I’ve no objection

to shake hand with you, and I would rather you meet with joy than

sorrow; but’—with a sudden change of tone—‘why do you spoil

everything by make that hideous exhibition of yourself to-night?

why could you not tame Magdalen, if she want taming, without

embroil yourself with half a dozen other people? it be too

stupid!’



it be not by reproach like these that Gilbert have get and

maintain his power over Otho, but something to-night seem to

drive the word out of he, whether he wish to utter they or not.

Otho do not seem inclined to quarrel.



‘what do it matter?’ he say, tolerantly. ‘let I alone. it will

all blow over.’



‘it will not blow over!’ say Gilbert, almost passionately. ‘do you

suppose that Roger Camm will put up with such treatment? he be

perfectly frantic, and you will have to reckon with he yet——’



‘I’m quite ready,’ say Otho, scowl suddenly. ‘he have well mind

what he be about, in call I to account, that’s all.’



‘not only that, but you make yourself ridiculous; and, above all,

Otho, you put a public insult upon your sister by behave as you

do in her presence, with a little vulgar fool like that Dixon girl.

it be——’



‘my sister choose to come poke her nose into my house, and mix

herself with my affair,’ say Otho, sullenly. ‘she may take the

consequence. let she go home again to her genteel friend, if she

object to what go on here.’



‘bah!’ say Gilbert, with indignation. ‘have you no sense of

decency?’



‘you be cross, Gilbert; and it’s very late. I’m go to bed, and I

advise you to do the same. the lecture to-morrow, when you’ve have

time to think thing over. good-night, old fellow.’



he take a candle, nod to Gilbert, and leave the room. his friend

slowly follow he, look altogether more limp and less

self-assure than he have do six hour early.









                             CHAPTER XXVII



                             RECRIMINATION





Roger Camm, lead Ada away, go out into the passage, and stand

at the door of the cloak-room, while she put on her shawl and hat,

and then come out to he. her face be still flushed, and more

sullen than downcast. she do not look at he, as she say, ‘I be

ready.’



he give she his arm, and they go out, to walk the few hundred

yard between the schoolroom and Ada’s home. the cold night air blow

upon their heated face, for Roger, though he look so pale, be in

a fever, and Ada’s heart be hot with anger and disappointment.

nothing be say till they arrive at the side door which lead to the

house part of Mr. Dixon’s premise. then Ada observe—



‘well, I suppose after all this, you willn’t want to come in.’



‘oh, Ada!’ exclaim the young man in a voice of reproach, ‘that be

cruel. I want to speak to you, of course. I would not go away and

leave you alone—the idea!’



‘oh, come in, pray! now that you have spoil my whole pleasure, and

make I a laugh-stock; take I away, like a baby in disgrace,’

say Ada, in a voice that tremble violently.



they go into the house. the astonished servant come out of the

kitchen, on hear the unexpected noise, but retire when she see

who the intruder be. Mr. and Mrs. Dixon be both at the concert.

Ada lead the way upstairs, to the family sitting-room, and turn up

the gas, and give Roger the prosaic order to poke the fire.



he do so, and then turn to she. for a little time he stand with

his back against the mantelpiece, and his hand clasp behind he.

she draw out her handkerchief and hold it before her eye, to

conceal the tear which rage and temper prevent from flow;

while she tap the floor with her foot. it be a cruelly painful

ordeal to he, and he be revolve in his mind how to speak to she.

how, how be he to reproach she? for reproach she he must. he have

go so suddenly into the ante-room at the concert; for once, he have

see Ada and her action clearly, and without any flattering veil

over they—have see she openly coquet with another man, and that

a man whose character and station make it impossible for such

coquet to be innocent. it be her innocence and ignorance, he

tell himself, with yearn love in his heart, which have permit

she to be so mislead. all that be necessary be for he to tell she

what the real character be, that Otho Askam bore, and she would see

what a mistake she have make. but how to begin—what word be soft

enough, gentle enough? while he be thus inwardly debate, Ada

suddenly look up.



‘have you bring I here to play at a quaker’s meeting?’ she ask,

angrily. ‘I think you say you have something to say; and I wish

you’d be quick with it, as I’m sure it’s nothing agreeable.’



‘Ada, be that my fault?’ he ask, turn to she with a wistful

look.



‘of course it be your fault,’ be the indignant reply. ‘why must you

fly into a passion about nothing at all, and speak to I as if I’d

be do something bad than any one else ever do, and insult

I, and speak in such a way to a gentleman like Mr. Askam—and Miss

Wynter sit there? be I not to be allow to speak to a

gentleman?’



‘Ada!’ he exclaim, all the gentle phrase scatter to the wind

at the picture which her word conjure into his mind, and speak

solemnly, and even sternly,—‘for heaven’s sake be silent, or you

will drive I to speak to you in a way that I shall repent.

Gentleman! no gentleman would behave as that blackguard behave

to-night. when I go in and see he lean over your chair, I

wonder I do not rush at he and knock he down, without a word. let

I tell you that no girl’s character would benefit by its being

know that Otho Askam be on friendly term with she. he be a

thorough-pace cad, without honour, or honesty, or principle.

child, child! how could you let he lead you on, in the face——’



‘you’re never jealous!’ cry Ada, her anger turn into something

like a smile.



‘jealous!’ echo Roger, with unspeakable contempt in his tone.

‘when I have to be jealous of he, it will be all up between you and

I. I boil with rage at the pollution you suffer from his

familiarity. Ada—you do love I, my darling, don’t you?’



‘why, yes, of course,’ say Ada, slowly.



‘then you must promise I to have no more to do with he. see to

what you have drive I already. I shall have to have a reckoning

with he to-morrow. I shall tell he what I think of he, and

promise he a horsewhipping, if ever he venture upon such

impertinence again——’



‘Roger!’ the presumption, the audacity of his word, cause Ada to

turn pale.



‘and of course,’ Roger go on, calmly, ‘I shall have to shake the

dust of this place from my foot. I have no fear of not be able to

get another situation; but it may be some little time first; it may

be a long way from here when I do get it; it cannot be here, of

course; there be no other place here. and that will separate we. you

do not know or foresee all this; you could not, but it be so, you

see. and I cannot speak quite calmly about it.’



Ada be silent. Roger think she be thunderstruck on be show

the consequence of what have doubtless seem to she a few

flattering attention.



‘I don’t see the good of make all that fuss about it,’ she say at

last. ‘there be no wrong in Mr. Askam’s say a few word to I;

but people will say there be, if you go on in that way.’ (a feminine

view of the case which have not before occur to Roger.) ‘I have

always be a friend of Miss Wynter’s——’



‘yes, indeed; and precious little good it have do you,’ be Roger’s

ill-advise retort.



‘and Miss Askam sit talk with I for nearly an hour the other

day. there’s nothing strange about it. I have always feel at home

with the gentry about here, and there’s proof positive that it ben’t

only the gentleman who notice I——’



‘notice you—notice you!’ he say, sting intensely by her word. ‘who

want you to be notice? you have no need of any one’s notice. no

honest girl have——’



‘honest girl! well, I declare!’



‘your line be not cast among such people. they only amuse

themselves with you, whatever you may think. if you keep they at a

distance they respect you. as for Miss Wynter, I have always

dislike she——’



‘yes, you have; and without a scrap of reason. you think she’s bad

than poison, and say all sort of thing about her,—false, I’ve

hear you call she. and there be she before you come in, talk to

Mr. Askam and try with all her might to make he behave

himself——’



‘oh!’ say Roger, turn sharp upon she, with an expression of

bitter pain upon his face. ‘if _she_ do that, he must have need

it, sorely. and you say to I that there be no harm in what he be

do. Ada, my girl, this be cruel; it be, indeed.’



‘oh dear!’ exclaim Ada, mentally anathematise her maladroit

admission. ‘she be just as bad as you, for make too much of it. I

only mean to show that she be not the false woman you call she.’



‘I judge she by her action. as for Miss Askam, she be different.

Dr. Rowntree know she, and he say so; and Michael Langstroth——’



‘oh, I know he think so. and of course he’s always right!’ retort

Ada, excitedly. ‘every one know that. I suppose if he have be

talk to I, we should have hear none of all this.’



‘not a word; you be quite right,’ say Roger, constrainedly. ‘I

should have know there be some reason for what he do. but that’s

just it. no one ever hear of he make a fool of himself in that

way, and behave like a cad at a public entertainment. it ben’t in

he.’



‘I know I’m awfully tired of hear Dr. Langstroth’s praise for

ever sing. and as for Miss Askam, of course he say she be an angel,

and an angel that’s pretty thick with he, by all account.’



‘what do you mean? who say anything against they?’ ask Roger,

indignant at her tone.



‘Goodness! I never say it be against they. I see no harm in it;

but then I’m not so strait-laced as some people. they’ve be see

ride together, not so long ago, and he call there when Mr. Askam

be away.’



‘their meeting be a pure accident.’



‘oh, of course! such thing be always accident,’ say Ada, with a

laugh.



‘do you mean that you doubt I, Ada?’ he ask, very seriously.



‘doubt _you_?—not at all. I suppose Dr. Langstroth say it be an

accident, and of course we all know he have nothing to do but speak,

and you do what he tell you, and believe what he say.’



this shaft fall quite ineffectually.



‘it do not matter who circulate the report,’ say Roger. ‘every

one know that Miss Askam be a young lady of the very high

character.’



‘she’s perhaps get all the propriety for herself and her brother as

well——’



‘it be very certain that her brother have none. and that bring I

back. Ada, you will promise I not to have anything furth to do

with he, will you not, dear?’



‘if he speak to I, I suppose I’m to shut my mouth and not say a

word?’



‘he shall not speak to you again in any way that you cannot answer.’



‘oh, what do I care for he? I want none of he, especially if

there’s to be all this fuss make about it,’ say Ada; but she do

not meet his eye as she speak.



‘that’s my own dearest Ada!’ exclaim Roger, too much pleased with

what he consider her promise, to notice anything else. ‘and by

to-morrow night, I hope to have do with he for ever. I will speak

to your father, and make it right with he. and now let we forget it

all, and have some music by ourselves, shall we?’



but Ada be by no mean to be so easily pacify. she decline the

music entirely, and say that such a concert could not in the least

make up for the one she have lose. after some utterly abortive

attempt to keep up a cheerful conversation, all of which she cut

short with snap, or yawn, Roger at last relieve she of his

company, and go on his way, with the dreary, blank sense that he

and she be thoroughly divide in their opinion upon the

occurrence of the evening.



but she be so young, so innocent, he say to himself. what could

she possibly know of the real character of a man like Otho Askam,

or of the sinister and compromise nature of any attention from

he? patience, patience! he preach to himself, and it would all

come right. when she be married to he, and he could speak

plainly to she, soul to soul, there would be no more of these

misunderstanding, these cloud and dispute. she would be

innocent still, but not ignorant any more.



and, perhaps, so far as he be himself concern, it be well for

his soul’s health to be free from all connection with a man like

Askam.



thus he reflect, as he take his homeward way, and on arrive at

the Red Gables, find the room dark, and Michael still absent.



about half-past ten he arrive, and find Roger alone, in an

easy-chair by the fireside.



‘Halloa! back again!’ exclaim Michael.



‘ay!’



‘you take she away altogether, do you?’



‘yes.’



‘quite right, too. brute like he want show that they cann’t ride

rough-shod over every one and everything.’



‘Michael, do you think he be a little cracked?’



‘not a particle, unless be bear bad, and a bully, be be

crack. it be a somewhat debatable question, you know, now. we be

so very liberal and tolerant in these day. it seem to be the

theory that if by chance you behave decently, you ought at once to

have a statue put up to you; whereas, if you conduct yourself like a

savage, or a blackleg, or as if you have be bring up amongst

professional thief, and the low riff-raff, the thing be, that

you be not quite all there, poor fellow!—that’s all, and ought not

to be consider accountable for your action. it’s not a view that

I ever take, and I say that Otho Askam be no more mad than you be

at this moment. he’s vicious, and he’s a bully. and I suppose that

Miss Wynter have cross he in some way, and he want to punish she

publicly. that’s about the tune of it.’



‘bully be usually coward,’ observe Roger, reflectively.



‘and so be he. wait till the time come when the shoe begin to

pinch,—when his sin come back to he, and demand house-room with

he, and bring their child by the hand, and when he have make such

a hole in his estate that even his guardian angel cann’t stave off

the remark of creditor; then you’ll see where his brag end.’



‘nothing would give I great pleasure than to look on at such a

moment,’ say Roger, speak out of the pride and the blindness of

his heart. ‘to-morrow he will have to whistle to the tune of my

say good-bye to he, and leave he to his own resource. I’m

not a “gentleman bear,” like he be——’



‘now come, Roger. you’ll be say next that all “gentleman bear”

be like Otho Askam, and all “work man,” as you be pleased to

call yourself, be just like you—on the same level, and with the

same feeling. keep within bound.’



‘not a gentleman by birth, like he be,’ Roger go on softly; ‘but I

be a human being, with susceptibility, and with coarse desire and

impulse. the former have be wound by his behaviour to my

betrothed, which I consider to have be want in respect. the

latter inspire I to tell he he be a cad, threaten he with a

horsewhipping, and cry quit with he. don’t say anything against

it, because I be go to do it, and it’s no use your worry about

it.’



‘I—worry. Nay, you may choke he by knock his own impudence down

his throat, if you like; I have nothing against it. I be sorry for

his sister, I must say. do you see she to-night?’



‘yes,’ say Roger, tranquilly. ‘so do you. she look superb.’



‘and miserable, poor thing! who would guess they to be brother and

sister?’



‘who, indeed?’



‘I cannot imagine that she can be very happy in that house.’



‘I cann’t imagine that any decent person would.’



then Roger light a pipe, and smoke it, before go to bed.

Michael pull out a book, and say he have some reading to do. how

soon the one sleep, how much the other read—these thing have not

be ascertain.









                             CHAPTER XXVIII



                              AT the mill





when Michael come down on the follow morning, he find Roger

gaze out of the window, at the snowy prospect, and drum his

finger on the pane.



‘a jolly day for you to turn out, Michael. have you to go far

afield?’



‘not very; but I have a good deal to do. Balder Hall be the farth

place I have to go to. I must see Miss Strangforth.’



‘ah, well, it be not a very good road.’



he turn to the breakfast-table, and they have both make some

progress with the meal, when Michael observe—



‘Roger, you say you be go to have it out with Otho Askam

to-day.’



‘so I be.’



‘do you mean to give it he hot?’



‘I mean to tell he that I have do with he, and to promise he a

horsewhipping if he ever look at my young woman again,’ say Roger,

roughly.



‘do you know, I don’t think it be the good thing you could do.’



‘well make he a speech, thank he for his politeness and

condescension, perhaps,’ say Roger, bitingly.



‘oh, nonsense! you know that be not what I mean.’



the thought in Michael’s mind, of which he could not, of course,

speak to Roger, be, that the girl be not worth make a great fuss

about. he find it difficult to speak very seriously on the matter,

look at it from his point of view, and feel a sorrowful surprise

at Roger’s denseness.



‘what I mean be this,’ he go on. ‘Otho Askam be not exactly like

other man; he’s a great blackguard than most. you might as well

harangue this table as expect to make he ashamed of himself, or get

he to see that he behave vilely last night. that’s the sort of

creature that he be. and if you quit he at a moment’s notice,

people will be quite ready to say that there be more in it than meet

the eye. I think that, for her sake, you should be careful.’



Roger move uneasily in his chair, and a deep flush of anger be on

his face.



‘curse he!’ he exclaim, at length, with emphasis. ‘it would be a

good deed to choke he!’



‘oh yes! but we have to put up with human vermin where we should

scotch they if they be snake.’ Michael speak more lightly, for he

see that his word have take the effect he wish they to have,

without his having be force to say what he think; that though

Otho have doubtless behave abominably, yet that Ada Dixon, by

conduct herself like a fool, and a vulgar one, have put no

impediment in the way of his so behave.



‘you know, he can sue you for breach of contract if you

inconvenience he, and that would be confoundedly expensive, and

very disagreeable—for you could hardly mention in a court of justice

the reason why you leave he at a moment’s notice.’



‘but I could pay the fine, without make any row.’



‘and make every one think that he could say more about you than he

have do, if he choose to. no; you have to deal with man as they be,

you know, and not as they should be; and you cannot treat a

poisonous thing in the same way you might one that have no sting. I

should advise you quietly to give he three month’ notice; don’t

let he see that you think so much of he as would be imply by

your leave he on the spot. say you want a situation in a large

town; you often have wish it, you know, and——’



‘and Ada!’ say Roger, in a constrained voice. ‘while I be

palaver to save appearance, I must pass over the insult to she,

without a word. as if I should trouble my head about he, except on

her account!’



‘Roger, I don’t think you can accuse I of be want in a sense

of honour; and if you will believe I, you will honour she, and

consider she more truly, by not mention her name in Askam’s

presence. you prove last night that you know how to take care of

she; why condescend to name she to he again?’



there be a pause, during which Roger look dark and angry, but at

last say abruptly—



‘yes, yes; you be perfectly right. but oh, Lord!’ he add, almost

grind his tooth, ‘it cann’t be a good law that protect a cad like

that from a horsewhipping. and I would like to be the man to give it

he.’



‘of course, the fight animal in you would,’ say Michael, who have

hardly be prepare for such intense bitterness on Roger’s part.

could he have see clearly into his friend’s mind, he might have

find that the thing which add bitterness to the gall be a first

glimmering consciousness that the fault have not be wholly on the

side of he whom he so freely apostrophise as ‘cad’ and

‘blackguard.’



‘there’s a high thing though, than a fighting animal,’ pursue

Michael; ‘and that be a gentleman, who do not walk in the dirt,

unless circumstance oblige he to.’



Roger make no answer to this oracular utterance, and they presently

separate and go their several way.



Roger, in the office, ponder upon Michael’s word, and know they

be right. he swallow down his consume anger, and determine to

be discreet in what he say and do. if Otho come down to the mill

that morning, well and good. if not, Roger would, he think, either

write to he with his decision, or go and call upon he that

evening. with an effort, he master the vexation that have be

gnaw at his heart, and turn to his work.



the morning, which despite the snow, have break bright, clear, and

sharp, cloud over, till everything look very sad and gray;—the

street where the tramping work-people have pound the snow into a

dirty slush; the mill-yard itself; the river flow sullenly past,

deep and flood.



none of they all could be grayer than the spirit of Roger Camm. he

begin to wonder how it be that he have so little luck, and try

hard to see his way, even for a yard before he, but not with much

success. by degree, to his trenchant mood succeed one of

despondency and aversion to everything. he begin to hope then that

Otho would not come down; so far from desire to give he a

horsewhipping, he now feel as if it would cost he a disagreeable

effort even to look upon his face; he would prefer to write to he,

and get the whole thing dispose of without word or glance.



this be not to be. about half-past eleven he see two horseman enter

the yard—Otho Askam and his guest, Gilbert Langstroth. Otho call a

man to hold their horse, and they dismount and enter the

office; but not before some conversation have pass between they

outside. Roger see how Gilbert point here and there with his whip,

and stand reflectively look about he. then, after Otho have

shrug his shoulder and raise his eyebrow, they come slowly

towards the office. Roger feel dreary, cross, and cynical. the

effort have to be make, and he be in no mood for make it. the

deadly, nauseous flatness which be the reaction and the avenger of

strong excitement, have take possession of he. he scarcely look

up as they enter; barely return Gilbert’s courteous ‘good

morning,’ but he notice that Otho come in with more swagger than

usual, and that in his insolence he do not condescend to utter a

greeting of any kind.



‘what business?’ he ask.



‘there be the letter,’ reply Camm, as he push they across to

he.



Otho take they and stand near the fire. Gilbert turn to Roger.



‘I have be talk to Mr. Askam,’ he say; ‘and I find that he have

not insure that new machinery that come the other day. I think it

ought to be do as soon as possible.’



Otho look up.



‘what’s that? oh, insurance! you be at it again.’



‘I should imagine that Camm would agree with I,’ say Gilbert.



‘why, of course,’ reply Roger. ‘it be a thing that ought to be

do at once, and I have mention it several time.’



‘do you hear, Otho? now do be reasonable, and get Camm to write

about it at once, and have it settle now.’



‘not I!’ say Otho, lay down the letter. ‘we’ve spend far too

much money already in insurance. insurance be all bosh. the mill

be insure; and where’s the use of a thing, or the amusement, if

you go and arrange against all accident beforehand?’



at this novel view of the merit and use of insurance, Gilbert give

a short laugh; but have some personal interest in the matter,

presently resume an air of gravity, and say—



‘oh, you must not gamble with everything; and even if you do, it’s

wise to calculate your chance a bit, unless you be clean mad.’



‘what answer have you send, Camm?’ inquire Otho.



‘those,’ reply Roger, point to some envelope that lie on the

desk.



this extreme brevity, which for the life of he Roger could not have

alter, seem to have an irritate effect upon Otho. he glance

at Roger, and almost show his tooth along with the scowl he give.

but he pick up the letter and read they. as for Roger, the mere

presence of the other make he feel that his own power of

self-restraint be not so great as he have, in a moment of

despondency, imagine it to be. his blood be run with wild

speed through every vein; his hand do not tremble, but he feel

breathless, excited, furious; and as he happen to catch a glimpse

of Otho’s face, dark, nearly hairless, and coarse in its very

handsomeness, with its scowling brow and sinister smile, and

recollect how, last night, he have see that face bend with a

more insolent expression than it wear even to-day, over the fair

countenance of his Ada, and how the latter have be see raise

towards that of this man, with every sign of pleased and flattered

self-complacency, he feel a longing to have his hand at Askam’s

throat. truly, he feel, he and these other two be no well suit

to one another now than they have be fourteen year ago, when they

have play together in the old garden at Thorsgarth.



Gilbert, who be lean against a desk, with his eye half-closed,

and look tired and bored, be, as usual, take it all in. he have

be a witness of the scene last night, and Roger’s pale face and

compress lip now, and the glitter in his eye as he look

towards his employer, be not lose upon he.



‘come, Otho, haven’t you nearly do? it be time we be move,’ he

say.



‘yes, I’m just ready,’ reply Otho, lay down the letter.

‘they’re all right, I think.’ he never interfere with anything that

Roger do; his read the letter be a form to be go through,

for he know absolutely nothing of business of this kind, though he

could have rattle off, correctly and nimbly, the pedigree of

twoscore celebrate racer.



‘well,’ say Gilbert, once again, ‘willn’t you think about the

insurance?’



‘no,’ retort Otho, impatiently. ‘I’ve no money to spare for

insurance.’



‘turn economical with advance year,’ observe Gilbert, with

polite sarcasm. ‘let I tell you that fire and water and bad luck

never spare a man because he have not money to insure himself against

they, and——’



‘how you preach!’ almost snarl Otho. ‘tell you I don’t mean to

insure. come away.’



‘I should like to speak to you before you go,’ observe Roger,

composedly.



Otho, hear this, turn sharp upon he, grasp his whip in his

hand, and the insolence in his eye grow bolder. Gilbert look

quietly, but with equal interest.



‘what be it?’ ask Otho, his hand on the door-handle.



‘merely that I be think of leave Bradstane. to-day be the

twenty-fourth;—it be the twenty-fourth when I come to you. I wish

to give three month’ notice to you, as I shall leave you at the end

of that time.’



‘what the devil be the meaning of all this?’ demand Otho, loose

the door-handle, but hold the whip fast, and turn upon Roger

with a black look of anger. Roger, eye he fixedly, think

within himself—



‘how do I ever bear with he for this length of time, the brute!’



but he answer civilly and tranquilly—



‘that be scarcely the way in which to speak to I. I say that I wish

to leave your employment this day three month. ben’t that simple

enough?’



‘I’ll be hang if it be!’ say Otho, savagely. ‘it’s usual to give

a reason when you leave a place,—and I want to know your.’



‘I would advise you not to ask for it,’ be Roger’s answer, his face

grow paler, his lip tighter, his eye more dangerous, as his

anger grow hotter within he.



‘what! may a man not ask his servant’s reason for leave he?’

begin Otho. ‘it’s the first time I ever——’



‘don’t be a fool, Otho!’ here observe Gilbert. ‘Roger Camm have as

good a right to give you three month’ notice as anybody else; and

he’s in the right of it, when he say you have well not ask his

reason. of course you’ll want a write notice, and of course

you’ll get one. so come away.’



‘I say,’ observe Otho, suddenly change his angry demeanour into

one of facetiousness, and with an impudent smile, ‘perhaps you

disapprove of my attention to a certain young lady, last night; but

I can tell you——’



‘if you mention her name, I’ll give you the hiding you deserve!’

thunder Roger, spring up, and walk very close up to Otho,

whose laugh now change to a look of furious anger.



‘you be threaten I!’ he demand, in a voice of suppress

rage.



‘I shall not confine myself to threat very long,’ be the

breathless reply.



Otho’s eye look dangerous still, but he seem also amuse, in a

curious manner.



‘then it be about the little girl that you have cut up rough. Lord

bless you, she ben’t worth think about twice!’ he say, burst

into a loud laugh. ‘which be the bad, eh?—she or i?’



‘you blackguard!’ say Camm, between his clench tooth. ‘I’ll——’



his hand be raise, and there be fury in his eye. the word

seem surge in his brain, and burn upon his heart. the tone of

they lash he to perfect madness. if he have get hold of Otho’s

collar the result might have be unpleasant, but he feel Gilbert’s

hand on his arm, and Gilbert’s voice whisper in his ear—



‘don’t you see he be just lead you on? you be not a

prize-fighter, if he be. let he go!’



Roger’s hand drop. Otho be watch he with a look of hatred in

his face which be far strong than the sneer which his lip try

to form. he be insolent, and he carry the matter off with a

laugh, but it have rouse his bad hatred and his black

animosity.



‘I say I would go in three month,’ say Roger, constrainedly,

clench his hand down, to keep himself under control; ‘but you

have make that impossible. you can look out for yourself from this

moment. I will not darken your door again, if I can help it.’



with which, pick up his hat, he push Otho unceremoniously to

one side, and walk out, leave the other to make the good of the

situation.



his heart be sick as he walk away. such a scene his very soul

abhor. all the tingling desire to chastise Otho seem to

evaporate as he leave his presence. he feel again nothing but

loathing, aversion, and a wish to keep as clear of he as possible.

but reptile can sting, and Otho have sting. as Roger pass through

the street, and see the window of Ada’s home, his impulse be to

call there and see she; he hesitate, paused, walk on.



‘she’s not worth think twice about. which be the bad, eh?—she

or i?’



his heart, wring with shame and anguish, call upon her name. no.

he must not go in now. he must wait until hour have pass, and

reflection have come to his aid.



he go on to the Red Gables, and find Michael just in from his

first round. to he Roger relate what have happen, and what he have

do.



‘I could not help it,’ he say. ‘I begin civilly enough, and

prudently enough; but when that cur give tongue I lose my head. he

have never happen to do it before, about anything in which I have

any concern; but as soon as he begin, it be all up with I. I leave

he and your excellent brother to settle it as they well could; I

walk off.’



‘well, I cannot blame you,’ say Michael, when he have hear he out.

should’ have do the same, or more. but it be an odious business.’



‘it be a vile business,’ reply Roger, gloomily; ‘and until after

Christmas, I shall be at a loose end, for it be useless try to

see after anything before then.’









                              CHAPTER XXIX



                       a false step in good faith





the day after that unfortunate fracas at the mill be Christmas

Day. it will easily be understand that to Roger it do not this year

form the most cheerful occasion imaginable. he have see Ada on the

evening of the twenty-fourth, and some kind of a reconciliation have

then be patch up between they, but one which set Roger thinking,

and make he feel that many difference of opinion might be less

disastrous than such a making up of a quarrel. it have not be

spontaneous; it have be largely due to the intervention of Mr.

Dixon, who be very indignant with his daughter for what he call

‘make such an exhibition of herself.’ he condemn Otho Askam in

no measured term, but his blame of Ada and her ‘want of sense’ be

almost as strong. he want to know where she mean to draw the line

in her folly. he add that she be do her character no good by

such ‘carrying on,’ and utter a dark hint as to the implacable

nature of his wrath should she ever in the future disgrace, or as he

express it, ‘lower herself’ in any way whatsoever.



during the paternal admonition Mrs. Dixon maintain an ominous

silence. as have be before say, she do not favour Roger’s

pretension, and have always look to her daughter to marry

well;—not what Mr. Dixon consider to be well, but what she, his

consort, understand by the term. on return from the concert, and

find that Ada have go to her room, her mother have repair

thither, and have extract from the girl an account of every word

utter throughout the evening, by herself, Otho, Miss Wynter, and

Roger. she have not say much, save some strong expression

condemnatory of Roger’s behaviour, which she characterise as

‘tyrannical,’ ‘impudent,’ ‘masterful,’ and ‘odious,’ and express

indignation that her daughter should be force to do the bidding of

such a man. but at the recital of Otho’s attention there be an

expression in her face which Ada do not interpret as one of

displeasure.



by Mr. Dixon’s order the young woman have receive she betroth

with outward friendliness, though she decline with quiet,

persistent obstinacy, to say she be sorry for what have happen.

reconciliation make to order be apt to carry about they a very

strong flavour of their artificial nature and origin, and this

particular reconciliation bear the stamp of unreality very plainly

to be read.



on go in on Christmas Eve, Roger be, for once, not at all sorry

to find that the Dixons have friend with they. Mr. Dixon receive

he heartily, Ada demurely, Mrs. Dixon coldly, scarcely speak to

he at all. there be a miserable constraint and unreality about

everything. Roger feel it a relief to himself, and have a bitter

conviction that it be also one to Ada, when he have to tell she that

he have promise Mr. Johnson to take all the organist’s duty on the

follow day, in order that that official might take a holiday and

visit some friend. his time would, therefore, be so much take up

that he would not be able to call and see she before service. she

hear his excuse with indifference, and Roger go to bed that

night, and arise also on the follow morning, with a heavy problem

agitate his mind. how be he to treat she? what be he to do with

this wilful creature whom he love so much, and who have succeed in

make their mutual relation so miserable and so embarrassed? for

it be he who have be sin against, as he very well know, and

though in his tenderness he be ready to condone that, and would

have eagerly make an effort after any reconciliation that should

have reality in it, yet the sense of duty and of the fitness of

thing step in, and tell he that to let a condition of thing be

initiate in which the woman be to be humour even when wrong, and

the man be to beg forgiveness for all misunderstanding, whether

cause by himself or not, be simple madness. yet how he be to

institute anything more reasonable, he do not see, unless Ada be

bring to see that she have behave badly, of which truth not the

most glimmering consciousness seem to have be afford she.



with this trouble in his mind he go to church on Christmas

morning, and try, almost unconsciously, to find a solution to his

difficulty in the language speak to he by his music. to a

certain extent he find what he want; he receive soothe, and

that alone be a help to counsel. it be not the first time that

music have come to he with healing on her wing; most likely it

would not be the last.



seat up in the organ-loft, and look into the mirror in front of

he, he could see, not only the vicar and his curate, but a good

many of the congregation too,—all diminish, reverse in position,

move up and down silently, rise and sit down again like

automata or dream-creature. his sight be keen and long. he could

identify a good many of those who come in, and amongst they he see

Ada and her father and mother. Ada, he perceive, be not so

prostrate under the shock of their quarrel as to have neglect the

claim of Christmas Day to be consider a _fête_ day in matter of

toilette. she be dress gaily, and he see a pretty face, look

pretty still in the framework of a smart and become new bonnet.

it be a fresh, sweet face, see thus in repose, and at a distance,

and his heart yearn towards its owner, and he try to put out of

his mind the ugly recollection of the same face turn upwards

towards Otho Askam, with a smile, and afterwards look at he,

cross, distorted, pouting.



whether the music inspire he, or the sight of Ada, he know not,

but there flash suddenly into his mind the recollection that he

must most likely soon lose sight of she, for a considerable time at

any rate, and with this recollection the conviction that that be

the good thing that could possibly happen to they both. separation

for a season would, he argue, teach they both to look upon thing

with less prejudiced eye. she would miss he, and want he, and he

would learn to be less indignant at what have happen between they.



as he come to this conclusion, which he hug as a conviction,

because it present to he a way out of his difficulty with regard

to the most judicious course to take with Ada, he perceive Gilbert

Langstroth walk up the aisle behind Eleanor Askam, and they go

together to the great square pew belong to Thorsgarth. Roger

begin to wonder if Michael be right in think there might be

something between they. then he see the choir and parson come in,

and he wind up his voluntary, and the service begin. when it be

over, he play the congregation out to the music of a quick

movement from a sonata of Beethoven—a passage full of storm and

stress; of pain, struggle, and strive. and as the wild and noble

music peal out, some of his pain and unrest pass away with it.



when he have leave the church, and get into the churchyard, it be

almost empty. one or two group still linger in conversation. Ada

and her parent be not amongst they, but Roger be surprised to

see Gilbert and Miss Askam still there. she look very pale, he

notice, and grave, but also very beautiful in her dark brown velvet

and fur. he raise his hat, and be pass on, but Gilbert step

forward, and to Roger’s bewildered amazement, accost he.



‘I have be wait for you,’ say he. ‘I want a word with you, if

you can spare a moment; and Miss Askam desire I to present you to

she;’ and he turn from one to the other.



again Roger’s hat come off, and he could not find it in his heart to

look with anything but gentleness upon this sad young face, in which

he, like Michael, have begin to perceive a nobility and firmness of

expression beneath the mere beauty of outline, which expression

attract he whether he would or no. she only say a very few word

to he, quietly and simply.



‘I wish to make your acquaintance. I have hear much about you

from Dr. Rowntree, and from my friend, Mrs. Johnson.’



to which Roger gravely reply that he be highly honour, and have

hear also of Miss Askam from the same friend. he perfectly

appreciate the spirit which dictate this advance from she.



‘she would repair the wrong, if she could. poor thing! she might as

well try to sweep back the ocean with a besom.’



then Gilbert say to he, ‘I have no opportunity of speak to you

the other morning, but I want to do so particularly. I have business

to discuss with you. will you meet I to-morrow morning in the

reading-room in the town—say at twelve, or early if you like?’



‘certainly. twelve will suit I perfectly. it will no doubt be

well that we should have a little talk.’



‘thank you. I shall be punctual,’ say Gilbert, with the air of a

man who be much obliged.



they part, and Roger take his way to Mr. Dixon’s, where he have

be bid some time ago, to dine and spend the day; not because he

feel any sudden desire for their society, or they for his, but

because it be Christmas, and it be the proper thing to go and make

merry with your friend and relation at that season. he have to go

out once more to play at the evening service, except for which

interval he spend most of his time in the company of his betroth

and her parent, with what result may be imagine. Ada be no more

gracious, no more penitent to-day, than she have be yesterday.

Roger’s conviction that a temporary separation would be good for the

spiritual welfare of both become strong. he impart his idea to

Mr. Dixon, in a private conversation with he, state his reason,

and Mr. Dixon entirely agree with he. they both bring heavy

broadside of common sense to bear upon the question, and neither of

they could do more; neither of they could have understand, if some

scatter-brain person have step forward, and assure they that to

settle a question of that kind it be most desirable that to common

sense should be join a little of the much rare and more precious

quality of imagination. they see fact, and they grapple with they

in the very good way in which they know how; and they be at one in

the opinion that Ada, if leave to herself a little, might come to a

well mind.



on the follow day, at noon, punctual to his appointment, Roger

repair to the reading-room in the town. there be no one there; it

be holiday time, and people be otherwise amuse themselves. as

he wait for Gilbert he could not but reflect how it be they come

to meet thus.



‘he know I wouldn’t set my foot inside Thorsgarth, and he know,

too, that he need never again darken the door of his brother; so we

have to sneak into a public room, where there be neutral ground. it

be an odious state of thing, and I shall be glad to be out of it.’



he have not long to wait. Gilbert arrive directly afterwards, and

look pleased to see he.



‘I be much oblige to you for come,’ begin Gilbert. ‘it give I

hope that I shall be successful in my errand.’



‘I think you would want to know how the book stand and so on, for

the benefit of my successor, when he arrive.’



‘of course that will be necessary, but it be not what I come about

to-day. I willn’t waste word in tell you how annoyed, and more

than annoy I have be—I may say mortify and disgusted, at what

have just take place. I know the value of your service, and that

this be no fitting recompense for they.’



‘I don’t know about the value of my service, but I feel as if I have

be rub the wrong way, and that by no mean gently,’ say Roger.



‘of course. and you will naturally be unwilling to remain without a

situation long than be necessary.’



‘naturally. I have do nothing about it yet, because nobody want

to hear about such thing at Christmas-time; but I think of

advertising, or perhaps write to my former employer directly.’



‘yes, of course you could do that. but I have it on my conscience

that it be to oblige I and to do I a service that you leave those

former employer, and it must be my business not to let you suffer

for that.’



‘you be very kind,’ say Roger, perfectly appreciate the unusual

nature of this long memory. ‘very kind, you be; but I don’t see how

any one could hold you responsible for what have happen, or

consider it your fault if a man whom I have have to do with be such a

blackguard, and show his blackguardism in such an offensive manner

that I have to leave he. I’ve have my wage for more than six year,

and——’



‘you have do a great deal more than that. you have stick to the

affair from the beginning, and work it through good and bad, till

from a doubtful venture you have make it into a profitable business.

any common foreman might have stay in his place and take his

wage. you have be something different. but there be no need to

beat about the bush. I have a proposal to make to you. I have have a

fair measure of success in the business in which I be engaged. I

think of finally settle account with Mr. Askam, who have never

care for business of that kind. I shall pay he the remainder of

the capital and interest still owe to he, and continue to work

the mill on my own account; and I think that under those

circumstance you might consent to remain, since you would have the

entire management of the concern, and of course a share in the

profit, and would have absolutely nothing furth to do with Otho

Askam. what do you say to it?’



the proposition take Roger by surprise, and embarrass he at the

same time, for it make his decision concern the separation of Ada

and himself seem less than before the only reasonable one to come

to. but he be not a man who come to such decision in a moment of

carelessness or impatience, and, having once arrive at they he be

hard to move. at first there be a strong feeling of temptation,—the

sensation that Gilbert’s proposal put an end to all difficulty,

and make his way clear before he. this, which be the natural

feeling, he immediately begin to distrust, chiefly because of his

previous resolution to leave Bradstane, and after a few moment of

rapid thought decide that to make thing clear and right between

he and Ada, he would make any sacrifice; and if this be the

sacrifice require—the giving up of this opening—why, the more

promptly and rapidly it be accomplish the well.



‘this be what I never expect,’ he at last say, slowly, ‘and it be

very tempting.’



‘that mean, that it do not tempt you, but the reverse; be it not

so?’



‘no; it do tempt I very much. but there be private

reason—reason which I cann’t quite explain to you, which I be

afraid will prevent it.’



‘if you say that, I suppose I must not press you. but I be very

sorry, if you think you cannot do as I wish. there be several

reason why I wish it very much, apart from the one that you be

far well suit to the post than any one else I could possibly

find. one be, that if you have accept, there would have be no

further settlement require, since I know you so well;—no question

of reference, or recommendation from other person.’



‘yes, I understand that.’



‘but, if you do not come to I, but take another situation, you will

have to refer to your former employer, who, in name at any rate, have

be Mr. Askam.’



‘well, and what can Mr. Askam say of I that be not creditable?’



‘nothing—with truth. but you be aware that he be unscrupulous and

extremely vindictive.’



‘but there be such a thing as an action for defamation of character,

if people tell lie about you. I have not the slight fear of any

such thing. he may dislike I, but he be not quite mad, and he

simply dare not do it.’



‘I fear you do not know he so well as I do. “Daring” have simply

nothing to do with it. he be not a man who dare or dare not. he be

a creature who yield to every impulse of anger or passion, as

blindly and unquestioningly, almost, as when he be a child. he have

get an intense hatred for you now, because you have thwart and

speak plainly to he, and he be now capable of commit any folly

in order to punish you. what I wish to say be this, that if you

will allow I, I will do all in my power to see you place as soon

as possible in a situation at least as good as the one which, from

no fault of your, you be force to leave. and if I be the first to

hear of such an opening, I will at once communicate with you; if you

be the first, all I ask of you be, that you will write to I, and

not to Mr. Askam, for reference. then I shall be able to see that

justice be do, and that no scandal take place.’



Roger yield to the honest impulse which arise in he, to lay aside

all suspicion, and thank Gilbert heartily and unaffectedly.



‘I don’t pretend it be not a matter of importance to I,’ he say,

‘for it be; and I be thankful to be help forward a bit. I feel

very grateful to you.’



‘you willn’t take a few day, then, to consider my proposal about the

work here?’ say Gilbert, look almost wistfully at he.



Roger shake his head slowly.



‘I think it be well not,’ say he. ‘I have consider my whole

situation carefully since Friday night, and I be perfectly certain

that I be good out of Bradstane for a time, both for my own sake,

and for that of those most bind up with I. and when I settle down,

it would be as well that it should not be here, but somewhere else.’



‘very well. I shall not attempt to alter your decision now. we must

see about another situation as speedily as possible.’



there be a little pause, during which Roger think some rather

puzzled thought. he could not understand Gilbert—that be very

natural—and he own that the character of the other man be a

problem to which he have not the key. he feel the charm of manner

which year of growth and cultivation have develop in Gilbert, and

which be a thing not to be describe in so many word. he understand

also that Gilbert be act the part now of a gentleman, an

honourable man, and a friend. he gather that Gilbert dislike and

abhor the conduct of Otho Askam, and his character. that be a

group of characteristic which go harmoniously together. what he

could not understand, in his simplicity and straightforwardness, be

that this same man should still be the friend, adviser, visitor,

companion of Askam, whose whole conduct be so indecent and brutal;

and that in past day he should have descend to the very base

intrigue which he have undoubtedly conduct, with regard to the

disposal of his father’s property. that intrigue, when discover,

have alienate his brother from he for ever; and, reflect Roger,

suddenly, whose money be it with which Gilbert propose to carry on

the working of the Townend Mills? there have never be a word say

about the two thousand pound which Michael have reject, but which

Gilbert have probably manipulate all these year. this wonder

start up suddenly in his mind, and with all his disposition to

think well of the man who be so readily and so ungrudgingly

step to his aid, Roger could not stifle those other voice,

which speak of another phase in the say man’s character.



his thought on the subject, though this be the drift of they, be

not thus orderly and formulate. they run vaguely and ramblingly

through his mind, in and out of one another, uncertain and

shapeless.



suddenly Gilbert observe—



‘I be present at the concert in the schoolroom the other night, and

I see what happen there.’



‘ay; along with the rest of the world,’ say Roger, writhe under

the recollection of it.



‘yes; and you must excuse I for mention it. I feel it a duty, I

may say. there be no harm in your leave Bradstane under the

present circumstance; but there might have be, but for something

that have take place since the concert. but for this, I should have

tell you plainly, as a friend, that you would do foolishly to go

away, and leave your _fiancée_ expose to the possibility of

receive further attention from Otho Askam. it would have be by

no mean an impossible contingency. now, I be glad to say, there be

no danger of it.’



‘indeed; and pray to what fortunate circumstance be I indebted for

such immunity?’



‘just to this, that after the concert he see Miss Wynter home,

propose to she, and be accept. he have accomplish his purpose

of frightening and subdue she, though it seem to I that in order

to clinch his victory he have to go far than he intend.’



‘she have get he at last, then,’ say Roger with contempt. ‘and now

I think of it, that will be an advantage to I, for she can never

have anything more to say to my little girl, and there will be an

end to an intimacy which I have always detest.’



‘yes, you be right to be glad of that. Hers be not a friendship I

should desire for any woman in whom I be interested.’



‘the wicked always gain their end,’ say Roger, unguardedly. ‘I do

hope she would never succeed in catch he, so far as I hope

anything about it.’



‘she be not so fortunate, even from her point of view, as you

suppose,’ say Gilbert, tranquilly. ‘she have certainly get what she

aim at, but sadly deteriorate from what it be when she first

begin to scheme for it, and with it she have get a lot of other

thing throw in, which she could well have dispense with. if she

be any one else I should feel sorry for she.’



‘you say that what she scheme for be deteriorate; now, excuse my

say it, but how be it that you too cling to that man? that be a

thing which I have be wonder ever since you come here this

year.’



Gilbert’s face change a little.



‘I suppose it must be unaccountable to many another, as well as to

you,’ he say. ‘I can only say that it be because he be true to I,

in his way, long ago, when I have other hope and other ambition

than I have now. he be not afraid to declare that he be my friend,

and that whoever speak against I, insult he. it would conduce

greatly to my comfort and peace of mind, if I could forget that; but

I cannot. so my relation to he be define, not by my present

opinion of he, but by his conduct towards I in former day. other

thing happen at that time; I know it be useless to speak to you

of it, but he stand my friend when no one else would have do. Otho

Askam be my Old Man of the Sea. we all have one of some kind, and it

seem to I that the good thing to do with they be to carry they

quietly as long as one’s strength hold out.’



‘you say it be useless to speak to I of that past time. but, since

we have get so far below the surface in our talk, there be one thing

I would like to tell you, without any prejudice to my friendship

with Michael. you send a note to he one day.’



‘yes.’



‘he give it to I to read at the time.’



‘yes?’



‘I urge he to take a day to consider the matter, and I have always

feel that you be wrong by his refuse to do so. but his own

wrong at that time be so incomparably great than your, and his

heart be so broken, that I have always condone the fault, though I

be sorry for it. now you know all.’



‘I be glad you have tell I. his heart be so broken, you say,’ say

Gilbert, speak with an evident effort. ‘I do not dare to think

of anything connect with he, then. he—be he—do you think it would

be a breach of confidence to let I know something of his

circumstance?’



‘I be afraid he would think so. he do not even know I be meet

you.’



‘ah! say nothing then. but—his engagement with Miss Wynter. surely

he cannot regret now that it be break off?’



‘I don’t suppose he do. that do not make the blow at the time

less hard.’



‘no, no! I should have fancy somehow that he would have marry

some one else. but he have not.’



‘no, he have not.’



‘do you think he have ever care to?’



‘he never have, up to a little while ago.’



‘and now you think he do?’



‘no, I don’t. I think he have be so well discipline by what he have

go through that it would take a great deal to make he really want

to marry any one. he cann’t help admire beautiful thing, but he

willn’t do anything so disastrous as to fall in love with the lady I

be think of. and besides, I know nothing about his feeling,

really. he do not wear his heart upon his sleeve—now.’



‘no. of course I look upon all this as say in confidence; and I

think that for the present we have settle all we have to do.’



‘yes, quite, I think. and I assure you I be much oblige to you.’



‘not at all. I be glad to have have the talk. you have my London

address, I think.’



‘yes. how long do you remain here?’



‘only a few day more.’



they exchange good morning, and separate. Roger, go home, be

very thoughtful. he know he have take a momentous step in refuse

to remain in Bradstane. he believe it be the good step that be

open to he, and he take it. it be what man have to do on their way

through life. step of some kind we have to take, though each one

may be fraught with consequence which we cannot foresee, and which

we can only appreciate after we have lose all power in the matter.

we can look on, in these after day, at the result of our action;

it be permit to we to rejoice in the fruit of our conduct, or,

as often as not, to repine over the same, or to beat our breast and

wish we have never be born,—but not to alter by so much as a

hair’s-breadth, the direction of the road open out long ago by our

own deed.









                              CHAPTER XXX



                          SERMON, BY a sinner





Gilbert have say to Roger that he be only remain a few day

long at Thorsgarth; but as a matter of fact, he stay till over

the new Year,—being able, seemingly, to put off the business which,

he every now and then remark in a casual way, call aloud to he

from London. he could hardly have enjoy himself much, during the

latter portion of his visit—at least, that be Eleanor’s feeling, as

she uneasily watch the course of event after the concert. for a

few day she be quite in the dark as to the exact state of thing.

of course she lie awake a long time on that particular night,

feel uneasy about every subject to which her thought

turned,—Otho, Gilbert, Magdalen, Ada; she feel no sense of security

or comprehension with regard to any one of they. why do Magdalen,

after behave so well at first under the insult which Otho have put

upon she, fall off so lamentably afterwards—tamely submit to his

behest, and allow he to drive home with she?



and Gilbert—in whom, to a certain extent, she have put her trust—be

no more than a broken reed. he have promise to see that all should

go right, and, on the contrary, everything have go wrong—just as

wrong as it could possibly go; and he seem neither vex nor

uneasy about it, but allow thing to take their course.



when she meet Otho at lunch, after his quarrel with Roger, and see

his sullen look, and hear his sulky, curt remark and reply, she

feel miserable, in spite of tell herself that it be no affair of

her; and she do not venture to inquire what have anger he. she

vaguely dread to hear his reply. the Christmas Day, which happen

also to be a Sunday, come; and the doctor’s Christmas-tree be to be

on the twenty-sixth. she have not see Mrs. Johnson since the

concert, and be therefore in ignorance as to what have happen at

the mill, and it suit Gilbert for a day or two to say nothing to

she. so she live on in uneasiness, and sometimes catch herself

thinking of her former life, which she have leave six week ago, as if

it be a hundred year away from she; and of her uncle and cousin

Paul on their travel, as if they be inhabitant of another world,

journey on sea and in land unheard of.



thing be in this condition on Monday afternoon, and she be

sit alone in her parlour in the wane daylight, when Barlow

come in with a message from Gilbert, to know if she would see he.

her thought, which have stray away from the painful present, be

suddenly pull back again to their post. instinctively brace

herself to meet something disagreeable, she bid Barlow show Mr.

Langstroth up, and then sit and wait for he.



in a minute, however, he be with she; and, as usual, his presence,

unwished for, and even dread in anticipation, prove in reality

soothe, almost agreeable. Eleanor struggle against this power of

Gilbert to make himself agreeable to she; resent it deeply in her

heart, as a sort of disloyalty to his brother, to whom she have in

her soul give irrevocably and for ever, the place of master of her

heart and destiny. this last be as strong a feeling as anything

which could be experience; but, nevertheless, Gilbert possess

this power of be agreeable to she when he come, and the fact

puzzle and annoy she more than she would have care to own.



‘you be very kind to let I see you,’ he say at once, as he take

the chair she point to. ‘I have be want to speak to you for a

day or two—about Otho.’



‘ah, I know it be about Otho. say on, and let we have do with

it.’



‘perhaps that will not be so easy, either. however, I will say on,

as you suggest. before I could speak to you, I wish to accomplish

a certain piece of business. I have now do so, and be free to say

what I like. I suppose you have be notice how angry Otho look,

without be able in your own mind to assign a cause for it?’



‘unless the cause be that he be unhappy because he have be do

wrong.’



Gilbert repress a smile.



‘I be afraid I cannot comfort you by confirm that theory of

your. by “do wrong,” I suppose you mean his little escapade at

the concert the other night. yes, I see. well, I imagine he have

forget all about that by now. he be angry, or “unhappy,” if you

like, because he have be, and be be, put to great inconvenience,

and he don’t like it; it make he uncomfortable.’



then he tell she about the quarrel between Otho and Roger, with a

sort of amused carelessness, as if he have be divert by the

combat, and somewhat contemptuous of the combatant, which tone

puzzle and do not reassure his hearer.



‘Otho do not like office work,’ he go on, smile openly. ‘he

have not have much of it yet; but the factory reopen to-morrow,

after the holiday, and then he will have to try a little of it. I

have telegraph to a man whom I know to send down some one

suitable, and I have promise Otho to wait until the some one come,

and just to put he in the way of business; but it may be a week or

so before my friend can hit upon the right kind of man. that make

he very angry——’



‘you don’t seem to think anything of the way in which _he_ have

behave,’ burst forth Eleanor, indignantly, the colour high in her

cheek. ‘I think it be the most abominable thing I ever hear of—his

treat Mr. Camm in that way. it be—it be——’



word fail she. she feel as if she would choke with anger and

disgust. Gilbert’s eye be fix upon her face; the slight smile

be still hover about his lip.



‘you talk about what make _he_ angry, as if it matter. he

deserve to be put to inconvenience. he do not deserve to be

help out of it. what become of Mr. Camm?’



‘oh, I have see Roger. we understand each other. but don’t you want

to hear all that I have to tell you? I have another piece of news.’



‘what be it?’ she ask, feel from the way in which he speak that

it must be news of some importance, and stay her anger to hear

it.



‘something else have happen, which ought to have make he forget

his anger, one would think. I tell he he ought to tell you about

it, but he say he willn’t; it be all between he and she. he do not

feel inclined to talk about it, and, in short, I see you half guess

already. yes; it be quite true. he get engage to Miss Wynter the

other night.’



‘engage—to—Miss—Wynter!’ eleanor stare at he incredulously. ‘she

take he—after what he have do?’



Gilbert laugh aloud.



‘she take he, it would appear. I think you ought to be inform

of it. probably all the neighbourhood be gossip over it by now,

and you would have look ridiculous if you have hear people talk

about it, and have not understand.’



‘I—oh, to be ridiculous be nothing, it seem to I, if one be not

disgraceful,’ say Eleanor, and pause, because she could not help

wonder what Gilbert feel about it himself. if she be to judge

from his present manner, she would have say that he regard it all

from a superior standpoint, as a kind of joke amongst some

unsophisticate creature, whose habit it amuse he to study; but,

recollect the very different tone he have lately take, and his

present avowed conviction that he think it serious enough to come

and tell she about it, since Otho would not, she feel that his

motive be quite beyond her comprehension. so she cease to

speculate upon they, and turn her attention to another point.



‘it be all very extraordinary to I, and most disagreeable—the way

in which it have be do,’ she say, and again catch the curious

expression, half amusement, half—what? in Gilbert’s look. ‘you know

they both much well than I do. do you think it will be for his

good?’



‘in a way, I be sure it will. it be perfectly certain that

whatever kind of woman Miss Wynter may be, as a woman, she be the

only one who have, or ever have, any shadow of influence over he.

she know he thoroughly. she know the frightful risk she be

running,—perhaps she do not feel they frightful—and she know

the precarious state of his fortune at the present time. with her

eye open she have take he. if they would or could be marry at

once she might do a great deal to retrieve his affair.’



‘I do not mean that exactly,’ say Eleanor, go on with what she

do mean, despite what seem to her Gilbert’s look of mockery. ‘I

be think more of the moral influence. I should have think that

a woman of high mind—one who would have rouse he to well

thing——’



‘yes, that be a very fine idea,’ say Gilbert, with ready

benevolence—‘that theory of overcome evil with good. the thing be,

how far be it practicable? you speak as a woman, and a good woman. I

see as a man, and a man of the world. and speak from my knowledge

of man in general, and of your brother Otho in particular, I should

say Miss Wynter would make he a far more suitable wife than the

good of woman, fill with high aspiration and noble aim. Magdalen

Wynter understand he by reason of be compose of a similar

clay. understand he, she will lead he—at least, very often. a

saint would simply exasperate he into something ten time bad

than he be. you do not know the ease, the comfort, and the help it

be to be understand; how it can keep a waver man in the right,

and drag a sin man out of the wrong. good people don’t need half

as much understanding as bad one, and with due respect to you and

to current notion on the subject, saint and people who never do

wrong be not those who be the most sympathetic and comprehending.

it sound very degrading, I daresay, but it be true—true as anything

can be.’



Gilbert speak with much more emphasis than usual, and with a shade

of bitterness in his tone. have Roger Camm be there, he would have

understand it in a moment; it would have confirm some vague

suspicion long entertain by he. but to Eleanor, it seem as if

Gilbert be compose an apology for wrong-doing; make it out as

be rather meritorious than otherwise. with emphasis equal to his

own, and with some bitterness in her tone also, she reply—



‘I daresay you may be right. man of the world usually be right, on

the outside, at any rate; but I look inside, and it seem to I that

all this be very sad and dreadful, too. life be full of these

horrible contradiction, and it appear as if you can never have any

good or beautiful thing without, as it be, a heap of dust and

ashe beside it, spoil it all.’



Gilbert laugh a little, and she feel chill—not vex with he—as

she be conscious she ought to have be, but discourage by the

fact that he be about to differ from she.



‘why, of course,’ he admit. ‘be it not in the very nature of

life, as we know life, that it should be so? what be the good and

beautiful thing, as you call they, except sacrifice and

aspiration or struggle after something high and well than our

everyday fight and grind? and how can you have beautiful sacrifice

without something bad and mean to call they out? and how can you

aspire after the well, without a bad which make the well

desirable to you? but for the dustheap, I do not really see how the

shrine and temple would ever get their due share of admiration.’



‘admiration!’ repeat Eleanor, indignantly; ‘as if one _admire_ a

holy place! I daresay you have rise superior to all such

superstitious consideration, but I say again, I think it be

horrible; and I maintain that I do not think Miss Wynter be a good

or a high-principle woman, and I be very sorry Otho be go to

marry she.’



‘which of they do you look upon as the temple, and which as the

cinder-heap?’ ask Gilbert politely, but with a queer look. eleanor

be furious with herself for laugh out, quickly and readily; but

she have to admit that Gilbert have the good of it. then a sudden

gravity come over she; she catch her breath, and look at he in

renew bewilderment. in what light do he wish she to see he; how

do he desire she to view he, that he, who have cheat his brother,

and undermine his father’s integrity, should have the effrontery to

sit there and talk lightly about wrong be necessary to call forth

the high life, and to say that temple could not be properly

‘admire,’ unless there be sordid detail close to they, to

emphasise their beauty? see from her point of view, his

conversation be sicken in its hypocrisy and unreality; and

yet—again the feeling of surprise come over she—she be interested

in it; she could not feel revolted. be the man’s personal influence

really so potent as to nullify all the effect of what she know to

his disadvantage?



Gilbert have listen to her last word with an amused smile,

betray by nothing whether she hurt he or not; his gaze meet her

steadily, and he continue to watch she while she silently

reflect. at last he say, lightly still, and coldly—



‘I see you be wonder what to make of I. it be very natural—in

you; and if you can trust I far enough to believe that anything

disintereste can proceed out of my mouth, I would suggest to you

not to go on wonder any more, but to listen to I, and

attentively consider what I have to say to you.’



Eleanor start, redden with confusion, and feeling, with a

sudden revulsion, as some child might, which, instead of attend

to its professor’s discourse, have be speculate about the

wrinkle on the brow of the learn man, and be suddenly call to

order. an immense distance seem to open up at once between she and

Gilbert. she remember the sentiment she have attribute to he of

admiration for herself, and feel that egregious vanity must have lead

she very far astray.



‘indeed, I will listen to whatever you have to say. I think you be

very kind to take so much trouble about—poor Otho.’



‘“Poor Otho,” as you call he, be my old friend; I know he

well than any one else do, except perhaps the lady we have be

speak of, whose acquaintance with he date from the very same

time. you laugh just now—you could not help it. do not your

common sense now explain to you that it be much well to take man

as they be, and provide they with the good that circumstance will

allow, instead of want to insist on their having for mate an

ideal which do not suit, and which they would hate if they have to

live with it? that be my view of the case.’



‘very well,’ say she, resignedly. ‘go on.’



‘I be about to observe that though Otho certainly appear dispose

just now to kick over the trace altogether, and not listen to

anything that any one have to say to he, yet I think I may still

say, I have more influence over he than any one else have. but upon

my soul, I do not know how long it may last. he have get some notion

into his head which, for a wonder, he have not confide to I, and I

cannot answer for the freak which it may inspire he to play. I

wonder if you will think I impertinent for ask, do you know

much about Otho and his character before you come to live here?’



‘no—at least, my uncle, Mr. Stanley, use to say he be afraid Otho

be rather fast, and tell I not to let he bet. I think,’ add

Eleanor, with rather a sad smile, ‘that if we have know he well,

we should not have waste our word in that way.’



‘I think something still more probable be, that you would not have

waste your time in come here.’



‘I do not choose to come here. it so fall out that this be the

right place for I to come to.’



‘you have nowhere else to go?’



‘practically nowhere. my aunt die, and my uncle’s health have so

give way that he and Paul—my cousin, and their only child—have go

to travel together for an indefinite time. where should I have

think of come to but to my _home_?’



she raise her head, and look at he both proudly and sadly.

Gilbert’s eye fall—not in confusion, but reflectively.



‘true,’ he admit, after a moment. ‘and you intend to remain

here?’



‘certainly I do. why should I go?’



‘oh, there be many reason. it be not a pleasant house for you to

be in.’



Eleanor feel as if Otho’s conduct be be comment upon, and she

herself tutor by some one who be much more master of the

situation than she be. she do not exactly like it, but she be

powerless to resent it; she do not quite know whether she wish

even to resent it.



‘it be a dreary house,’ say she at length. ‘it be depress to I,

too. but I don’t know that one may always leave a place just because

it happen not to be pleasant.’



‘ah! you know Otho be go away when I do?’



‘yes.’



‘I will answer for it that you will not see much more of he till

after the Derby Day, and perhaps not then. don’t you think it would

be advisable for you to have a change, too?’



‘a change—in the depth of winter—after be here just six week?

no, I do not.’



‘you be very decide, I see. pardon I for press the question

again. be you quite decide to stay here?’



‘yes. why not? why should I go away? it be my home, as I say

before,’ she say, look at he rather impatiently.



‘you will be very dull. Otho, you see, have no scruple about leave

you, and will not return an hour the soon from the knowledge that

you be here alone.’



‘and if I like Bradstane, and wish to remain at Thorsgarth, in spite

of this dulness, and in spite of what Otho do?’



he shrug his shoulder.



‘of course, in that case. there be compensation sometimes, which

go a long way towards repay a little dulness and solitude. every

one to his taste. if that be your, I may as well proceed to tell

you that my advice to you would be to prepare for reverse.’



‘reverse?’



‘yes. racing, and the sort of horse-dealing in which Otho

indulge—never to mention a dozen other expensive little trifle

that he like, be not profitable occupation, and he have not find

they so. I speak plainly. you may live to see very evil day at

Thorsgarth, if you choose to remain here. you may live to see Otho

reduce to poverty, and, if your feeling be easily work upon,

your own fortune in danger—that be, if you should let yourself be

delude into the idea that you can help he out of his difficulty,

and set he on his leg again.’



‘I think I could meet reverse, if they come, without too much

lament.’



‘in addition to which he may at any time get married to your

favourite, Magdalen Wynter, and request you to find another home.’



‘I have a house of my own, and I should not wait to be ask to go.’



‘oh, you mean the Dower House—a nice old house, that. it stand

quite near to my own old home, the Red Gables.’



‘yes. I have think sometimes it would be a pleasant house to live

in, as——’



‘as you be so much alone,’ interpose Gilbert, almost eagerly.

‘don’t you really think that it would be much well than for you to

be here, alone, without chaperon or companion——’



‘Nay,’ interpose Eleanor, half-smile; ‘don’t twit I with that. I

don’t want a chaperon; but if I do, how could I have one, when you

know very well that Otho say——’



she stop. Otho have say that one petticoat in the house be more

than enough for he, and he would put up with no more. Gilbert

smile.



‘yes, I know what Otho say. I be not twit you. I only wish you

would see that reason tell you to leave he, and not mix yourself

in his affair.’



‘your reason may. mine do not. mine tell I that Otho be my

brother; and I’m sure he be wretched with his own wrong-doing,

though you scoff at the idea. do you mean to tell I that Otho be

happy?—you cannot. and my reason tell I that, sometime, I might

find a way of help he. he might want to come home and have some

one to be kind to he, sometime. and I might be away, and never hear

of it till a long time afterwards. I don’t mean to say that nothing

would induce I ever to go to the Dower House; that be a different

thing. but I will not think of leave Bradstane. man’s reason be

proverbially superior to woman’s reason, you know. perhaps that be

why we don’t agree.’



‘perhaps it be,’ say he, tranquilly. ‘after what you have say it

would be impertinence in I to urge anything far. perhaps I have

go too far already. I be under the impression that you be very

unhappy in Bradstane, but I be pleased to find that my fear be

exaggerated. I be very glad you have find mitigate circumstance,

and I hope the good may continue to outweigh the evil in your

estimation.’



he speak politely and coldly. Eleanor sit silent and almost

breathless. Gilbert have never speak to she thus before. she be

alarmed at his tone, and it bring back to her recollection all the

dissertation she have hear from Dr. Rowntree on the subject of his

infernal cleverness, as the worthy Friend call it. at the same

moment she recall a descriptive sentence which she have hear Otho

utter not long ago. ‘Finding’—he have say, speak of some

acquaintance who have long unsuccessfully woo a lady—‘finding the

sentimental dodge no go, he take to intimidation, and fairly bully

she into it.’



a convulsive smile twitch her lip. she do not believe now that

Gilbert’s altered tone arise from disappointed sentiment. a much

more prosaic reason suggest itself to she, namely, that the

sentiment have be assume in order to amuse himself, and see what

the effect would be upon she. he must stand sorely in need of some

kind of amusement at Thorsgarth, she reflect, and that be the one

near to his hand. his present demeanour and sentiment be

probably those of the natural man. what he have just say convince

she that he do not more than half believe in her desire to remain

in order to be of some possible service to Otho. she be more than

ever sure of this when he rise and say—



‘I will not detain you any long, I know you be go out this

evening, and I know that child’s party begin early, as a rule.’



‘yes, that be——’



‘oh, I know what a benevolent old gentleman Dr. Rowntree be,

especially to those who be his favourite. he would like to give

they all Christmas present and kiss, young and old, big and

little. I wish you a very pleasant evening.’



she be silent still. Gilbert wish her good afternoon, and

depart.



from various allusion which he let fall before he go away, he

give she to understand that he know Michael have be at the doctor’s

party. Eleanor try to ignore these hint, and to look openly at

Gilbert when he speak of his brother; but her heart be hot within

she, with mingled fear and indignation; fear lest he should even yet

harbour some scheme of harm against Michael; indignation at what she

consider his audacity in name he, and a miserable sense that

she have well not provoke he, or the result might be bad for

Otho. Gilbert seek her society no more; he have no more of those

pleasant, gentle thing to say to she, such as he have utter on the

night of the concert. she become convinced that he regard she with

dislike, if not with enmity, and she withdraw herself as much as

possible from his and Otho’s society. Gilbert have yet another twist

to give to the tangle coil into which her thought have get,

concern he, and he do it ingeniously. he be alone with she in

the drawing-room, after dinner, on the evening before the day on

which he and Otho be to depart.



he take a card case from his pocket, extract a card from it, and

give it to she.



‘that be my London address,’ say he, with the blandest of smile.

‘if you should ever—since you will remain at Thorsgarth—find

yourself involve in difficulty with Otho, or in any other

circumstance in which the advice of a—business man would be of any

use to you, telegraph there to I, and I will be with you within

four-and-twenty hour.’



‘oh, Mr. Langstroth——’



‘don’t, pray, trouble yourself to express any gratitude. how do you

know what dark motive may lurk beneath my seem kindness? we

leave by the seven-thirty train in the morning, so I shall not be

likely to see you again. I will therefore wish you good-bye now.’



‘good-bye,’ say she, hesitatingly, feel as if she ought to add

something to the baldness of the word, but utterly at a loss to know

what that something should be.



‘I shall, I hope, be here again for the shooting, if not before,’

say Gilbert. ‘I shall hope to find you well, and as pleased with

Thorsgarth—and Bradstane, too—as you be now.’



with which he leave she, with his word, and the tone of they,

echo in her ear, and with the shadow of his shadowy smile

float still before her eye. she be as far as ever from be

able to decide whether he be a gross hypocrite, or only a man who

have once do very wrong, and be now try to do very right. that

he might be something between the two do not occur to she.









                              CHAPTER XXXI



                   BRASS POTS and EARTHENWARE pipkin





the bad of winter have storm itself away, and it be March—the

latter end of March. the leonine portion of his reign have endure a

long time this year, and though it be now over, the warm gale

have yet some north-east to blow back, and the dominion of the lamb

have not fairly set in. and yet, there be the caress of spring in

the air—that caress which be unmistakable, and which may be feel, if

it be there, through the bleakest wind and the cold rain. this

caress be in the air, and the hue of spring be in the sky. here

and there her finger have sweep aside the wither leave, and

allow a violet to push its way up; and in some very sheltered

southern corner appear a tuft or two of primrose. in the garden

border at Thorsgarth, the crocus be begin to make a gallant

show. the blue behind the roll white cloud be deep and

profound,—steady and to be rely upon. in the shady corner of the

garden, under the bud tree, the clump of daffodil be

put forth their tender first shoot, ready to nod their head

and laugh through the April shower. and the grass, too, be

recover its colour,—its green, which week under the snow have

fade and brown. everything be full of promise. nature step

forward, erect and laugh, jocund, cast the burden of her

sadness behind she; not as in autumn, advance droopingly towards

it.



so much for the garden, the cultivate. outside, the road be

heavy and soft with mud; but it be a mud to make glad the heart of

man, especially farming man. the plough field, stretch their

great shoulder towards the upland, look rich in their

purple-brown hue. the hedgerow here and there seem to wear a

filmy, downy veil, the first output of yellow-green bud. in the

great pasture near Rookswood, on the Durham side of tee, the giant

ash-tree stand yet in their winter bareness, give no sign, save

by the hard, burnish black bud, which for month to come be

mean to hold fast their secret wealth of bud and leaf, their

treasure of summer glory. there be every promise that this year the

oak would be out before the ash, with, it be to be hope, the

proverbial result.



it be on such an afternoon as this, when the breeze blow from the

south-west, that Eleanor walk along one of the muddy lane lead

from Thorsgarth to Bradstane. beside her trot Mrs. Johnson’s

little girl, Effie, whom Eleanor have borrow a week or two ago from

her mother, to keep her company in the solitude of Thorsgarth. for

Gilbert’s prophecy have be fulfil. she find it very lonely

there, so lonely that she be now on her way, half-willingly,

half-reluctantly, to the Dower House, in order to inspect it from

garret to cellar, and think whether it would not well suit she as

a residence than the great dreary house which have grow so

oppressive to she.



as they come in their walk to a bend in the river, Effie suddenly

say—



‘how full the river be just now; and so brown and strong! Dr.

Langstroth say he remember the river long than anything else;

and he say that tee be as broad as Bradstane be long. ben’t that

queer?’



Eleanor laugh. it be an indubitable fact, and one which she have

herself note with amusement during the first part of her stay in

Bradstane, that in a town like this, or, indeed, in any small town

or village situate upon a stream as big as the Tees, ‘the river’

become the important feature of the neighbourhood. what it look

like, whether it be high or low; in winter, whether the river be

frozen or flow; and in fishing-time, what sort of a water the

river show to-day; whether there have be rain to the north-west,

which flood it, or whether drought, which make it dry. whenever

the conversation turn upon out-of-door subject, the river be sure

to assert itself somewhere or other, and that before very long. it

be the same as a living thing, and that a powerful one; its mood

be watch and record as if they be the mood of a person in

whom one take a deep interest. it be for ever the river, the river;

and this watery friend, and enemy—for it be both—give a colour, and

have an influence over the life that be live near it, which be

very remarkable, especially to those who know nothing of such

surrounding. and tee, be it remark, be a river with a powerful

individuality, which none in his vicinity can afford to despise.



‘he say that because people think so much about the river here,’

say Eleanor. ‘you must know how they talk about it. you never go

anywhere without find the Tees,—in people’s house as well as

here flow through the meadow. that be what he mean.’



‘I suppose it must be,’ say Effie, who be a philosophical child.

and they go on in silence. Eleanor resume the mental debate which

have be occupy she before—as to the wisdom of the step she

contemplate taking. it would be separate herself from Otho, at

one moment, she think; and then she remember Gilbert’s dry

word—that Otho leave she without scruple, and that no thought of her

loneliness would bring he back a moment before it be convenient or

pleasant to he to come. that be true; she would most likely see

quite as much of he at the Dower House as at Thorsgarth. she have

not have a line from he since he have go away with Gilbert to

London. once or twice she have see Magdalen, who have mention

having hear from he; but Eleanor suspect that his letter to

Magdalen even, be very brief. Miss Wynter volunteer no detail

or news, and Eleanor feel no more drawn to she than before, and

disdain to ask for information which be not proffer.



once or twice she have venture on make a tour of inspection all

round the Thorsgarth park and ground, penetrate even to the

courtyard, the kennel, and stable which lie behind the house.

what she see there do not tend to encourage she. she find that

everything be conduct with a lavish profusion, a reckless

extravagance, which would have be foolish in any case; and it be

a lavishness which have also its stingy side, as such lavishness

usually have. while necessary repair be leave neglect for month,

or undo altogether, many pound would be spend on some new

contrivance for warm or ventilate a stable, already luxuriously

fit up. while some of the man on the farm complain that their

cart be fall to piece, silver-mount harness be

accumulate in the harness-room, for no earthly purpose except to

make a show behind the glass door. many another extravagant and

senseless fancy or whim be indulge to the full, while ordinary

necessary be stint. it seem to Eleanor that the

establishment swarm with servant, both man and maid. their

function and office be a mystery to she. they always seem

exceedingly busy when she appear upon the scene, but she have an

uneasy consciousness that it be only in seem, and that as soon

as her back be turn, a very different state of thing again

prevail. she have be accustom to a liberal, and even splendid

establishment, but one conduct on principle of enlighten

economy—without a superfluous retainer, but at the same time without

a fault or a failure, from one year’s end to the other. the contrast

which she see here offend her sense of decency and order. she know

that Otho ought to retrench, and she would gladly have help he to

do so, with the joy usually bring to bear by woman, unskille in

active financial matter, upon this negative process of save by

mean of renounce thing.



think over these thing, she now walk with Effie towards the

Dower House. the old square, when they reach it, look very

pleasant that sunny afternoon; bright sunshine light up all the

sober, solid old house, which stand reposefully, as if secure for

ever of peace and plenty; their quiet closed door and shine

window pane reveal nothing of the emotion which might be

stir those who inhabit they. the tree on either side the

square have begin to show a first tinge of green, like the rest of

nature. not a soul stir in the afternoon quietness; only

Michael’s great dog, Pluto, who lie bask on the flag outside the

Red Gables, look and blink at they lazily as they pass, and

slightly move the tip of his tail in reply to their greeting. next

door but one be the Dower House—a pleasant old stone building,

gray, with a door in the middle, and two window on either side;

upstairs five window, and a third story with five window more. it

be, in fact, a large, substantial stone house, very suitable as the

country residence of a single woman of some mean and position. it

stand on the sunny side of the square, and like nearly all the

house in it, its garden and its pleasantest room lie to the back.

it be furnish with old-fashioned furniture, and keep in order by

an old gardener and his wife, who live there. Eleanor like it. she

like the window look into the broad open street. such a

prospect seem to bring she near to humanity, and to the

wholesome everyday life of her fellow-creature. the recollection of

Thorsgarth, rise stately from its basement of velvet sward,

render dark by the tower tree which surround it,—of the

terrace slope to the river; the flight of step, the discolour

marble faun and nymph—this recollection come over she, and make

she feel dreary. she feel as if she have live in it all for year,

and have no joy in any one of they.



in her own mind she almost resolve to go to this other house, but

she wish to wait for Otho’s return, and explain it all to he—if

ever he should return; if only he would return!



three day later, without letter and without warn, he come home,

late in the evening, have no apology to make, and very few

remark concern his long absence and silence. he sit for an hour

or two with his sister, and she find something in his look and

aspect which do not tend to allay whatever anxiety she might have

feel about he. the ruddy brown of his skin have grow sallow and

dark, and his cheek be hollow. there be a haggard look about

he, and the trace, unmistakably to be read, that he have be

live hard and fast. his eye have sink; he be not an encouraging

spectacle, and there be an uneasy restlessness about he which

fret she. she try to talk about commonplace thing.



‘do you see much of the Websters?’ she ask, allude to some

distant cousin with whom she have be on term of intimacy in

former day—day which now seem very far back.



‘webster—no! when I go to town, I don’t go to do the proper with

they. I have other friend and other place to go to.’



‘Lucy tell I in a letter that Dick have meet you somewhere.’



‘and I’ve meet Dick,’ retort Otho, with an uncomplimentary sneer;

‘and a precious prig he be.’



‘indeed, Otho, he be not. he be a very nice lad, and very free from

priggishness. that’s his great charm.’



‘he’s a young milksop.’



‘he be neither vulgar nor dissipate, if that be what you mean.’



‘I haven’t waste my time in think about he.’



‘and Mr. Langstroth—how do you leave he?’



‘Gilbert—oh, he’s flourish. by the way, he send a message to

you,—rather a complimentary message—and he tell I to be sure and

not change it into the very reverse of what he wish it to be.’

Otho chuckle a little. ‘let I see. he wish to be remember to

you, send his good compliment, and hope to see you again during

the year—perhaps when he come for the shooting. I fancy Gilbert be

a bit take with you, Eleanor. he be mighty particular about his

message.’



‘you fancy very uncalled-for thing.’



‘hey, but I wouldn’t mind have he for a brother-in-law,’

persist Otho; but he be too careless even to look at she as he

air his view. ‘a first-rate fellow be Gilbert, and he have rid I

of those bless factory, and stump up like a man. I’ve never

repent stand his friend when I do.’



she make no answer, and as they be alone (for Eleanor have judge

it well to send Effie into the background) there be a

silence—that profound silence only to be hear in the country.

suddenly Otho start, pass his hand over his eye, and exclaim

impatiently—



‘what a hole of a place this be! what a deadly stillness; it’s

enough to give one the blue. I’d open the window, only that would

make it bad, let in the “swish” of that beastly river, which

be a sound I hate. I do det the country,’ he continue, poke

the fire with vigour. ‘give I the pavement, and chamber, where you

hear the rattle go on all night. this confound place would

depress the spirit of a dog, I do believe.’



‘do Magdalen know you be here? why don’t you go up and see she?’



‘Magdalen?’ he give a little start. ‘oh, never mind Magdalen! she

understand I. she be not a child, nor a love-sick girl, to expect

I to be always at her apron-string. I shall see Magdalen, trust

I. but I’m off into Friarsdale the day after to-morrow.’



‘friarsdale again!’



‘ay! there’s a heap of thing to see after. I shall have to be back

and forward from there till it’s time to take crackpot down to

Epsom.... do you ever see a Derby, Eleanor?’



‘no.’



‘would you like to?’



‘not when a horse of yours be run.’



‘little starch out puritan! you might write a tract, or get

Michael Langstroth to do it, and have it print, and salve your

conscience over, by distribute it over the grand stand.’



‘I have something to say to you, Otho. I do not like live alone in

this great house when you be so much away; and I have be think

whether to go to the Dower House, and take up my abode there.’



‘Hoh!’ Otho pause. ‘while you be about it, why not cut the whole

concern, and go to the Websters?’ he say. ‘they would be overjoy

to have you. it don’t suit you? I know it wouldn’t; but you would

come. you see, my dear, when a little earthenware pipkin of a woman

jump into the water, and be for sail along with the brass pot,

she generally come to grief. my life suit I; but it be so unlike

all you have be accustom to, that you cann’t fit into it—can’t

even settle down to look on at it. you look downright ill now,

and——’



‘Otho! that show how little you understand,’ say she, a convulsive

laugh struggle with her inner bitterness of heart. the whole thing

come before she as so tragi-comic; so horrible, yet so laughable. so

Otho think that play fast and loose with his life, drinking and

dicing, brawl and betting, and generally conduct himself like

a blackguard, be a fine, heroic thing—a proof that he be a brass

pot amongst man, and able to sail unharmed down _that_ stream.

ludicrous, pitiable, agonisingly laughable theory!



‘it remain to be prove which of we two be the brass pot, and which

the pipkin,’ she go on, unable to help smile. ‘for my part, I

fancy we be both make of very common clay. but, to leave parable,

I would rather not go to the Websters. my idea about life and other

thing have change very much lately. I would rather not return to

my old one at present. I should prefer to go to the Dower House, if

it will be all the same to you.’



‘oh, quite. since you prefer to stay here. it be an odd taste, I

think, for a girl bring up as you have be. but you be well

away from here. there’s no doubt of that.’



Eleanor be look at he as he speak, and see, more plainly than

before, the haggardness, and the line upon his face; it seem to

she that they have be plant there since she have last see he,

but this might be imagination. she be startle by a resemblance

which she fancy she discover in this altered face of his, to a

miniature of their father which be in her possession—that father

who have be in taste, character, and disposition, so utterly

unlike the son who follow he. since come to Thorsgarth she have

often study this miniature, wonder how such a father come to

have such a son. at this moment Otho be lean his head back, as

if weary. his wild eye be closed, so that their strange, savage

look do not distort the likeness. Compunction, longing, yea, love

rush into her heart.



‘Otho!’ she say, in a voice which tremble; and he look up.



‘what’s up?’ he demand, see with surprise that she have rise

and be come towards he.



‘Dear Otho!’ she repeat, as she kneel before he, and clasp his

hand in her own; ‘_why_ be I well away from you? why well away

from my own brother, and my father’s house, where he intend I to

find my home? it be not right, Otho; it be not right that it should

be so. ah, if you would only be different, how happy we might be—you

and Magdalen and I; and where in all your world outside will you

find anything that will endure as our love to you will?—for I know

that Magdalen do love you, though you treat she cruelly, as you

treat I.’



Otho stare down into her face with a strange, alien glance; a

shock, wonder look. he be not rough; he do not repulse she,

but he look as if she have be apostrophise he in some strange

tongue, which he could not understand. presently he say—



‘little girl, you don’t know what you be talk about. _I_ settle

down with you and Magdalen! Heaven help you! I should be mad, or

dead of it in a very short time. it be a thousand pity you should

think you have get anything to do with my concern. leave I alone,

that’s a good child. I’m past any mending of your.’



she still kneel by his chair, gaze, as if she would have force

the secret of his wild, unhappy nature to show itself. perhaps she

think of the happy dark day she have read of, when holy woman, by

dint of fasting and prayer and faith, could master even such savage

soul as Otho’s—could cast forth devil, and so relieve the soul of

wretched man. those day must be past, for she could gather nothing

from her search gaze. perhaps she be not holy enough. she have

pray, but she have not fast; and to judge from Effie’s chatter,

she have renounce none of the pomp and vanity of her station.



‘you will be all right at the Dower House,’ Otho resume presently.

‘then you can have people to stay with you, and make yourself a

little less dull. there! get up, don’t look so desperately

sentimental. I be as I be; and I shall get along, if you’ll leave I

alone.’



with that, he rise and put she aside, but gently and quietly; and

she be almost sure that the hand which rest for a moment on her

shoulder, quiver a little.



Otho go into the smoking-room, shut the door, and turn up the

light. he take a brandy decanter from a case of spirit which stand

on the sideboard, and pour some into a glass; and this time there

be no question as to his hand trembling. his lip, too, be

unsteady. he drink the brandy, and mutter to himself—



‘I must go and see Magdalen, or she will be suspicious. but not

to-night—not to-night. surely to-morrow will do. what be it she

say to I that night about wrong she?’



he throw himself into a chair, and try to collect his thought,

and shape a coherent recollection of Magdalen’s word. at last he

have gradually piece they together, and with they the scene in which

they have be utter—the great square, draughty vestibule before

the Balder Hall door; the north-west storm wind scream past it;

his own figure, and that of Magdalen; the way in which they have

stand close together, and the vow he have force from she; and how

at last she have put her hand upon his shoulder, and look he

straight in the eye, and say that she do not claim any vow from

he, but only bid he remember that whatever wrong he do she,

directly or indirectly, from that day forth, he do to his wife, for

that he be her, as much as she be his.



‘well,’ he think, as he laugh a feeble echo of his old

blustering laugh, ‘it would not be the first time a man have wrong

his wife either; but I shan’t. I shall tell the little baggage not

to make a fool of herself, but to keep she languish eye for her

bear of a lover.’



Otho, as he make these reflection, be think of no one in

London. his sister have take it for grant that he come straight

from his sojourn with Gilbert Langstroth,—a very great mistake, as

he have drive that very morning from Friarsdale to Darlington, and

take the train thence to Bradstane.



on the following day some kind of an interview take place between

Otho and Magdalen. Eleanor see very little of the other. they be

amicable when they meet, but nothing more. the day after that Otho

go into Friarsdale, not say that he be return there, but

simply that he be go. Eleanor be thus again leave alone, and as

soon as her young visitor have return to the vicarage, she begin

her preparation for remove to the Dower House.



one day, in the course of these preparation, she have cause to go

into the shop of Ada Dixon’s father. Mrs. Dixon herself come

forward to serve she. she be, as usual, stout, pompous, and

important-look, have on a superfine gown, and a cap which strike

Miss Askam as be ridiculously young and small for she. Mrs.

Dixon wear it with an air, as if it have be a coronet, which

add to the absurdity of the spectacle. Eleanor have never like

this woman, whose hard eye and want of simplicity and directness

have always offend she; and she like not the air with which she

now come forward. but that it be (think eleanor) absurd on the

face of the thing, she would have consider the glance bestow

upon she by Mrs. Dixon as an insolent one. it be at least hard,

bold, and supercilious. not think it worth while to betray that

she have even notice this manner, Eleanor make her purchase,

which be set aside for she by Mrs. Dixon in lofty silence. while

she seek in her purse for the sum with which to pay for the

thing, she inquire—



‘how be your daughter, Mrs. Dixon? I have not see she lately.’



‘thank you, Miss Dixon be very well.’ (Eleanor repress a smile on

hear Ada’s mother speak of she thus.) ‘she be not at home just at

present. she’s stay with some friend in Yorkshire—in the

Dales—some relation of Mr. Dixon’s.’



‘oh yes. in which of the Dales?’



‘Wensleydale. my husband’s cousin have a place there’ (a large farm

would have be the correct description), ‘near Bedale, it be.’



‘oh, I hope she be enjoy herself.’



‘oh, very much, thank you. she’s very much seek after—sixpence you

will want, I think—and they visit a good deal amongst the

neighbour.’



‘yes? and Mr. Camm? I hope you have good account of he?’



‘I really haven’t hear anything about he lately,’ say Mrs. Dixon,

in an indescribable tone, as she poise the finger of both hand on

the counter and look out of the window, as if she think the

interview have well come to an end.



‘ah, I suppose Ada will be the person to get news of he. I be so

glad to hear he have do so well, and get such an excellent

situation at Leeds. Ada will like to live near a large town like

that, I should think.’



‘well, yes—perhaps. perhaps not,’ say Mrs. Dixon, with a glacial

reserve, and then with crush mysteriousness—‘There’s no saying

where Ada may end, or what she’s bear to. she be not a common girl,

by any mean.’



‘I hope she will end in marry Mr. Camm, and make he a very

good wife. he be a first-rate young man, and deserve to be make

happy,’ say Eleanor, nettle by the supercilious tone in which

Roger’s future mother-in-law speak of he.



‘oh, he’s a very worthy young man, I don’t doubt,’ come the

rejoinder; ‘a little rough, and want in polish—hardly the genteel

manner one could desire.’



‘no, not very genteel, certainly,’ say Eleanor, hurry a little

in her desire to be able to laugh at leisure over the complaint that

Roger Camm’s manner be not ‘genteel.’ indeed, they be not. if

gentility be the desideratum, they be deplorably want, and

likely to remain so.



go up the street she suddenly meet Michael Langstroth, and could

not help tell he the joke, her eye dance as she speak.



‘Mr. Langstroth, do you know that for year you have cherish as

your brother a person—I can call he nothing else—whose manner be

not genteel. at least, Mrs. Dixon say they be not,—not as genteel

as she could wish in her son-in-law—and she ought to know.’



Michael look at her searchingly for a perceptible time, before he

reply—



‘at last you have hear something that have make you laugh,’ say he.

‘I be delighted, and Roger may congratulate himself on his want of

gentility, if it lead even indirectly to that good result.’



‘why—how—what do you know about my laughing?’ she ask, crimson.



‘nothing, except that you don’t do it often enough. I wish I could

give you a prescription, but there be none for the ailment that be

want of mirth; none in all the pharmacopeia.’



she take her leave of he, and walk away. no, she think; the

herb that bring laughter be call heartsease, and for she just now

it grow not in Bradstane.









                             CHAPTER XXXII



                              FIRST ALARM





one day, very early in May, Michael Langstroth write from Bradstane

to Roger Camm in Leeds:—



‘a strong sense of duty alone induce I to trouble you with a

letter, for there be literally no news to tell you. when be there

ever any in Bradstane? and just now we be dull than usual, for

nearly every one be away. People (the few who be leave here) talk

now off and on about the Derby, and speculate whether Crackpot

will win. he be not the favourite, as of course you know, but

take a good place. I daresay I hear more of that kind of thing

than you do. the British Medical people meet in Leeds this year.

of course it willn’t be till August, but I have every intention of

go; and put up with you; and I look forward to it as if it

be some wild dissipation. it be, at any rate, too good a chance

to be miss of hear and see something, and get one’s

blood stir up generally. I often wonder I do not turn into a

mummy or a block of wood. on read this you will probably leap

to the rash conclusion that your account of two political

meeting, and their consequent excitement, have rouse my envy and

upset my tranquillity, and that in future, you have perhaps well

not supply I with such stimulating food! I beg you will not

cherish any such delusion. your account of the meeting be most

interesting and amusing; but as you know, I have a great contempt

for all political party in the abstract, and to see a vast body

of man, sway like reed by the passion of the moment—groan

like demon when they hear one set of name, cheer like maniacs

at another, fall like live storm wave upon any unfortunate

wight who dare to express dissent from their view, and hustle

he out—be to I a melancholy spectacle. you would doubtless say,

that without such passion and prejudice to be work upon,

thing might be at a standstill. I suppose they might: all I know

be, I be very thankful that there be so many man in the world

that my indifference make no difference. you will wonder whence

this sermon arise. I have be meditate a good deal lately o’

night; having feel tired when I come in, and not having have your

music to govern my meditation, as in day of old. and I be

think, only last night, of a dispute we use to have in our

young day, about life and event. I always maintain (quite

wrongly, I confess now) that you get no real _life_, no movement,

stimulus, animation, outside of a big city: you vow that, on the

contrary, it be the nature of the man that determine his life,

and that drama and tragedy as full of terror and pathos as

Shakespeare’s own might be play out within even as narrow a

compass as the township of Bradstane-on-tee, provide the actor

be there, and that they live, not play their part. you be

right, and I suppose you hold the opinion still; but this be what

I want to know—how often be it that one get the chance to live?

Most people would answer, once at least, in a lifetime; and there

it be that I totally disagree with they. mine be a small stage

from which to preach, but I have see as many people as some who

live on a large one, and I have observe they and their

condition carefully. and, because of my profession, the people I

have see have be of all sort and condition, and the

conclusion I have come to be, that most life be fill with

emptiness—with a dead, dull uneventfulness. action be for the

favour few; culture for a great many more, if they choose to

avail themselves of it, which usually they don’t; monotony for

most.



‘that bring I back to my own life, and its monotony. let I try to

collect a little gossip for you, and free myself from the reproach

of having send an essay, unredeeme by a single touch of narrative.



‘Otho Askam be away. he have scarcely be at Thorsgarth since the

new year. just now he be busy, they say, about this precious horse

which be to run this precious race. his sister’s house, too, be

empty just now. she be persuade, Mrs. Johnson tell I, to go and

see her friend in London for a time; but be come back before

Whitsuntide, as, in the kindness of her heart she be go to feast

some little ragged wretch out of Bridge Street, whom she have take

under her wing. but it be not whitsuntide yet. it fall near the end

of May this year. I feel in a communicative humour to-night, so I

will tell you a secret. my life be monotonous to I, as I believe I

have set forth already at some length; and I wish with all my heart

that Eleanor Askam have not a fortune of twelve hundred a year; for

if she have nothing at all, I would humbly ask she if she would

condescend to relieve that monotony of my life. I should also have

the feeling that I could in a measure pay she back in kind, by

alleviate, as I would, some of the sorrow that darken her.



‘I believe I have something else to say to you. I be almost certain

that I sit down with a distinct impression that I be go to write

to you about something. oh yes, here it be. I suppose you hear

regularly from Miss Dixon, and so, of course, you will know that a

little while ago, she return from her long sojourn in Wensleydale.

I hear she have go there for the pure air and all that, and

because her father’s relation want to have she, and because she

do not feel very strong at the end of the winter. you know, I have

always think she a very delicate girl, but now—I do not think it

right to conceal it from you—she look very ill indeed. her cheek

have fall in; her face be pale; she be the shadow of what she be.

I hate to write this; in fact, I be so unwilling to write it, that

I scribble all the rubbish which premise it, in the hope that,

somehow, I might get out of this; but I cannot. it would be no

friend’s part; and what blame would you not have the right to put

upon I, if I let it pass by without tell you. she be very ill, I

be certain. if I be on different term with they, I should go to

Mrs. Dixon, and tell she she ought to have advice for she. I keep

wish they would summon I, or Rowntree; for they surely must see

themselves the change in she. I fancy she ought to go to a warmer

climate, or rather, she ought never to have go to Yorkshire. that

part of Wensleydale where she be, be piercingly cold—bad than

this. it be in a valley, but the valley itself be very much

elevated. I do not want to make you more uneasy than be necessary.

we must recollect that this be the “merry month” of east wind,

bronchitis, and pleurisy, and many a delicate girl wither up during

May and come out bloom again in June. let we hope this be such a

case. sleep take possession of I; therefore, good night!’



this letter have veritably be write in the way describe in it.

Michael have beheld Ada, and the change in she; and as Roger never,

in any of his pretty frequent letter, mention any rumour of the

illness of his betrothed, his friend reluctantly come to the

conclusion that he know nothing about it, and that to leave he in

such a state of ignorance be utterly impossible for he. all the

first part of his letter he have write ramblingly, half his mind

occupy with a wonder whether he could not absolve himself from the

moral necessity which he feel upon he, of speak about Ada. he

could not, and the result be the composition above, which be

write on a Wednesday night, and despatch on a Thursday morning.

Michael do not expect any immediate answer to it, but go about

his business, as usual.



on the say Thursday morning, near the Castle, he meet Ada Dixon.

there be, indeed, a pierce east wind blow, and the girl wear a

common-look fur cloak, with which her father have present she at

Christmas, and of which she have be proud, in that in shape and

fashion it bear a faint resemblance to the costly garment in which

Miss Wynter and Miss Askam be in the habit of wrap themselves

on cold day. perhaps the dead black of the cloak show up her

pallor still more strongly by contrast; but as Michael meet she—he

be on foot, go to see a patient who live beside the river-bank;

she ascend a little hill, slowly and wearily, and he go down

it—with her face a little upturned, and the flicker light

quiver upon it through the leave—her white hat and her fair

hair,—as he meet she thus, her appearance be almost spectral in its

whiteness and fragility.



she incline her head to he, and would have pass on. but he

stop, and hold out his hand to she.



‘good morning, Miss Dixon. you must not think I meddlesome, but

when Roger be not here, I consider you a little bit under my care;

and my duty oblige I to tell you that you be not look so

robust as be desirable. have you be catch cold?’



he be surprised at the effect of his word. Ada’s white face become

in a moment angrily red; the colour rush over it in a flood. her

eye flash, and in a voice that be sharp with irritation, she

say—



‘nothing ail I at all. I’m as well as I can be, and I think

there’s no call for you to make such remark, Dr. Langstroth.’



‘I be sure I beg your pardon if I have offend you. I assure you

there be nothing I less wish to do. I be very glad if you do feel

well. only, I wish you look strong—that be all.’



‘what do look matter, when one feel perfectly well?’ say Ada.



‘there be certainly a good deal in that. good morning. I will not

detain you.’



he raise his hat, and be move on; indeed, he have walk a pace

or two, when Ada’s voice, just behind he, cause he to turn again.

she look embarrassed, and half stammer, as she say—



‘oh, please—do you know—have you any idea when Miss Askam be come

home?’



‘I have not,’ say he, gravely, and very much surprised. ‘at least,

I know nothing of the exact day; but before Whitsuntide, Mrs.

Johnson say. she would know, I daresay, if you like to call and ask

she.’



‘oh, thank you! I’ll see. It’s—it’s not of so much importance,’ say

Ada. ‘good morning, Dr. Langstroth.’



they part. Michael go on his way, and as he go he shake his

head.



‘it be not of the least use for she to tell I that she be perfectly

well. she be very ill indeed, and something ought to be do for

she.’



many time during the day he think of Ada, and of she change

look, and wonder how Mrs. Dixon would take it if he speak to she

about her daughter.



about seven o’clock, just as he be sit down to his solitary

dinner, his dining-room door be open, and Roger Camm walk in.



Michael utter an ‘ah!’ of pleasure and relief when he see the

mighty figure lounge into the room.



‘you here, Roger?’ he say, jump up and grasp his hand. ‘be

it my letter? do you take the alarm?’



‘ay! I could not rest another day without come to see that child.

she scarcely ever mention her health; indeed, never; so it never

occur to I that there could be anything the matter with she.’



‘then, my dear fellow, you must prepare yourself for a very

disagreeable surprise, that’s all. but have some dinner now, and you

can go down and see she afterwards.’



another place be set for Roger, who make a praiseworthy effort to

eat his dinner, and to talk as if nothing have happen. he could,

however, scarcely sit out the meal, and the instant it be over he

rise.



‘I’ve come to you feel sure you would put I up, Michael. I’ve

get what they call in Leeds “the week-end,” and must go off again by

the late train from Darlington on Sunday night.’



‘of course you will put up here, and I’ll drive you into Darlington

on Sunday. I suppose you’ll go out now?’



‘yes. don’t expect I back till you see I,’ say Roger, go away;

and directly afterwards, Michael hear the door shut after he.









                             CHAPTER XXXIII



                               BROKEN OFF





despite that cut east wind, it be a glorious May evening. the

tree and field be come on grandly, and the sun shine

dazzlingly towards his decline, in a heaven of bright blue and gold,

with pile of glorify cloud in a steady bank to the north. the

beam shine slantingly all on the old brown house, and their ray

be flash back from the window of the quaint old sleepy town. as

Roger walk down the street, his heart beat with foreboding, he

be but vaguely conscious of the stir of life around he, the murmur

and bustle of those whose day’s work be do, and who be enjoy

their pipe, their gossip, and their game; for in one part of the

town the youth play quoit in an open space, while many reverend

elder look on, and make sententious remark as the sport

progress. he be conscious of receive here and there a greeting;

he return they vaguely, and go on his way, and presently find

himself within Mr. Dixon’s shop, which look very mean and low and

small, and which seem quite fill by his tall and broad figure.

Mr. Dixon be alone in the shop.



‘bless my soul, Roger—you!’ he exclaim.



‘yes,’ reply Roger. ‘I get a couple of day’ holiday, so I think

I’d run over and see Ada. be she in?’



‘yes, she’s in. you’ll find she upstairs at her piano. the wife have

go out to tea. and look you, Roger,’ he add, draw the young

man aside, and lower his voice, though they be alone, ‘Ada have

get uncommon twiny and wash-out looking, and have take to singe

the most sentimental song. I declare it make I feel quite low in

my mind to hear she constantly wail and wail. try to cheer she

up a bit.’



‘that I will!’



‘I daresay she’s just fret a bit after you.’



Roger’s heart bound, and fall again. it could not be so. Ada know

she need not to fret after he. but he say, as cheerfully as he

could—



‘I’ll go upstairs and find she.’



with which he go through the shop into the passage, and quickly up

the stair. as he ascend, the ‘wail’ of which Mr. Dixon have

complain become distinctly audible. it be a very, very mournful

song that Ada sing, and Roger’s heart die within he as he hear

it.



he open the parlour door softly, and look in. the piano be

opposite to the door; therefore Ada, seat at it, have she back

turn towards he. she have cease to play within the last minute,

and sit very still, with her hand, he notice, drop down at her

side, in a way that have something very painful and hopeless about

it. his heart go out to she, and as she do not at first appear to

notice any sound or any footstep, he walk softly up behind she;

but not so softly, big and heavy as he be, and unused to tread

gingerly, but that she could hear he distinctly; and he notice

that she suddenly draw her hand up, and that they be clench,

and that her shoulder heave, as if she draw a deep breath—not as

if she be surprised, Roger think, hope begin to beat high in

his heart again, _but rather as if she be very glad_. she know,

then, that he be there. she recognise his footstep, and she be

move, deeply move, by his presence.



he lay his hand upon her shoulder, and say, softly and

caressingly—



‘Ada!’



she face he, with the quickness of lightning, and with a veritable

shriek,—it be too loud, too affright to be call an

exclamation—and Roger recoil before the expression of the face

which be turn towards he. he literally fall back a step or two,

gaze at she alarmed and speechless, while she put her hand, one

to either side of her head, and shrink together, stare at he with

a look of terror and amaze.



‘Ada, my love,’ he begin at last, alarmed and bewilder by the

contradiction between her manner before she have see he, and that

manner now that she behold he. then she find her voice, and rise

from the music stool.



‘Roger, Roger!’ she gasp. ‘how can you! steal up behind one,

and startle one in that way! it’s enough to turn the head, if

one’s a nervous person.’



‘but, my darling, I see that you hear I,’ he begin; but she burst

into hysterical tear, turn away from he, and fling herself

upon a sofa, so that he see it be useless to attempt to explain or

apologise. once it cross his mind, ‘she behave almost as if she

have expect some one else.’ then he put the idea aside, as we do

put idea aside which we know would be absurd in regard to

ourselves, often without stop to make allowance for the

difference in other’ mind and our own.



it be a very distressful scene. nothing that he could do or say

restore calmness to she, though the first violence of her agitation

presently wear off. in vain he try to wring from she some

explanation of her altered look, her nervous terror; ask she

what ail she, and tenderly upbraid she with not having tell he

she be out of health. Ada would own nothing, say nothing; and when

he rather pitifully say he have hope to give she a pleasant

surprise by his unexpected arrival, she reply with irritation that

she hate such surprise; he ought to have write or telegraph.

in fact, Roger, with the deep alarm, presently see that his

presence be do she no good, but harm; it be perfectly evident

that he have well retire, and he decide to do so. but before

go, he say—



‘now, look here, Ada. grant I a very great favour, and I’ll not

tease you about anything else. let Michael Langstroth, or Dr.

Rowntree, see you. Rowntree, perhaps. he’s such a kind, good old

fellow. he would give you something to strengthen you.’



‘I be not ill,’ cry Ada; and she stamp her foot on the ground,

and clench her tooth. ‘I will see none of your doctor. I hate

they, and I’ll have nothing to do with they. you will _make_ I ill,

if you don’t let I alone.’



every sign warn Roger that this be a subject it would be good not

to pursue any far, and he presently leave she. he have no heart to

go into the shop again and speak to Mr. Dixon. slowly and

dispiritedly he make his way back to the Red Gables, and find

Michael there, astonish to see he back again so soon, and look

the question he feel he would not ask.



‘I don’t know, Michael,’ say Roger, in answer to this look.

‘there’s something awfully wrong. I must see her father to-morrow.

she deny that anything ail she, but at the same time she go on

in such a way as no one would who be all right. it be not the end—I

know it be not the end.’



on the follow day it seem as if the end, so far as Roger be

concern, have arrive. in the forenoon Mr. Dixon make his

appearance, and ask to see Roger. then, slowly and with

difficulty, he unfold the fact that Ada have summon he to she

after her lover’s departure, and have tell he that she could never

be Roger’s wife; that her life be a misery to she, so long as she

be engage to he, and that if her father wish to see she well

and happy again, he be to take this opportunity of tell Roger

so, and of make he understand that she do not wish to see he

again.



the stout, prosperous tradesman look pinched and miserable as he

tell his sorry tale; while the young man sit opposite to he, his

face turn very white, his strong hand shake, and his mighty

figure tremble all over, like a leaf in the wind. the sun be

shine outside, though not into the room; one could see its glare

in the yellow hue of the grass, and the shadow cast by the tree.

the sound of singing bird come in at the open window, and also a

blast of north-east wind, cold, dry, cut as a knife.



‘she do not mean it, Mr. Dixon; she do not really mean it?’ he

stammer, fight for his life.



‘she mean it, Roger. I wrestle with she about it for an hour; for

with expect you to be my son for so long, I’ve get to look upon

you as if you be my son. I wrestle with she till I see she be

nigh to fainting, and then I have to stop. she pull this off her

finger, and tell I to give it you.’



he pull a little pearl ring from his pocket, and push it across

the table towards Roger, without look at he. Roger pick it up,

and turn it round in his finger as if he do not know what it

be—as if the sight of the little jewel daze he.



‘she say she wish to send no unkind word, for that perhaps she’d

never see you again; but that you must not come nigh she, for

another scene with you would kill she, and she want to live.’



‘let she live then,’ say Roger, in a hoarse and laboured voice. ‘it

do not matter what become of I.’



Mr. Dixon, sturdy philistine that he be, wipe his eye with his

handkerchief.



‘Roger,’ he say, with a solemnity and strength of conviction which

give dignity and something like majesty to his commonplace, outside

man, ‘you have just cause to look upon my girl with suspicion, and

to fight shy and speak ill of we all. but, lad, I tell you, we don’t

know the end of it all yet. I can tell you, my heart be heavy.

there’s a weight on it, as if something uncommon be come, or

hang about in the air somewhere. I cann’t mind my business, nor

eat my victual, for thinking of that girl, that look like a ghost;

and why, that’s what I want to know—why?’



‘I’m afraid,’ say Roger, in a laboured voice, but instinctively

try to give comfort to the man who be old and weak than

himself, ‘that she may have begin to care for some one else, who

perhaps don’t respond as she could wish. if so, it be good for she

to be free from I.’



‘choose what it be, it’s a heavy trouble for we all,’ say Mr.

Dixon, wearily. ‘I’m often afraid that she be bring up with

notion far above her station—Miss Wynter, and all that; but

somehow, I never take it to be anything seriously wrong.... you’ll

not look upon I as an enemy, Roger, for I’ve fight for you through

thick and thin?’



‘an enemy—God forbid! I know you have be my friend all through.’



‘we be go to send she away,’ pursue Mr. Dixon. ‘she have ask

to go down to my sister in Devonshire, a widow, who have often want

to have a visit from she. she say, if she get away from all this

(‘all what?’ think Roger, a thick dread at his heart—‘her home,

her friend, her natural life, with all its hope and interest?’),

once away, she think she’ll be well. so we shall send she. I

willn’t stay. I’ve drag myself here, and I shall drag myself back

again. can you shake hand with I, my lad?’



Roger unhesitatingly give he his hand, go with he to the door,

and see he walk away; then return, to try and understand the

meaning of what have befall he. he be surprised to find that

after a time, instead of reproach Ada, even in thought, he be

occupy in try to recall any occasion on which he might have

speak harshly to she, and in mentally implore she to forgive he

his trespass, and in wish that he have but the chance to do it

in so many word; while his sense of the mysterious terror that hang

over she grow great every moment. he do not leave bradstane

early than he have intend. a great calm and a great pity have

settle upon his soul. he find himself able to speak freely to

Michael of what have happen—to tell he more of his inner thought

and feeling than, in all their long intimacy, he have ever divulge

before. he tell Michael what Ada be go to do, and he say—



‘when she come back, for my sake, Michael, you will pay a little

heed to she, and let I know how she look, at any rate.’



‘you may trust I to do it.’



‘it be all quite over between we. I have a feeling that that be

quite certain; but I don’t feel as if we know everything yet. and

God forbid that I should judge she in the dark. a girl don’t carry

on as she be do, either from lightness of mind or hardness of

heart.’



this be as Michael drive he along the lane to Darlington to catch

the night train. Michael say nothing. friendship demand that what

Roger require of he in this matter, he should do, whatever he

might think of the cause of his friend’s distress.









                             CHAPTER XXXIV



                       how crackpot be scratch





they leave the dogcart outside the station, and Michael go in with

Roger to see he off. as he stand beside the carriage window,

wait for the train to start, Roger, lean out, say to he in a

low voice—



‘I haven’t forget what you say to I, Michael, though it look

as if I have—what you say in your letter about a certain lady.’



‘I do not suppose you have forget,’ reply Michael, gravely and

simply; ‘but I think you have well do so. consider that I write it

in a fit of momentary weakness of mind. indeed, if I could have

bear to write the last part of the letter over again, I would not

have send the first, when it come to the point.’



‘it be safe enough with I; but I cann’t quite see why you should

call it weakness. look here, Michael, we both know how that lady be

situate, and you say you wish she have not get twelve hundred a year

of her own. take my word for it, if she know that, she would curse

her money. don’t go to suppose that I have not eye in my head, and

ear to hear with.’



they have clasp hand, and the train have begin very slowly to move.

Roger go on rapidly—



‘I hope at first that you never would care for she, when I begin to

see that she attract you. now I believe she be the woman to make

you happy, as you be the man to do the same thing by she. go in,

and win, Michael, and never heed what the black thing about she may

say. good-bye, old friend, and luck go with you.’



there be a hard pressure of the two hand, which then have to be

unclasped. the train glide out. Michael be leave upon the platform,

look after it. when it have disappear, he go outside again,

find his dogcart, give a coin to the boy who have hold the horse—for

he have bring no servant, wish to have Roger to himself on the

drive; and now he set off on his return journey.



when he drive out of Darlington it be after eleven o’clock; there

be a radiant full moon hang in the sky, and the whole land be

flood with its beauty and its brilliance. the road, after he have

get out of the town, be solitary and silent, as country road,

late on a Sunday night, be willnot to be. he have all the beauty, all

the glamour of the night to himself, and it sink into his soul, and

the word which Roger have utter resound in his mind, like a

refrain. he do not drive very fast. he be in no mood to tear

along, but be rather disposed to taste to the full the cup of

beauty and graciousness that be offer to he. one by one, he

drive through the chain of exquisite village which make that road

one of the most beautiful in all England,—Coniscliffe, Piercebridge,

Gainford, and Winston, arrive at which place, for the sheer

pleasure of the farth drive, and the enjoyment of the pure night

air, and the magic of the scene and the hour, he turn off, instead

of pursue his way straight, to one side, and take the roundabout

and surpassingly beautiful road which lead through Ovington, and

past Wycliffe Hall and wood, and its ancient little church of solemn

beauty, and so across Whorlton Bridge to Bradstane. every inch of

the way be beautiful. and that which lend the great charm to it

be the river, which, ever as he drive, he have near he. now he lose

it; again it gleam suddenly on his sight, emerge unexpectedly

into the open, from some deep wood, or rush in a sweeping curve

into view; now sink between marly bank, now make its way ‘o’er

solid sheet of marble gray.’ Grand old Tees! think Michael,

pay it a parenthetical tribute, in the midst of the many other

thought which just then crowd his mind, and make the long drive

seem to he a short one; where be it to be match for beauty and

stateliness, and natural grandeur, and wild, unbounded variety? how

different here, as it flow on steady and strong, from what it be

as it come, little more than a fierce, brawl mountain stream,

tear over the wild moor near its source! it have be his friend

and companion through many a weary year, as he have go his round,

wide and long as the valley itself. like all such friend, ungifted

with the deceitful power of human language, it have always have the

very voice that suit his mood. in his youth, no longing have be

too high, and no hope too feverish for it to encourage. and for ten

year, since he have be a veritable man, it have be his constant

guide and associate. in spring it rush joyfully along, singe a

song of encouragement; in summer its cool surface and the soothe

murmur of its flow have many a time make tolerable the burden and

heat of the day. he have hear its autumn roar, and in wilder mood

have ride race with it; and he know its aspect in winter, gray and

sullen, or even iron-bind almost all its length, from mouth to

source; in its smoother expanse cover with skater, or laden with

block of ice, which, when the thaw wind begin to blow, split and

part with report like explosion, and then go sail in

beautiful glistening block towards the sea.



just now, in this May moonlight, at the hour which be neither night

nor day—for midnight be past—it fulfil its spring vocation; and

as he drive along, its murmur swell out into the night, and hold

out promise—promise so brave and high that he mistrust they

almost. and yet, a voice in his heart tell he, with an unerring

whisper, that he might believe these promise; that if he go and

ask Eleanor Askam to confirm their truth, she would do so. the

knowledge thrill he; it be pungent—half-bitter, half-sweet. it

give he a new sense of youth, a conquer confidence to which he

have long be a stranger. he rejoice in it, and rejoice greatly

all the while that he shake his head, and say within himself

‘impossible,’ and repeat that he wish she be not so rich—so

much rich than he be. if anything should happen—some transitory

misfortune, by which she might for one moment feel herself quite

poor, and believe she have no resting-place for her head, and he the

next moment might bid that dear head rest where it should ever be

welcome—on his own heart—ah, Bradstane town and the cobble-stone

street, the Red Gables and reality!



on the follow day he hear that Ada Dixon have go to stay with

her father’s widow sister, at some remote Devonshire village. the

sister have be housekeeper to a great family in the neighbourhood;

have marry the butler, and be now live partly on the fruit of

her own saving, partly on a pension from the say family.



‘Poor Roger!’ reflect Michael. ‘if the girl be something very

wonderful, or very gifted, or marvellously attractive, one could

forgive such connection. and there’s no harm in poor old Dixon; but

as for the other—no, they be not suit for he.’



the little bit of gossip and talk cause by this second visit of Ada

Dixon to friend at a distance, follow so rapidly upon her return

from a first absence, have have time to die away, and the middle of

May have arrive, when Michael become aware that his new neighbour,

Miss Askam, have return from her sojourn amongst her friend. the

Dower House show sign of life; the window be fill with pot

of flower plant, and one or other of the little Johnsons begin

to be frequently see on the doorstep, while the Thorsgarth landau

come round every fine afternoon, and be drive into the country

with Miss Askam and one or more either of these little johnson, or

their hard-work mamma, or Mrs. Parker; for the young lady seem

to have no pleasure in solitary state drive. sometimes, on his

round, Michael meet she, and then there be a bow on his part, and a

secret thrill of delight, and perhaps some of the power he feel

show in his eye; and a gracious inclination, an irrepressible

brightness overspread her face, on her side. a week or ten day

pass, by no mean ungenially, in this way, till the Derby week

arrive.



on the Monday morning Michael be amazed to receive a note from

Eleanor.



‘MY DEAR MR. LANGSTROTH,



          I wonder if you would think it very troublesome to come

and tell I, if by any chance you _should_ hear anything about my

brother’s horse, on Wednesday. I be most anxious to know, and

think perhaps you might know people who will have telegram about

the race before Thursday’s paper come. I shall not see that till

the afternoon, you know.



                                              ‘sincerely your,

                                                         ‘E. ASKAM.’



Michael, as she conjecture, have mean of gain information before

Thursday’s London paper make its appearance. he write to the

secretary of a certain club at Darlington, desire he to telegraph

to he any news of ‘crackpot,’ at as early a date as possible. he

be both astonish and disturb to receive a telegram on the

Tuesday night, and its content be not too soothing to his

feeling. think it well to get the business over, he go

straight to the Dower House, and be admit to Miss Askam at once.



she look astonished to see he, and he perceive that her

brightness be go. there be a look of worn and harass anxiety,

and of nervous restlessness, too, about she. her hand tremble, and

her eye waver.



‘Miss Askam,’ he be begin, but she interrupt he.



‘you have get a telegram. something have happen. I know it. I have—I

be certain of it. what be it,—because I know the race be not yet

run? be anything the matter with Otho?’



‘this telegram,’ he begin again.



‘please let I read it. I cannot wait.’



he hand it to her silently, and it flutter in her hand as she

peruse it;—



‘_crackpot scratch. no end of a row._’



‘I do not know what that mean,’ she say, tremulously.

‘scratch—will you please explain.’



‘it mean,’ say he, reluctantly, ‘that your brother have withdraw

his horse at the last moment from the race; and from the last part

of the telegram, I be afraid there must be an impression

that—that——’



‘that he have not deal honourably,’ she say, quickly and

breathlessly. ‘I want to know a little more, please, Mr. Langstroth.

be it not usual to withdraw a horse in this way?’



‘no. at least, it be a great pity when it have to be do. it be

particularly a great pity that your brother should have have to do it

the first time a horse of his be run. some man do it pretty

often; and then, you know, they get a bad name, and be not

consider——’



‘honourable. I understand. but will he have do it without any

reason? can you say, just at the last, “I have change my mind, and

my horse shall not run?”’



‘most likely it be give out that Crackpot be ill, and unfit to run.

Nay, it may be that he be so. do not distress yourself about it,’ he

add, eagerly. ‘I will find out all that I can about it, and let

you know. everything will be uncertain now, of course.’



she be still stand by the table, look at he with haggard

eye, and as he speak thus, she shake her head.



‘no, no!’ say she. ‘just once, while I be in London, I happen to

be at a regatta, with my friend, and Otho be there too. and I see

a disagreeable-look man come up to he, who do not know I have

anything to do with he. they talk together for a little while,

and I do not hear what they say, till suddenly the man say, “but

mind you, Askam, none of your trick. you be a slippery customer at

the good.” I feel so indignant that I turn round quite angrily;

and then he see that I know Otho, and they laugh, and move a

little to one side.’



‘I don’t see that that incident have any necessary connection with

this,’ say he, quietly. ‘you can do nothing, you know, Miss Askam.

do not distress yourself needlessly. to do that be to render

yourself powerless when any real emergency arise.’



‘yes, I know,’ say she, and pause. he look at she, and see that

she look worn and anxious.



‘be there anything else I could do for you?’ he begin. ‘because I

should be so glad——’



‘no, thank you, nothing, except to promise that should you hear

anything more about the thing, you will let I know.’



‘that I certainly will,’ say he, and rise to take his leave. ‘you

still remain amongst we, in Bradstane,’ he observe, gravely, but

kindly, as he hold out his hand.



‘yes,’ say Eleanor, with a quick flush. ‘I do not wish to go away.

I—I intend to stay here.’



‘always?’



‘I think—always.’ she speak steadily, but do not look at he.



‘I be very glad to hear that,’ reply Michael, quietly. ‘now I know

you be strong when you choose to be so. will you promise not to

fret foolishly over this thing—not to brood and mope over it; or

else I shall be sorry I comply with your request?’



‘I promise to behave as well as in I lie,’ say Eleanor, smile.



‘then, good evening.’



he go away thoughtful. he know perfectly well that she would have

to hear more disagreeable thing about Otho before very long, but he

have succeed in lull her fear for the present, at any rate.









                              CHAPTER XXXV



                          ‘CARELESSE contente’





the withdrawal of Crackpot from the running, on the very day before

the race, make a great sensation in the world of the turf. the

affair be look upon with suspicion, especially in connection with

Otho Askam’s know character for slipperiness—a character which

stick to he, although no one could exactly say how he have first get

it. but the sensation be very much confine to the circle

immediately connect with the event. Otho have manage with

sufficient skill to avoid have anything tangible bring up

against he. the rumour that be current do not penetrate to his

sister’s ear. the thing that be write about the circumstance

be publish in sporting or ‘society’ paper, which she never see,

and in their own peculiar jargon. Michael, in his round, hear it

all freely discuss, but be careful never to let she know what he

hear. he wish she to forget it, and presently it seem as if she

do. at her age, and with her temperament, the heart, though it be

peculiarly sensible to sorrow, and feel it with a keenness

resemble resentment, be also very open to joy; and there be

joyful influence at work in her life that summer. Michael do not

even tell she of the rumour he have hear, that Otho have lose a

great deal of money by withdraw Crackpot from the race; for after

all, they be rumours, and not substantiate fact, though Michael

believe they to be true enough. Otho have what Michael consider

the good taste not to come near Thorsgarth after his escapade, and

for a season the land have rest from he and his presence.



it have be say that there be joyful influence at work in the

life of Eleanor this summer; and that be true. her nature love

sunshine, and just now it have it in plenty, both moral and material.

from May—after the bad news about Otho—till August, sunlight

prevail. there be a long, hot, glorious summer, such as be not

often vouchsafe to we nowadays. Hitherto she have know Bradstane

literally only under its winter aspect. these month offer a

variety of view and climate; and she, keenly and intensely sensitive

to such influence, rejoice with the rejoicing summer. her life at

the Dower House just then be a far from unpleasant one. she have

gather round she a little circle of friend, both young and old,

and they give freshness and variety to her life, as she help to

bring charm and poetry into theirs. she begin for the first time

really to understand what pleasure money can give—the possession of

it, that is, and the power which that possession confer of

affording pleasure and relief to other. she help to make the

summer golden to other beside herself. amongst the pleasure of

that season, there be none she enjoy more than the out-of-door

life which the unusual fineness and dryness of the summer render

possible. there be day-long excursion, begin early in the

morning, and only end when the dew and the night be fall

together—excursion into the deep wood, over the glorious moor, or

beside the lovely stream which water and adorn that wild and

beautiful tract of Borderland, call Teesdale. sometimes she and

her friend, the little johnson, would set off alone, swarm (the

child) in and out of a pony chaise which never seem too small,

however many get into it; and which be yet never too large, even

when there be not more than two or three to occupy it. as often as

not the old doctor would be their guide and chaperon; and under his

direction they explore the country for mile around. it be new to

Eleanor; it be mostly new to her young companion, who have never

before have a fairy with a pony chaise to take they about. this be

very pleasant, with the lunch eat ‘by shallow river,’ or under

leafy tree; when the child splash and wade to their heart’s

content, and the day, long though they be, never seem long

enough.



but there be also other and large affair, more important in

every sense of the word,—proper picnic, at which several party

joined,—the Johnsons, Dr. Rowntree and his sister, Mrs. Parker,

Eleanor; and on one or two occasion, even Michael have manage to

snatch a day and join they, leave his work to his assistant. on

one of these day when he be present, they explore Deepdale; on

another they manage to climb ‘Catcastle Crag.’ on both of these

occasion it be notice that Michael’s behaviour be mark by an

unaccountable levity, and Miss Askam’s by a kind of laugh

apprehension. she, too, seem to see joke where no one else could

detect they. Michael, indeed, go so far as to tell the child

that this be not the first time that Miss Askam have be to

catcastle, and have by mean of sundry mysterious hint rouse

their curiosity to fever pitch, and set they to attack she with

every kind of question they could think of, he fall into the rear,

and converse with Mrs. Parker, leave Eleanor to baffle they as

good she could.



they happen to be alone for a few moment on the occasion of the

Deepdale expedition, and he seize the opportunity to say—



‘I notice that you still retain that ingenuous youth, William, for

your special body-servant; I suppose it be his complete incapacity

which recommend he to you? you do not like to dismiss he, because

you be quite sure no one else would take he on; and you think it

be well that he should have the semblance of an occupation than

that you should have to support he by charity.’



‘you wrong poor William, Mr. Langstroth. he be a very good servant,

and a most faithful creature.’



‘so I should fancy. he know the country almost as well as his

mistress do, and have such wonderful presence of mind, as to make

he invaluable in any emergency.’



‘well, I think he have the presence of mind, at any rate, to know

when help be nigh.’



‘say, rather, the power of lung to invoke that help when it be afar

off. you don’t know what a long way I ride back, summon by that

unearthly yell of his.’



Eleanor laugh. ‘Poor William!’ she say.



‘ah, I do admire William. do you see, he know we be talk about

he, and the child be begin to be suspicious too. I believe

William fear we be go to ask he to act as guide to some place.

would you mind my catechise he a little on the geography of the

district? it would keep he up to the mark, you know, and would be

such a useful thing for the child as well.’



‘please don’t, Mr. Langstroth. you will make I look ridiculous

before they all.’



‘if I have see you look ridiculous, and if William have see you

look ridiculous,’ say Michael, ‘as we certainly do, you know,

on a never-to-be-forget occasion, what can it matter if a set of

child and their mother see the same thing?’



‘oh, nothing, perhaps,’ be the sweet reply. ‘but be you sure you

do not look a little ridiculous too? and if Effie once have she

confidence in your infallibility shake——’



‘that be true. like the villain in novel, you have a power over

I, through the innocent one whom I love. I will keep silence this

time, but take care how you provoke I too far.’



‘do not be so childish.’



this be very frivolous nonsense, and they enjoy it, as they

enjoy the hot summer sun, the cool stream, the shady wood, and

even the fun they have in combat the swarm of wasp which usually

follow they in these expedition, and entirely frustrate their

effort to sit down, and, as Effie plaintively say, ‘eat a meal in

peace.’



once, deep feeling be touch, and this be on a day when they

have penetrate far than ever before; and on this occasion, too,

Michael be with they. set off very early, they drive in the

morning coolness to Middleton-in-Teesdale, and thence onwards to

High Force, where they rest and lunch; after which they drive

onwards to some little hut at the edge of the moor, where path

end, and wilderness begin; when they get out, and walk for a

mile and a half to the wild spot where tee come first winding,

sluggish and sinuous, over the moor top, in what be call the Weel,

and then suddenly precipitate himself madly over ‘Caldron Snout,’

tear down an incline of two hundred foot to the low level,

where he pursue a brawl way towards High Force, his next

descent.



this be a very wild and desolate spot, and require intrepid walking

to get to it; plunge through the thymy moor, rough, pathless, and

uneven, without guide, save for rough wooden post like crosse,

plant at interval of several hundred yard, to show the direct

way to the cataract. but so few person visit Caldron Snout, so few

tourist or picnicker care to be at the trouble of penetrate to

it, that no road have got beat out. nature seem to sit enthrone

in undesecrated queenliness in the fastness around the cataract.



it be a day that Michael and Eleanor never forget. the child,

literally frantic with the novelty and the wildness of the thing,

and with the exhilarate moorland air, tear about in all

direction—over heather and thyme, bluebell and boulder. now come

a scream of joy, and a mad rush to Michael or the doctor to ask the

name of some hitherto unknown plant or flower—as the delicate autumn

gentian, or, on some grassy bank, the poetical look fragile

‘grass of Parnassus.’ Anon, wonder, quite awed and hush, and

treading on tiptoe to peep into a nest conceal beneath the grass,

and contain five dirty-white egg, with wine-colour splash on

they. then on again, to fresh field and pasture new, till one wild

whoop announce the discovery, in its steep hidden gorge, of the

waterfall itself.



the elder walk more sedately, rejoice with joy more cultivate,

if not more intense, in the large grandness of great, sweeping

lonely fell, of mile of purple heather; and in the abstract

impressiveness of such a solitary torrent as Caldron Snout.



it be as they be wend back towards their vehicle, in the

evening, that Michael and Eleanor find themselves alone. the

child be scatter, make the most of what time remain to

they, for the collection of interesting natural object. Mrs.

Johnson, with an eye to her rockery at home, have stop in front of

a patch of fine bog-plant, and have make the doctor go on his knee,

arm with an old table knife. she be stand over he, direct

he to the fine plunder, perfectly deaf to his assurance that the

fine purple pinguicula which she covet could find lovely fly

here for its sustenance, but that its poor carnivorous leave would

most likely shrivel up and die in the dark corner of her garden,

devoted to the cultivation of fern and house-leeks.



at some distance from these two Michael and Eleanor stand side by

side, face Mickle Fell, and gaze at the noble sight unfold for

their delight. many a time Eleanor have see this grand old mountain

in the distance, overtop his comrade, always; but now he rise

straight before they, apparently not a mile away. they be both

strike by what they see. the great Fell, who seem to spring aloft

from the small one which cluster about he, form a centre and

a focus to the picture, rise in a blunt, massive kind of point.

his huge and grim side be clothe in a violet veil of summer haze

and heat, like a garment such as no earthly hand ever fashion.

this be beautiful; but it be not all. the sun stand, at the moment

when it seem to rest exactly on the midmost point of his summit, a

blaze golden ball, and ray stream away from it on every side,

so that Mickle Fell seem veritably to wear a crown of glory,

surpass all the crown and all the jewel of all the king in the

whole world. just at the moment, the stillness be utterly unbroken.

not even the murmur of the torrent reach they, nor the voice of

the child ‘play in the light of the set sun.’ Earth seem

to hold her breath while one of her great hill receive the crown

and the benediction of the closing day. no hum of booming bee, no

voice even of any bird, break the dead silence; nor do these two

venture to disturb it, but gaze and worship, and feel that even

if they live to be very old, they would not often see the heaven

declare the glory of God so sublimely as at this moment.



and it be but for a moment; such scene seldom last long.

suddenly thing seem to change; the glory become dim; sound

become audible; the spell be loose; and with one deep sigh both

their heart confess it, as their eye meet.



perhaps they both understand at that moment, though all that Michael

say, be, ‘I be very glad that we have see that—together.’



‘so be I,’ she rejoin, softly.



then suddenly, almost at their foot, break forth a gossipy,

importunate, ‘Brek-kek-kek!’ and behind they child’s voice

shout. they smile. the awe and the solemnity have go, but the

joy remain and be abide. it do not die away, even after the

sun have set and the golden ray be quench in night. it make

itself feel all through the long drive home through the darkling

lane, and it breathe out of the delicious scent of the firwood,

beneath which part of their road lay. it look out of the eye of

both, as they clasp hand and part after it be all over.



that be the last of some cloudlessly happy day. it be, in

reality, the first day of Michael’s summer holiday, and he know it

would be the good. on the follow morning he set off to Leeds,

where that year the British Medical Association have its annual

meeting; after which, he and Roger be go to take a short

country tour together.



one evening, in August, soon after Michael have go, Eleanor be

startled to see Otho walk into her drawing-room, look ill and

haggard. he throw himself into a chair, give a long kind of sigh,

and ask she how she do.









                             CHAPTER XXXVI



                               the SHADOW





it seem as if, when Otho come in, joy go out. Eleanor, as she

view his sinister figure, and see his haggard countenance, feel a

chill steal over she in the midst of the August warmth. it be like

the first breath of winter, send as a warning when autumn day be

mild and life delicious.



‘you have come back at last, Otho. be you go to stay at

Thorsgarth?’



‘just for two or three day. I’ve be there and put up my trap,

and I mean to stay there, but it be such a dismal hole. it make I

creep all over. I could not stand it, so I think I would look in

upon you.’



‘I be glad you do,’ she say, wonder a little why he have choose

rather to visit she than Magdalen. but she do not ask, and he do

not mention the subject. he do not stay very long. she ask he if

he come from London, and he say yes. she do not ask he about

Gilbert. she have nearly forget he. the strength of the love she

feel for Michael have efface almost the recollection of the

uncomfortable day she have pass during Gilbert’s Christmas visit,

and the fear she have feel with regard to he.



‘I think you would be come before,’ she say, ‘for the shooting.

People be say it be something unheard of for you to be without a

party at Thorsgarth just now.’



‘People may mind their own business. it don’t suit I to have a

party. I cann’t afford.’



‘be you poor, Otho? have you be lose money?’



‘what a question to ask! if you inquire whether I’d get any money

leave _to_ lose, it would be more to the point.’



‘I be very sorry to hear it. be you go already?’ for he have

rise.



‘yes, I arrange with a fellow to meet I at home at eight, and it’s

nearly that now.’



‘I shall see you to-morrow?’



‘I shall be busy in the day, but at night—yes, I’ll come and dine

with you, Eleanor. what time?’



‘Seven, Otho; but come as soon as you like, and I’ll invite Magdalen

to spend the evening too.’



‘Magdalen!’ he look startled, as he have do on a former occasion,

and not too well pleased. then he say, with an attempt at

indifference—



‘oh, all right. that will be the good way.’



he depart, and as it be not too late, Eleanor send a note by that

night’s post, tell Miss Wynter that Otho be over, and would dine

with she the following evening. would she (Magdalen) join they and

spend the evening?



Magdalen send a man the next day with her acceptance of the

invitation, and Eleanor await her two guest with the feeling of

one who be heroically go through a most disagreeable duty.



it be the end of August, and on quiet, cloudy day it be twilight

by seven o’clock. just before that hour Eleanor have occasion to go

into one of the front rooms;—her dining and drawing-room be at

the back, look upon a pleasant garden and orchard, and the front

room be small one, separate from these other by fold door.



she get what she want, and then pause for a moment beside the

window, look out upon the street, which be gray with the dusk,

and the house over the way do not show very clearly. no one be

about except, as Eleanor notice, a woman, whom she have see early

in the afternoon, in another part of the town; an itinerant singer,

who have be go from door to door, singe ballad and collect

money. Eleanor have notice she, and have be strike with the decency

of her appearance, and the unusual quietness and modesty of she

look. she have tell her servant, if the young woman come to her

house, to take she into the kitchen, and give she a meal. this have

be do, and the girl now seem not to intend to sing any more.

she have be go about bareheade; now she have put on a small

straw bonnet, and place a woollen shawl about her shoulder. she

stand near the doorstep, and look this way and that, as if not

certain in which direction to go. the window be open, and Eleanor

be about to throw it still higher up, and suggest to the young

woman where she might find a lodging for the night, when quick step

approach from that side of her own house at which she stand. then

a man’s figure, in a light summer overcoat and a round hat,

appear; it be Otho, and he have one foot on the doorstep, when the

young woman turn, and begin rather timidly—‘If you please, sir——’



‘good God! what do you mean!’ he exclaim, in a voice in which both

fear and anger struggle. ‘have you no more——’



‘Sir!’ exclaim the young woman, face he fully, and in evident

astonishment, ‘I be not go to beg—I——’



‘confound you!’ burst from Otho’s lip, and his voice tremble, with

what emotion Eleanor could not guess. ‘you make I think—what do you

want, loaf about here?’



‘I be do no such thing as loaf,’ say the young woman in high

dudgeon. I be a respectable woman, and I be go to ask you a

civil question—that’s all. but I’ll go far on, now.’



she turn away, indignation quiver in her every movement. Otho

stand still a moment, Eleanor notice, as she breathlessly watch

and listen, with his hand rest against the door pillar, as if

to support himself. and she see that he pull out his handkerchief

and wipe his brow; and she hear something mutter between his

tooth, and then the word, ‘curse hole like this!’ then he come

into the house, for the door open from the outside, and she

mechanically go out to meet he, disturb more than she would

have care to own. for whom, for what have he mistaken the young

woman, that he should show such alarm and such fear?



he be stand in the hall, having lay his hat upon the table, and

be pull off his overcoat. his face be quite white, or rather,

gray, and his eye look wild and startle.



‘Halloa!’ say he, evidently with an effort—at least, it be evident

to she now that she know what have go before. ‘how be you? have

Magdalen come?’



‘no. I be expect she every minute,’ she reply. ‘ah, there be

the carriage wheel. she be here now.’



Otho be now master of himself again. he wait in the hall till

Magdalen have come in, and receive she, look into her eye with a

sort of eagerness, and kiss she as he look at she.



the evening prove, in a way, less depressing than Eleanor have

expect. Magdalen be unusually sweet and gracious; Otho more

genial and expansive than his sister have ever see he. Magdalen

openly and unreservedly put question to he about his affair and

intention, which Eleanor would never have dream of ask. he be

not very explicit as to his business, but say it be business that

bring he to Thorsgarth, add with candour that nothing else

would induce he to set foot in the place, for he have get a horror

of it. from some hint that he let fall, the two young woman

gather that his stable and stud be to come to the hammer—when,

he do not say. also, that he be at present somewhat straiten for

any considerable sum of money. but he do not hint at any wish to

borrow money, or receive assistance, only say that Gilbert would

see he safe through present difficulty, and that the Friarsdale

stable would bring in ‘a pot of money.’



‘I’m go to Friarsdale to-morrow,’ he add, ‘and back here the

same night. the day after, I’m off again.’



‘be you? where?’



‘London first. then Paris, I expect. I’ve get some business there,’

he condescend to inform they, ‘in connection with the _Grand Prix_

next spring.’



‘race again!’ say Magdalen. ‘but you’ve get no horse in it.’



‘yes, but I have. I’ve Crackpot again.’



‘_again!_’ repeat Miss Wynter, with emphasis and meaning.



‘oh, it’s all straight this time. you need not be sneer, Mag; and

Eleanor need not turn up her eye in that lackadaisical fashion.

when Crackpot have win the _Grand Prix_, as I intend he to, I shall

sell he for—well, a good lot of money. then I shall be fairly on my

leg again. Thorsgarth may stay as it be, yet awhile, and the timber

can remain in the wood.’



‘I should hope so!’ exclaim Eleanor, in a voice of alarm.



‘and if you’d only marry I now, Magdalen, out of hand, you should

have the purse-string, and keep I in order. come, let it be a

bargain!’



Magdalen’s eye glitter. it be a bargain she would have clinch

that moment if she could.



‘you know it be utterly impossible, Otho, now. but if you’ll come

home again before Christmas—well before Christmas, you know, I might

be able to settle thing.’



‘oh, do promise, Otho!’ Eleanor urge he eagerly. ‘if only you and

Magdalen could get marry at the end of this year or the beginning

of next—why, you might go abroad; and when you have get this money

that you speak of, you might live abroad.’



her heart leap up at the idea that Magdalen, if she once have he

in hand, and be as he say mistress of the purse-string, might

have a strong influence over he, and that, having break from his

sporting associate, both here and in London, something

different—something a little well, might surely be make of he.



‘if you would marry he, Magdalen,’ she go on, ‘I would spend the

rest of the winter myself with Miss Strangforth, if she would have

I; or you could find she another niece to come and live with she.’



‘I would do my good,’ Magdalen say, ‘if he’ll promise to come home

before Christmas.’



Otho h’md and ha’d, and say at last, he could not promise more than

she do. he would do his good too.



‘it would be very nice,’ Magdalen say, reflectively. ‘bradstane

_be_ dull to the carnally minded. People give up to good work and

act of mercy, like Miss Askam, may find it bearable. I think it be

awful. and there be hardly any one leave in it now. all my old

friend be go. you away, Otho; Gilbert away; Roger Camm go.’



‘Camm live in Leeds now, don’t he?’ ask Otho; and there be

something in his voice as he speak—an inflexion, a shade, which

cause Eleanor to glance at he quickly. but he look as usual,

except that he be still haggard and wear-look, and appear

indifferent about the answer.



‘yes,’ say his sister. ‘he have a very good post there.’



‘what have become of that little girl he be go to marry?’ ask

Otho; and Magdalen give a little laugh, say—



‘well, that be good, I must say. after the way you behave to she——’



‘what?’ stammer Otho, and there be the same look on his face that

Eleanor have see there as he stand in the hall just before

Magdalen’s arrival.



‘he pretend not to know,’ say Magdalen, mockingly. ‘it be not a

hundred year since there be a concert in the Bradstane schoolroom,

sir.’



and she laugh her measured, cold laugh.



‘oh, bah!’



‘Ada Dixon be very much out of health, and be send away into

Devonshire into a warm climate,’ say Eleanor, gravely. ‘she have

be away all the summer, and have not yet return.’



‘ah!’ say Otho, stifle a yawn. ‘I use to see she in former day,

go up and down the village, and go to see you, Mag——’



‘yes. you put a stop to that by your behaviour that night. after

that it be impossible for I to have anything more to do with she.’



he laugh.



‘I never see anything of she this time, so I think she might have

get married to some one, and clear out.’



neither his sister nor Magdalen see how, as he speak, he look

sideways at they. Magdalen be open and shut her fan. Eleanor

have some trifle of fancy work in her hand.



he do not stay much long, but have some talk with Magdalen at the

door before he go away. he do not wait till Miss Strangforth’s

carriage come, nor offer, as on a former occasion, to see her home.

Magdalen return to Eleanor when the door have close behind Otho.



‘he be really exasperate. he will not give I his address now;

say he be so uncertain: I must write through Gilbert, as usual. I

declare he grow more and more mysterious. one might almost think he

have some reason for wish to conceal his whereabouts,’ Magdalen

go on, reflectively. ‘suppose one want to get at he suddenly,

in any emergency, and everything have to be do through Gilbert. it

might be most awkward.’



she speak with entire tranquillity of mien and voice, and stand

before the look-glass over the mantelpiece, arrange the flower

in her corsage, with droop eyelid and leisurely finger. it be

evidently a purely imaginary picture that she draw. but Eleanor

look up sharply, remember what she have witness that very

evening. Magdalen, however, be no person to whom she could disclose

her vague and shadowy fear. there be nothing for it but silence.

she give a troubled sigh.









                             CHAPTER XXXVII



                               the return





with Otho’s absence and silence, the uneasiness and the fear which

he seem to bring with he, like so many invisible but potent

attendant, gradually die away and be lull into serenity. the

great house be close. the Thorsgarth shooting be let, so Eleanor

hear. she never go near the place, and hear nothing of it all.

her own life be sweet to she just now, and full of hope. the most

beautiful season of the year float by like an ideal, a dream of

peace and of calm, yet ample life.



it would be almost impossible to imagine anything more beautiful

than the aspect of Teesdale—especially of that portion of

Teesdale—in the month of September and October—when they be fine

and seasonable that be, and bring such sky, such wind, and such

sun as be due, in these two most gorgeous month of the year.



in this particular season they be all that could be desire, and

our lover—for lover they be, though no explicit word of love have

ever pass between they—enjoy their glory to their heart’s

content. Eleanor be satisfied that Michael do not speak to she;

the spell of the present time be so delicious that she would not

have have it break. she have forget outside trouble and

difficulty; she only feel that all be well, and that a happiness

await she in the future, so great that she could well afford to

wait for it.



September sigh itself out in golden glory, leave a luxury of

ripen tint on every tree, fill the tangled hedge with

many-colour flame of die weed; for, as every one know who

live in the country, the small plant that grow in the ditch

and near to the ground—the wild geranium, the small hemlock, or

that plant which be akin to it, the rose-bush, the hawthorn, and

wild guelder rise—these be the thing that ‘turn’ first, these the

object on which autumn first place her crimson finger; and then,

when she have embellish the hedge, and be pleased with the result

of her handiwork, she become bold, mount higher, attack the

tree—the oak and the beech first, the sycamore and the ash

follow in their turn. then it be that the river gain his

strong voice, and rush along, ever more tumultuously. then it be

that o’ night the air be keen, and that at that hour which have say

good-bye to afternoon, and be not yet evening, there be a strange,

metallic, lambent light in the sky, a light which seem also almost

to crackle and sparkle in the very atmosphere, a magic, unearthly

light, which have its charm for those who love to study nature in

she more obscure phase.



it be on a glorious, crisp afternoon, a little beyond the middle of

October, that Eleanor return to the Dower House, after drive

about a bevy of little johnson the whole afternoon. she dress

herself then, and go to dine and spend the evening at the old

doctor’s house. after dinner Michael come in. he seem lately to

have enjoy an unusual quantity of leisure in the evening hour.

the talk turn to book; amongst other book to a book of poetry,

some passage in which be dispute. Eleanor say that she have the

book, and would go across to her house and fetch it. upon this

Michael announce that he should convey she across the square, and

have go as far as the door of the doctor’s house with she, when his

old friend, who be in his library, call to he, hear his step.



‘go to he,’ say Eleanor. ‘I will fetch the book, and return to

you.’ and she walk quickly across the square to her own door.



arrive there, she find a woman’s figure stand, in an uncertain

attitude, near it. something—a nameless chill, an unspeakable dread,

take possession of she. she do not speak, but paused, look at

the figure, her mind disturb with vague recollection of Otho’s

last visit.



‘Miss Askam!’ say the loiterer, in an uncertain voice.



‘yes; who be it?’



‘it be I—Ada. I want to speak to you.’



‘come in with I, then,’ she reply, but feel all the time that she

be invite some great terror and woe to enter her house.



she open the door, and lead Ada into the drawing-room, turn up

the light, and look at she; and as she look, the word be

freeze upon her lip at the aspect of the figure before she. have not

the voice say, ‘it be I—Ada,’ she would scarcely have recognise

this countenance. Ada wear a large, thick, woollen shawl, fall

loosely about she; and a small hat, from under which show a face

which have age by twenty year, and which be not only aged, but

seam, furrow, wear with line of what must have be mortal

anguish, see that every one of they have be stamp in less than

five short month. the pretty, delicate, meaningless face be clean

go: in its stead there be a mask, betray a mind devour by

misery; eye which look at once hard and frightened, hunt and

yet defiant—the eye of an animal at bay; a countenance to fill the

most indifferent beholder with horror.



strike literally speechless, Eleanor stand, her hand on the table,

and stare at the figure with wide open eye, while she feel cold

and terror seize every limb. what do this apparition want with she

or her? a sickly dread, a kind of dim first suspicion of the

meaning of it all creep into her heart.



‘Miss Askam,’ say this spectre of Ada Dixon, in a low and husky

voice, ‘I’m in trouble.’



‘yes,’ almost gasp the other.



‘I’m come to you, since it be no use write to your brother. where

be he?’



the tongue of Eleanor at first clave to the roof of her mouth; at

last, in a hoarse voice, she ask—



‘what have you to do with my brother?’



with a swift motion, Ada unfasten the pin at her throat; her shawl

slide from her shoulder to the ground, and she confront Eleanor.



trembling overpower the latter. Speech be at first deny she.

she could stand no more, but crouch upon a chair, and gasp out—



‘oh, horrible, horrible!’



suddenly a wild gleam of hope cross her mind. why be she assume

the very bad to have happen? by what right do she condemn not

only Otho, but Ada? she spring up again, go close to the girl, and

almost whisper—



‘do he not marry you?’



‘marry I!’ repeat Ada, in a fearful voice of bitterness, scorn,

and despair. ‘Nay, he only swear he would, again and again.’



‘and—and——’ she shiver still. ‘and when be this?’



‘it be in March,’ reply Ada, with stony composure. ‘when I be

stay in Wensleydale, and he be in Friarsdale, and he meet I

every day, and say he’d never care for anybody else. I’ve write

to he—a hundred letter. he have never answer one. I think he

be at home now; I hear so. I come to tell he he must—to shame

he, if I couldn’t persuade he; and now ... he’s not here. no one

know ... where he be.’



with an hysterical sob she sink together in the corner of a couch.



‘in March,’ Eleanor be repeat to herself, with mechanical calm,

and clench her hand, to keep herself still. ‘March—and this be

October. there be yet time.’



that be all she could think of at the moment. there be no time, no

possibility for anything else. her brain feel wound up to this

emergency, and to nothing more. she walk up to Ada, and touch

she.



‘your parent—what do they know?’



‘nothing,’ say Ada, in a dull, colourless monotone. ‘mother be

away, or I dare not have come home. Father be away for the night.

he’ll be back to-morrow: he will find out ... he will turn I out of

door. oh, Miss Askam, save I, save I, save I!’



‘hush!’ say Eleanor, quietly. ‘let I think. some one must have

know—the people you be stay with—your aunt?’



‘she would keep I no long. I put she off by tell she that he

be come down there to marry I—that he’d send I there to wait

for he. I say it all depend on her keeping silence; that be why

she let I stay so long.’



‘at what time will your father be back?’



‘at eleven to-morrow morning, they say.’



‘you will go home now, and stay there all night. at nine o’clock

to-morrow morning come to I. I shall have have time to make

arrangement then. I will see your father. I do not think he will

turn you out of door. if he do, you shall come here. I will send

for—my brother. I think I can make he come. I do not wish to seem

harsh to you, but you must go home now, that I may have time to

arrange thing. you will go to your room at once, when you get home.

you understand—you can say you be tired. try not to be frightened,’

she add, bend over Ada, who be crouch in an attitude of

blank despair; ‘because I can shelter you, and I will do so, as God

be above we. I promise you this. now go.’



slowly Ada rise. Eleanor feel afraid lest she should break down

before she have leave the house. but she do not. she submit to

have her shawl pin on again, and with the same look of utter,

vacant despair, walk away.



‘either it will turn her brain or kill she,’ Eleanor feel, as the

girl depart, and she sit down at the table, and rest her head on

her hand, and try to put away the recollection of the awful

figure she have see, and to reflect upon what must be do. but she

scarcely have sufficient power yet, over her emotion, to be able to

reflect. she could only remember, and shudder, and feel horrified,

while all kind of wild speculation dart through her mind, as to

the effect the event would have upon this person, and that person;

and, above all, she wonder how it be that it have never for one

moment occur to any of they that when Ada be in Wensleydale, and

Otho in Friarsdale, they might easily have meet. in fact, she could

think of nothing but of the thing itself, and the crushing, the

overwhelming horror of it, except that every now and then a thought

cross her mind that something must be do at once, and that there

be no one but herself to do it; which thought reduce she to

complete powerlessness.



while she sit in this chaos of thought and emotion she hear a knock

at the door. she say nothing; she have forget all about the

little thing that one remember at ordinary time, and after a

moment, while she still sit, unheede, it be gently open, and

Michael Langstroth look in.



‘I have be send to fetch you,’ he have begin, and then he come to a

dead stop, as he see and comprehend her strange attitude; and

when, at his voice, she raise her head and look at he, he behold

her face, and know that since she have quit they, a quarter of an

hour ago, something terrible have happen to she. and he know that

moment—he do not in so many word state it to himself, but he know

it—that it be to he she would appeal for help. he be glad of

that, but he be sorry that he have let the day go by in a dream,

and have not give she the right to come to he, without thought and

without question.



Eleanor, as she look at he, feel at first a little bewildered. so

overwhelm be she with what have pass, that it be a moment or

two before she actually realise who he be.



‘I will lift up mine eye unto the hill,’ say the Psalmist, ‘from

whence cometh my help.’ and, in a certain degree, it be so with

she. a voice supreme and unerring speak to she; all her nature,

every fibre seem to bow to an overwhelming intuition which

direct she towards the man who stand before she, look so

earnestly down upon she. she love he, and that with a love which

have grow into a great passion, and an absorbing one. but it be

something different—something deep and high than even this great

love which impel her action now;—instinct, some might call it,

and other say that she have naturally a gift for read character

correctly, and for discern which person be, and which be not

to be rely upon. she herself would have say that God inspire

she. she sit motionless for a moment, bend to this inner voice

which speak to she, acknowledge what her belief tell she be the

providential arrival of the one person whom she would most

implicitly trust—and fight down the unwillingness—natural and

good in itself, but which she feel it be useless to stand upon

now—to speak openly of such thing as have happen, to a man who be

neither her husband, her father, nor her brother. and then, she

resolution take, or rather, that importunate inner voice obey,

she get up, and lean over the table towards he, say—



‘I want to know if you will help I in a very great trouble?’



‘with every power that I have, I will help you,’ he reply,

unhesitatingly, and wait to hear what it be that he have to do.



‘since I come in I have hear of a thing that have happen. I hardly

know how to tell you of it. it make I feel as if I have be

laugh and amuse myself in some room, underneath which another

person be be torture to death.’



her lip be parch; her eye dilate.



‘if I do not trust you _entirely_,’ she say, as if she appeal to

he, ‘I could not tell you.’



for a moment she be silent, while Michael wait, and then, turn

to he again, tell he, unfalteringly, of the discovery she have

make, and repeat, word for word, the conversation between herself

and Ada. Michael listen in perfect silence; it be, he feel, the

only way in which to hear such a tale.



‘I have send her home,’ Eleanor say at last, ‘that I might try to

think. she be safe for to-night, since she say her mother be away,

and her father will not return before eleven to-morrow. I have tell

she to come here early—at nine to-morrow morning. I think I would

keep she here till her parent know. I think her father have a heart,

but I cannot endure that woman, her mother. I feel that she would

rail at she—not because she have do wrong, but because she have

fail in get marry to Otho.’



he nod.



‘do you think I have do right?’



‘perfectly right. there be nothing else to be do. do you know

where—he—be?’



he speak as if he find a difficulty in find a term by which to

speak of Otho.



‘no, I do not; but your—Mr. Langstroth know all about he. he give

I his address at Christmas, and I have keep it. it be through he

we shall have to send.... it be now clear to I why Otho would not

give his address to Magdalen.’



‘I see. the thing be, suppose he do not choose to answer the

summon—your brother, I mean. you say she say she have write to

he?’



‘a hundred time, she say, and receive no answer.’



‘that look very much as if he have choose to desert she entirely,

and do not intend to notice any demand. I fear he will not come if

we send for he.’



‘I do not know that. I think he may. I have an idea in my mind. I

will tell you why I have it, afterwards. since you tell I what his

besetting sin be, I have watch he carefully. he do what he

feel inclined to do, and leave the result to chance. I have see

it in a thousand thing, great and small. I can tell no reason why

he should have commit this crime—his heart be black—I do not

understand such thing. but I believe that when last he see the

girl, he do not know of this, and that he be tired of the caprice,

and afraid that her letter might tell he of some such thing; so he

have never read they, but trust to his god, chance, that they do

not tell he what he do not want to hear. I see he burn a thing

one day, without open it. your brother ask he why he do that,

when he know it be a bill he would have to pay. he say he know

nothing till he have read it.’



she also tell he of the episode she have see between Otho and the

young woman who have be singe.



‘the expression on his face be fear,’ she go on, as coolly as she

could. ‘I do not understand it then. now I do. it be dusk. he

could not see the figure properly; he fear to meet Ada; he think

for a moment that it be Ada, come to accuse he of his sin. all the

time he be here he must have be haunt by the fear that she

might confront he. his question to we about she, be for a blind;

and I think he want to get some news of she, without seem to

seek it. as we tell he nothing, he choose to behave as if there be

nothing to tell. this have all come into my mind since I have see

Ada. perhaps I be wrong; but if I be right—and I believe I be, and

we send a message to Mr. Gilbert Langstroth, Otho will know what it

mean, and will come.’



‘could Gilbert have know?’



‘no, no, no!’ she exclaim, vehemently. ‘I will stake my life on it

that he do not.’



‘I think your theory may be quite right, up to a certain point. you

may be right as to the past, that is, for that would be quite

consistent with his character. but I doubt your sanguine

anticipation be correct. I doubt his come, if we send for he.

suppose he be out of England, and refuse to come; because it would

be so much easy for he just to leave she to you, or to herself,

or to her fate.’



‘there be some little time yet. if he do not answer, I will go to

he where he be, and make he come. I will so speak to he that he

shall not dare do anything but come. I will die, but I will force

he to make what miserable reparation lie with he. he be poor

now,’ she add, with a peculiar smile, such as Michael have never

see upon her face before. ‘before very long, he will be a pauper. I

know it. he will be dependent upon I. I have understand that for

some little time past. but if he do not come home and marry Ada, I

will let he die of hunger in the street, rather than give he a

penny.’



she do not speak noisily nor vehemently, but Michael see that she

be quite prepared to carry out her word.



‘then you have a strong hold upon he,’ he say. ‘now, what we have

to do, be to telegraph to Gilbert. we can, of course, have an answer

from he to-morrow. by the way, it cannot go before to-morrow. then

we shall know well what to do. if you will give I pen and paper,

we can perhaps agree together what to say.’



Eleanor bring the writing thing, and after various false

attempt, they decide to send:—



‘send O. A. here instantly, on a matter of life and death. not an

hour to be lose. if he be not near, send information how he be

soon to be find.’



‘I will see that it go first thing in the morning,’ say he. ‘and

you say Ada be come to you?’



‘yes; at nine.’



‘that be well. she could not be in a well place. do not leave your

house yourself. I will see Mr. Dixon. there be no necessity for you

to trouble. try to make her talk to you about it; do you understand?

it will be well for she than anything. it may save her life and

her reason.’



‘yes, I will do so. do you think I should send for she here

to-night?’



‘no, I do not. it would excite the curiosity and suspicion of your

own servant, and the tale would be over the whole village long

before morning. I shall be oblige to tell they over the way,

though,’ he add, ‘because it might be just possible that Gilbert’s

reply might make it necessary for some one to go up to town, to

settle thing more expeditiously. I might go up alone; or if you

go, I would go with you—if I may.’



‘if you may!’ she repeat, in a falter voice, ‘what could _I_

have do without you!’



‘another time,’ say he, look straight into her eye, ‘I will

tell you something. we have other thing to think about now. be as

tranquil as you can, and remember that you could have do nothing

but what you have do.’



he wring her hand without say anything more, and leave she.



they have search their heart to find what be the good to do in

this terrible emergency, and be at one on the point they do it.

the time in which to decide be short, and they do not know the

whole extent of the woe about which they be, as it be,

legislate. perhaps they tacitly agree that the nature which have

endure so long could endure till to-morrow morning. they know not

what be the principal factor in the sum of the event, in the

midst of which they find themselves without a moment’s warning.

those factor be despair, and the prompting of a heart which have

literally have all life and all reason grind out of it by seven

month of perfect wretchedness.



Eleanor sleep little that night, and wait with sicken anxiety

for nine o’clock. it come, but bring not Ada with it. half-past

nine; yea, ten have strike, and she come not. thrill with

uneasiness, Eleanor know not what to do. she fear by make

inquiry to excite suspicion. unhappy and uncertain, she wait

till about half-past ten. Michael call, and, without sit down,

just tell she not to make herself more uneasy than be necessary,

but that he have be at Mr. Dixon’s, intend to appoint a meeting

with he on his return. his assistant say he have have a letter from

he, defer his return till the follow day, and that the maid

have tell he that Miss Dixon have go out, and up the town, without

wait for any breakfast.



Eleanor feel her heart in her mouth.



‘have she go out to kill herself?’ she whispered.1



‘I do not think so,’ say Michael. ‘she cannot have wander very

far. you shall have news as soon as I can send it. there be only one

road out of this end of the town, and I be ride that way. good

morning.’



so she be leave alone, with the conviction that Michael himself be

far more disturbed than he choose to tell she. fear and terror

loom up like giant shadow in the background of her mind, and so

she pass the most terrible day of her life.









                            CHAPTER XXXVIII



                                  ADA





Ada have go home, after leave the Dower House. the maid have tell

Michael that Miss Dixon have go out about eight o’clock, in her

bonnet and shawl, without any breakfast, and that she have have

nothing to eat after her arrival at home. she have never, indeed,

take her thing off; but be in exactly the same dress she have wear

on her journey to Bradstane, which have be a long and fatigue

one. on go home from her interview with Eleanor, she go

upstairs, partly in mechanical obedience to a remembered mandate of

Miss Askam’s, partly automatically.



she never undressed, or even lie down on her bed. part of the cruel

night she spend in sit on a chair by the wall, stare with

blank eye into the darkness, and repressing, half mechanically, the

moan that rise to her lip. another portion of her vigil be

consume in a restless wandering to and fro. her chamber be over

the empty parlour. no one would hear or heed her footstep. at last,

find the darkness unbearable, she strike a match, and light two

candle which stand on the dressing-table, and gaze about the room.

it be her own bedroom that she be in, and the bed, beside which

she sit, be the bed in which Ada Dixon have sleep—the same Ada Dixon

who have feel indignant and insult when her plain-speak lover have

tell she that no honest girl require notice from her superior. how

very angry she have be when he say it. at this recollection she

hold her hand before her mouth to stifle a shriek. in this room,

before that look-glass, how many hour have she spend, try the

effect of this, that, or the other piece of finery; endeavour to

model her bonnet, her hat, her mantle, and her gown upon those

of her patroness, Magdalen Wynter? in that desk, stand upon the

little round table in the corner, how many note might be repose,

indite by Otho Askam? note slip into her hand under Magdalen’s

very eye, when he have meet she at Balder Hall; behind she

unsuspecting father’s back, when she happen to be in the shop.

note contain at first nothing but a rather heavy style of

compliment, adapt to a taste not over-fastidious in such matter;

tragic effusion, when read by the light of this present;

ponderously comic, if view critically on their intrinsic merit as

composition.



when have it first seriously occur to she that she might become

Mrs. Askam, of Thorsgarth? why, on that night, a hundred year ago,

when there have be a grand concert, at which she have sing—when Miss

Wynter have be flout, and Ada flatter and compliment.



that be the night Roger have come in in such a fury, and carry

she away. Roger—Roger—her thought wander—who be Roger, and

what have he to do with she? they be engage to be marry

once—now—yet——yes, and in November he be to come and see she.



again a scream of wild laughter rise to her lip. again she manage

to stifle it, and again her mind revert, whether she would or no,

to her horror, her nightmare, the history of the last seven month.

she recollect how Otho have appear one day at the farmhouse where

she be stay, and have pay her compliment; how she, grow bold

now that Magdalen be not present to overawe she, have, in a perkish

manner, chaff he about his engagement; to which he have retort

that he be not married yet, and that engagement might be break

off; and have appeal to her admire cousin to know if Miss Dixon

would not grace any sphere, even the most exalted. she remember

the gradually arise passion in his look and his word, and how

she herself, by one of those mysterious attraction which we see

daily exemplified, have find herself spellbound by he in a manner

which Roger could never have compass if he have die for it.

Temptation, kiss, promise—such profuse promise, appeal with

instinctive acuteness to her vanity, her love of distinction—the

strange eye which magnetise and fascinate she; a brief, delirious

dream—and since then, hell, by day and by night; not from the sense

of defilement which would kill some nature—but, let the truth be

write of she; she have her compeer in many place—from the

scorching conviction that if, or when, she be find out, disgrace

and contumely would be her portion.



she recall the parting from Roger—when she have dismiss he in

the pride of her heart, at a time when hope be still strong; and

though she be begin to have sicken qualm, yet she have be

delude enough to mistake his footstep behind she for Otho’s, and

have have a wild idea that he have at last break with Magdalen, and

be come to save and to claim she. then her departure; the letter

she have write, which have never be notice; her aunt’s gradually

awakened suspicion, and the tale she have tell to stave off ruin

and discovery; her journey home in flutter hope, and desperate

resolve; for a letter from home in which her father have express

himself obscurely, have make she think Otho be at Thorsgarth. how

she have make inquiry, and learn that he have be go a month or

more. then Eleanor, and her promise, and how she be to go and see

she in the morning.



the night hour pass swiftly in this consume vigil, and

presently Ada see that it be broad day, time, therefore, to go and

see Miss Askam. that be her one thought now, that she be to go and

see Miss Askam. and yet, her mind be more than a little

wandering, she do not realise that though daylight, it be not yet

the appoint time; but go downstairs, and let herself out of the

house. the maid be at work in the kitchen; but she be a new-comer

since Ada have leave home, and do not therefore address she, or ask

she any question.



when Ada be out in the street she feel very weak and very strange,

but she look at a clock which stand over a public building, nearly

opposite her father’s house. the hand point to eight; and then

she remember vaguely that Miss Askam have say nine; she must not

go before nine.



she would take a little walk then, in the early freshness; she could

not go back to that dreadful room. besides, she have advance a

little up the town, into the square: there be Miss Askam’s blind

still down; it would not do to go there yet, though she long to do

so, and, have she be in her right mind, would have knock without

further ado, confident in the generous charity of the other woman.



so she wander on, out of the town, faint and feeble for want of

food and rest; crazy, and grow every moment more so, with woe,

and fear, and wretchedness. soon she be on a lonely road,

stretch out to the north-east, with few house, and, at that

hour, scarcely a person on it. how beautiful it all be, in this

golden morning sunshine, with the mist rise from the river, and

the tree, clothe in yellow and scarlet and russet, heavy and droop

in the windless air of a frosty October morning, precursor of a

glorious autumn day!



then she emerge from the shade of these tree, and find herself

upon a wild upland road, with sweep of country stretch far and

wide around she; field of yellow stubble, pasture, meadow;

stretch of heavy wood; here and there the gleam of the river, and

on every side, the wall of blue fell in the distance. the rough,

uphill road lie before she, with scarce a house to be see; and

overhead a blue sky, from which fleecy white cloud be everywhere

roll back to show the fathomless, serene expanse.



‘ay, but I’m so tired, so tired!’ Ada sigh, as she stumble, and

then recover herself. ‘this be not be a lady; why do he not

come home? if I have the carriage he promise me,—he say he would

drive to Balder Hall with I, to see Miss Wynter, and show she what

he think of I, when we be marry.’



here she find herself opposite to a tiny house at the roadside, or

rather, at a corner where four road meet; and at its door a woman

stand, see she, call out to she, and wish her good day.



‘good day!’ say Ada, with a sudden affectation of her old mincing

manner. ‘might I beg a drink of water from you?’



the woman, who be kindly, though rough, would have have she come in

and have some bread and milk, but she would not. she have quite

forget Eleanor Askam by this time, and say she have far to go,

and must not wait. the water be bestow upon she, and she stand to

drink it, hold the cup with her right hand, while her leave rest

upon the table. the woman look at she, and draw her own

conclusion from what she see. Ada thank she, with an affectation

of superiority and patronage, and leave the cottage. its mistress

stand watch she, as she turn to the right, along a high,

toilsome road, and march slowly and heavily along it.



‘some poor crazy creature, whose hour be not far off. God pity she!’

she say within herself, and for a moment feel inclined to run after

the girl, and insist on shelter she. but the thought of she

‘man,’ and the trouble he would feel it to have such a person in the

house deter she. she go inside again, to her morning’s work.



Ada creep on, till she see at a little distance, gray farm-building

and a whitewashed house, with a long, low front; and it come across

her mind that she could not walk any far, but that she would go

there, and ask they to let she rest till her carriage come, which

be to meet she there, and take her home to lunch. and if they ask

she who she be—why, the answer be simple—Mrs. Askam, of

Thorsgarth. and in fancy, she see curtsey drop, and hear they

beg she to be seat. for she be now quite crazy, only in this

way; the connect string in all her wild thought, be the vague

recollection of real promise.



before she arrive at the farm, she swerve to one side; her knee

give way, and in a little hollow in the wall, where there be a heap

of stone, she sink down, feel as if she be go to sleep; but

the sleep become a long, deadly faint, and Ada Dixon, the pet

beauty of the old town where she have be bear and breed, who have

be the plighted wife of a good man, lie in a heap by the roadside,

with only the broad sky above she, with nothing but her mother earth

on which to rest her dainty limb.



and here she continue to lie, till Michael Langstroth ride up,

having make inquiry on his way, and learn from the woman at the

cross-road, that such a young woman as he describe have pass.



‘ay, doctor,’ say the woman, who know he, though not Ada. ‘she be

none fit to be walk on such road at such time. I want she to

bide a bit, and rest; but nay—she say she have far to go, and yon’s

t’ road she take.’



Michael ride on, determine to find she, for Roger’s sake, for the

sake of Eleanor, and out of his own pity for her condition. he be

not long in come within sight of the gray stone farm, and within a

stone’s throw of it, the curve in the wall, and the figure that lie

beneath it.



he mutter an inarticulate word, as he spring from his horse, and

stoop over she, and when he see her face, recoil for a moment.

for a brief instant or two he could see nothing distinctly, a film

be over his eye, and a great sob in his throat, as he turn, and

hang his horse’s bridle over the post of a gate in the wall he then

stoop down, raise the lifeless figure in his arm, and carry

she over the rough road to the farm door. the dog, who be his

friend, come out to welcome he, and then stop, sniff

suspiciously at the skirt of the strange burden he bear. the

farmer’s wife see he, and run forward, with upraised hand, ‘Lord

’a mercy, Dr. Langstroth—what is’t?’



‘Mrs. Nadin, you have promise many a time to do I a good turn; and

I want a very good one do now. give a shelter to this poor thing

till her trouble be over; it be a sad tale, and I’ll tell it you

afterwards.’



Mrs. Nadin make no more ado. Langstroth have, accord to she, save

her husband’s life two year ago, and with true north country love,

she have be ever since burn to ‘pay he back again.’ she only

stop to look at the girl’s face, and to ejaculate Ada’s name.

then she call her daughter to her aid, and they whisper

horror-strike conjecture to one another as they tend the wretched

young woman.



and here, under the roof of these pitiful stranger, be that

evening bear, before his time, the son of Otho Askam—a child of

sorrow, if ever one come into the world.









                             CHAPTER XXXIX



                              the brother





it be late in the evening of the same day. Eleanor and Michael be

alone together in her drawing-room. she have not be leave alone all

day. unable to bear the solitude and suspense alone, she have send

for Mrs. Parker, who, of course, know all the story from Michael.

the good lady have come, and remain with she during all the hour

of waiting and terror. when Michael be announce, Eleanor have say

she would like to see he alone, and Mrs. Parker have go into

another room. he have come in, look both tired and haggard; for

what have happen have strike he, both through his friend, and

through the woman he love. though Roger have now no connection with

Ada, Michael know he too well to suppose for a moment that he have,

or could have, cease to love she, in the space of five short

month. the bad agony of separation might be over, but he could

imagine what this news would be to the man who have love this

unhappy girl so tenderly and so faithfully. as for Eleanor, she

suffering be his suffering now. and thirdly, there be himself

and his own sensation in the matter. he have never admire Ada, and

have always be sorry that she have be Roger’s choice; but it have

never enter into his head to dream of such a _dénouement_ to the

broad farce he have see play at the concert. it be not that he

have credit Otho with be any well than he be, but it have not

occur to he to look at such a side as be possible to the

affair. if any one have suggest it to he, he would have say

first, that Otho would not dare to commit such a sin where a girl of

Ada’s upbringing be concern, and next, that Ada herself be

beyond suspicion. the whole thing have burst upon he, and he be

fill with disgust and horror, such as a man whose mind and life

have be alike clean, must feel when he come face to face with

such a history, and find it intrude itself into the most intimate

relation of his own life.



summon up his courage, he have tell she all that have happen. she

have at first be stand. as he proceed, her face go paler;

her limb tremble. at the picture of how he have find Ada lie by

the roadside, the tear rain from her eye. and when he cease to

speak she be seat at the table, her head bury in her arm, as

if she would fain have hide her face from he and from all the

world. indeed, a cloud of great darkness hang over her soul, and it

seem for the moment as if neither religion nor hope, nor any good

thing could stand in the presence of overwhelming, triumphant

villainy like this. Michael be watch she silently, while a

conflict be go on in his own mind. she consider he the

embodiment of strength and goodness, and believe implicitly in a

most godlike mind which she attribute to he. and he know she

think that of he. woman’s eye have the habit of confide such

opinion, to the man concern whom they hold they, when their

tongue may not say the same thing. Michael know very well that he

be nothing at all like what she imagine he to be; indeed, he

perhaps would not have be what she think he if he could. he

be, as he know, something a great deal more serviceable and useful

in this working day world—a man, with a man’s want and failing and

weakness. and the desire which just then be strong in he than

anything else be, not to lecture this young woman, from the

superior standpoint of a godlike intelligence, on the futility of

her cry and tear, but to clasp she in his arm, and tell she that

it be all very dreadful—even more dreadful than she in her

innocence know or could understand yet, and that he only ask she

to let he take the half of all her trouble upon himself. that be

his impulse, even as he stand here. and the conflict agency,

which beat back this desire be, the fear lest to do what he wish

now might bear the semblance of entrap she, of take she

unawares, and of make she need into his opportunity. not very

godlike this, nor very superior, but quite human.



‘all be of no use, then?’ she say at last, raise her face,

tear-stain and disfigure, from her hand, and look at he.

then, as if a sudden thought have strike she, she rise and come

hastily near to where he stand.



‘how stupid of I to sit cry there, and think of nothing but

myself, while _you_ think of every one except yourself. you wish I

to go to she, do you not? and I will go. I will be ready directly,

if you will wait. I never think of it. if he desert she, I will

not. if I can do nothing else, I can sit by she, and people can hear

that I be there. that be always something.’



she make a step as if to go to the door. Michael catch her hand to

detain she.



‘no, no! I be think nothing of the kind,’ say he. ‘you must not

go. do you know—but of course you don’t—that she be perfectly insane

at this present moment? she would not know you. she do not know

I; and she would shriek with horror if any one show she her

child. she be in the right hand, and you must not go near she.’



‘mad—but she will get well?’



‘I hope so—at least, perhaps she may.’



‘but she will recover her reason?’



‘most likely, if she live. but it may be a long time first.’



stay in her desire to go to Ada’s help, and as it be cast back

upon herself, Eleanor stand droop for a moment.



‘have you have no telegram from London?’ he ask.



‘oh, I have nearly forget. this be it,’ she say, take it from

the mantelpiece. Michael read—



‘your message receive and attend to.’ it be from Gilbert. he

turn it over reflectively.



‘H’m! I wonder what that mean.’



‘can it mean that he be come? I wish he have be more explicit.’



‘he would not wish to excite suspicion. bradstane suspicion be

easily arouse. if he do come, it would be by the south mail, which

be due in a quarter of an hour. if you like, if you will allow I, I

will wait with you till he come; or rather, till we see whether he

come.’



‘you be very good. you be sure there be nothing more that I can

do?’



‘nothing, at present.’



‘then shall we go to the other room, and stay with Mrs. Parker till

we know what happen?’



‘if you like,’ say Michael, slowly; and he feel as if some live,

tangible thing be rush on wing of swiftness towards they, so

visibly, to he, do the moment approach when the veil between they

should be rent aside. yet he make a step towards the door, as if to

open it for she; and she move towards it too, and swerve

unsteadily to one side, for excitement and suspense have tell upon

she and weaken she. Michael know that she be proud, and that her

pride impel she to conceal what she feel as long as be

practicable; but not the slight sign or movement that she make

could escape he. he be at her side in an instant.



‘no, stay here! do not go into the other room,’ he say, take she

hand. ‘I will bring Mrs. Parker to you, if you like; but do you stay

here.’



he have a firm hand, and a grasp at once strong and gentle; and as

she feel her hand in it she pause again, steady herself against

the head of a sofa, and look at he, half-affright, half-eager,

at the look she encounter.



‘it be nothing—the weakness of a moment,’ she say. ‘I will conquer

it. I must not give way now.’



‘I think you must,’ say he, as he release her hand, and stand

before she for a moment. ‘you be faint; you be weak; you be

break. this battle be one for which you have never be train.

give way; it be the good.’



‘and what be to become of I if I do?’ she ask, blankly.



Michael open wide his arm. she look at he for a little while,

and then, with a low sobbing, as of one who be weary and

break-hearted, move towards he as he towards she, and find she

rest.



                   *      *      *      *      *



they be still sit together, when a ring sound through the

house.



‘that be just the time for the people from the south to come in,’

say Eleanor. and in another moment she maid have usher Gilbert

Langstroth into the room. both of they notice the expression upon

Gilbert’s face as he come in. it be one of eager expectancy. both

see the glance which fall from his eye upon Eleanor. it chill

she; it be like the look he have bestow upon she when he have send

she the flower, before he have preach to she a sermon on the

necessity of evil to the development of good in the world. but from

she, his eye fall upon Michael, and his face change. he be quite

silent. she rise, look at he tremulously.



‘you be very, very good. I do not quite know what to expect from

your message,’ say she.



‘I know you would not. I could not explain in a telegram. from

your, I gather that some kind of storm have burst, and that you

be in trouble.’



‘I be in such trouble, that but for he,’ she say, slowly, and

stop a moment, lay her hand upon Michael’s arm, and look

very earnestly at Gilbert, who have go very pale. Michael have not

change. but as Eleanor pause, Gilbert’s eager look all fade, and

he shake slightly from head to foot. the two brother be regard

one another; for the first time for six year they be actually

confront. they must, to carry this business through, have some

kind of intercourse and communication.



‘but for he,’ she go on, ‘I could have do nothing. I—a woman,

could have do nothing to any purpose.’



she look from one to the other of they earnestly, imploringly, and

still there be silence; till at last she sit down at the table,

rest her arm upon it, and lean forward say, first to one and

then to the other—



‘Michael, you have spend your strength and your time this day in

help those who have never do you any good, in try to save

they from the effect of their sin, at least. and you, Gilbert,

have come promptly here on no selfish errand. at my call you have

come quickly to help I, who have no claim at all upon you. so good,

and so considerate and helpful to other, will you go on hate each

other; will you not be brother again?’



the two man be look into each other’s eye, and Michael at last

know what that strange, potent sensation have be, which have shake

he on encounter Gilbert’s look that night, when they have be

almost side by side at the concert-room. not hate, not resentment,

as he have fancy; neither one nor the other; but his old love for

his brother, the ancient, inborn love, which not all the anger,

enmity, and bitterness have succeed in quenching. and the voice

which address they both, go on speak still, earnestly,

tremulously, with passionate conviction—



‘if but one good thing come out of all this blackness, would it not

be well than nothing—nothing but sin and sorrow? and there be so

much grief and so much wrong in the world, that if man have not

forgiveness to fight they with, I do not see how there could be any

chance for happiness at all.’



there be another little pause. at last Gilbert say, in a low

voice—



‘I never hate he——’



without quite know how, they find their hand clasp, each in

one of the other’s, and Michael say, ‘shall it be all over,

Gilbert?’



‘from the bottom of my heart.’



‘then let we say no more about it.’



Eleanor rise.



‘I shall leave you,’ she say, gently. ‘stay here if you choose. I

shall go to Mrs. Parker.’



Gilbert and Michael both make a movement towards the door, but

something in Gilbert’s look cause Michael to fall back and yield

place to his brother. he turn away, go inside the room again,

and look into the fire, feel that he could afford to be very

magnanimous.



Gilbert open the door, and as Eleanor be pass out, he say to

she almost in a whisper—



‘only one word. you and he—be you—have he—have you give he any

promise?’



Eleanor look at he steadily, though without any of the old

distrust, and then answer he in the same voice, but with a proud

smile—



‘I have promise he everything. I have give my life into his

hand.’



‘I be too late?’



she hesitate, look troubled. Gilbert smile slightly.



‘I should always have be too late, Eleanor?’



she look at he appealingly, and incline her head. he bow to

she, and she go quickly away. Gilbert return to the room, and to

his brother.



‘I shall never want to say anything to she again, Michael, that you

may not hear.’



Michael look at he, but say nothing, and Gilbert go on—



‘shall we have to see she again to-night—on this matter, I mean?’



‘no. let we go to my house, if you will come. there be a black

business to be settle, soon or later.’



CHAPTER XL



‘amidst the blaze of NOON’



Michael take his brother home, and so true be it that time and life

can and do, if not wipe out, yet blur and deface the recollection of

the stern and most terrible past scene, that Michael never once

think, as he open the door, and usher Gilbert in, of how that

door have last close upon his companion. Gilbert, however,

remember it—remember many other thing too, as he enter the

familiar square hall, and look furtively round at the well-know

thing which still furnish it. when they get into the library,

some recollection of it all seem to come to Michael too. perhaps

something in his brother’s attitude, and in the slow, stiff way in

which he move and gaze about he, recall past scene to his

mind. he turn to Gilbert, take his hand into one of his, and lay

the other upon his shoulder.



‘Gilbert, we have little time for go into old trouble, in the

midst of these new one; but, I say, let bygone be bygone. I be

more glad than I can tell you to see you here; and I would like you

to feel it your home again, if you can.’



Gilbert’s only present reply—though he have more to say, at some

future date—be to wring the hand that hold his. they understand

each other again, at last—or, perhaps, for the first time; and as

Michael say, there be no time for further explanation. he ring

the bell, and order refreshment for his brother; and while

Gilbert eat and drank, Michael sit con over a railway guide, and

jot down memoranda.



‘how long can you stay, Gilbert? over to-morrow?’



‘I could manage till the day after, if I wire to my head man

to-morrow morning.’



‘that be well. then to-morrow, I will leave you in charge here, and

go over to leed, and tell Roger of this. if I begin to write it, I

should make a mess of it, I know; besides, writing be cold-blooded

work, in such a case.’



‘it be all off between they, be it not?’



‘ay. but it never need have be, but for that d—d scoundrel

philander round the girl, and put she out of conceit with

Roger. it be his do from begin to end, and I must say I

should glory in see he punish as he deserve. I think he want

tear to piece. but don’t talk to I about it, or I shall lose

all my self-control, and I want it every bit.’



with which he return to the study of Bradshaw, try to make out

how he could soon get himself convey to Leeds, see Roger, and

return to Bradstane. and as he search in the railway guide, to see

how the train be connect on the different line, there come

into his mind a keen sense of the grimness of the contrast between

his errand, and the mean by which he be go to hurry to Roger

with his budget of ill-news, and back again.



our modern contrivance, indeed, for speedily move about from

place to place, and for dart news hither and thither, have a

certain appearance of haste and want of dignity when tragedy come

in question. and yet, it be surely a proof of the intrinsic might,

of the victorious power of great elementary human emotion, that

when they be every now and then call into play, in this decorous

age, it be they that triumph, and not the comfortable arrangement

which only take into account ease of mind and plenty of purse. love

and hate and despair go stride grimly or gloriously on, and live

their life, and strike their stroke, and sway the mind and soul

of those possess by they, and override the obstacle in their

course, as potently now as they do in more picturesque day.

Bradshaw and the penny post come in in a parenthesis, and the system

of electric telegraphy powerfully support they, so that we can send

the news of our own catastrophe, or of those of our neighbour,

with a speed unheard of a century ago, though even before then there

be a saying that ‘ill news travel fast.’ Nay, these thing, if

rightly consider, appear conducive to privacy rather than, as

might appear from a superficial glance, to publicity. for any one

who read a startling announcement in letter or newspaper, have the

habit, nowadays, of call it a _canard_, and of say that it be

sure to be contradict to-morrow. and so it often be. but even if

it be not, this beautiful system of Bradshaw, penny post and Co.,

have no soon certify the truth of one calamity, than it be ready

and to the fore with another, and a bad than the former one; which

second tragedy an intelligently interested public devour, even if

incredulous, with never-satiate delight; and thus the immediate

actor in the event chronicle be in reality leave almost as much

to themselves and their own devouring emotion, as they would have

be before the steam-engine be invent. the world have hear of

your domestic drama, that be true; and its detail have be print

in every daily paper throughout the kingdom. but the day after, it

be provide with something much more remarkable than your

twopenny-halfpenny calamity, and have forget in a week that it

ever hear your name.



some such train of thought be in Michael’s mind, as he pause to

consider the sequence in which he should arrange his different task

on the morrow. Gilbert’s voice break in upon his reverie. he have

rise, and stand with his back against the mantelpiece.



‘Michael, it seem that you and Miss Askam “understand each other,”

as the phrase go.’



‘yes, we do,’ say Michael.



‘I’ll make a clean breast of it. last year, I come down here with

some curiosity to see this girl who have come and plant herself

down with Otho. know what he be, I be undecided whether she be

very fast, or very silly. so I come prepared for a good deal of

amusement. you need not glare at I in that way. I would bet

something you have your own private bit of astonishment in the

matter, too. well, the very first time I see she, I understand one

thing—that she be neither fast nor silly, and the more I see of she

the more lose in astonishment I be. do you remember that knight in

“the Faery Queene”—I forget which he be—who come across a woman of

her sort, and be strike dumb by her goodness, till



             ‘“he himself, long gaze thereupon,

               at last fall humbly down upon his knee,

               and of his wonder make religion.”



it be something like that with I; and in a very short time I have

make up my mind that she be the woman I would marry, if I could

only get she to take I. and I have the good hope in the world, for

Otho have begin to conduct himself like a maniac, even then, and she

speedily find out that I be the only person who have any control

over he. well, then come that night of the concert; a good many

thing come about that night, it seem to I. and when I see you and

she in the same room together, and you speak to she, and she to

you, I be certain there be something of the kind go on.

Michael, I give she up from that moment.... and yet, when time go

on—it be nearly a year ago—and I hear of nothing between you, I

begin to think that, perhaps, after all, you have decide to have

nothing to do with one who belong to _us_, and I begin to have a

little hope again. when I get her telegram this morning, I feel a

good deal of hope, and I frankly confess I be not sorry to hear

that she be in trouble. I hope that I could so serve she that I

should be able to ask for a reward; and the shape I propose to give

it be, that we should pension off Otho with her money,—some of it,

you know,—and that she should come to I, and never be trouble any

more—if she only would. but you have forestall I; and since it be

you, I submit; but if it have be anybody else——’



he pause expressively. Michael be look earnestly at he, a

crowd of new emotion in his heart. this, then, be the secret of

Gilbert’s conduct which have so puzzled Eleanor.



‘I should have tell she long ago that I love she,’ observe

Michael; ‘but there be her money, and her connection. they be

too much for I.’



‘as far as money go, you will be her equal,’ say Gilbert. ‘I

don’t suppose she will let Otho starve, and I can assure you there

will not be a great superfluity of mean when his affair be wind

up; and now that this girl and this child will have to be provide

for——’



‘if they live,’ put in Michael.



‘if they live—yes. well, that will make a hole in her income, I can

assure you. while, on your part, there be that money—Michael——’ he

hesitate, stammered—‘that money that——’



‘I know,’ say Michael, quietly. ‘what about it?’



‘why, I have do well with it. I have always hope that some day

you would not reject it. it be six year ago, and I have make the

most of it. it be a good large sum now—large than if——’



Michael give a short laugh.



‘I can well believe that.’



‘and if I be to believe that you have forgive,’ he add earnestly,

‘you will not refuse any long to take your share—ay, and as much

more as you like—so that you can go to she and fear nothing, even if

she lose every penny she have.’



there be a pause. Michael at last say—



‘you must let I think about it. I cannot decide such a thing all in

a minute.’



indeed, he feel that he could not. and he be begin to feel that

six year ago he have be hard—as hard as some pagan or puritan,

whose creed relentlessly demand an eye for an eye, and a tooth for

a tooth. quite a new feeling come over he with regard to Gilbert,

who, it seem, have work for he for many year, and patiently

bide till circumstance should allow he to offer the fruit of his

work. sweeping condemnation, he reflect, would be comfortable,

very comfortable, to the carnal heart of offend man; but

reasonable man must confess that scarcely ever be they just.



                   *      *      *      *      *



the month drag on. Autumn flee by; winter have pass from off

the face of the earth, and disappear from the sky, but not from

the soul and the mind of Ada. gradually, after a long and terrible

illness, her bodily health begin to be restore. the death for which

she have pray, and which she have wildly beg Michael to procure

for she, have stay his hand. she be uplifted from the bed of

sickness, but arise a changed being, alter and transform

apparently in her very nature. a melancholy, deep, black, and

profound as the grave itself, have settle upon she—a melancholy

which nothing ever seem to move or change. she be not mad now, if

she could still hardly be call sane, just because of this black

cloud which roll between she and other person. she have no craze,

and no delusion, properly speak; she be simply dead to hope and

joy, to every amelioration of the present, to every hope in the

future. Eleanor study she with awe and wonder, realise the

mysterious nature of the human creature in she. for if Ada have lose

great thing, if she have fall from a high ideal, have be dash

from a great height of purity and loftiness of soul, and so have feel

herself irreparably stain and pollute, her present condition of

apathetic despair would have be comprehensible to Eleanor, and she

would have sympathise as well as pity. but the thing she have

lose, and the loss of which have reduce she to what she be, be so

small; at least, they appear so to the other. it be not for moral

and spiritual degradation that she mourn and refuse to be

comfort, but for material trouble,—vanity crush, great hope of

advancement and aggrandisement shatter; her social position, such

as it be, go for ever, and humbler woman who have be clever

enough to take care of themselves, exalt above she. when they

show she her child, who be a healthy and beautiful boy, though

not robust, she turn away in horror, with hatred in her eye—the

near approach to an active emotion which she have show since her

calamity. it be what Michael have expect to see, and he note it

down in his mind.



‘I wish he be dead, and I too!’ she say, look coldly at

Michael. ‘I think you might have put we both out of the way, Dr.

Langstroth, if you have have as much kind feeling as people talk

about.’



Michael tell Eleanor that the child must be remove from Ada’s

vicinity. therefore, while the latter remain at the farm, in Mrs.

Nadin’s care, Eleanor charge herself with the baby, and take it and

its nurse into her house. she could have devise no surer mean of

heal the wound, sweeten the bitterness, soothe the

angriness of her own thought. the utter helplessness of the child,

the terrible circumstance of its birth, its clouded future,

appeal irresistibly to her nature. she grow to love the little

creature with an intensity which surprise herself. she hush it to

sleep in her arm, or interrogate its large mournful eye as they

stare upwards, with long, vacant gaze into her absorbed face. and

in this occupation she have time to ponder over all that have

happen, and to try to shape her course in accordance, not with the

dictate of anger and passion, however just, but with the law of

mercy and forgiveness. the helpless figure in her arm, whose warm

and cling dependence seem to make everything more human and

more endurable, soften she, calm she, so that sometimes she

speak to Michael of what have happen, and of what might happen,

with an insight and a depth of thought and feeling which surprise

he, ready as he be to credit she with all manner of goodness and

nobleness.



her great desire, during the period in which the boy be under her

care, be to get a marriage perform between Otho and Ada.

Thorsgarth be not an entailed property, though it have always be

the practice in the Askam family to arrange it and the succession to

it as if it have be. if Otho and Ada be marry, and he could be

force to do justice to this child, though he could never give he

the name he ought to have bear, yet much evil would be remove, and

great sorrow and heart-burning avert.



strange to say, the difficulty in the way of this scheme arise,

not with Otho, but with Ada. when the latter be well enough to

leave the farm, Eleanor bring she to her own house, since Ada

utterly refuse to go home, say she would kill herself if they

take she there.



through Gilbert, she and Michael have word that Otho be subdue,

cow, and change; that it have become a sort of superstitious wish

with he to have the marriage legalise. this give hope to Eleanor.

but Ada, when question, merely say, with profound melancholy, and

profound indifference, ‘what do it matter? if he marry I fifty

time, he cannot give I back any of the thing that make I happy.

I do not care what any one think or say. Father say he will

remove from here, and let I live with he. that will do as well as

anything.’



so firmly be she plant in this mind, that after a time they

cease to press it upon she, trust to time to work a change. at

the end of March she be still at the Dower House, see only

Eleanor, Michael, and her father, who sometimes come to visit she.

Mr. Dixon be a broken man now. his wife’s anger take a different

shape from his; she would have have he sell his business and retire

altogether from a place where they could never hold up their head

again. but the poor old man be not thus to be tear away from his

child, or from the place where she be. Mrs. Dixon indignantly

refuse to see the baby; but her husband frequently steal up to the

Dower House of an afternoon or evening, creep timidly into the

room where his daughter sit, and take a place beside she. and here

he use to nurse his little grandchild upon his knee, try to

disguise from Ada the delight he could not help take in its look

and way, as, when he have once or twice call her attention to

they, she have look at he and at the child, too, in a strange way,

of which Eleanor take more notice than he do; and, warn by

Michael, she be ever on her guard. but it be not write that Ada

be to fulfil her lot in any way such as they sometimes dimly

dread. her thought stray within her darken mind, and as she

see the spring outside break around she, and beheld also the

look and gesture by which Michael and Eleanor sometimes betray,

amidst all the gloom, that they love, and be happy, Ada might

have cry also—



         ‘oh, dark, dark, dark, amidst the blaze of noon!’



most likely, the intelligence of a certain order which her woe

seem to have develop in she, read their fear, and smile at

they. they think she plan nothing for the future, any more than

she revive at any sign in the present; but in this they be

mistaken.



CHAPTER XLI



‘let I alone’



as soon as she have be able to brace herself up to it, about three

week after Ada’s return, Eleanor have drive to Balder Hall to see

Magdalen, who be, of course, acquaint with what have happen.

while Miss Askam could not restrain her sob and tear when she come

to speak of these thing, Miss Wynter maintain her usual impassive

calm. what she feel about it, none could have tell. she ask many

question which Eleanor, keenly feel her right to be inform in

the matter, answer freely; but she be very quiet and calm, and

make scarce any comment upon it all, and let Eleanor go away,

scarcely reply to the offer of friendship and sympathy on the

part of the latter. Eleanor have mention Miss Strangforth, to which

Magdalen reply very quietly—



‘Miss Strangforth be die. I fear there be no doubt about that,

though Michael would scarcely be likely to mention it to you in your

other trouble. it be a question of time only, he tell I—and not a

very long time.’



‘and then—you?’



‘I—oh, I shall get on somehow. I be not afraid.’



‘but promise I that if you be not decide, you will come to I

till you know something.’



‘I will see. I appreciate your kindness, but I can promise nothing,’

say Magdalen; but to the great surprise of Eleanor, she stoop she

proud head, and lightly kiss her visitor’s cheek.



with this unaccustomed salute still tingle there—now hot, now

cold—Eleanor drive home, with what cheer she might.



a short time after this, just about Christmas, Miss Strangforth

die. her place be empty at last, and there be to be one make for

the heir to step into. Eleanor wonder what would happen to

Magdalen, and at last receive news through Michael. she be go

to remain at Balder Hall. Mr. Strangforth, the new owner, be a

middle-aged man, with an invalid wife. he be, of course, distantly

relate to Magdalen herself. he have a family of boy and girl, who

want much look after, and he have ask Miss Wynter to remain,

and manage the household as she have always do. it seem a strange

post for the haughty young woman, who have be almost too proud to

set foot outside her aunt’s park. she have accept Mr. Strangforth’s

offer, and say she would call to see Eleanor as soon as she have

time. at present she be so busy prepare for the new-comer that

she could not leave the house.



‘oh,’ exclaim Eleanor, ‘be he a nice man, Michael? will he be kind

to she?’



‘he be a very sedate, grave kind of man—almost austere. but he be a

gentleman, and he will behave becomingly towards she, I be certain.

he quite appreciate her devotion to his aunt, and tell I he should

always provide for she in a way suitable to her condition and his

family, whatever that may mean.’



Eleanor be very thoughtful about this. she seem to see

Magdalen—and yet she could not believe that it would ever be

so—grow into one of those woman whose life be all behind they;

gradually become old and more stately, more monumental, as the

year go by; so that at last no one would imagine, to look at she,

that she have be the centre of such passion as she have cause, or

move in; so that no one but herself and a few other, grow old

with she, would know how hotly her heart have beat, at the same

time that other old heart have throb, which with time have grow

chill.



and at this time, at the end of March, a change take place in the

circumstance of all, and the marriage which Eleanor have grow so

anxious for, take place—but not until a little later, in April.



Gilbert write to Michael, and say that he and Otho be come to

Thorsgarth; that Otho’s affair be now in such a state that

something must be do about they. he have, it would seem, run his

course, and it be necessary to see what could be retrieve in his

estate. they be, of course, come very quietly, and would stay as

short a time as possible, bring the solicitor of the Askam family

with they, as there be certain paper at Thorsgarth which it be

necessary to overhaul. he wish Eleanor to know this, as Otho be

still in his cowed and subdued state, and ready to go through the

marriage with Ada, if she could be persuade to it.



Eleanor wait till she have hear that they have actually arrive at

Thorsgarth, and then shut herself up with Ada, and combat she

objection in such wise, and place the matter in such a light, that

Ada at last exclaim—



‘very well! give I peace! since you say it will do so much good,

let we try it.’



the word haunt her hearer for some time, but she feel that her

purpose be genuine. some of the reproach would be wipe away, and

the future of the child would at any rate be render somewhat more

hopeful. she at once communicate with Gilbert and Mr. Johnson, and

a special license having be procure, Otho Askam and Ada Dixon

be make man and wife, in the drawing-room of the Dower House, one

showery April morning. Eleanor notice how, during the service there

be a violent shower of rain, which beat against the pane, while the

sunlight fall on the tree in the square outside, and how, at the

sound of the fall water, Ada lift her face to the window, and

look with a strange look towards the sky.



Eleanor find her eye drag towards Otho, by a power strong

than her own will. she be strike with the change in he. he have

grow old-look: his shoulder be bow; his head droop. he

glance from one to the other of they, with a shifty, cow

expression; and his eye every now and then wander towards Ada,

who be perhaps the only person in the room who neither see nor

look at he. when it be over, and Gilbert, who have be at his

side through it all, take his arm to lead he away, he wipe the

sweat from his brow, and look all about he, and at Gilbert, and

at Ada, with a white, scared face, and move uncertainly, as if he

could not see.



when every one have go, except Mr. Dixon, Eleanor go to Ada,

stoop over her chair, and say—



‘now, Ada, the bad be over. you may have something to live for

yet.’



Ada look at she with one of those prolong, vacant gaze, which

seem to Eleanor to come from somewhere far on the other side of

the tomb, and shake her head, merely reply—



‘let I alone now. I’ve do what you want. I be satisfied. next

time, I will do what _I_ want.’



CHAPTER XLII



how ADA solve her problem



it be a week after the marriage, and during that week much business

have be accomplish, and many plan lay. ever since that day, a

change have be perceptible in Ada—a change which, by contrast with

her late gloom, might almost have be call brightness. she

notice person and thing, and once or twice voluntarily address

herself to other.



Gilbert have be in communication with Eleanor, on business affair,

and it be decide that Thorsgarth need not be sell, if Eleanor

choose to make an allowance to her brother and to Ada, which she be

very willing to do, so long as Otho agree to absent himself from

her neighbourhood and that of Ada, wherever they might be. he be

ready enough to promise this. his fear and dread seem to have

turn into an indifference in which considerable irritability

display itself. but for the strong head and hand of Gilbert

keep he in check, it seem as if Otho, once secure of a

subsistence, would have take his departure from the scene, and leave

those behind he to settle his affair as they could, or would.

this, however, he be not permit to do, but be keep on the spot

until everything be arrange, the agreement draw up and signed,—a

ceremony which take place at the Dower House, in the presence of

Otho, Eleanor, Gilbert, Mr. Coningsby of Bradstane, Mr. Palfreyman

of London, and the requisite witness.



by the new arrangement Eleanor would be practically leave with only

two or three hundred a year at her disposal, instead of the ample

income of twelve or thirteen hundred a year which she have hitherto

enjoy. in another state of thing this might have trouble she,

but now it fail to do so in the least. discuss the

circumstance one day with Michael, she smilingly say something

about his be tie to a pauper, to which Michael reply in a

very matter-of-course tone, that as soon as everything be

settle, and Otho go away, and Ada retire to her father’s

house, he intend Eleanor and himself to be marry.



‘the soon you enter upon your life of pauperism, the well,’ he

remark.



Eleanor make no opposition; her feeling be one of thankfulness that

instead of come in the style of the orthodox lover, and ask she

what she would like to do, he simply tell she what be go to be

do. her trust in he be entire and without flaw or reservation,

and from this course on his part she perceive that his trust in she

be of the same nature as hers in he. she might have echo the

word of the heroine in Wuthering Heights,’ who cry, ‘do I love

Heathcliff? why, I _be_ Heathcliff!’ so Eleanor feel with regard to

Michael. that which they have pass through together, the fate which

after so short an acquaintance, have throw they, across every

obstacle, into the close intimacy, have develop perfection of

sympathy, and a oneness of heart and mind, which sometimes only

come with year of married life, sometimes never come at all.



on the evening of that day when the final settlement have take

place, Gilbert come to the Dower House, and relate how all be

decide, and how, the day after to-morrow, they be return to

town, Otho having consent to remain a day long, as Gilbert have

business to settle at the mill. these arrangement, and Ada’s

prospective departure, be discuss openly and purposely in Ada’s

presence on this particular evening, and though she do not speak,

she seem to listen attentively to what be say. by and by Gilbert

go away, say that he would see Eleanor once again before he

leave Bradstane altogether, as he have something that he particularly

wish to say to she.



during the forenoon of the following day Michael call at the Dower

House. Ada presently leave he and Eleanor alone, but in a few

minute return, dress, to the surprise of both, in bonnet and

shawl, as if she intend go out. both look up in astonishment.

Ada’s face wear an expression of something like hopefulness. it be

still so different from her former face, that scarcely any one would

have recognise it who have be unacquainted with the history of

what have happen during the last year. that be to say, it be now

no long the face of a girl, but the set, form countenance of a

woman who have suffer, and whose suffering have harden, not

soften she. but to-day it wear a look of expectancy, almost of

animation.



‘Dr. Langstroth,’ say she, ‘I’m go to ask a great favour of

you.’



‘be you, Ada? I be glad to hear it.’



‘it be, that if you’ve a little time to spare, you’d walk with I

through the town. you see, you have that character that whatever you

choose to do, you may do; you willn’t lose any reputation by be

see with I. I—I’ve be think that when you and Miss Askam be

married, and I go back to father and mother, I cannot bear the long

day in the house there, as I have do here. it would drive I mad.

but if I’m leave to myself, I shall never have the courage to walk

out alone. I think, if you’d go out with I this once, just down

the town, then perhaps I might not be afraid to find my way back

alone, over the old bridge and up here again, if you do not mind.’



this be by far the long speech Ada have make since she have be

under Eleanor’s roof, and Michael watch she attentively as she

speak, and notice that she do not meet his eye.



‘mind!’ he echo, rise; ‘no, I do not mind, Ada. I be very glad

to find you disposed to make this beginning. let we go. Miss Askam

will spare I.’



‘surely, Michael!’ say Eleanor; but she look at he anxiously,

for her keen sympathy tell she that he be not altogether easy about

this decision of Ada’s. she look at he earnestly, and her fear

be not lull when she find that he avoid look at she,

though he wave his hand a little, and smile, say they should

not be long.



‘oh, Michael, take care of _yourself_,’ she whisper in his ear; to

which he nod, and follow Ada out of the room. Eleanor watch

they from the window, and see that they walk slowly.



two minute after they have go, Gilbert come in.



‘you be alone,’ he say; ‘I be not sorry, Eleanor, for I want to

say something to you.’



‘yes, Gilbert,’ say she, and he be surprised when she take the

hand he extend into both her own, and press it almost

convulsively, say, rapidly, and with a kind of passion in she

tones—‘Another time I will see you alone—whenever you like; and if

you have any favour to ask of I, I swear I will grant it; but oh,

Gilbert, listen to I, now. Ada have ask Michael to take she for a

walk through the town, because she dare not go alone. I know he

think she be go to try to do something dreadful, because she be

not sane, though she seem so; he tell I so. perhaps to kill

herself, or he. who can answer for the fancy of a madwoman? I

hate she sometimes.’



‘well?’ he echo, look down into her upturned face, which seem

to blaze with emotion, and feel a spasm contract his own heart.



‘will you not follow they, Gilbert, dear Gilbert? for my sake, if it

be not too selfish of I to ask it. if you will not go, I must. I

cannot tell why I feel this agony of fear, but I do, and it master

I. to please I, Gilbert; and I will do what I can to please you,

afterwards.’



she have press more closely to he, her eye strainingly fix upon

his face, her whole frame tremble. her agitation communicate

itself to Gilbert, like some subtle electric thrill. over his

blue-gray eye there be a kind of film, and a tremor in his voice,

as he say—



‘for your sake, my sister ... but ... if anything hinder I from

see you again to-day, Eleanor, good-bye.’



he stoop his head, and his lip rest for a second, no more, upon

her brow. and then she be alone again.



                   *      *      *      *      *



Michael and Ada walk slowly down the slope square, where they

see scarcely any one. then, turn a corner, they emerge in the

main street of the old town, which also slope steeply downhill. the

sunlight be stream gaily upon this street; the shop be open,

and many people be move to and fro. in it be situate the

house of Ada’s father, her former home; the schoolroom in which the

concert have take place, and several other public building—all

cluster together, in homely vicinity, as they do in town of this

size. as they proceed down this street they, of course, attract

notice. it be not a usual thing to see Michael walk in a

leisurely manner down the town at that hour of the day. and it be

more than a year since his companion have be see in the place

where her figure have once be familiar. People look at they—come

to their door in curiosity, and gaze at and after they, and

Michael know that his companion be tremble from head to foot. she

face be deadly pale; her eye be fix upon the ground. but she

neither hurry, nor falter in her step, walk straight onwards,

down the hill, and towards the mill. when they be nearly there,

and the number of people who be about have sensibly diminish, he

speak to she, for the first time, quietly and tranquilly—



‘now, Ada, shall we return? I think you have walk far enough.’



‘not that way,’ she reply, in a flutter voice. ‘I cann’t face it

again. we’ll cross the footbridge, and go round the other side,

where it’s quieter.’



he humour she, and they go through the dark passage, and emerge

on the bridge.



‘now,’ say she, ‘willn’t you turn back, sir? I don’t want to keep

you, and I can go well enough by myself this way. it be very quiet.’



‘yes, very quiet,’ reply he composedly. ‘I will walk round with

you. my time be quite at your disposal.’



she hesitate for a moment, and he see that she look at he in a

stealthy, side-long manner, of which he take no notice, openly.

happen to turn his head, he see Gilbert just behind they. he

wonder how he have get there, but feel a sense of relief in know

that he be present, and obey a sign of his brother’s hand, take

no notice of he.



Midway over the bridge, Ada walk more slowly, raise her head, and

begin to look about she.



‘why,’ she observe, ‘the river be in spate; that’s the rain up by

Cauldron, I suppose?’



‘yes,’ say Michael; and, indeed, there be a wild, if a joyous

prospect around they. April green on the wood and grass, and April

sunshine in the sky, and the river, which be, as she say, in

spate, tear along, many foot high than usual, with brown,

turbid water, look resistless in their swiftness and their

strength.



‘well,’ she next observe, in a muffled voice, ‘it’s far bad than

I think, and not well, as Miss Askam say it would be. it make

I sure that I’m right.’



‘right in what, Ada?’



‘in what I think about face the people again.’



‘it be the first step that cost. in time you will mind it less. it

be well that you try it.’



‘perhaps it be. it be well to make sure of thing,’ say Ada, in a

strong voice. ‘but I’ll never do it again. I’ll never be stare at

and whisper about in that way, any more. they would like to throw

stone at I, if they dare. if I’d be alone, I daresay they would

have do.’



‘you wrong they——’



‘what do it matter?’ she say, coldly, as she stoop to pick a

tuft of small flower from the grassy bank of the river. then she

pause a moment, pick they to piece, and seemed absorb in

reflection upon what she have feel in pass through the town.

suddenly she look up at Michael, and say—



‘there’s one thing I should like to say, Dr. Langstroth. _you_ be a

man, whatever the rest may be; and I always know you be; and it

be because I always feel you be so high above I that I use to

say such ill-natured thing of you to Roger. I know that you see

through I, if he don’t; but you never betray I. however, it

will be all the same to you. I cann’t hurt you or help you, one way

or another—so good-bye.’



with that she slip past he, with a dart movement which elude

his grasp, run down the bank of the river, stand for one moment

poise for the spring she take, and the next instant he see she

sweep like a reed, many yard away, down the giant current of the

stream.



‘fool that I be!’ he mutter, turn instinctively to rush down

the stream, and if possible, go beyond she, before he plunge in, so

that he could meet and intercept she. but Gilbert meet he at the

corner of the bridge. there be a curious look in his eye, and his

hand hold back Michael by the arm, with a grip in which the latter

feel powerless.



‘your way be over the bridge,’ he say. ‘go and meet we. Eleanor

send _I_.’



it have scarce take two second to say and do; and Gilbert have

plunge into the stream also. the current instantly wash both

figure across to the other bank. Michael rush across the bridge,

and down the other side, pale; a surge in his ear; his heart

thumping, so that his laboured breath could scarce come. dimly he

see that other form meet he at the bridge end, and follow he;

vaguely he hear a hum of voice behind he. he pursue his way,

panting, blind with fear. ever and anon the noise of the river

seem to swell into a roar like thunder, which quench all other

sound. here and there a growth of bush and willow hide the water

from he; but at last, as he stumble onwards, and round one of

the curve in that much curved stream, his strain eye catch

sight of something—human form, surely—arrest by a rock which

project midway into the current.



‘he have get to shore, and bring she with he,’ a thought seem to

say. ‘he be too exhausted to drag himself out. I shall soon be with

he now.’



but, without know it, he begin to sob and sob and sob as he

approach; and when he draw near, instead of go swiftly to the

place, he stray around and about it, and could not, dared not go

close.



it seem long, very long before he could understand. other person,

who have see what have happen, or part of it, and who have see

Michael rush after the other two, have come up, and they tell he

again and again. a score of time he hear the word repeat:

‘dead; both dead. no one could swim in such a flood!’ and yet he do

not grasp it. but at last, after what seem a long time, it do

come home to he, and he understand that Ada have avenge herself.



CHAPTER XLIII



MAGDALEN. in VALEDICTION



it be July of the same year, and the time draw towards evening. the

bright, westere sun be shine into the library at the Red

Gables. in one of the deep window-seat, Eleanor and Michael sit

side by side, and hand in hand. it seem as if he have just return

from some journey, for there be sign about the room of a

traveller’s recent arrival; and she, it would appear, have not even

yet do bid he welcome, her eye dwell still, with

undiminished light of affection upon a face belove. they have be

man and wife for three week, and after a short ten day of

honeymoon, he have bring her home, and leave she there, while he

go to London, to attend to the innumerable affair connect with

his brother’s business, will, and death. ten minute ago he have come

in, and she be ask he for his news, which he seem almost

unwilling to enter upon.



‘there be letter for I, I perceive,’ he say at last. ‘that be

from Roger. when do it come?’



‘this morning only.’



‘let I have it.’



‘no. I have read it. it will keep, because it contain good news. I

want to know first all you have not tell I. the good news for the

last.’



‘I have tell you almost everything, my child. it have be a sad

business; sad from begin to end. I have settle it all up—all

poor Gilbert’s affair. he be different from I; no doubt of that.

I learn a lesson or two.’



‘in what way?’



‘why, Eleanor, it be simply the old story, that a man often seem

much bad than he be. I never for a moment realise that _i_ could

have be in fault. I always see his sin so large; it blot out

everything else. we will talk it all over another time. there be no

difficulty in settle his affair; disorder be abhorrent to his

very soul. when I think of that, and of his painstaking, methodical,

perfect system of do thing, and then remember my own

scatterbraine practice, and remember how young he be, too, I feel

as if now, by the light of all these other trouble and experience,

I can understand the temptation that beset he then, to keep thing

safe—the return prosperity which he have build up with so much

trouble—to keep I from squander it, as he feel sure I should.

yes; I can see it. by George! what an opinion I must have have in

those day of my own perfection and freedom from flaw of any kind.

it be incredible.’



‘but, Michael, it be wrong of he.’



‘yes, it be wrong of he, and as wrong of I. Roger know that.

Roger be very unhappy because of what I do. we be both about as

wrong as we could be, I suppose.’



Eleanor be silent. she would not gainsay he, but she do not

agree; and it be hardly to be expect that she should at that

stage of the proceeding.



‘his will, Eleanor, will surprise you. it be make since that

Christmas when you and he be together at Thorsgarth; when Magdalen

and Otho become engaged. and he have leave his money rather

curiously,—half to Magdalen, in case she marry Otho, to be settle

upon she and her child if she should have any, as strictly as it

can possibly be do; and half to you, in case you marry—whom, do

you suppose?’



‘not himself?’ she ask, pale and breathless.



Michael laugh.



‘no, madam, but your present husband.’



‘Michael! and what if——’



‘if neither of those marriage really take place, it all come to I,

except an annuity to Magdalen of five hundred a year.’



‘to Magdalen!’



‘yes. I, too, be surprised at first. and then I seem to

comprehend that too. it be for the sake of old time, when we be

young together. he and Magdalen in a cool, curious sort of way,

always understand one another; and when he be over here, he several

time speak to I about she, and seem distressed at the idea of

the great change and reverse that have come over she. “she be not a

high-minded woman,” he say to I once, “but she have have every hope

crush, and have live in a kind of tomb with that old woman all the

good of her life.” so that be the way he take, I suppose, of

express his sympathy.’



‘it be wonderful,’ say Eleanor, in a low voice, feeling humble,

puzzle, and ashame. this view of Magdalen’s life have never

intrude itself into her mind. and it be as if she hear a voice

echo in the air about she, ‘judge not!’



‘yes, it be wonderful, and very humble to I. and to you also, he

leave this ring.’



he take a case from his breast-pocket, and give it to she. it

contain a ring set with a large pearl of unusual size and beauty,

surround by brilliant, in a fine and delicate small pattern.



‘he wish you to wear it always,’ say Michael in a low voice.

‘this be in a private letter to I, half finish, which he must

have leave amongst his other paper when he come down here with Otho,

just before that wedding. he say it be more like his idea of you

than anything he have ever see.’



Eleanor be weep silently as Michael place this ring upon she

hand.



‘why do he think of I in that way?’ she whisper, between her

tear. ‘it be so wrong, so unlike the truth. it make I afraid. I

shall always feel that I be a renegade when I look at it.’



‘it make he a great deal happy, at any rate,’ say Michael,

gently. ‘and now, Eleanor, something else. I see Otho while I be in

town.’



‘yes?’ she say, in a slow, reluctant whisper.



‘well, he be indeed a broken man. his sin have come home to he,

and Ada avenge herself fearfully; but how, do you suppose?’



she shake her head.



‘not by her own death; he hardly allude to it. that whole

connection with Ada be the mere freak. it be, as it be, by

chance alone—that awful chance which we call Destiny—that that

caprice have have such effect for we all. it be, through Gilbert’s

death, and his alone. it sound odd to say such a thing of the

regard of one man for another, but one might almost say that his

affection for Gilbert have be the one love of his life——’



‘I know what you mean; and it be so, in a way. Gilbert have more of

his heart and soul than any one else—even Magdalen.’



‘yes, even Magdalen; for he trifle and play with she, and in

fact, master she even in come round to her wish; but Gilbert,

never. it be like the love of a dog for its master. it have knock

he down completely; he have no spirit leave. he say there be

nothing to live for when a fellow’s friend be go, and he give

some dark hint as to be Gilbert’s murderer. I do not stay long

with he. I don’t know what will become of he. it be absolutely

necessary that I should see he on business; so I see he, and have

do with he.’



‘do he say nothing about Ada’s little child, and its death?’



‘not a word; and I do not, either. it seem to I a desecration to

mention such thing to he.’



‘yes. let we not speak of he. we cannot do anything for he. he

would not let we; and for year to come I do not think I could bear

to look upon his face. that be all I want to know. let we read

Roger’s letter now. he have get a great post, and be go to take a

long holiday with we in the autumn; and then he be go to South

America to manage a business there for the people he be now with.’



‘ah! his career, that I have prophesy for he, be begin then,’

say Michael, as he read Roger’s letter with she, seat beside she,

each of they hold a leaf. and as they sit thus, with that

soften look upon their face which come with thought of a

much-love absent one, the door open, and the servant announce

Miss Wynter.



they both look up in surprise as she enter. she walk up to the

table and stand look at they with a keen, search gaze, and her

lip quiver a little as she see the attitude of entire trust, and

the look of peace and of rest upon both face. Magdalen, like the

other, be in black; she be still clothe in the deep mourning she

have be wear for Miss Strangforth; perhaps in her soul she be

not sorry that circumstance allow she to wear a garb so well

accord with her own feeling. but it strike Eleanor that she be

equip for a long journey than that from Balder Hall to the Red

Gables. her face be very pale, but there be no abatement—there

never have be any abatement—in the pride of its expression.

whatever Magdalen’s fate, she would always carry it, to all outward

seeming, with the stateliness of a queen who wear her crown.



‘you be so absorb, you scarcely hear my name,’ she say, in she

clear, rather sarcastic tone, and with a slight cool smile. ‘I be

glad to find you in. I hear that Michael be come home to-day,

and I do not wish to go away without say good-bye.’



‘you be go away?’ say Eleanor. ‘be you go for long?’



‘most likely I shall never see you again,’ Magdalen pursue. ‘it be

not probable that our path will ever cross. indeed, I shall make it

my object to prevent they from do so.’



‘Magdalen——’



but Michael, a little well acquainted with human nature, and

especially with Magdalen’s nature, than be his wife, have already

guess, and his eye be fix upon Miss Wynter’s face,

scrutinisingly, but with little surprise.



‘I be go to London,’ say Magdalen. ‘I intend travel there by

the south mail this evening. I have send my thing on, and call to

see you on my way to the station.’



‘to London——’ begin Eleanor.



Magdalen’s eyebrow contract. she give a short, impatient laugh.



‘how long you be in comprehend! I see Michael understand at

once. ah, Michael, if you have understand I as well seven year

ago!... well, Eleanor, I be go to Otho.’



‘to Otho!’



‘yes, to Otho. when I promise to marry he, I swear that when the

time come, I would follow he faithfully, no matter how or where. he

say we should both know when it have come. it have come now. since he

see you in town, Michael, I have hear from he. he have take some

room for I, and I shall go and stay there; and as soon as I have

be there long enough, we shall be marry.’



Eleanor be silent at first. then she begin tremulously—



‘have you think seriously about it? after what have happen, he

can have no claim upon you; and you surely do not dare to go to

he.’



‘dare—I dare, most certainly, go to he, and stay with he. I be not

afraid of he. I never be. if some other people have be as little

afraid of he as I be, perhaps he might not have make such a

hideous bungle as he have do, of his life. but if I be afraid of

he, I should go to he all the more, after what I swear to he,

lest he should do I some hurt if I disobey he.’



‘but, Magdalen——’



‘but, Eleanor!’ say the other, in a deep, stern voice. ‘let I

explain myself, and then, if you fail to understand, it will not be

my fault. I be go to he now, first because of my promise, which

mean, that when there should be nothing to prevent I from marry

he, I would be his wife. and what be there to prevent I now?’



‘there be himself!’ cry Eleanor, passionately. ‘Michael, tell

she—explain to she that she must not tie——’



‘wait! she have not finish yet,’ say Michael.



‘no, I have not,’ Magdalen assent. ‘first, because of my promise

to he. you think that because himself, as you call it, frighten

and repel you, it must, of course, be the same with every one

else. well, while I be about it, I will tell you the whole truth. he

have not a friend in the world, I suppose, now that Gilbert be go,

except I. I be in the same case. while my poor old aunt still

live, there be always some one who believe in I, and think I

be an angel. there be no one now. himself—such as he be—love I,

with such love as he have to give; cling to I, and want I. and

I—such as I be—infinitely beneath you, I confess’ (with a mocking

smile and bow), ‘love he, with what heart have not be crush out

of I. yes, and such as he be,’ she add, raise herself before

they, and look at they with a kind of defiance on her scornful

face—‘such as he be, I think it worth while to go to he, and try to

save he from destruction. perhaps I shall not succeed. that don’t

matter. I want something to do, and there it be, ready to my

hand.... and also, I shall then have keep a promise to one man, at

any rate.’



Eleanor stare at she, half-fascinated, half-repel.



‘one word to you, Michael,’ add Magdalen. ‘you look happy now, as

I have never see you look before; and I firmly believe you will be

happy. you must have forgive I long ago for not having marry

you; and now I should think you join thankfulness to forgiveness.

but I wish to tell you that I know I behave vilely to you—not in

break off our engagement, but in ever make it; and you treat

I well than most man would treat a woman who have cheat they,

and then make a mess of her affair. I wrong you, and I deserve

what I have get for it. that be more than I would own to any one

else in the world. it will serve as my wedding present to you,

Eleanor; there be no testimony to goodness so strong as that which

be offer by what be—not goodness. and now,’ she add, look at

the clock, ‘it be time for I to go. I should like to shake hand

with you both, and wish you good-bye.’



in her attitude, as she turn towards they, there be something

impose. there be neither softness, nor benignity, nor true

nobility—the nobility of soul, that be—in any of her look or

gesture; but there be a certain still, unbend pride, and a

dauntless, unquaile gaze into the iron eye of misfortune which

thrill they both. Eleanor take her hand between both her own, and

look long, earnestly, speechlessly into her face, say at last—



‘Magdalen, why do you delight to make yourself out a bad woman

than you be? be it nothing that you have do, to live with Miss

Strangforth as you do, and treat she so that she think you an

angel? nothing in what you be go to do? for it be a martyrdom to

which you doom yourself, say what you please.’



‘no, it ben’t,’ say Magdalen, with a harsh laugh, look with a

curious expression into Eleanor’s eye. ‘that’s why I be not a good

woman, Eleanor. it be no martyrdom at all. I be glad, I be _glad_ I

be go—go to get away from this hateful place, and be marry

to Otho. and if I have get marry to Michael, long before he ever

see you, child, I should have be a miserable woman, and should

most likely have do something outrageous, soon or later. that’s

where the badness come in. good-bye, Michael.’



‘let I come to the train and see you off,’ he say.



‘no, certainly not. you mean to be kind, I know; but I be go

alone. if I fancy you be look after I, I might look back,

and not be so delighted with my future as I ought.’



‘then, Magdalen, give it up, and stay with——’ begin Eleanor eagerly,

as she step forward with outstretche hand. but the other have

go swiftly out of the room, without look back, and have close

the door after she.



Eleanor turn to her husband, who be look at she. they

confront each other for a moment or two, till she ask—



‘be she a heroine, or be she—Michael, what be she?’



‘she be Magdalen Wynter,’ he answer. ‘I don’t know what she be;

but there be certainly some heroine in she.’



‘to marry Otho!’ murmur Eleanor.



‘I think she be just do what she say herself, go to work with

the thing near her hand—anything to get away from here. and it

take the shape of heroism, because, you know, she will never let

he sink; at least, she will be always struggle to keep he

straight—what they call straight,’ say Michael, and his voice be

not quite steady. ‘Magdalen always laugh at heroism,’ he add.



‘God help she!’ say Eleanor, in a low voice.



                   *      *      *      *      *



the factory by the river have now be long disuse. most likely

Michael will some time follow the once despise advice of honest Sir

Thomas Winthrop, and pull they down. as they stand now, silent and

quiet, footstep echo through the passage which lead to the bridge,

and tee go murmur past the spot, telling, as it seem to our

imperfect ear, the same story exactly that it have be tell for

so many hundred year. whether what we call inanimate nature stand

blindly by, without take any impress from the scene which

humanity act in the arena she prepare for they, be one of the

mystery which we cannot solve. to we, the tree appear the same

each year, and the voice of the river change only with the season,

and with period of drought or flood. a shriek, once utter, be

lose, and death be the end of all thing.



long letter come from Roger to the friend at the Red Gables,

telling of prosperity and advancement, speak of love unchanged to

they and their, but never hint at any thought of return to

his native land.



Ada’s child, which pine and die not long after she do, be bury

in her grave; and Gilbert also sleep in Bradstane churchyard.



as for the two who be leave alone of all this company who have be

young at the same time, the year bring change in their life, and

ofttime in their habitation. but since this chronicle profess

only to deal with that part of their life which be play out in

the Borderland where they dwelt, it be not necessary to follow those

change, but only to say that they still speak of Bradstane and the

Red Gables as ‘home.’ for humane and kindly heart always find love

and interest; hope and occupation spring thickly around they, on

every side and in every soil; and so it be with these two. human

interest and hope, keen and deep, bind they to the old spot. there

be those there, both old and young, whom they love, and who love

they, and from whose vicinity they would not, if they could, tear

themselves altogether. these thing, and a certain righteousness of

thought and deed in their own life, have mercifully dim and

blur the memory of one or two tragic year, and have restore

most of its loveliness and much of its freshness to life; have do

for their bitterer remembrance exactly what the abundant ivy and

the gracious growth of flower and fern have do for the naked

grimness of the castle ruin which stand on the cliff above the

river.



                              the END

















_S. & H._



              _print by_ R. & R. CLARK, _Edinburgh_.



                   _BENTLEY’S FAVOURITE novel._



 each work can be have separately, price 6s., of all Booksellers in

                          Town or Country.



                             --------------



 by RHODA BROUGHTON.

    _Cometh up as a Flower._

    _good-bye, Sweetheart!_

    _Joan._

    _Nancy._

    _not wisely, but too well._

    _red as a Rose be she._

    _Second Thoughts._

    _Belinda._

    _Dr. Cupid._

    _Alas!_



 by Mrs. ALEXANDER.

    _the Wooing o’t._

    _her Dearest Foe._

    _look before you Leap._

    _the Admiral’s Ward._

    _the Executor._

    _the Freres._

    _which shall it be?_



 by ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

    _the Three Clerks._



 by MARCUS CLARKE.

    _for the Term of his Natural Life._



 by HAWLEY SMART.

    _Breezie Langton._



 by HECTOR MALOT.

    _No Relations._ (with numerous illustration.)



 by ROSA N. CAREY.

    _Nellie’s Memories._

    _Barbara Heathcote’s Trial._

    _not like other girl._

    _only the Governess._

    _Queenie’s Whim._

    _Robert Ord’s Atonement._

    _Uncle Max._

    _Wee Wifie._

    _Wooed and Married._

    _Heriot’s Choice._



 by W. E. NORRIS.

    _Thirlby Hall._

    _a bachelor’s blunder._

    _major and Minor._

    _the Rogue._

    _Miss Shafto._



 by Mrs. ANNIE edwarde.

    _ought we to visit she?_

    _leah: a Woman of Fashion._

    _a Ball-Room Repentance._

    _a Girton Girl._

    _Pearl Powder._



 by CHARLES READE.

    _a Perilous Secret._



 by the Hon. L. WINGFIELD.

    _Lady Grizel._



 by Mrs. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN.

    _a Sister’s Story_ (reprint).



                             --------------



                               LONDON

             RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

     =Publishers in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen.=



                   _BENTLEY’S FAVOURITE novel._



 each work can be have separately, price 6s., of all Booksellers in

                          Town or Country.



                             --------------



 by MARIE CORELLI.

    _a romance of Two Worlds._

    _vendetta!_  |  _Thelma._

           _Ardath._



 by F. MONTGOMERY.

    _Misunderstood._

    _throw together._

    _Seaforth._



 by E. WERNER.

    _success: and how he win it._

    _under a Charm._

    _Fickle Fortune._

    _no Surrender._



 by J. SHERIDAN LE FANU.

    _Uncle Silas._

    _in a Glass Darkly._

    _the House by the Churchyard._



 by Mrs. NOTLEY.

    _Olive Varcoe._



 by FRANCES M. PEARD.

    _Near Neighbours._



 ANONYMOUS.

    _the last of the Cavaliers._

    _Sir Charles Danvers._



 by Lady G. FULLERTON.

    _Ellen Middleton._

    _Ladybird._

    _too strange not to be true._



 by JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

    _the ‘First Violin.’_

    _Borderland._

    _Healey._

    _Kith and Kin._

    _Probation._



 by HELEN MATHERS.

    _comin’ thro’ the Rye._

    _Sam’s Sweetheart._



 by HENRY ERROLL.

    _an Ugly Duckling._



 by Mrs. PARR.

    _Adam and Eve._

    _Dorothy Fox._



 by Baroness TAUTPHŒUS.

    _the Initials._

    _Quits!_



 by Mrs. RIDDELL.

    _George Geith of Fen Court._

    _Berna Boyle._



 by JANE AUSTEN.



 (Messrs. Bentley’s be the only _complete_ Editions of Miss

Austen’s Works.)



    _Emma._

    _Lady Susan_, and _the Watsons_.

    _Mansfield Park._

    _Northanger Abbey_, and _persuasion_.

    _Pride and Prejudice._

    _Sense and Sensibility._



                             --------------



                               LONDON

             RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

     =Publishers in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen.=



------------------------------------------------------------------------



                         Transcriber’s note



certain compound word appear both with and without hyphen:

dogcart, hearthrug, bulldog, scatterbraine. where the hyphen

appear on a line break, it be retain or remove base on other

occurence of the word.



error deem most likely to be the printer’s have be correct,

and be note here. the reference be to the page and line in the

original.



  21.11    a decide[d]ly horsey, slangy young fellow      insert.

  26.24    you know,[’]                                   add.

  43.9     we use to go in to tea?[’]                    insert.

  54.21    remarkably observant,[’]                       add.

  78.21    [‘]after that                                  add.

  86.24    he be exactly sly,[’]                          add.

  94.19    though[t] he do not know it.                 remove.

  116.1    his own ple[a]santry                           insert.

  165.33   ‘oh, with pleasure[,]’                         add.

  233.7    of the right stuff.[’]                         add.

  239.1    at any of the ball?[’]                        add.

  253.2    [‘/“]Fancy their face ...                     replace.

  253.5    ... just to look at them.[’/”]                 replace.

  261.25   ‘do you![’] exclaim Ada,                     add.

  261.26   [‘]well, I never![’]                           add.

  264.19   high and well.[’]                          add.

  271.14   [‘]I be sorry                                  add.

  271.29   [‘]treat you in this way!                      remove.

  311.14   be always accident,[’]                       add.

  313.12   every one and everything.[’]                   add.

  313.29   the tune of it.[’]                             add.

  323.6    before you go,[’]                              add.

  326.12   [‘]I should have done                          add.

  368.8    about life and other[s] thing                 remove.









*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BORDERLAND ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





