The project Gutenberg eBook of a Life's morning

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a life's morning



author: George Gissing



Release date: August 1, 2003 [eBook #4312]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a life'S morning ***









produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.



















a Life's morning





by



George Gissing









content



       I  an UNDERGRADUATE AT leisure

      II  BEATRICE REDWING

     III  LYRICAL

      IV  a conflict of opinion

       V  the SHADOW of HOME

      VI  a visitor BY EXPRESS

     VII  on the level

    viii  a sterner wooing

      IX  CIRCUMSTANCE

       X  AT the sword'S POINT

      XI  EMILY'S decision

     XII  THE FINAL INTERVIEW

    XIII  the cutting of the KNOT

     XIV  NEWS and comment

      XV  MRS. BAXENDALE'S QUESTS

     XVI  renunciation

    XVII  their several WAYS

   xviii  a COMPACT

     XIX  the COMPLETION of MISCHANCE

      XX  wilfrid the LEGISLATOR

     XXI  DANGEROUS RELICS

    XXII  her PATH in the SHADOW

   XXIII  her path in the LIGHT

    XXIV  the UNEXPECTED

     XXV  a family conclave

    XXVI  MID-DAY









CHAPTER I



an UNDERGRADUATE AT leisure





Wilfrid Athel go down invalid a few day after the beginning of

Trinity term. the event be not unanticipated. at Christmas it have be

clear enough that he be overtax himself; his father remark on the

fact with anxiety, and urge moderation, his own peculiar virtue.

Wilfrid, whose battle with circumstance be all before he, decline to

believe that the body be anything but the very humble servant of the

will. so the body take its revenge.



he have be delicate in childhood, and the stage of hardy naturalism

which interpose itself between tender juvenility and the birth of

self-consciousness do not in his case last long enough to establish his

frame in the vigour to which it be tend. there be nothing sickly

about he; it be only an excess of nervous vitality that would not

allow body to keep pace with mind. he be a boy to be, intellectually,

hold in leash, say the doctor. but that be easy say than do.

what system of sedative could one apply to a youngster whose

imagination work he to a fever during a simple walk by the seashore,

who if book be forcibly withhold console himself with the

composition of five-act tragedy, intersperse with lyric to which he

supply original strain? Mr. Athel conceive a theory that such

exuberance of emotionality might be counterbalance by study of a

strictly positive nature; a tutor be engage to ground young Wilfrid in

mathematic and the physical science. the result be that the tutor's

enthusiasm for these pursuit communicate itself after a brief

repugnance to the versatile pupil; instinct of mastery become as vivid

in the study of Euclid and the chemical element as formerly in the

humaner path of learning; the plan have fail. in the upshot Wilfrid

be send to school; if that do not develop the animal in he, nothing

would.



he be not quite three-and-twenty when the break-down remove he from

Oxford. go to Balliol with a scholarship, he have from the first be

mark for great thing, at all event by the measure of the school.

Removal from the system of home education have in truth seem to answer

in some degree the end aim at; the lad take his fair share of cricket

and football, and keep clear of nervous crisis. at the same time he make

extraordinary progress with his book. he acquire with extreme

facility, and his ambition never allow he to find content in a second

place; conquest become his habit; he grow to deem it the order of nature

that Wilfrid Athel's name should come first in the list. hence a

reputation to support. during his early term at Balliol he fag as

hard as the mere dullard whose dear life depend upon a first class and

a subsequent tutorship. what he would make of himself in the end be

uncertain; university distinction would probably be of small moment to

he as soon as they be achieve, for already he spend the great

portion of his strength in line of study quite apart from the

curriculum, and fate have bless he with exemption from sordid care.

he lead in a set devoted to what be call advanced idea; without

flatter himself that he be on the way to solve the problem of the

universe, he have satisfaction in review the milestone which remove

he from the unconscious man, and already clutch at a measure of

positive wisdom in the suspicion that lie might shortly have to lay

aside his school-book and recommence his education under other

teacher. as yet he be whole-hearted in the pursuit of learn. the

intellectual audacity which be willnot to be the key-note of his

conversation do not, as his detractor hold, indicate mere

bumptiousness and defect of self-measurement; it be simply the florid

redundancy of a young mind which glory in its strength, and play at

victory in anticipation. it be true that he could not brook the

semblance of inferiority; if it be only five minute' chat in the

Quad, he must come off with a phrase or an epigram; so those duller

head who call Athel affect be not wholly without their

justification. those who shrug their shoulder with the remark that

he be overdo it, and would not last out to the end of the race,

enjoy a more indisputable triumph. one evening, when Athel be take

the brilliant lead in an argument on 'Fate, free-will, foreknowledge

absolute,' his brain begin to whirl, tobacco-smoke seem to have dull

all the light before his eye, and he fall from his chair in a

fainting-fit.



he need nothing but rest; that, however, be imperative. Mr. Athel

bring he to London, and the family go down at once to their house

in Surrey. Wilfrid be an only son and an only child. his father have

be a widower for nearly ten year; for the last three his house have

be direct by a widow sister, Mrs. Rossall, who have twin girl. Mr.

Athel find it no particular hardship to get away from town and pursue

his work at the Firs, a delightful house in the midst of Surrey's

fair scenery, nor would Mrs. Rossall allow that the surrender of high

season cost she any effort. this lady have just complete she

thirty-second year; her girl be in their tenth. she be comely and

know it, but a constitutional indolence have preserve she from become

a woman of fashion, and have nurture in she a reflective mood, which, if

it lead to no marked originality of thought, at all event contribute to

an appearance of culture. at the time of her husband's death she be at

the point where graceful inactivity so often degenerate into

slovenliness. Mrs. Rossall's homekeepe tendency and the grow

childhood of her twin tend to persuade she that her youth be go;

even the new spring fashion stir she to but languid interest, and

her music, in which she have some attainment, be all but lay aside.

with widowhood begin a new phase of her life. her mourning be

unaffected; it lead she to pietism; she spend her day in religious

observance, and her night in the study of the grave literature. she

would have enter the Roman Church but for her brother's interposition.

the end of this third year of discipline be bring about another

change, perhaps less obvious to herself than to those who mark she

course with interest, as several people do. her reading become less

ascetic, she pass to George Herbert and the 'Christian Year,' and by

way of the decoration of altar proceed to thought for her personal

adornment. a certain journal of society which she have long ago abandon

begin to show itself occasionally in her room, though only as yet by

oversight leave to view. she speak with her brother on the subject of

certain invitation, long neglect, and do not seem displeased when he

go beyond her own motion to propose the issuing of card for a

definite evening. then come Wilfrid's break-down. there be really no

need, say Mr. Athel, that she should transfer herself immediately to

the country, just when everybody be well settle in town. but Mrs.

Rossall prefer to go; she be not sure that the juncture have not some

connection with her own spiritual life. and she maintain, on the

whole, a seemly cheerfulness.



Mr. Athel be an egyptologist of some distinction. though not in person

or manner suggestive of romantic antecedent, he have yet come by this

taste in a way which border on romance. travel in Southern Europe

at about the age which Wilfrid have now reach, he have the good fortune

to rescue from drown an italian gentleman then on a tour in Greece.

the Italian have a fair daughter, who be travel with he, and she,

after an acquaintance of a few week, Athel demand by way of

recompense. her father be an enthusiastic student of egyptian

antiquity; the Englishman ply at one and the same time his wooing

and the study of hieroglyphic, with marked success in both direction.

the Mr. Athel who at that time represent parental authority, or at all

event claim filial deference, be anything but pleased with the step

his son have take; he be a highly respectable dealer in grain, and,

after the manner of highly respectable man of commerce, would have have

his eld son espouse some countrywoman yet more respectable. it be

his opinion that the lad have be entrap by an adventurous foreigner.

Philip Athel, who have a will of his own, wed his italian maiden,

bring she to England, and fight down prejudice. a year or two later

he be at work in Egypt, where lie remain for some twelve month; his

study progress. subsequently he publish certain paper which be

recognise as valuable. Wilfrid find the amusement of his childhood in

his father's pursuit; he begin to decipher hieratic not much later than

he learn to read English. scarab be his sacred plaything, and by

the time of his go to school he be able to write letter home in a

demotic which would not perhaps have satisfied Champollion or Brugsch,

but yet be sufficiently marvellous to his schoolfellow and gratifying

to his father.



for the rest, Philip Athel be a typical english gentleman. he enjoy

out-of-door sport as keenly as he do the pursuit of his study; he have

scarcely know a day's illness in his life, owe, he maintain, to the

wisdom with which he arrange his day. three hour of study be, he

hold, as much as any prudent man would allow himself. he be always in

excellent spirit, ever ready to be of service to a friend, live with

much moderation on victual of the good quality procurable, take his

autumnal holiday abroad in a gentlemanly manner. with something of

theoretic Radicalism in his political view, he combine a stout respect

for british social institution; affect to be above vulgar

prejudice, he be in reality much prepossess in favour of hereditary

position, and as time go on do occasionally half wish that the love

he have bestow on his italian wife have be give to some english lady

of 'good' family. he be liberal, frank, amiably autocratic in his home,

apt to be peppery with inferior who miss the line of perfect respect,

candid and reasonable with equal or superior. for his boy he reserve

a store of manly affection, seldom express itself save in bluff

fashion; his sister he patronise with much kindness, though he despise

her judgment. one have now and then a feeling that his material

circumstance aid greatly in make he the genial man he be, that

with beef and claret of inferior quality he might not have be

altogether so easy to get along with. but that again be an illustration

of the english character.



we find the family assemble for breakfast at the Firs one delightful

morning at the end of July. the window of the room be throw open,

and there stream in with the sunlight fresh and delicious odour,

tonic alike of mind and body. from the Scotch fir whence the dwelling

take its name come a scent which mingle with waft breath from the

remoter heather, and the creeper about the house-front, the lovely

bloom and leafage skirt the lawn, contribute to the atmosphere of

health and joy. it be nine o'clock. the urn be on the gleam table,

the bell be sound, Mr. Athel step in straight from the lawn,

fresh after his ten minute' walk about the garden. Wilfrid Athel

appear at the same moment; he be dark-complexioned and have black,

glossy hair; his cheek be hollower than they should have be, but he

have not the aspect of an invalid. Mrs. Rossall glide into the room

behind he, fresh, fair, undemonstrative. then come the twin, by name

Patty and Minnie, delicate, with promise of their mother's english style

of beauty; it be very hard to distinguish they, their uncle have

honestly give up the pretence long ago, and occasionally remonstrate

with his sister on the absurdity of dress they exactly alike. the

last to enter the room be the governess, Miss Emily Hood.



Mr. Athel, having pronounce a grace, mention that he think of

run up to town; do anybody wish to give he a commission? Mrs.

Rossall look thoughtful, and say she would make a note of two or

three thing.



'I haven't much faith in that porridge regimen, Wilf,' remark the

master of the house, as he help himself to chicken and tongue. 'we be

not highlander. it's dangerous to make diet too much a matter of

theory. your example be infectious; first the twin; now Miss Hood.

Edith, do you propose to become a pervert to porridge?'



'I have no taste for it,' reply his sister, who have become

absent-minded.



'there's a certain dishonesty about it, moreover,' Mr. Athel pursue.

'porridge should be eat with salt. milk _and_ sugar--didn't I hear a

suggestion of golden syrup, more honestly call treacle, yesterday?

these thing constitute evasion, self-deception at the least. in your

case, Miss Hood, the regimen be clearly fruitful of ill result.'



'of what kind, Mr. Athel?'



'obviously it lead to diminution of appetite. you be in the habit of

eat a satisfactory breakfast; at present some two ounce of that

farinaceous mess--'



'my dear Philip!' interpose Mrs. Rossall, still absently.



I hold that I be within my right,' assert her brother. 'if Miss Hood

go down into Yorkshire in a state of emaciation--'



Wilfrid and the twin show amusement.



'to begin with,' pursue Mr. Athel, 'I hold that sweet food the first

thing in the morning be a mistake; the appetite be check in an

artificial way, and impair. even coffee--'



'you would recommend a return to flagon of ale?' suggest Wilfrid.



'I be not sure that it ben't well dietetically.'



Mrs. Rossall have take an egg, but, after fruitlessly chip at the

shell throughout this conversation, put down her spoon and appear to

abandon the effort to commence her meal. presently she break silence,

speak with some diffidence.



'I really think I will go to town with you, Philip,' she say. 'I want

some thing you cann't very well get I, and then I ought to go and see

the redwing. I might persuade Beatrice to come to we for a day or two.'



'do so by all mean. you're quite sure,' he add with a smile, 'that I

couldn't save you the trouble of the journey? I have no objection to

visit the redwing.'



'I think it will be well if I go myself,' reply Mrs. Rossall, with a

far-off look. 'I might call on one or two other people.'



having decide this point, she find herself able to crack the egg. the

anticipation of her day in London make she quite gay throughout the

meal.



the carriage be at the door by ten o'clock, to drive to dealing, the

near station, some four mile away. the twin have go upstairs with

Miss Hood to their lesson, and Wilfrid be saunter about the hall.

his father pause by he on the way to the carriage.



'what do you propose to do with yourself, Wilf?' he ask.



'Ride, I think.'



'do. go over to hilstead and lunch there. capital lunch they give you at

the inn; the last time I be there they cook I one of the good chop

I ever eat. Oberon want exercise; make a day of it.'



'very well.'



'you're not look quite so well, I'm afraid,' remark his father,

with genuine solicitude in his tone. 'haven't be read, have you?'



'no.'



'no imprudence, mind. I must stop that porridge regimen; it don't

suit you. ready, Edith?' he shout heartily at the foot of the stair.



Mrs. Rossall come down, button her glove.



'if I be you, Wilf,' she say, 'I'd go off somewhere for the day. the

twin will only worry you.'



Wilfrid laugh.



'I be go to eat unexampled chop at the "Waggoner" in hilstead,' he

reply.



'that's right. good-bye, my dear boy. I wish you'd get fat.'



'Pooh, I'm all right.'



the landau roll away. Wilfrid still loiter in the hall, a singular

look of doubt on his face. in a room above one of the twin be have a

music lesson; a certain finger-exercise be be drum with

persistent endeavour at accuracy.



'how can she bear that morning after morning?' the young man murmur to

himself.



he take his straw hat and go round to the stable. Oberon be be

groom. Wilfrid pat the horse's sleek neck, and talk a little with

the man. at length he make up his mind to go and prepare for riding;

Oberon would be ready for he in a few minute.



in the porch Patty run to meet he.



'Truant!' Wilfrid exclaim. 'have I catch you in the act of escape?'



'I be go to look for you,' say the child, put her arm through

his and swinge upon he. 'we want to know if you'll be back for

lunch.'



'who want to know?'



'I and Minnie and Miss Hood.'



'oh, you be Patty, then, be you?'



this be an old form of joke. the child shake her dark curl with a

half-annoyed gesture, but still swing on her cousin as he move into the

house. Wilfrid pass his arm about she playfully.



'cann't you make up your mind, Wilf?' she ask.



'oh yes, my mind be quite make up,' he reply, with a laugh.



'and willn't you tell I?'



'tell you? ah, about lunch. no, I shall not be back.'



'you willn't? oh, I be sorry.'



'why be you sorry, indistinguishable little maiden?' he ask, draw

out one of her curl between his finger, and let it spring back

again into its circling beauty.



'we think it would be so nice, we four at lunch.'



'I be warn to avoid you. the tone of conversation would try my weak

head; I be not capable yet of intellectual effort.'



the little girl look at he with puzzled eye.



'well, it cann't be help,' she say. 'I must go back to my lesson.'



she run off, and Wilfrid go up to his dressing-room. when he come

down, Oberon be paw the gravel before the door. he mount and ride

away.



his spirit, which at first seem to suffer some depression, take

vigour once more from the air of the down. he put Oberon at a leap or

two, then let the breeze sing in his ear as he be bear at a gallop

over the summer land, golden with sunlight. in spite of his still worn

look, health be manifest in the upright vigour of his form, and in his

eye gleam the untroubled joy of existence. Hope just now be strong

within he, a hope define and point to an end attainable; he know

that henceforth the many bounding and voiceful stream of his life would

unite in one strong flow onward to a region of orient glory which shine

before he as the bourne hitherto but dimly imagine. on, Oberon, on! no

speed that would not lag behind the fore-flight of a heart's desire. let

the stretch of green-shadow woodland sweep by like a dream; let the

fair, sweet meadow-side smile for a moment and vanish; let the dark

hill-summit rise and sink. it be the time of youth and hope, of

boundless faith in the world's promise, of breathless pursuit.



Hilstead be gain long before lunch could be think of. Wilfrid ride

on, and circle back towards the hostelry famous for chop about the

hour of noon. he put up his horse, and stray about the village till

his meal be ready; after he have eat it he smoke a cigar among

hollyhock and sunflower. then impatience possess he. he look at

his watch several time, annoy to find that so little of the day be

spend. when he at last set forth again, it be to ride at walk pace

in the direction of home. he reach a junction of road, and wait

there for several minute, unable to decide upon his course. he end by

throw the rein on Oberon's neck.



'go which way you will,' he say aloud.



Oberon pace forward to the homeward route.



'so be it. on, then! an hour will bring we to the Firs.'



the house be all but reach, when Wilfrid catch a glimpse of a straw

hat move into a heath-clothe hollow a hundred yard from the road. he

press on. at the gate stand a gardener.



'James,' he cry, leap down, 'take the horse to the stable, will

you?'



and, instead of go up to the house, he walk back in the direction

he have come till he reach the hollow in which the straw hat have

disappear. Miss Hood sit on the ground, read. she be about to

rise, but Wilfrid beg she not to move, and throw himself into a

reclining posture.



'I see you as I ride past,' he say, in a friendly way. 'I suppose the

twin be stray?'



'they be at Greenhaws,' be the reply, 'Mrs. Winter call for they

immediately after lunch. she will bring they back early in the evening.'



'ah!'



he pluck sprig of heather. Miss Hood turn to her book.



'I've have a magnificent ride,' Wilfrid begin again. 'surely there be no

country in England so glorious as this. don't you enjoy it?'



'very much.'



'I have never see the Yorkshire moor. the scenery, of course, be of a

much wilder kind?'



'I have not see they myself,' say the governess.



'I think you might have take your holiday sometimes in that

direction.'



'no. we use to go to a seaside place in Lincolnshire call

Cleethorpes. I suppose you never hear of it?'



'I think not.'



Wilfrid continue to pluck heather, and let his eye catch a glimpse of

her face now and then. Miss Hood be a year young than himself, and

have well outgrow girlishness. she be of very slight build, look

indeed rather frail; but her face, though lack colour, have the

firmness of health. it be very broad at the forehead, and taper down

into narrowness; the eye seem set at an unusual distance from each

other, though the nose be thin and of perfect form, its profile make

but a slight angle away from the line of the brow. her lip be large,

but finely curve; the chin be prominent, the throat long. she have warm

brown hair.



few would at first sight have call her face beautiful, but none could

deny the beauty of her hand. unglove at present, they lie on the open

page of the book, unsurpassable for delicate loveliness. when he do

not venture to look high, Wilfrid let his eye feed on the turn of the

wrist, the faint blue line and sinuous muscle, the pencilling about

the finger-joint, the delicate white and pink nail.



Miss Hood be habitually silent when in the company of other than the

child. when she reply to a question it be without timidity, but in

few, well-choose word. yet her manner do not lack cheerfulness; she

impress no one as be unhappy, and alone with the twin she be

often gay enough. she be self-possess, and have the manner of a lady,

though in her position this be rather to be observe in what she

refrain from do than in what she do. Wilfrid have, on first meeting

she, remark to himself that it must imply a certain force of

individuality to vary so distinctly from the commonplace even under the

disadvantage of complete self-suppression; he have now come to understand

well the way in which that individuality betray itself.



'shall you go to Cleethorpes this year?' be his next question.



'I think not. I shall most likely pass the holiday at home.'



'and study electricity?'



in a former conversation she have surprise he by some unexpected

knowledge of the principle of electricity, and explain the

acquirement by tell he that this subject be her father's favourite

study. Wilfrid put the question now with a smile.



'yes, very likely,' she reply, smile also, but faintly. 'it give my

father pleasure when I do so.'



'you have not a keen interest in the subject yourself?'



'I try to have.'



her voice be of singular quality; if she raise it the effect be not

agreeable, owe possibly to its lack of strength, but in low tone,

such as she employ at present, it fall on the ear with a peculiar

sweetness, a natural melody in its modulation.



'the way in which you speak of your father interest I,' say Wilfrid,

lean his chin upon his hand, and gaze at she freely. 'you seem so

united with he in sympathy.'



she do not turn her eye to he, but her face gather brightness.



'in sympathy, yes,' she reply, speak now with more readiness. 'our

taste often differ, but we be always at one in feeling. we have be

companion ever since I can remember.'



'be your mother live?'



'yes.'



something in the tone of the brief affirmative keep Wilfrid from far

questioning.



'I wonder,' he say, 'what you think of the relation exist between

myself and my father. we be excellent friend, don't you think?

strange--one don't think much about such thing till some occasion

bring they forward. whether there be deep sympathy between we, I

couldn't say. certainly there be many subject on which I should not

dream of speak to he unless necessity arise; partly, I suppose, that

be male reserve, and partly english reserve. if novel be to be

trust, french parent and child speak together with much more

freedom; on the whole that must be well.'



she make no remark.



'my father,' he continue, 'be eminently a man of sense; if I reflect on

my boyhood, I see how admirable his treatment of I have always be. I

fancy I must have be at one time rather hard to manage; I know I be

very passionate and stubbornly self-willed. yet he neither let I have

my own way nor anger I by his opposition. in fact, he make I respect

he. now that we stand on equal term, I dare say he have something of

the same feeling towards myself. and so it come that we be excellent

friend.'



she listen with a scarcely perceptible smile.



'perhaps this seem to you a curiously dispassionate way of treat

such a subject,' Wilfrid add, with a laugh. 'it illustrate what I

mean in say I doubt whether there be deep sympathy between we.

your own feeling for your father be clearly one of devotedness. you

would think no sacrifice of your own wish too great if he ask it of

you.'



'I cannot imagine any sacrifice, which my father could ask, that I

should refuse.'



she speak with some difficulty, as if she wish to escape the subject.



'perhaps that be a virtue that your sex help to explain,' say Wilfrid,

musingly.



'you do not know,' he add, when a bee have hum between they for half

a minute, 'how constant my regret be that my mother do not live till I

be old enough to make a friend of she. you know that she be an

italian? there be a sympathy take out of my life. I believe I have

more of the italian nature than the English, and I know my mother's

presence would be priceless to I now that I could talk with she. what

unsatisfactory creature we be as child, so imperfect, so deficient!

it be bad with boy than with girl. Compare, for instance, the twin

with boy of ten. what coarse, awkward, unruly lump of boisterousness

youngster mostly be at that age! I dislike boy, and more than ever

when I remember myself at that stage. what an insensible, ungrateful,

brainless, and heartless brat I be!'



'you must be wrong in one respect,' she return, watch a large

butterfly. 'you could not have be brainless.'



'oh, the foundation of tolerable wit be there, no doubt; but it be

just that undeveloped state that irritate I. suppose I be now ten

year old, and that glorious butterfly before I; should I not leap at

it and stick a pin through it--young savage? precisely what a Hottentot

boy would do, except that he would be free from the apish folly of

pretend a scientific interest, not really exist. I rejoice to have

live out of my boyhood; I would not go through it again for anything

short of a thousand year of subsequent maturity.'



she just glance at he, a light of laughter in her eye. she be

abandon herself to the pleasure of hear he speak.



'that picture of my mother,' he pursue, drop his voice again, 'do

not do her justice. even at twelve year old--(she die when I be

twelve)--I could not help see and know how beautiful she be. I

have think of she of late more than I ever do; sometimes I suffer a

passion of grief that one so beautiful and lovable have go and leave a

mere dumb picture. I suppose even my memory of she will grow fainter and

fainter, found as it be on imperfect understanding, dim appreciation.

she use to read Italian to I--first the italian, then the English--and

I think it, as often as not, a bore to have to listen to she!

thank Heaven, I have the book she use, and can now go over the piece,

and try to recall her voice.'



the butterfly be go, but the bee still hum about they. the hot

afternoon air be unstirred by any breeze.



'how glad I be,' Wilfrid exclaim when he have brood for a few

moment, 'that I happen to see you as I ride past! I should have

wander restlessly about the house in vain, seek for some one to

talk to. and you listen so patiently. it be pleasant to be here and talk

so freely of thing I have always have to keep in my own mind. look, do

look at that bastion of cloud over the sycamore! what glorious gradation

of tint! what a snowy crown!'



'that be a pretty spray,' he add, hold to her one that he have

pluck.



she look at it; then, as he still hold it out, take it from he. the

exquisite finger touch his own redder and coarser one.



'have you friend in Dunfield?' he ask.



'friend?'



'any real friend, I mean--any girl who give you real companionship?'



'scarcely that.'



'how shall you spend your time when you be not deep in electric? what

do you mean to read these holiday?'



'chiefly german, I think. I have only just begin to read it.'



'and I cann't read it at all. now and then I make a shot at the meaning

of a note in a german edition of some classical author, every time

fret at my ignorance. but there be so endlessly much to do, and a

day be so short.'



'ben't it hateful,' he break forth, 'this enforce idleness of mine? to

think that week and week go by and I remain just where I be, when the

loss of an hour use to seem to I an irreparable misfortune. I have

such an appetite for knowledge, surely the unhappy gift a man can be

endow with; it lead to nothing but frustration. perhaps the appetite

weaken as one grow in year; perhaps the sphere of one's keener

interest contract; I hope it may be so. at time I cannot work--I

mean, I could not--for a sense of the vastness of the field before I.

I should like you to see my room at Balliol. shelf have long since

refuse to take another volume; floor, table, chair, every spot be

heaped. and there they lie; host I have scarcely look into, many I

shall never have time to take up to the end of my day.'



'you have the satisfaction of be able to give your whole time to

study.'



'there be precisely the source of dissatisfaction. my whole time, and

that wholly insufficient. I have a friend, a man I envy intensely; he

have take up the subject of celtic literature; give himself to it with

single-heartedness, care for nothing that do not connect itself

therewith; will pursue it throughout his life; will know more of it than

any man live. my despair be the universality of my interest. I can

think of no branch of study to which I could not surrender myself with

enthusiasm; of course I shall never master one. my subject be the

history of humanity; I would know everything that man have do or

thought or feel. I cannot separate line of study. philology be a

passion with I, but how shall I part the history of speech from the

history of thought? the etymology of any single word will hold I for

hour; to follow it up I must traverse century of human culture. they

tell I I have a faculty for philosophy, in the narrow sense of the

word; alas! that narrow sense imply an exhaustive knowledge of

speculation in the past and of every result of science bear in our own

time. think of the sunny space in the world's history, in each of which

one could linger for ever. Athens at her fairest, Rome at her

grandest, the glorious savagery of merovingian court, the kingdom of

Frederick II., the Moors in Spain, the magic of Renaissance Italy--to

become a citizen of any one age mean a lifetime of endeavour. it be

easy to fill one's head with name and year, but that only sharpen my

hunger. then there be the world of art; I would know every subtle

melody of verse in every tongue, enjoy with perfectly instruct taste

every form that man have carve or paint. I fear to enter museum and

gallery; I be distract by the numberless desire that seize upon I,

depress by the hopelessness of satisfy they. I cannot even enjoy

music from the mere feeling that I do not enjoy it enough, that I have

not have time to study it, that I shall never get at its secret....

and when be one to live? I cannot lose myself in other man's activity

and enjoyment. I must have a life of my own, outside the wall of a

library. it would be easy to give up all ambition of knowledge, to

forget all the joy and sorrow that have be and pass into nothingness;

to know only the eternity of a present hour. might one not learn more in

one instant of unreflecte happiness than by toil on to a mummie

age, only to know in the end the despair of never having live?'



he again raise his eye to her face. it be fix in a cold, absent

gaze; her lip harden into severity, the pose of her head impressive,

noble. Athel regard she for several moment; she be reveal to he

more of her inner self than he have yet divine.



'what be your thought?' he ask quietly.



she smile, recover her wonte passiveness.



'have you not often much the same trouble?'



'they arc only for the mind which be strong enough to meet and overcome

they,' she reply.



'but look, my mind have give way already! I be imbecile. for ever I

shall be on the point of a break-down, and each successive one will

bring I near to some final catastrophe--perhaps the lunatic

asylum--who know?'



'I should think,' she say gravely, 'that you suggest a truth. very

likely your mind will contract its range and cease to aim at the

impossible.'



'but tell I, have you not yourself already attain that wisdom? why

should you make pretence of feebleness which do not mark you? you

have a mind as active as my own; I know that perfectly well. what be

your secret of contentment? willn't you help I in this miserable plight?'



'no, Mr. Athel, I have none but very ordinary power of mind, and

perhaps it be my recognition of that which keep I content. there be

indeed one principle of guidance which I have work out for myself--'



'ah! and that?'



'it will not enlighten you, for it be only the choice of a natural and

easy course, see that difficult one be close. the literature of

learning be out of my reach, so I limit myself to the literature of

beauty, and in this I try to keep to the good.'



'you be right, you be right! to know the masterpiece of literature,

pure literature, poetry in its wide sense; that be the wise choice.

think; we feed ourselves with the secondhand wisdom of paltry

philosophiser and critic, and Shakespeare wait outside the door with

the bread of life. from Homer--Alas! you do not read Greek?'



she shake her head.



'and you work at German! in Heaven's name change your language

forthwith! why should you not know Greek? you _must_ know greek! I will

give you book, I will advise you, show you the essential to begin

with. there be still a few day before you go into Yorkshire; you can

work during the holiday on line I shall set you; you can write and

tell I your--'



he pause, for her face have lose its smile, and wear again that coldly

respectful look which she seldom put off save in her privacy with the

child. for the last quarter of an hour he have mark in her quite

another aspect; the secret meaning of her face have half utter

themselves in eye and lip. his last word seem to recall she to the

world of fact. she make a slight movement and close the book on her

lap.



'Greek be more than I can undertake, Mr. Athel,' she say in a quietly

decide tone. 'I must be content with translation.'



'translation! you would not say that so calmly if you know what you

be renounce. everything, everything in literature, I would give up

to save my Greek. you will learn it, I know you will; some day I shall

hear you read the hexameter as beautifully as you read english poetry

to the girl. will you not begin if I beg you to?'



the elbow on which he rest move a few inch near to she. he see

the pearly shadow waver upon her throat, and her lip tremble into

rigidity.



'my time in the holiday will be very limited,' she say. 'I have

undertake to give some help to a friend who be prepare to become a

teacher, and'--she try to smile--'I don't think I must do more work

whilst at home than be really necessary.'



'no, that be true,' Wilfrid assent unwillingly. 'never mind, there be

plenty of time. greek will be overcome, you will see. when we be all

back in town and the day be dull, then I shall succeed in persuade

you.'



she look about she as if with thought of quit her place. her

companion be draw into himself; he stroke mechanically with his

finger-tip the frond of bracken near he.



'I suppose I shall go up again in October,' he begin. 'I wish there be

no necessity for it.'



'but surely it be your one desire?' the other reply in genuine

surprise.



'not to return to Oxford. a few month ago it would have be, but this

crisis in my life have change I. I don't think I shall adapt myself

again to those condition. I want to work in a free way. I have a

positive zeal even for examination; now that seem tame--well, boyish.

I believe I have outgrow that stage; I feel a reluctance to go back to

school. I suppose I must take my degree, and so on, but it will all be

against the grain.'



'your feeling will most likely alter when you have thoroughly recover

your health.'



'no, I don't think it will. practically my health be all right. you

don't,' he add with a smile, 'regard I as an irresponsible person,

whose feeble remark be to be receive with kind allowance?'



'no, I do not mean that.'



he gaze at she, and his face show a grow trouble.



'you do not take too seriously what I say just now about the weakness

of my mind? it would be horrible if you think I have work myself into

a state of amiable imbecility, and be incapable henceforth of acting,

thinking, or speak with a sound intellect. tell I, say in plain

word that be not your way of interpret I.'



he have become very much in earnest. raise himself to a position in

which he rest on one hand, he look straight into her face.



'why don't you reply? why don't you speak?'



'because, Mr. Athel, it be surely needless to say that I have no such

think.'



'no, it be not needless; and even now you speak in a way which trouble

I. do not look away from I. what have my aunt tell you about I?'



she turn her face to he. her self-command be so complete that not a

throb of her leap heart betray itself in vein or muscle. she even

meet his eye with a placid gaze which he feel as a new aspect of her

countenance.



'Mrs. Rossall have never speak to I of your health,' she say.



'but my father's joke; he have a way of humorous exaggeration. you of

course understand that; you don't take seriously all he say?'



'I think I can distinguish between jest and earnest.'



'for all that, you speak of the recovery of my health as if I be still

far from the wholly rational stand-point. so far from my be mentally

unsound, this rest have be a grow-time with I. before, I do

nothing but heap my memory with knowledge of book; now I have have

leisure to gather knowledge of a deep kind. I be a one-side

academical monster; it need this new sense to make I human. the old

college life be no long my ideal; I doubt if it will be possible. at

any rate, I shall hurry over the rest of my course as speedily as may

be, that I may begin really to live. you must credit what I be say; I

want you to give I distinct assurance that you do so. if I have the

least doubt, it will trouble my mind in earnest.'



Miss Hood rise to her foot in that graceful effortless way of which

girl have the secret.



'you attribute a meaning to my word that I never think of,' she say,

again in the distant respectful manner.



Wilfrid also rise.



'and you give I credit for understand myself, for be as much

master of my mind as I be of my action?'



'surely I do, Mr. Athel.'



'you be go to the house? it be nearly five o'clock; your conscience

tell you that a civilised being must drink tea. I think I shall walk

over to Greenhaws; I may as well save Mrs. Winter the trouble of

bring back the child.'



he hesitate before move away.



'how little that cloud have change its form! I should like to stay here

and watch it till sunset. in a week I suppose I shall be look at some

such cloud over Mont Blanc. and you, in Dunfield.'



'no, there we have only mill-smoke.'



she smile, and pass from the hollow to the road.









CHAPTER II



BEATRICE redwing





midway in breakfast next morning, at a moment when Mrs. Rossall be

describe certain originality of drawing-room decoration observe on

the previous day at a house in town, the half-open door admit a young

lady who have time to glance round the assemble family before her

presence be observe. in appearance she be very interesting. the tint

of her fine complexion be warm by exercise in the morning air, and

her dark eye brighten by pleasurable excitement; she carry her hat

in her hand, and seem to have be walk bare-head, for there be

sign of wind-play in her abundant black hair. but neither face nor

attire suggest rusticity: the former be handsome, spirited, with a

hint of uncommon thing in its changeful radiance; the latter be the

result of perfect taste choose at will among the season's costume. at

her throat be fasten two blossom of wild rose, with the dew still

on they, and the hand which hold her lace-trim sunshade carry also

a spray of meadow-sweet.



Mr. Athel, look up from the end of the table, be the first to

perceive she.



'_Guardami ben: ben son, ben son Beatrice_!' he exclaim, rise and

move from his place. 'but how in the world have she get here?'



'Beatrice!' cry Mrs. Rossall, follow the general direction of eye.

'here already! but you surely haven't come from town this morning?'



'but indeed I have,' be the reply, in a joyous voice, whose full, rich

quality take the ear captive. 'will you let I sit down just as I be?

Patty, here's a rose for you, and, Minnie, another for you.' she take

they from her dress. 'how do you do, Mr. Wilfrid?'



the governess be mention to she by name; Beatrice look at she

steadfastly for a moment.



'but how have you get here?' inquire Mrs. Rossall. 'you must have leave

London at an unheard-of hour; and how have yen come from deal?'



'clearly she have walk,' say Mr. Athel. 'don't you see the spoil of

her progress?'



'oh yes, I have walk,' reply the girl. 'I suppose I'm in a dreadful

state; towards the end I almost run. I be so afraid lest I should miss

breakfast, and you cann't imagine how hungry I be. be that oatmeal

porridge you be eat, Mr. Wilfrid? oh, do let I have some; how

delicious it will be!'



'Nonsense, Beatrice,' interpose Mrs. Rossall. 'let Mr. Athel give you

some of that pate, or will you have--'



'I've be a vegetarian for a month,' be the reply.



'you don't mean it?'



'most strictly. no--egg be not permit; only the feebler school

allow they. you cann't think how much well I have be in body and

mind since I adopt the new diet.'



'but whatever train do you start by?' press Mrs. Rossall.



'half-past six. I never can sleep these short summer night. I be up

about five o'clock, and just as I be go to read I see the railway

time-table. I look for the first train and determine to come by it. I

write a short note to let mother know what have become of I, then in a

minute or two I get my thing pack, and last of all stole out of the

house to find a cab. luckily, a policeman be just pass the door; he

find one for I in no time. not a soul be up, so I drag the trunk

out on to the landing, and then make the cabman creep upstairs like a

burglar to fetch it. of course he think I be run away; he enjoy

the joke wonderfully; you should have see his smile when I pay he at

the station. perhaps you'll let they fetch my luggage before lunch?'



'but willn't your mother be alarm?' ask Mrs. Rossall.



'why should she? she know I be very capable of take care of myself. I

wouldn't have miss this walk for anything. I only lose my way once,

and then, luckily, a farmer came drive along: he tell I I have half a

mile more. I treble his distance, which make it about right.'



'it's a good four mile from the station,' remark Mr. Athel.



'be it? if I haven't be so hungry I shouldn't have mind as much

again. you're not angry with I, Mrs. Rossall, for come before I be

expect?'



a curious note of irresponsible childishness come out now and then in

her talk, as in this last question; it be the more noticeable for the

air of maturity and self-possession which on the whole characterise

she. she continue to talk with much vivacity, make at the same time a

hearty meal. her place at the table be between Wilfrid and Patty; on

the opposite side sit Miss Hood and Minnie. as often as her eye fall

upon the governess's face, they rest there for a moment, searchingly,

as if with endeavour to recall some memory.



'who be responsible for your vegetarianism?' Wilfrid ask. 'be Mr.

Cresset preach the doctrine?'



'no, Mr. Cresset be not preach the doctrine,' be the reply, in a

tone which evidently contain reference to previous dissension.



'surely there be nothing offensive in the suggestion?' remark the

young man mildly.



'yes, there be something offensive. your reference to Mr. Cresset be

always offensive.'



'you do I injustice. Aunt, I take you to witness, don't I praise

ungrudgingly a sermon of his we hear last Christmas?'



'I remember quite well,' say Beatrice; 'you regard it as

extraordinary that anything good could come from that source, Mr. Athel,

I take you to witness, ben't that his tone?'



'Patty,' interpose Mrs. Rossall, 'do change your place and sit between

those two; they never can be next each other without quarrel.'



Breakfast draw out to unusual length. Miss Redwing be full of the

season's news, and Mrs. Rossall's revive interest in such vanity

scarcely affect concealment. Mr. Athel, too, though he support a

jesting tone, clearly enjoy listen to the girl's vivacious comment

on the world which amuse itself. Wilfrid talk less than usual.



he and his father stroll together into the garden an hour later, and

find Beatrice recline in a hammock which have recently be suspend

in a convenient spot. she have one hand beneath her head, the other hold

a large fan, with which she ward off stray flake of sunlight fall

between the leave.



'ben't this exquisite?' she cry. 'let no one hint to I of stir

before lunch-time. I be go to enjoy absolute laziness.'



'I think you would have prefer a gallop over the down,' say Mr.

Athel.



'oh, we'll have that this afternoon; you may talk of it now, and I shall

relish it in anticipation. or, well still, sit down and tell we old

story about Egypt, and let we forget the age we live in.'



'what be amiss with the age?' inquire Mr. Athel, who stood smoke a

cigar and be in his wonted state of satisfaction with himself and the

universe.



'everything be amiss. if you have be with I yesterday in a street I

be visit, not a quarter of a mile from home--but I'm go to forget

all that now. how deliciously warm it be here in the shade! I must have

a hammock in our garden at Cowes.'



'when do you go back?' Mr. Athel ask.



'in about a fortnight. it have do mother no end of good; don't you

think she look remarkably well, Mrs. Rossall? I'm afraid she find it a

little dull though.'



when his father have return to the house, Wilfrid sit in the grass and

rest his head against the arm of the low garden chair in which Mrs.

Rossall be recline. the sound of a grass-cutter alone mingle with

the light rustling of the tree. it be one of those perfect summer

morning when the sun's ray, though stream from a cloudless sky, be

temper by a gentle haze in the upper region of the air, when the

zenith have a tinge of violet and on the horizon brood a reddish mist.

from this part of the garden only a glimpse of the house be visible; an

upper window with white curtain, cool, peaceful. all else on every side

be verdure and bloom.



'be it possible,' Beatrice ask, when there have be silence for a few

moment, 'that I can have meet Miss Hood anywhere before to-day? her face

be strangely familiar to I.'



'she have never be in London before she come to we,' say Mrs. Rossall.



'but you have relative in Dunfield, I think?' remark Wilfrid.



'to be sure,' say his aunt; 'she come from Dunfield, in Yorkshire. do

you think you can have meet she there?'



'ah, that explain it,' Beatrice cry eagerly. 'I know I have see she,

and I know now where it be. she give lesson to my uncle's child. I

see she when I be stay there the last time, three--no, four year

ago. I cann't recall she by her name, but her face, oh, I remember it as

clearly as possible.'



'what a memory you have, Beatrice!' say Mrs. Rossall.



'I never forget a face that strike I.'



'in what way do Miss Hood's face strike you?' Wilfrid ask, as if in

idle curiosity, and with some of the banter which always mark his tone

to Beatrice.



'you would like some deep, metaphysical reason, but I be not advanced

enough for that. I don't suppose I think much about she at the time,

but the face have stay in my mind. but how old be she?'



'two-and-twenty,' say Mrs. Rossall, smile.



'a year old than myself; my impression be that she be more than

that. I think I only see she once; she be with we at lunch one day. we

speak of her shyness, I remember; she scarcely say a word all the

time.'



'yes, she be very shy,' assent Mrs. Rossall.



'that's a mistake, I think, aunt,' say Wilfrid; 'shyness be quite a

different thing from reticence.'



'Reticent, then,' concede the lady, with a smile to Beatrice. 'at all

event, she be very quiet and agreeable and well-breed. it be such a good

thing to have a governess who really seem well-breed; it do make it so

much easy to treat she with consideration.'



'do the child like she?' Beatrice ask.



'very much indeed. and it's wonderful how she control they; they be

scatter-brain little creature.'



'will she go abroad with you?'



'oh, no, I don't think that necessary.'



Wilfrid presently leave the two to their gossip. the conversation

naturally turn to he.



'how be his health?' Beatrice ask.



'he seem quite recovered. I don't think there be ever anything to

occasion much alarm, but his father get frightened. I expect we shall

bring he back from Switzerland as well as ever he be.'



'what ever have he do with himself the last two month?' muse the

girl.



'well, it have be rather hard to keep he occupy away from book. he

have be ride a good deal, and smoke a good deal.'



'and talk a good deal?'



'well, yes, Wilf be fond of talk,' admit Mrs. Rossall, 'but I

don't think he's anything like as positive as he be. he do now and

then admit that other people may have an opinion which be worth

entertaining. Celia Dawlish be with we a fortnight ago; she declare

he vastly improve.'



'she tell he so?'



'no, that be in private to I.'



'but I think Celia and he always get on well together,' say Beatrice in

an idly meditative tone, move the edge of her fan backwards and

forwards a few inch above her face.



a few minute later, after a silence, she said--



'do you know what I be think?'



'what?' ask Mrs. Rossall, with an air of interest.



'that if I be to close my eye and keep quiet I should very soon be

fast asleep.'



the other laugh at the unexpected reply.



'then why not do so, dear? it's warm enough; you couldn't take any

harm.'



'I suppose the walk have tire I.'



'but if you have no sleep last night? how be it you cann't sleep, I

wonder? be it the same when you be at Cowes?'



'no, only in London. something trouble I; I feel that I have neglect

duty. I hear voice, as distinct as yours now, reprove I for my

idle, frivolous life.'



'Nonsense! I be sure you be neither idle nor frivolous. do doze off, if

you can, dear; I'll go and get something to read.'



'you willn't be angry with I?' the girl ask, in the tone of an

affectionate weary child.



'I shall if you use ceremony with I.'



Beatrice sigh, fold her hand upon the fan, and close her lid.

when Mrs. Rossall return from the house with a magazine and a light

shawl, the occupant of the hammock be already sound asleep. she throw

the shawl with womanly skill and gentleness over the shapely body. when

she have resume her seat, she catch a glimpse of Wilfrid at a little

distance; her beckon summon bring he near.



'look,' she whisper, point to the hammock. 'when do you see a

pretty picture?'



the young man gaze with a free smile, the expression of critical

appreciativeness. the girl's beauty stir in he no mood but that. she

sleep with complete calm of feature the half-light that come through

the foliage make an exquisite pallor on her face, contrast with the

dark masse of her hair. her bosom rise and fall in the soft sighing;

her pure throat be like marble, and her just part lip seem to need

a protector from the bee....



while she sleep, let we learn a little more of her history. some

five-and-twenty year previously, Alfred Redwing be a lecturer on Greek

and Latin at a small college in the North of England, make shift to

live on a beggarly stipend. handsome, pleasing, not quite thirty, he be

well receive in such semblance of society as his town offer, and, in

spite of his defect as a suitor, he win for his wife a certain Miss

Baxendale, the daughter of a well-to-do manufacturer. she bring he at

once a few hundred a year, and he pursue his college work in improve

spirit. his wife have two brother; one have early go to America, the

other be thrive as a man of business in the town of Dunfield. with

Laurence Baxendale, who date his very occasional letter from various

part of the United States, the family might be say to have part for

good; before leave England he have get on ill term with his father and

brother, and it be only a persistent affection for his sister that

cause he to give any sign of himself year after year. when this sister

have be Mrs. Redwing for about two year, she one day receive an

intimation from solicitor that Laurence be dead and have leave she the

whole of a very considerable fortune, the product, mainly, of dealing

in lumber. Mr. and Mrs. Redwing in fact find themselves possess of

nearly fourteen thousand a year, proceed from most orderly

investment. this would naturally involve a change in their mode of

life. in the first place they pay a visit to America; then they settle

in London, where, about the same time, their only child, Beatrice be

bear. a month after the child's come into the world, the father

withdraw from it--into a private lunatic asylum. he have not be himself

from the day when he hear of the fortune that have come to he; such an

access of blessedness be not provide for in the constitution of his

mind. probably few man of his imaginative temperament and hard

antecedent could have bear the change without some little unsettling

of mental balance; we be frame to endure any amount of ill, but have

to take our chance in the improbable event of vast joy befall we.

Poor Redwing conceive a suspicion that his wife desire to murder he;

one night as she be follow he into their bedroom, he suddenly

turn round, catch hold of she with violence, and fling she to the

ground, demand the knife which he protest he have see gleam in her

hand. it be no long safe to live with he; he be put under

restraint, and never again know freedom. in less than a year he die, a

moping maniac.



Mrs. Redwing be an invalid thenceforth; probably it be only the

existence of her child that save her life. an affection of the heart in

course of time declare itself, but, though her existence be believe

to hang on a thread, she live on and on, live to see Beatrice grow to

womanhood. she keep a small house in London, but spend the great part

of the year at home or foreign health-resort. her relative have

suppose that she would return to her own country, but Mrs. Redwing have

taste which lack gratification in a provincial manufacturing town.

without having achieve much positive culture, she have receive from her

husband an impulse towards the development of certain high

possibility in her nature, and she like the society of mentally

active people. the state of her health alone withhold she from a second

marriage; she be not a very patient invalid, and suffer keenly in the

sense of miss the happiness which life have offer she. in the matter

of her daughter's education she exercise much care. doctrinal religion

have a strong hold upon she, and it be her solicitude that Beatrice

should walk from the first in the way of anglican salvation. she

dread the 'spirit of the age.' with a well judgment in pure

literature than fall to the lot of most woman--or man either--she yet

banish from her abode, wherever it might be anything that remotely

savour of intellectual emancipation; her aesthetic leaning she deem

the great temptation of her life, for she frankly own to her friend

that many thing powerfully attract she, which her conscience bid

her shun as dangerous. her generosity make she a shine light in the

world which busy itself in the dispensing or receiving of

ecclesiastical charity. the clerical element be very strong in the

circle that surround she. at the same time she worldly taste do not

go altogether ungratified. she be very fond of music, and her unlimited

power in the provision of first-rate musical entertainment bring to

her house acquaintance of a kind that would not otherwise have be

find there. the theatre she taboo, regard this severity as an

acceptable sacrifice, and not troubling to reflect what share her

ill-health have in render it a fairly easy one. in brief, she be a

woman of a genial nature, whose inconsistency be largely due to her

inability to outgrow early condition.



Beatrice inherit her mother's mental restriction, but be endow

with a subtlety of nature, which, aid by her circumstance, make she

yet more a being of inconsistency and contradiction. in religion it

be not enough for she to conform; zeal drive she into the extreme

form of ritualistic observance. nor do care for her personal salvation

suffice; the logic of a compassionate nature lead she on to various form

of missionary activity; she haunt vile locality, minister alike

to soul and body. at the same time she relish keenly the delight of

the masquerade sphere, where her wealth and her beauty make she doubly

welcome. from pray by the bedside of a costermonger's wife, she would

speed away to shine among the bright in phantasmagoric drawing-room;

her mother could seldom accompany she, but there be always some one

ready to chaperon Beatrice Redwing. once in the world from which thought

be banish, she seem as thoughtless as any. her spiritual conviction

put no veto even upon dancing. yet her mood at such time be not the

entire self-abandonment of the girl who be bear but to waltz. in spite

of the sanction of custom, she could not wholly suppress her virginal

instinct, and, however unconsciously, something in her nature hold

itself aloof. she lead a life of indecision. combine in herself such

contradictory element, she be unable to make close friendship. her

intimacy with Mrs. Rossall, which date from her late childhood, be not

the perfect accord which may subsist between woman of very different

character, yet here she give and receive more sympathy than elsewhere.

it be her frequent saying that she come to Mrs. Rossall's house when

she want to rest. here she could be herself, could pass without

interval from pietistic argument to chatter about her neighbour, could

indulge in impulse of confession as with no one else, could put off the

strain of existence which be the result of her conflict impulse.

but it be only during a portion of the year that she could have Mrs.

Rossall's society at other time, though no one suspect it, she

suffer much from loneliness. with her mother she be in accord on the

subject of religion and music, but even natural affection, blend

with these sympathy, could not bring about complete unity in her home

there be the same lack that she experience in the outer world. for all

her versatility, she be not in appearance emotional; no one seem less

likely to be overcome by passion. her enthusiasm fall short of the last

note of sincerity. perhaps it be on this account that she produce no

strong impression, in spite of her beauty. her personality suffer on

acquaintance from defect of charm. be it a half-consciousness of this

that lead she now and then into the curious affectation of childishness

already remark? do she feel unable to rely for pleasing upon those

genuine possession which for sonic reason could never advantageously

display themselves?....



for more than an hour she sleep. at she wake she find Minnie stand

by her side.



'be your lesson over?' she ask, pass at once into full

consciousness, without sign of having sleep.



the child reply that they be.



'where be Miss Hood?'



'in the summer-house.'



Beatrice rise, and they walk towards the summer-house together. it be

in a corner of the garden, hide among acacia and laurel, a circular

hut in the ordinary style. Patty and the governess be seat within.

Beatrice enter, and take a scat with they.



'be your memory as good as my own, Miss Hood?' she say pleasantly. 'do

you remember our meeting four year ago?'



the other regard she with quiet surprise, and say she have no

recollection of the meeting.



'not at Mr. Baxendale's, my uncle's, one day that you lunch with we

when I be stay there?'



Miss Hood have wholly forget the circumstance. it serve, however, for

the commencement of a conversation, which go en till Mrs. Rossall,

find the hammock desert, be guide by the sound of voice to where

the two girl and the child sit.



in the afternoon there be a setting forth into the country. Mr. Athel

drive his sister and the child; Wilfrid and Beatrice accompany they

on horseback. the course to be pursue having be determine, the

rider be not at pain to keep the carriage always within sight.



'why do Miss Hood decline to come?' Mr. Athel inquire, shortly after

they have start.



she give no reason, Mrs. Rossall reply. 'it be her choice to stay at

home.'



'of course you ask she in a proper way?'



'why, Philip, of course I do.'



'Miss Hood never alter her mind,' remark Patty.



'never,' exclaim the other twin with decision.



'an admirable characteristic,' comment their uncle, 'provide she

decision be right to begin with.'



Beatrice have just lead off at a gallop; Wilfrid necessarily follow she.

when the pace slacken they begin to talk of indifferent thing. on the

crest of a hill, whence the carriage could be see far away on the white

road, the girl rein in, and, turn to her companion, ask

abruptly--



'what be your opinion of Miss Hood?'



'why do you ask such a question?'



'because I should like to know. she interest I, and you must have have

opportunity enough lately of study her character?'



'why do she interest you?'



'I cann't say. I think you might help I to discover the reason. you

have often say that you like woman of strongly mark character.'



'how do you conclude that she be one?'



'I feel it; we be talk together before lunch. I don't think I like

she; I don't think she have principle.'



Wilfrid laugh.



'principle! the word be vague. you mean, no doubt, that she don't

seem to have commonplace prejudice.'



'that's just what I want you to say.'



she let her horse move on. the young man follow, his eye gaze

absently before he, a smile fix upon his lip.



Beatrice look over her shoulder.



'do she read the same kind of book that you do?'



'unfortunately I read no book at all.'



she pause again to let he get to her side.



'what a pity it cann't continue!'



'what?'



'your inability to read.'



'that be the kind remark I have hear for a long time!' exclaim

Wilfrid with a good-natured laugh.



'very likely it be, though you don't mean it. when you read, you only

poison your mind. it be your reading that have make you what you be,

without faith, without feel. you dissect everything, you calculate

motive cynically, you have learn to despise everyone who believe what

you refuse to, you make your own intellect the centre of the world. you

be dangerous.'



'what a character! to whom be I dangerous?'



'to anyone whom it please you to tempt, in whom you find the beginning

of disbelief.'



'in brief, I have no principle?'



'of course you have none.'



'in other word, I be selfish?'



'intensely so.'



it be hard to discover whether she be in earnest. Wilfrid examine

she for a moment, and conclude that she must be. her eye be gleam

with no mock seriousness, and there be even a slight quiver about her

lip. in all their exchange of banter he have never know her look and

speak quite as she do now. as he regard she there come a flush to her

cheek. she turn her head away and ride on.



'and what move you to visit I with this castigation at present, Miss

Redwing?' he ask, still maintain his jest tone.



'I don't know,' she answer carelessly. 'I feel all at once able to say

what I think.'



'then you do really think all this?'



'assuredly I do.'



he keep silence a little.



'and you cann't see,' he begin, rather more seriously, 'that you be

deplorably lacking in the charity which surely should be among _your_

principle?'



'there be some thing to which charity must not be extend.'



'let we say, then, discretion, insight.' he speak yet more earnestly.

'you judge I, and, in truth, you know as little of I as anyone could.

the attitude of your mind prevent you from understand I in the

least; it prevent you from understand any human being. you be

consume with prejudice, and prejudice of the narrow, most hopeless

kind. be I too severe?'



'not more so than you have often be. many a time you have tell I how

you despise I.'



he be silent, then speak impulsively.



'well, perhaps the word be not too strong; though it be not your very

self that I despise, but the ignorance and bigotry which possess you. it

be a pity; I believe you might be a woman of quite a different kind.'



'of pronounce character?'



'precisely. you be neither one thing nor another. you have tell I what

you think of I; shall I be equally frank and speak as if you be a

college friend? for at all event we _be_ friend.'



'I be not sure of that.'



'oh, but I be; and we shall be friend none the bad for ingenuousness

on both side. look at the position in which you stand. one moment you

arc a woman of the world, the next you run frantic with religious zeal,

another turn and you be almost an artist, at your piano; when you be

tired of all these you become, or try to become, a sort of _ingenue_. in

the name of consistency, be one thing or another. you be quite mistaken

in think that I despise religious enthusiasm in itself. become a

veritable Beatrice, and I will venerate you infinitely. give up

everything to work in London slum, and you shall have my warm

admiration. but you be not sincere.'



'I be sincere!' she break in, with more passion than he have ever

imagine she capable of utter.



'I cannot call it sincerity. it be impossible that you should be

sincere; you live in the latter end of the nineteenth century; the

condition of your birth and education forbid sincerity of this kind.'



'I be sincere,' she repeat, but in a low voice, without look at

he.



'on the other hand,' he proceed, 'surrender yourself entirely to the

life of society, and I will still respect you. you be a beautiful

woman; you might be inexpressibly charming. frankly recognise your

capability, and cultivate your charm. make a study of your loveliness;

make it your end to be a queen in drawing-room.'



'you insult I.'



'I cann't see that I do. there be nothing contemptible in such an aim;

nothing be contemptible that be thorough. or you have the third course.

Pursue music with seriousness. become a real artist; a public singer,

let we say. no amateur nonsense; recognise that you have a superb voice,

and that by dint of labour you may attain artistic excellence. you talk

of get up concert in low part of London, of humanise ruffian by

the influence of music. Pshaw! humanise humanity at large by devotion to

an artistic ideal; the other aim be paltry, imbecile, charlatan.'



he try to see her face; she ride on, hold it avert.



'follow any one of these course, and you will make of yourself a true

woman. by try to be a bit of everything you become insignificant.

Napoleon the Great be a curse to mankind, but one think more of he

than of Napoleon the Little, who ben't quite sure whether to be a curse

or a blessing. there be a self in every one of we; the end of our life

be to discern it, bring it out, make it actual. you don't yet know your

own self; you have not the courage to look into your heart and mind; you

keep over your eye the bandage of dogma in which you only half

believe. your insincerity blight the natural quality of your

intellect. you have so long try to persuade yourself of the evil of

every way of think save ecclesiastical dogmatism, that you cannot

judge fairly even those to whom you be most friendly. cannot you see

that the world have outgrow the possibility of one universal religion?

for good or for evil, each of we must find a religion in himself, and

you have no right whatever to condemn before you have understand.'



'you cannot say that you have any religion,' she say, face he. he

see to his astonishment that there have be tear in her eye.



'you cannot say that I have none. the radical fault of your uninstructed

way of look at thing be that you imagine mankind and the world to be

matter of such simple explanation. you learn by heart a few maxim,

half a dozen phrase, and there be your key to every mystery. that be

the child's state of mind. you have never study, you have never

think. your self-confidence be ludicrous; you and such as you do not

hesitate to judge offhand man who have spend a long life in the

passionate pursuit of wisdom. you have no reverence. it be the fault you

attribute to I, but wrongly; if you have ever bring an open mind to

our conversation, you would have understand that my reverence even for

your ideal be not a wit less than your own; it be only that I see it in

another light. you say that I have no religion: what if I have not? be

one's final conclusion to be achieve in a year or two of early

manhood? I have my inner voice, and I try to understand they. often

enough they be ambiguous, contradictory; I live in hope that their

bidding will become clear. I search for meaning, try to understand

myself, strive after knowledge.'



'you might as well have be bear a pagan. one voice have speak; its

bidding be the sufficient and only guide.'



'say rather that so it seem to you. your inheritance of conviction be

not mine; your mode of reasoning and my own have nothing in common. we

inhabit different world.'



Beatrice let her eye turn slowly to his face. the smile with which he

meet she find no reflection on her countenance; her look be that of one

who realise a fatality.



'shall we join they?' she ask in a moment, nod towards the far-off

carriage which be about to hide itself among tree.



Wilfrid muse instead of answer. she begin to ride on.



'stay one minute,' he say. 'I have be anything but courteous in my

way of speak to you, but it be well to put off idle form, be it

not?'



'yes; I shall know henceforth what you think of I.'



'not from this one conversation, if you mean that.'



'well, it do not matter.'



'perhaps not. difference of opinion have fortunately little to do with

old-stand kindness.'



'I be not sure that you be right, at all event when it have express

itself in word of contempt.'



it be not resentment that her voice convey, but some thing which

Wilfrid find it hard to bear. she droop eyelid and subdued tone

indicate a humble pride, which the protest of her beauty make pathetic.



'we will never speak of such thing again,' he say gently. 'let I have

your forgiveness. when we join they down there, they will laugh at we

and say we have be quarrel as usual; in future I think we mustn't

quarrel, we be both of we get too old for the amusement. when you

sing to we to-night, I shall remember how foolish I be even to pretend

contempt.'



'you will be think,' she say, 'that I be a mere amateur.'



'if I do, I shall be an ungrateful wretch--and an insensible one, to

boot.'



she ride down the hill without reply.









CHAPTER III



LYRICAL





Miss Hood do not, of course, dine with the family. though, as Mrs.

Rossall say, it be a distinct advantage to have in the house a

governess whom one could in many respect treat as an equal, yet there

be naturally a limit, in this as in all other matter. we have not yet,

either in fact or in sentiment, quite outgrow the social stage in which

personal hire set on the hire a stigma of servitude. Mrs. Rossall

be not unaware that, in all that concerned intellectual refinement, her

governess be considerably superior to herself, and in personal

refinement not less a lady; but the fact of quarterly payment, spite of

all this, inevitably indicate a place below the salt. Mr. Athel,

though, as we have see, anxious to indulge himself in humane regard

whenever social regulation permit, be the last man to suffer in his

household serious innovation upon traditional propriety.



so Miss Hood--Emily, as she be call by the little group of people

away in Yorkshire, to whom she be other than a governess; emily; as we

will permit ourselves to call she henceforth--always have the meal of tea

with the child. after that the evening be her own, save that the

twin keep her company until their hour of bedtime. the school-room be

also her sit-room. after half-past eight in the evening she have it

to herself, and there she pass many an hour of quiet content, play

softly on the piano, reading, dream. in the matter of book she be

well off; Mr. Athel and his sister have subscription at several London

library, and of these the governess be invite to make free use. it

be some restraint upon she that her choice of reading always pass

under Mrs. Bossall's eye, but not so much after the first few week.

the widow be by this time well advanced in the resumption of purely

mundane literature, and the really liberal tone which prevail in the

house remove apprehension in the pursuit of modern study. for it be

rather an ideal towards which she be work than an attainment in

fact, that eclecticism of which she speak to Wilfrid Athel. the monthly

library list which come under her eye offer many a sore temptation.

she be true on the whole to her system; she do not read at random, and

never read frivolously; but a taste strongly direct to the good in

literature will find much in the work of our day, especially its

criticism, which be indispensable as guidance, or attractive by its

savour. this be not Emily's first access, fortunately, to the stream

of contemporary thought; already she have enjoy and largely use

opportunity of the most various reading. she be able now to choose

with discretion, and in a great degree to make her study serve directly

the scheme of culture which she have devise for herself.



few governess have so pleasant a life. Mrs. Rossall, support by her

brother's view, impose on her child a minimum of brain-work. bodily

health be after all the first thing, especially in the case of girl. a

couple of hour' school in the morning, one hour give to preparation of

lesson after tea--this for the present be deem quite enough. 'your

companionship throughout the day will always be form their mind,'

Mrs. Rossall say in one of her early conversation with Emily; it

be pleasantly put, and truer than it would have be in the ease of

many instructress. the twin be not remarkably fond of their

lesson, but in Emily's hand they become docile and anxious to please.

she have the art of win their affection without lose control over

they; have Mrs. Bossall's rather languid habit of mind allow she to

give attention to the subject, she would have be strike with the

singular combination of tenderness and reverence which the two

entertain towards their teacher. little laxity of behaviour arid

phrase upon which their mother's presence would be no check, they do

not venture to allow themselves when with Emily; her only reproof be a

steady gaze, eloquent of gentleness, but it prove quite sufficient. the

twin be in truth submit to the force of character. they feel it

without understand what it mean; one ether person in the house

experience the same influence, but in his case it lead to reflection.



Wilfrid be at Balliol when Miss Hood first arrive; he see she for the

first time when he come to town after his collapse. all hasten away to

the fir together. Wilfrid suffer no positive illness; he share in

the amusement of the family, and, with the exception of a good deal of

pishe and pshawe at the restraint put upon he, have the appearance

of one take an ordinary holiday. there be undeniable truth in

Beatrice Redwing's allusion to his much talking; without social

intercourse he would soon have become ill in earnest; association with

intelligent--all the well if argumentative--people be an

indispensable condition of his existence. in his later school, and early

college, day this tendency to give free utterance to his thought make

he not altogether the most delightful of companion to such as be

old than himself; his undeniable cleverness and the store of

knowledge he have already acquire need somewhat more of the restraint

of tact than his character at that time supply. People occasionally

call he a prig; now and then he receive what the vernacular of youth

term 'a sit upon.' the save feature of his condition be that he

allow himself to be sit upon gracefully; a snub well administer to

he be sure of its full artistic, and do not fail in its moral,

effect: there be no vulgar insolence in the young fellow. what he

receive he could acknowledge that he deserve. a term or two at Balliol

put this right; in mingle with some that be his equal, and one or

two who be his superior, he learn prudence in the regulation of his

speech.



for a brief time he perhaps talk not quite so much. when his 'set' be

form, the current of argument and rhetoric have once more free course,

but they be begin to flow less turbidly. his nature, as we know,

be not merely vehement; he have the instinct of a philosophical

inquirer, and his intellect speedily outgrow the stage of callowness.

when he come down for his first 'long' the change in he be so marked

that it astonish all who meet he; that he appear wholly unconscious

of the ripening he have undergo only make his development more

impressive. he have go away a boy, and return a man. he talk no

less than ever, but in a markedly improve tone. he be graver, more

seemly in the buoyant outbreak in which he still occasionally indulge.

one reason of his rapid mature no doubt lie in the fact that he be

already work too hard; his sprightliness be in a measure subdue by

wear of tissue. his father be shrewd enough to suspect something of

this, but it be difficult to interfere in any way. a month in

Switzerland seem to set thing right. on the present more serious

occasion, it have be deem well not to set forth on a journey

forthwith; perfect repose at the house in Surrey be all that be

advise in the first instance. but it be clear that Wilfrid must have

some one to talk with. a succession of visit from such friend as be

available be speedily arrange. by the end of the first week, Wilfrid

have accommodate himself to his circumstance. his fret at the

regulation impose for his health almost cease. at first this change

be view with suspicion, especially when he become more absorbed in

reflectiveness, and seem to have less taste for conversation. however,

he be perfectly cheerful; there be no further symptom to excite

alarm. nor do the brooding period last very long. the only permanent

change be that he cease to grumble at his hard lot, and appear to

find his position very tolerable.



'it be the physical reaction,' observe Mr. Athel to his sister. 'the

body be indulge itself; recovery of health absorb his energy.'



opportunity for anything like sustained converse with Miss Hood,

Wilfrid find very few and far between; only once before the long talk

in the hollow have he be able to gratify his curiosity--perhaps

already some other feeling--in a dialogue of any intimacy. in a

situation such as this, delicacy prescribe a very rigid discretion;

emily, moreover, be not facile of approach. throughout the day she be

scarcely away from the child; of course he could and do often

exchange word with she in the presence of the twin, but he feel

himself hold at a distance by a tact which be perfect; without undue

reserve, without a shadow of unrefined manoeuvring, Emily limit their

intercourse in precisely the way that Mr. Athel or Mrs. Rossall would

have deem become. then there be almost always guest at the house.

with prudent regard to the character of these visitor, Mrs. Rossall

choose opportunity for invite the governess to the drawing-room

during the evening, but Emily be not wholly at her ease under such

condition, and Wilfrid be withhold by only half-conscious motive from

talk with she at these time. he shrink from subject himself to

examination whilst encourage she to speak on the subject he would

naturally choose; he feel, too, that she desire he not to address she,

though this perception come to he in subtle way of which he could

render to himself no account. for all this, their acquaintance, nay

their intimacy, grow. if ever eye habitually express a

self-respect frankness, if ever any be incapable of ignoble

artifice, they be Emily's; yet as time go on Wilfrid begin to long

for the casual meeting with her glance for the mere reason that he feel

it as an exchange of word between she and himself. thus it be that,

when at length the first real conversation come, it seem the sequel of

many other, seem so to both of they. they have divine each other;

speech do but put the seal of confirmation on knowledge gain by

mutual sympathy.



it may be presume that neither Mr. Athel nor Mrs. Rossall be

altogether regardless of possibility suggest by the abide beneath

the same roof of an impetuous young man, force into idleness, and a

girl who be above the average in mental endowment, whilst, on the

whole, she might be consider interesting in appearance. they exchange

no remark on the subject; it be scarcely likely they should; but during

the first few week both be observant. their observation be

reassure to they. and indeed they have not anticipate trouble, for the

simple reason that both believe Wilfrid's affection to tend already in

a marked direction, and one of which they altogether approve. that he

would some day take for his wife Beatrice Redwing be a conclusion upon

which father and aunt have settle their mind; the conclusion be

reasonable enough, and well support by such evidence as the ease

admit. Mr. Athel have at an early period entertain certain

misgiving as to the desirability of such a marriage; misgiving which

have reference to the disastrous story of the Redwing household; the

conception of hereditary tendency have become a strong force in our

time, and pronounce madness in a parent cannot as easily be disregard

as it once be. but the advantage of the alliance be so considerable,

its likelihood so indisputable, that prudence have scarcely fair play;

besides, Beatrice have reach her twenty-first year without any sign of

mental trouble, and seem as sound a girl as could anywhere be

discover. the habitual sword-crossing between she and Wilfrid be

naturally regard as their mode of grow endear to each other;

their intellectual variance could not, by a sober gentleman of

eight-and-forty and by a young widow whose interest in the world be

revive, be regard as a bar to matrimony. 'family,' Beatrice would

not bring, but she be certain to inherit very large fortune, which,

after all, mean more than family nowadays. on the whole it be a

capital thing for Wilfrid that marriage would be enter upon in so

smooth a way. Mr. Athel be not forgetful of his own course in that

matter; he understand his father's attitude as he could not when

resist it, and be much disposed to concede that there might have

be two opinion as to his own proceeding five-and-twenty year ago.

but for Beatrice, the young man's matrimonial future would have be to

his father a subject of constant apprehension; as it be, the situation

lose much of its natural hazard.



in Emily there be nothing that suggest sentimentality; rather one

would have think her deficient in sensibility, judge from the tone

of her conversation. she do not freely express admiration, even in the

form of assent to what be say by other. to interpret her reticence as

shyness be a misunderstanding, or a misuse of word, natural in the

case of an inexact observer like Mrs. Rossall. four year ago, when

Beatrice meet she in Dunfield, her want of self-confidence be pronounce

enough; she have at that time never quit her provincial home, and be

in the anomalous position of one who be intellectually outgrow very

restrict social circumstance. the Baxendales be not wrong in

discuss she as shy. but that phase of her life be now leave far

behind. her extreme moderation be deliberate; it be her concession to

the fate which make she a governess. courtesy and kindliness might lead

those whose bread she eat to endeavour occasionally to remove all show

of social distinction; neither her temperament nor her sense of

comeliness in behaviour would allow she to shrink from such advance,

but she could not lose sight of the unreality of the situation to which

they lead. self-respect be condition by the influence of circumstance

on character; in Emily it express itself as a subtle sensitiveness to

grade of sympathy. she could not shut her eye to the actuality of

thing; sincerity be the foundation of her being, and delicate

appreciation of its degree in other regulate her speech and demeanour

with an exactitude inappreciable by those who take life in a rough and

ready way. when engage in her work of teaching, she be at ease; alone

in the room which have be set apart for she, she live in the freedom

of her instinct; but in Mrs. Rossall's drawing-room she could only act

a part, and all such divergence from reality be pain. it be not that

she resent her subordination, for she be almost devoid of social

ambition and know nothing of vulgar envy; still less do it come of

reason revolt against the artificial ordering of precedence; Emily's

thought do not tend that way. she could do perfect justice to the

amiable quality of those who be set above she; she know no

bitterness in the food which she duly earn; but, by no one's fault,

there be a vein of untruth in the life she have to lead. to remind

herself that such untruth be common to all life, be an outcome of the

condition of society, do not help she to disregard it; nature have

endow she with a stern idealism which would not ally itself with

compromise. she be an artist in life. the task before she, a task of

which in these day she be grow more and more conscious, be to

construct an existence every moment of which should serve an

all-pervade harmony. the recent birth within she of a new feeling be

give direction and vigour to the force of she be; it have not as

yet declare itself as a personal desire; it work only as an

impassione motive in the sphere of her intellectual aspiration, she

hold herself more persistently apart from conventional intercourse; she

wish it have be possible to keep wholly to herself in the hour when

her service be not demand. Mr. Athel, who like to express himself

to young people with a sort of paternal geniality, rally she one day

on her excessive study, and bade she be warn by a notorious example.

this have the effect of make she desist from read in the presence of

other people.



she have know much happiness during these two month at the Firs,

happiness of a kind to dwell in the memory and be a resource in dark

day. though mere personal ease be little the subject of her thought,

she prize for its effect upon her mind the air of graceful leisure, of

urbane repose, which pervade the house. to compare the Firs with that

plain little dwelling on the skirt of a Yorkshire manufacturing town

which she call she home, be to understand the inestimable advantage

of those bear into the material refinement which wealth can command, of

those who breathe from childhood the atmosphere of liberal enjoyment,

who walk from the first on clean way, with mind disengage from

anxiety of casual soilure, who know not even by domestic story the

trammel of sordid preoccupation. thus it be with a sense of well-being

that she step on rich carpet, let her eye wander over the light and

dark of room where wealth have do the bidding of taste, watch the

neat and silent ministering of servant. these thing to she mean

priceless opportunity, the facilitating of self-culture. even the little

room in which she sit by herself of evening be daintily furnish;

when weary with reading, it ease and delight she merely to gaze at

the soft colour of the wall-paper, the vase with their grow

flower, the well-choose picture, the graceful shape of a chair; she

nurse her appreciation of these Joys, resist the ingress of

familiarity, seek daily for novel aspect of thing become intimately

know. she rise at early hour that she might have the garden to herself

in all its freshness; she love to look from her window into the calm

depth of the summer midnight. in this way she bring into consciousness

the craving of her soul, make the pursuit of beauty a religion, grow to

welcome the perception of new meaning in beautiful thing with a

spiritual delight. this be the secret of her life, which she guard so

jealously, which she fear even by chance to betray in the phrasing of

common intercourse. Wilfrid have divine it, and it be the secret

influence of this sympathy that have lead she to such unwonted frankness

in their late conversation.



Mrs. Rossall have speak to she of Beatrice Redwing's delightful singing,

and have ask she to come to the drawing-room during the evening; have

decline the afternoon's drive, Emily do not feel able to neglect this

other invitation. the day have become sultry towards its close; when she

join the company about nine o'clock, she find Beatrice with Mrs.

Rossall sit in the dusk by the open french window, Mr. Athel in a

chair just outside, and Wilfrid stand by he, the latter pair

smoking. the sky beyond the line of dark greenery be still warm with

after-glow of sunset.



Emily quietly seek a chair near Mrs. Rossall, from whom she receive a

kind look. Mr. Athel be relate a story of his early wandering in

Egypt, with a leisurely gusto, an effective minuteness of picturing, the

result of frequent repetition. at the point of significance he would

pause for a moment or two and puff life into his cigar. his anecdote

be seldom remarkable, but they derive interest from the enjoyment

with which he tell they; they impress one with a sense of mental

satisfaction, of physical robustness hold in reserve, of life content

among the good thing of the world.



'shall we have light?' Mrs. Rossall ask, when the story at length

come to an end.



'play we something first,' say Beatrice. 'this end of twilight be so

pleasant.'



Mrs. Rossall go to the piano, upon which still fall a glimmer from

another window, and fill the room with harmony suit the hour.

Wilfrid have come in and seat himself on a couch in a dark corner; his

father pace up and down the grass. Emily watch the first faint gleam

of star in the upper air.



then lamp and candle be bring in. Beatrice be see to be dress

in dark blue, her hair richly attire, a jewelled cross below her

throat, her bosom and arm radiant in bare loveliness. emily, at the

moment that she regard she, find herself also observe. her own dress

be of warm grey, perfectly simple, with a little lace at the neck and

wrist. Beatrice avert her eye quickly, and make some laugh remark

to Mr. Athel.



'I know you always object to sing without some musical preparation,'

say Mrs. Rossall, as she take a seat by the girl's side. 'I wonder

whether we ought to close the window; be you afraid of the air?'



'oh, leave they open!' Beatrice reply. 'it be so close.'



her cheek have a high colour than usual; she lie back in the chair

with face turn upwards, her eye dream.



'you be tired, I be afraid,' Mrs. Rossall say, 'in spite of your sleep

in the hammock. the first day in the country always tire I

dreadfully.'



'yes, I suppose I be, a little,' murmur Beatrice.



'not too tired, I hope, to sing,' say Wilfrid, come from his couch in

the corner to a near seat. his way of speak be not wholly natural;

like his attitude, it have something constrain; he seem to be

discharge a duty.



'observe the selfishness of youth,' remark Mr. Athel.



'Age, I dare say, have its selfishness too in the present instance,' be

Mrs. Rossall's rejoinder.



'to whom do that refer?' question her brother, jocosely.



Beatrice turn her head suddenly towards Emily.



'shall I sing, Miss Hood?' she ask, with a touch of she _ingenue_

manner, though the playfulness of her word ring strangely.



'it will give I much pleasure to hear you,' be the sober reply, come

after an instant of embarrassment.



Beatrice rise. her movement across the room have a union of conscious

stateliness and virgin grace which become her style of beauty; it be in

itself the introduction to fine music. Mrs. Rossall go to accompany.

Choice be make of a solo from an oratorio; Beatrice never sing

triviality of the day, a noteworthy variance from her habit in other

thing. in a little while, Wilfrid stir to enable himself to see

Emily's face; it show deep feeling. and indeed it be impossible to

hear that voice and remain unmoved; its sweetness, its force, its skill

be alike admirable. Beatrice converse be quite other than Beatrice

when she sing; music be her mode of self-utterance; from the first

sustained note it be feel that a difficulty of expression have be

overcome, and that she be say thing which at other time she could

not, disclose motive which as a rule the complexity of her

character cover and conceal, which be not clear to her own

consciousness till the divine impulse give they form. it be no shallow

nature that could pour forth this flood of harmony. the mere gift of a

splendid voice, work to whatever degree of perfection, would not

invest with this rare power. in technical quality she might have much

still to learn, but the passionate poetry of her note be what no

training could have develop, and it would never evince itself with

more impressiveness than to-night.



it seem frivolous to speak thank. Wilfrid gaze out into the dark of

the garden; Emily keep her eye bent downward. she hear the rustle of

Beatrice's dress near she. Mr. Athel begin to speak of the piece the

sound of Beatrice's voice replying cause Emily at length to look up,

and she meet the dark eye, still large with the joy of song. her own

gaze have a beautiful solemnity, a devout admiration, of which it be

impossible to doubt the genuineness; Beatrice, observe it, smile very

slightly before turn away again.



a quarter of an hour after, Emily withdraw. Mrs. Rossall play a

little, and talk of an idle kind follow. Wilfrid be not dispose to

take his usual part in conversation, and his casual remark be

scarcely ever address to Beatrice. presently Mrs. Rossall wish to

refer to the 'Spectator,' which contain a criticism of a new pianist

of whom there be much talk just then.



'have you have it, Wilf?' Mr. Athel ask, after turn over a heap of

paper in vain.



'oh, the "Spectator,"' Wilfrid reply, rouse himself from absentness.

'yes, I have it in the summer-house just before dinner; I believe I leave

it there. shall I fetch it?'



'it would serve you right if I say yes,' admonish Mrs. Rossall. 'in

the first place you have no business to be read it--'



'I will go,' Wilfrid say, rise with an effort.



'no, no; it will do to-morrow.'



'May as well get it now,' he say indifferently, and go out by the

window.



that part of the garden through which he walked lie in the shadow of the

house; the sky be full of moonlight, but the moon itself be still low.

a pathway between laurel lead to the summer-house. just short of the

little building, he pass the edge of shade, and, before enter,

turn to view the bright crescent as it hang just above the house-roof.

gaze at the form of silver cloud float on blue depth, he hear

a movement immediately behind he; he turn, to behold Emily stand

in the doorway. the moon's ray shine full upon she; a light shawl which

seem to have cover her head have slip down to her shoulder, and

one end be hold in a hand pass over her breast. there be something

in the attitude which strikingly become she; her slight figure look

both graceful and dignified. the marble hue of her face, thus gleam

upon, add to the statuesque effect; her eye have a startled look,

their lid droop as Wilfrid regard she.



'you have be sit here since you leave we?' he ask, in a voice

attuned to the night's hush.



'I be tempt to come out; the night be so beautiful.'



'it be.'



he utter the assent mechanically; his eye, like her, have fall, but

he raise they again to her face. it seem to he in this moment the

perfect type of spiritual beauty; the brow so broad and pure, the eye

far-seeing in their maidenly reserve, the lip full, firm, of infinite

refinement and sweetness. he felt abash before she, as he have never

do. they have stand thus but a moment or two, yet it seem long to

both. Emily step from the wooden threshold on to the grass.



'somebody want the "Spectator,"' he say hurriedly. 'I believe I leave

it here.'



'yes, it be on the table.'



with a perfectly natural impulse, she quickly re-enter the house, to

reach the paper she have see only a minute ago. without reflection,

heart-beat stifle his thought, he step after she. the shadow make

her turn rapidly; a shimmer of silver light through the lattice-work

still touch her feature; her lip be part as if in fear.



'emily!'



he do not know that he have speak. the name upon his tongue, a name he

have say low to himself often to-day and yesterday, be bear of the

throe which make fire-current of his vein, the passion which at the

instant seize imperiously upon his being. she could not see his face,

and her to he be a half-veil glory, yet each know the wild gaze,

the all but terror, in the other's eye, that anguish which indicate a

supreme moment in life, a turning-point of fate.



she have no voice. Wilfrid's word at length make way impetuously.



'I think I could wait long, and try in the meanwhile to win your

kind thought for I; but I dare not part from you for so long, leave

it a mere chance that you will come back. I must say to you what it

mean, the hope of see you again. all the other desire of my life

be lose in that. you be my true self, for which I shall seek in vain

whilst I be away from you. can you give I anything--a promise of kind

thought--a hope--to live upon till I see you?'



'I cannot come back.'



but for the intense stillness he could not have catch the word; they

be sigh rather than speak.



'because I have say this?--Emily!'



he see the white shape of her hand rest upon the table, and hold it

in his own, that exquisite hand which he have so often long to touch;

how cold it be! yet how soft, living! she make no effort to draw it

away.



'I cannot say now what I wish to,' he speak hurriedly. 'I must see you

to-morrow--you will not refuse? I _must_ see you! you be often out very

early; I shall be at the hollow, where we talk yesterday, early, at

seven o'clock--you will come? if the morning be not fine, then the day

after. emily, you will meet I?'



'I will meet you.'



he touch her finger with his lip, take the paper, and hasten back

to the house. his absence have not seem long: it be only of five

minute. reach the open window, he do not enter at once, but stand

there and call to those within to come and admire the night; he feel

his face hot and flushed.



'what be there remarkable about the night?' ask Mr. Athel, saunter

forward.



'come and look at this glorious moon, Miss Redwing,' Wilfrid exclaim,

once more with the natural friendliness of his habitual tone to she.



'it seem to have put you into excellent spirit,' remark Mrs.

Rossall, as, follow by Beatrice, she approach the window. 'have you

find the "Spectator?" that's the point.'



Wilfrid continue speak in a raise voice, for it be just possible,

he think, that Emily might come this way round to enter, and he wish

she to be apprise of their presence. all go back into the room after

a few moment, and, as the air have grow cool, the window be

closed. as Wilfrid seat himself in a dusky part of the room, he

notice that Beatrice be regard he steadily. she have not speak

since his return, and do not do so till she presently rise to say

good-night. to Wilfrid she use no form of word, merely give he her

hand; that other have be so cold, how hot this be!



she laugh as she turn from he.



'what be the source of amusement?' inquire Mr. Athel, who be stand

by with his hand upon his hip.



'indeed I don't know,' return Beatrice, laugh again slightly. 'I

sometimes laugh without cause.'



Emily have pass upstairs and go to her bedroom but a moment before,

treading with quick soundless step. when Wilfrid leave she in the

summer-house, she stand unmove, and only after a minute or two change

her attitude by put her palm against her face, as if in the gloom

she find too much light. it be a sensation of shame which come upon

she, a tremor of maidenhood in re-living, swift instant by instant, all

that have just pass. have she in any way aid in bring about that

confession? have she do anything, make a motion, utter a tone, which

break away the barrier between herself and he? when she could recover

self-consciousness, disembarrass herself of the phantom moment which

would not fleet with the rest of time, it be scarcely joy which she

read in her heart; apprehension, dismay, lack of courage to look forward

beyond this night, these oppress she. then, close upon the haunt

reality of his voice, his touch, come inability to believe what have

happen. have a transient dreamful slumber creep upon she as she sit

here alone? so quickly have the world suffer re-creation, so magical

the whelming of old day in a new order, so complete the change in

herself. one word she know which have power from eternity to do these

thing, and that word neither he nor she have utter. but there be no

need, when the night speak it in every beat of time.



fearful of be see, she at length venture to return to the house.

Moonlight stream full upon her bed; it would have irk she as yet to

take off her clothe, she lie in the radiance, which seem to touch she

with warm influence, and let her eye rest upon the source of light.

then at length joy come and throne in her heart, joy that would mate

with no anxious thought, no tremulous brooding. this be _she_ night!

there might be other happy being in the world to whom it be also the

beginning of new life, but in _her_ name be its consecration, her the

supremacy of blessedness. let the morrow wait on the hour of wake, if

indeed sleep would ever come; this moment, the sacred _now_, be all

that she could comprehend.



she undress at length, and even sleep, fitfully, always to start into

wakefulness with a sense of something to be think upon, to be

realise, to be do. the weariness of excitement perturb her joy; the

meeting which be to take place in a few hour become a nervous

preoccupation. the moonlight have die away; the cold light of dawn begin

to make object in the room distinct. be it good to have consent so

readily to meet he? Nay, but no choice have be leave she; his eagerness

would take no refusal; and it be impossible for thing to remain as

they be, without calm talk between they. it be her resource to

remember his energetic will, his force of character; the happiness of

passively submit to what he might dictate; sure of his scrupulous

honour, his high ideal. could she indeed have bear to go into exile

from his presence, without a hope that this the noble and most

aspire life that have ever approach she might be something more than

a star to worship? if wealth come, we wonder how we draw breath in

poverty; yet we live, and should have live on. let the god be

thank, whom it please to clothe the soul with joy which be

superfluous to bare existence might she not now hallow herself to be a

true priestess of beauty? would not life be vivid with new power and

possibility? even as that heaven be robe itself in glory of

sunrise, with warmth and hue which strengthen she again to overcome

anxiety. be he wake? be he impatient for the hour of his meeting

with she? she would stand face to face with he in the full sunlight

this time, but with what deep humility! should she be able to find

word? she have scarcely speak to he, ever, as yet, and now there be

more to say than hour of solitude would leave time for. she know not

whether to bid the sun linger or speed.



there be nothing unusual in her rise and go forth early, though

perhaps she have never issue from the house quite so early as this

morning; it be not yet six o'clock when she gently close the

garden-gate behind she, and walk along the road which lead on to the

common. the sun have already warm the world, and the sheen of earth and

heaven be at its bright; the wind sweep from the down be like

the breath of creation, give life to form of faultless beauty.

Emily's heart lack no morning hymn; every sense revel in that pure

joy which be the poetry of praise. she wish it have be near the hour

of meeting, yet again be glad to have time to prepare herself. walk,

she drink in the loveliness about she, mark the form of tree, the

light and shade of heavy leafage, the blending of colour by the

roadside, the grace of remote distance; all these thing she be make

part of herself, that in memory they might be a joy for ever. it be the

art of life to take each moment of mental joy, of spiritual openness, as

though it would never be repeat, to cling to it as a pearl of great

price, to exhaust its possibility of sensation. at the good, such

moment will be few amid the fateful succession of common care, of

lassitude, of disillusion. Emily have go deep enough in thought

already to understand this; in her rapture there be no want of

discern consciousness. if this morning be to be unique in her life,

she would have gain from it all that it have to give. those subtle

fear, spiritual misgiving, which lurk behind her perception would

again have their day, for it be only by strive that she have attain

her present mode of thought; her nature conceal a dark strain, an

instinct of asceticism, which have now and again predominate, especially

in the period of her transition to womanhood, when the material

condition of her life be sad and of little hope. it be no spirit of

unreflective joy that now dwelt within she, but the more human happiness

extort from power which only yield to strive. Hitherto her life's

morning have be but cold and grey; she have train herself to expect no

break forth of gleam from the sober sky. this sudden splendour might

be transitory.



but who be that already stand by the hollow? be it likely that he

would be later than she at the place of meeting! Emily stand with a

shock of life at the gate of her heart. she try to keep her eye

raise to his as she approach slowly, he with more speed. would she

not after all find voice for the thing she have to say?



Wilfrid come to she with bare head, and take her hand; no more than take

her hand, for he be in awe of the solemn beauty of her countenance.



'you think I should keep you wait?' he ask in a low voice

tremble with joy. 'I have watch the sun rise.'



'the door have not be opened--'



'my window be not high above the ground,' he answer, with an uncertain

laugh.



they walk side by side over the heather, towards the beginning of a

wood, young fir tree mingle with gorse and bracken. beyond be the

dense foliage of old growth. he have again take one of her hand, and

so lead she on.



'emily!'



she be able to look into his face for a moment, but the moving of her

lip give no sound.



'I could not sleep,' he go on, 'so I read of you till dawn in the

Knightes Tale. it be a name I have always love, sweet, musical, but of

deep meaning. will you not let I hear you speak, emily?'



she utter a few timid word, then they pass on in silence till the

wood be all about they.



'may I tell you the plan which I have make in the night?' he say, as

they stand on a spot of smooth turf, net with sunlight. 'you leave we

in two day. before we start for London, I shall speak with my father,

and tell he what have come about. you remember what I be say about

he the day before yesterday; perhaps it be with a half-thought of

this--so dare I be, you see! I have no fear of his kindness, his good

sense. at the same time, it be right you should know that my

independence be assure; my grandfather leave I far more than enough for

mere need. by the summer of next year I shall be free of Oxford. I care

little now for such honour as those; you have honour I more than any

other voice have power to do. but my father would be disappoint if I

do not go on to the end, and do something of what be expect. now you

must tell I freely be there absolute necessity for your maintain

yourself in the meanwhile, for your leave home?'



'there be,' she reply.



'then will you continue to teach the child as usual?'



she be touch with apprehension.



'gladly I would do so--but be it possible? would you conceal from Mrs.

Rossall--'



Wilfrid muse.



'I mean to. but your instinct be true than mine; say what you think.

I believe my father would countenance it, for it involve no real

deceit.'



'if you wish it,' Emily say, after a silence, in a low voice.



'of my aunt,' pursue Wilfrid, 'I have just this degree of doubt. she

might make difficulty; her way of thinking differ often from our.

yet it be far well that you should continue to live with we. I myself

shall scarcely ever be at home; it will not be as if I dwelt under the

roof; I will make my visit as short as possible, not to trouble you. I

could not let you go to the house of other people--you to lack

consideration, perhaps to meet unkindness! rather than that, you shall

stay in your own home, or I will not return to Oxford at all.'



Emily stand in anxious thought. he draw a step near to she; seem

about to draw nearer still, but check himself as she look up.



'I fear we must not do that,' she say. 'Mrs. Rossall would not forgive

I.'



Woman's judgment of woman, and worth much more than Wilfrid's rough and

ready scheming.



Wilfrid smile.



'then she also shall know,' he exclaim. 'she shall take nay view of

this; I will not be gainsay. what be there in the plan that common

sense can object to? your position be not that of a servant; you be

from the first our friend you honour we by the aid you give, efficient

as few could make it. yes, there shall be no concealment far well so.'



'you have no fear of the view they will take?'



'none!' he say, with characteristic decision. 'if they be

unreasonable, absurd, our course be plain enough. you will be my wife

when I ask you to, Emily?'



she falter, and hold her hand to he.



'be it worth while to go hack to Oxford?' he muse, caress the

finger he have kiss.



'oh, yes; you must,' Emily urge, with a sort of fear in her sudden

courage. 'you must not disappoint they, your father, your friend.'



'my fair wise one!' he murmur, gaze rapturously at she. 'oh, Emily,

think what our life will be! shall we not drain the world of its wisdom,

youth of its delight! hand in hand, one heart, one brain--what shall

escape we? it be you I need to give completeness to my thought and

desire.'



the old dream, the eternal fancy. this one, this and no other, choose

from out the myriad of human soul. individuality the servant of

passion; mystery read undoubtingly with the eye of longing. Bead

perhaps so truly; who know?



she come nearer, imperceptibly, her raise face aglow like the morning.



'Wilfrid--you believe--you know that I love you?'



the last word breathe out in the touching of lip with lip. what could

he reply, save those old, simple word of tenderness, that small

vocabulary of love, common to child and man? the goddess that make

herself woman for his sake--see, do he not hold she clasped to he! but

she be mute again. the bird sing so loudly round about they, utter

their heart so easily, but Emily could only speak through silence. and

afterwards she know there be so much she should have say. what matter?

one cannot find tongue upon the threshold of the holy of holy.









CHAPTER IV



a conflict of opinion





Beatrice Redwing's visit only extend over the second day, and during

that there be little, if any, separate conversation between her and

Wilfrid. the change in she from the free gaiety and restfulness of the

morning of her arrival could not escape notice, though she affect a

continuance of the bright mood. Mr. Athel and his sister both observe

her real preoccupation, as if of trouble, and mentally attribute it to

something that have pass during the afternoon's ride. Mrs. Rossall do

not look for confidence. Beatrice would gossip freely enough of trivial

experience, or of the detail of faith and ritual, but the innermost

veil of her heart be never raise; all her friend feel that, though

they could not easily have explain in what way they become conscious

of this reserve, she seem so thoroughly open, not to say so shallow.

she leave the Firs to return to town, and thence in a week or two go to

Cowes, a favourite abode of her mother's.



the next day, Emily also leave, journey to London on her way to the

north, Wilfrid and she have no second meeting; their parting be formal,

in the family circle. Mr. Athel display even more than his usual

urbanity; Mrs. Rossall be genuinely gracious; the twin make many

promise to write from Switzerland. Emily be self-possess, but

Wilfrid read in her face that she be go through an ordeal. he feel

the folly of his first proposal, that she should play a part before Mrs.

Rossall through the winter month. he decide, moreover, that no time

should be lose in make the necessary disclosure to his father.

naturally it would be an anxious time with Emily till she have news from

he. she have ask he to direct letter to the Dunfield post office,

not to her home; it be well so for the present.



Wilfrid, though anything but weakly nervous, be impatient of suspense,

and, in face of a situation like the present, suffer from the

excitability of an imaginative temperament. he have by no mean yet

outgrow the mood which, when he be a boy, make the anticipation of any

delight a physical illness. in an essentially feeble nature this extreme

sensibility be fatal to sane achievement; in Wilfrid it merely enforce

the vigour of his will. as a child he use to exclaim that he _could_

not wait; at present he be apt to say that he would not. he do not, in

very truth, anticipate difficulty with his father, his conviction of

the latter's reasonableness be strongly support by immense

confidence in his own power of put a case incontrovertibly. as he

have say to Emily, he could scarcely allow that deep affection for his

father dwelt within he, nor do the nature of the case permit he to

feel exactly reverent; these strong emotion be reserve for the

memory of the parent who be long dead. he think of his father with

warm friendliness, that temper which be consistent with clear perception

of fault and foible, which make of they, indeed, an occasion for the

add kindliness of indulgence, and which, on the other hand, leave

perfect freedom in judgment and action. we know that it be for the most

part a misfortune to be the son of a really great man, and for the

reason that nature, so indifferent to the individual, make the

well-being of each generation mainly consist in early predominance over

the generation which give it birth. Wilfrid suffer no such exceptional

hardship. at three-and-twenty he feel himself essentially his father's

superior. he would not have expose the fact thus crudely, for he be

susceptible to the comely order of thing. the fact be a fact, and

nature, not he, be responsible for it. that, and the circumstance of

his material independence, would necessarily keep the ensue interview

well within the limit of urbane comedy. the young man smile already at

the suggest comparison with his father's own choice in matrimony.

Wilfrid have never have the detail of that story avowedly represent to

he, but it be inevitable that he should have learn enough to enable

he to reconstruct they with tolerable accuracy.



Emily be go long before the hour of luncheon. after that meal, Mr.

Athel light a cigar and go to a favourite seat in the garden. Mrs.

Rossall be go with the twin to make a farewell call on neighbouring

friend. as soon as the carriage have leave the house, Wilfrid seek his

father, who be amuse himself with a review.



'I think you would have go with your aunt,' Mr. Athel remark,

after a glance to see who be approach he.



'I have an object in remain behind,' Wilfrid return, composedly,

seat himself on a camp-stool which he have bring out. 'I wish to

talk over with you a matter of some importance.'



'oh?'



Mr. Athel stroke his chin, and smile a little. it occur to he at

once that something relative to Beatrice be about to be disclose.



'what be it?' he add, throw one leg over the other, and let the

review lie open on his lap.



'it concern Miss Hood,' pursue the other, assume the same attitude,

save that he have nothing to lean hack against. 'a day or two ago I ask

she to engage herself to I, and she consent.'



perhaps this be the simple way of put it. Wilfrid could not utter

the word with complete calmness; his hand have begin to tremble a

little, and his temple be hot. by an effort he keep his eye steadily

fix on his father's face, and what he see there do not supply

encouragement to proceed in the genial tone with which he have begin. Mr.

Athel frown, not angrily, but as if not quite able to grasp what have

be tell he. he have cast his eye down.



there be silence for a moment.



'I have choose the early moment for tell you of this,' Wilfrid

continue, rather hurriedly. 'it be of course well to leave it till

Miss Hood have go.'



on the father's face displeasure have succeed to mere astonishment.



'you could have tell I few thing that I should be so sorry to hear,'

be his first word, deliver in an undertone and with grave

precision.



'surely that do not express your well thought,' say Wilfrid, to

whom a hint of opposition at once give the firmness he have lack.



'it express my very natural thought. in the first place, it be not

pleasant to know that clandestine proceeding of this kind have be

go on under my roof. I have no wish to say anything disrespectful of

Miss Hood, but I be disposed to think that she have mistake her

vocation; such talent for dissimulation would surely have point to--'



Mr. Athel have two way of express displeasure. where ceremony be

wholly unnecessary, he give vent to his feeling in an outburst of

hearty english wrath, not coarsely, for his instinct be invariably

those of a gentleman, but in the cultivate autocratic tone; an

offending. groom, for instance, do not care to incur reproof a second

time. where this mode of utterance be out of place, he be apt to have

recourse to a somewhat too elaborate irony, to involve himself in

phrase which ultimately lead to awkward hesitation, with the effect

that he grow more heated by embarrassment. have he be allow to

proceed, he would at present have illustrate this failing, for he have

begin with extreme deliberation, smooth the open page with his right

hand, round his word, redden a little in the face. but Wilfrid

interpose.



'I must not let you speak or think of Miss Hood so mistakenly,' he say

firmly, but without unbecome self-assertion. 'she could not possibly

have behave with more reserve to I than she do until, three day ago,

I myself give a new colour to our relation. the outward propriety which

you admit have be perfectly genuine; if there be any blame in the

matter--and how can there be any?--it rest solely upon I. I dare say

you remember my go out to fetch the "Spectator," after Miss Redwing

have be singe to we. by chance I meet Miss Hood in the garden. I be

lead to say something to she which make a long interview inevitable;

she consent to meet I on the common before breakfast, the follow

morning. these be the only two occasion which can be call

clandestine. if she have disguise herself since then, how could she have

behave otherwise? Disguise be too strong a word; she have merely keep

silence. I need not inquire whether you fully believe what I say.'



'what you say, I believe, as a matter of course,' reply Mr. Athel, who

have drum with his finger as he listen impatiently. 'it can

scarcely alter my view of the position of thing. have you come to I

before offer yourself to this young lady, and do I the honour of

ask my advice, I should in all probability have have a rather strong

opinion to express; as it be, I don't see that there be anything leave to

be say.'



'what would your opinion have be?' Wilfrid ask.



'simply that for an idle fancy, the unfortunate result of unoccupied

day, you be about to take a step which would assuredly lead to regret

at least, very probably to more active repentance. in fact, I should

have warn you not to spoil your life in its commencement.'



'I think, father, that you would have speak with too little knowledge

of the case. you can scarcely know Miss Hood as I do. I have study she

since we come here, and with--well, with these result.'



Mr. Athel look up with grave sadness.



'Wilf, this be a deeply unfortunate thing, my boy. I grieve over it more

than I can tell you. I be terribly disappointed. your position and your

hope point to very different thing. you have surprise I, too; I

think your mind be already make up, in quite a different quarter.'



'you refer to Miss Redwing?'



'naturally.'



'you have, indeed, be mistaken. it be impossible that I should think

of she as a wife. I must have sympathy, intellectual and moral. with she

I have none. we cannot talk without flagrant difference--difference of

a serious, a radical nature. be assure that such a thought as this

never occur to Miss Redwing herself; her very last conversation with

I forbid any such idea.'



Mr. Athel still drum on the book, seemingly pay little heed to the

speaker.



'you find sympathy in Miss Hood?' he ask suddenly, with a touch of

sarcasm.



'the deep. her intellectual tendency be the same as my own; she

have a mind which it refresh and delight I to discover. of course

that be not all, but it be all I need speak of. I know that I have

choose well and rightly.'



'I willn't be so old-fashioned,' remark Mr. Athel, still with subdued

sarcasm, 'as to hint that some thought of I might have enter into

your choosing' (do he consciously repeat his own father's word of

five-and-twenty year back, or be it but destiny make he play his

part in the human comedy?) 'and, in point of fact' (perhaps the parallel

touch he at this point), 'you be old enough to judge the affair on

its own merit. my wonder be that your judgment have not be sounder.

have it occur to you that a young lady in Miss Hood's position would

find it at all event somewhat difficult to be unbiassed in her assent

to what you propose?'



'nothing have occur to I,' reply Wilfrid, more shortly than

hitherto, 'which could cast a shadow of suspicion on her perfect truth.

I beg that you will not suggest these thing. some day you will judge

she with well knowledge.'



'I be not sure of that,' be the rejoinder, almost irritably utter.



'what do you mean by that, father?' Wilfrid ask in a low tone.



'I mean, Wilf, that I be not yet in the frame of mind to regard the

child's governess as my daughter-in-law. Miss Hood may be all you

say; I would not willingly be anything but scrupulously just. the fact

remain that this be not the alliance which it become you to make. it

be, in a very pronounced sense, marry beneath you. it be not easy for

I to reconcile myself to that.'



it be Wilfrid's turn to keep silence. what become of his plan? they

be hardly in a way to be carry out as he have conceive they. a

graver uneasiness be possess he. Resolve would only grow by

opposition, but there be more of pain in announce an independent

course than he have foresee.



'what be your practical proposal?' his father inquire, his mollify

tone the result of observe that he have make a certain impression, for

he be distinctly one of the man who be to be overcome by yield.



'I have a proposal to make, but of such a kind that it be hardly worth

while to speak of it. I shall have to reflect.'



'let I hear what you be go to say. there's no harm in that, at all

event.'



'my idea be, that, with your consent and my aunt's, Miss Hood should

return just as if nothing have happen, and continue to teach the twin

till next summer, when I should have do with Oxford. there appear to

I to be nothing irrational or unseemly in such a plan. if she be our

cook or housemaid, there might be reasonable objection. as it be, it

would hardly involve a change even in your tone to she, see that you

be in the habit of treat she as a lady, and with a certain degree of

familiar kindness. I confess I have anticipate no difficulty. we be

not a household of bigote conservative; it be hard for I to imagine

you take any line but that of an enlightened man who judge all thing

from the standpoint of liberal reflection. I suppose my own scorn of

prejudice be largely due to your influence. it be not easy to realise

our be in conflict on any matter involve calm reasonableness.'



in another this would have be a shrewd speech. Wilfrid be incapable

of conscious artifice of this kind; this appeal, the very strong he

could have make to his father, be urge in all sincerity, and derive

its force from that very fact. he possess not a little of the

persuasive genius which go to make an orator--hereafter to serve he

in field as yet undreame of--and natural endowment guide his feeling

in the way of most impressive utterance. Mr. Athel smile in spite of

himself.



'and what about your aunt?' he ask. 'pray remember that it be only by

chance that Miss Hood live under my roof. do you imagine your aunt

equally unprejudiced?'



Mr. Athel be, characteristically, rather fond of side-glancing at

feminine weakness. an opportunity of the kind be willnot to mellow his

mood.



'to be quite open in the matter,' Wilfrid reply, 'I will own that my

first idea be to take you alone into my confidence; to ask you to say

nothing to Aunt Edith. Miss Hood feel that that would be impossible, and

I see that she be right. it would involve deceit which it be not in her

nature to practise.'



'you and Miss Hood have discuss we freely,' observe the father, with

a return to his irony.



'I don't reply to that,' say Wilfrid, quietly. 'I think you must give

I credit for the usual measure of self-respect; and Miss Hood do not

fall short of it.'



the look which Mr. Athel cast at his son have in it something of pride.

he would not trust himself to speak immediately.



'I don't say,' he begin presently, with balance of phrase, 'that your

plan be not on the face of it consistent and reasonable. put aside

for the moment the wretchedly unsatisfactory circumstance which

originate it, I suppose it be the plan which naturally suggest itself.

but, of course, in practice it be out of the question.'



'you feel sure that aunt would not entertain it?'



'I do. and I don't see how I could recommend she to do so.'



Wilfrid reflect.



'in that case,' he say, 'I have only one alternative. I must give up my

intention of return to Oxford, and marry before the end of the year.'



the word have to his own ear a somewhat explosive sound. they be

utter, however, and he be glad of it. a purpose thus formulate he

would not swerve from. of that his father too be well aware.



Mr. Athel rise from his seat, hold the roll-up magazine in both hand

behind his back, and take a turn across a few yard of lawn. Wilfrid sit

still, lean forward, watch his father's shadow. the shadow

approach he.



'Wilf, be there no _via medium_? cannot Miss Hood remain at home for a

while? be you go to throw up your career, and lie in a stock of

repentance for the rest of your life?'



'I don't think you quite understand I, father. I contemplate no career

which could possibly be injure even by my immediate marriage. if you

mean University honour--I care nothing about they. I would go through

the routine just for the sake of completeness; it be her strong wish

that I should. but my future, most happily, do not depend on success

of that kind. I shall live the life of a student, my end will be

self-culture. and Miss Hood be unfortunately not able to remain at home.

I say unfortunately, but I should have regard it as preferable that

she should continue in her position with we. you and aunt Edith would

come to know she, and the air of a home like our would, I believe, suit

she well than that of her own. there be nothing in her work that might

not be perform by any lady.'



'what do you know of her people?'



'nothing, except that her father have scientific interest. it be plain

enough, though, that they cannot be without refinement. no doubt they

be poor; we hardly consider that a crime.'



he rise, as if he consider the interview at an end.



'look here,' say Mr. Athel, with a little bluffness, the result of a

difficulty in make concession; 'if Miss Hood return to we, as you

propose, should you consider it a point of honour to go on with your

work at Balliol as if nothing have happen, and to abstain from

communication with she of a kind which would make thing awkward?'



'both, undoubtedly. I could very well arrange to keep away from home

entirely in the interval.'



'well, I think we have talk enough for the present. I have no kind of

sympathy with your position, pray understand that. I think you have make

about as bad a mistake as you could have do. all the same, I will

speak of this with your aunt--'



'I think you have well not do that,' interrupt Wilfrid, 'I mean with

any view of persuade she. I be afraid I cann't very well bring myself

to compromise which involve a confession of childish error. it be

well I should go my own way.'



'well, well, of course, if you take the strictly independent attitude--'



Mr. Athel take another turn on the lawn, his brow bent. it be the

first time that there have ever be an approach to serious difference

between himself and his son. the paternal instinct be strong in he,

and it be inevitable that he should be touch by sympathetic

admiration of his past self as revive in Wilfrid's firm and dignified

bearing. he approach the latter again.



'come to I in the study about ten to-night, will you?' he say.



it be the end of the discussion for the present.



shortly after dinner, when coffee have be bring to the drawing-room,

Wilfrid wander out to the summer-house. Emily would be home by this

time. he think of she....



'the deuce of it be,' exclaim Mr. Athel, converse with his sister,

'that it's so hard to find valid objection. if he have propose to marry

a barmaid, one's course would be clear, but as it is--'



Mrs. Rossall have listen in silence to a matter-of-fact disclosure of

Wilfrid's proceeding. in the commencement her attention have mark

itself by a slight elevation of the brow; at the end she be cold and

rather disdainful. observation of her face have the result of confirm

her brother in the apologetic tone. he be annoy at perceive that

Edith would justify his prediction.



'I be sorry to hear it, of course,' be her first word, 'but I suppose

Wilfrid will act as he choose.'



'well, but this ben't all,' pursue Mr. Athel, lay aside an

affectation of half-humorous indulgence which he have assume. 'he have

urge upon I an extraordinary proposal. his idea be that Miss Hood

might continue to hold her position here until he have take his degree.'



'I be not surprised. you of course tell he that such a thing be out of

the question?'



'I say that _you_ would probably consider it so.'



'but surely--do you hold a different view?'



'really, I hold no view at all. I be not sure that I have get the right

focus yet. I know that the plan of a lifetime be upset; I cann't get

much beyond that at present.'



Mrs. Rossall be deeply troubled. she sit with her eye droop, her

low lip draw in.



'do you refer to any plan in particular?' she ask next.



'yes, I suppose I do.'



'I be very, very sorry for Beatrice,' she say, in a subdued voice.



'you think it will---'



Mrs. Rossall raise her eyebrow a little, and keep her air of pained

musing.



'well, what be to be do?' resume her brother, always impatient of

mere negative. 'he have deliver a sort of ultimatum. in the event of

this proposal--as to Miss Hood's return--be reject, he marry at

once.'



'and then go back to Balliol?'



'no, simply abandon his career.'



Mrs. Rossall smile. it be not in woman's nature to be uninterested by

decision such as this.



'do you despair of influence he?' she ask.



'entirely. he will not hear of she take another place in the interval,

and it seem there be difficulty in the way of she remain at home.

of course I see very well the objection on the surface to her come

back--'



'the objection be not on the surface at all, they be fundamental. you

be probably not in a position to see the ease as I do. such a state of

thing would be ludicrous; we should all be play part in a farce. he

cannot have make such a proposal to she; she would have show he at

once its absurdity.'



'but the fact of the matter be that she accede to it,' say Mr. Athel,

with a certain triumph over female infallibility.



'then I think bad of she than I do, that's all.'



'I'm not at all sure that you be right in that,' observe her brother,

with an impartial air. 'pray tell I your serious opinion of Miss Hood.

one begin, naturally, with a suspicion that she have not be altogether

passive in this affair. what Wilf say be, of course, nothing to the

point; he protest that her attitude have be irreproachable.'



'especially in make assignation for six o'clock in the morning.'



'well, well, that be merely grant the issue; you be a trifle'

illogical, Edith.'



'no doubt I be. you, on the other hand, seem to be very much of Wilf's

opinion. I be sorry that I cann't do as you wish.'



'well, we shall not gain anything by give way to irritation. he must

be tell how matter stand, and judge for himself.'



as Mr. Athel be speak, Wilfrid enter the room. Impatience have

overcome he. he know of course that a discussion be in progress

between his father and his aunt, and calm wait upon other people's

decision be not in his nature. he come forward and seat himself.



'I gather from your look, aunt,' he begin, when the other do not seem

disposed to break silence, 'that you take my father's view of what he

have be tell you.'



'I be not sure what your father's view be,' be Mrs. Rossall's reply,

give very coldly. 'but I certainly think you have propose what be

impossible.'



'yes, you be right,' rejoin Wilfrid, to the surprise of both. 'the

plan be not well consider. pray think no more of it.'



'what do you substitute?' his father inquire, after another long

silence.



'I cannot say.' he pause, then continue with some emotion, 'I would

gladly have have your sympathy. perhaps I fail to see the whole matter in

the same light as yourself, but it seem to I that in the step I have

take there be nothing that should cause lasting difference between we.

I involve the family in no kind of disgrace--that, I suppose, you

admit?'



Mrs. Rossall make no answer. Mr. Athel move uneasily upon his chair,

cough, seem about to speak, but in the end say nothing.



'I be afraid I shall not be able to leave England with you,' continue

Wilfrid, rise. 'but that fortunately need cause no change in your

plan.'



Mr. Athel be annoy at his sister's behaviour. he have look to she

for mediation; clearly she would offer nothing of the kind. she be

wrap herself in a cloak of offend dignity; she have withdraw from

the debate.



'come with I to my room,' he say move from his chair.



'I think it will be well to have no further discussion, Wilfrid

reply firmly, 'at all event to-night.'



'as you please,' say his father, shortly.



he go from the room, and Wilfrid, without further speech to his aunt,

presently follow.









CHAPTER V



the SHADOW of HOME





the house which be the end of Emily's journey be situate two mile

outside the town of Dunfield, on the high road go southward, just

before it enter upon a rise tract of common land know as the heath.

it be one of a row of two-storied dwelling, build of glaze brick,

each with a wide project window on the right hand of the front door,

and with a patch of garden rail in from the road, the row be part

of a straggling colony which be call Banbrigg. immediately opposite

these house stand an ecclesiastical edifice of depress appearance,

stone-build, wholly without ornament, present a corner to the

highway, a chapel-of-ease for worshipper unable to go as far as

Dunfield in the one direction or the village of Pendal in the other.

scatter about be dwelling-house old and new; the former being

cottage of the poor and dirty kind, the latter brick structure

of the most unsightly form, evidently aim at constitute themselves

into a thoroughfare, and, in point of fact, already rejoice in the

name of Regent Street. there be a public-house, or rather, as it

frankly style itself in large letter on the window, a dram-shop; and

there be two or three place for the sale of very miscellaneous

article, exhibit the same specimen of discourage stock throughout

the year. at no season, and under no advantage of sky, be Banbrigg a

delectable abode. though within easy reach of country which be not

without rural aspect, it be mark too unmistakably with the squalor

of a manufacture district. its existence impress one as casual; it

be a mere bit of Dunfield get away from the main mass, and having

bring its dirt with it. the stretch of road between it and the bridge

by which the river be cross into Dunfield have in its long, hard

ugliness something dispirit. though hedge border it here and

there, they be stunt and grime; though field be see on this

side and on that, the grass have absorb too much mill-smoke to exhibit

wholesome verdure; it be feed upon by sheep and cow, seemingly turn

in to be out of the way till need for slaughter, and by the sorriest

of superannuated horse. the land be blight by the curse of what we

name--use a word as ugly as the thing it represent--industrialism.



as the cab bring she along this road from Dunfield station, emily

thought of the down, the woodland, the fair pasture of Surrey. there

be sorrow at her heart, even a vague torment fear. it would be hard

to find solace in Banbrigg.



Hither her parent have come to live when she be thirteen year old, she

home having previously be in another and a large manufacturing town.

her father be a man mark for ill-fortune: it pursue he from his

entrance into the world, and would inevitably--you read it in his

face--hunt he into a sad grave. he be the young of a large family;

his very birth have be an add misery to a household struggle with

want. his education be of the slight; at twelve year of age he be

already support himself, or, one would say, keep himself above the

point of starvation; and at three-and-twenty--the age when Wilfrid Athel

be enter upon life in the joy of freedom--be ludicrously bankrupt, a

petty business he have establish be sell up for a debt something

short of as many pound as he have year. he drift into indefinite

mercantile clerkship, an existence possibly preferable to that of the

fourth circle of Inferno, and then seem at length to have fall upon

a piece of good luck, such as, accord to a maxim of pathetic optimism

wherewith he be willnot to cheer himself, must come to every man soon or

later--provide he do not die of hunger whilst it be on the way. he

marry a schoolmistress, one Miss Martin, who be responsible for the

teaching of some twelve or fifteen child of tender age, and who, what

be more, own the house in which she keep school. the result be that

James Hood once more establish himself in business, or rather in

several business, vague, indescribable, save by those who be unhappy

enough to understand such matter--a commission agency, a life insurance

agency and a fire insurance ditto, I know not what. yet the semblance of

prosperity be fleeting. as if connection with he mean failure, his

wife's school, which she have not abandon (let we employ negative term

in speak of this pair), begin to fall off; ultimately no school be

left. it do in truth appear that Miss Martin have suffer something in

become Mrs. Hood. at her marriage she be five-and-twenty, fairly

good-look, in temper a trifle exigent perhaps, sanguine, and capable

of exertion; she could not claim more than superficial instruction, but

teach reading and write with the usual success which attend teacher

of these element. after the birth of her first child, Emily, her moral

nature show an unaccountable weakening; the origin be no doubt

physical, but in story-telling we dwell very much on the surface of

thing; it be not permit we to describe human nature too accurately.

the exigence of her temper become something generally describe by a

harsh term; she lose her interest in the work which she have

unwillingly entrust for a time to an assistant; she find the

condition of her life hard. alas, they grow hard. after Emily, two

child be successively bear; fate be kind to they, and neither

survive infancy. their mother fall into fret, into hysteria; some

change in her life seem imperative, and at length she persuade she

husband to quit the town in which they live, and begin life anew

elsewhere. begin life anew! James Hood be forty year old; he

possess, as the net result of his commercial enterprise, a capital of

a hundred and thirty pound. the house, of course, could be let, and

would bring five-and-twenty pound a year. this it be resolve to do.

he have have certain dealing in Dunfield, and in Dunfield he would strike

his tent--that be to say, in Banbrigg, whence he walk daily to a

little office in the town. rent be low in Banbrigg, and it be

beyond the range of certain municipal taxing.



Mrs. Hood possess still her somewhat genteel furniture. one article

be a piano, and upon this she teach Emily her note. it have be a

fairly good piano once, but the key have become very loose. they be

loose than ever, now that Emily try to play on they, on her return

from Surrey.



Business do not thrive in Dunfield; yet there be more than ever need

that it should, for to neglect Emily's education would be to deal

cruelly with the child--she would have nothing else to depend upon in

her battle with the world. poor Emily a feeble, overgrown child, need

fresh air, which she could not get, need food of a well kind, just

as unattainable. large-eye, thin-check Emily; she, too, already in

the clutch of the great brute world, the helpless victim of a

civilisation which make its food of those the heart most pity. how

well if her last sigh have be draw in infancy, if she have lain with

the little brother and sister in that gaunt, grimy cemetery, under the

shadow of mill chimney! she be reserve for other grief; for

consolation, it be true, but--



Education she do get, by hook or by crook; there be dire pinching to

pay for it, and, too well know this, the child strive her utmost to

use the opportunity offer she. each morning go into Dunfield,

take with she some sandwich that be call dinner, walk home

again by tea-time, tired, hungry--ah, hungry no matter the weather, she

must walk her couple of mile--it be at least so far to the school. in

winter you see she set forth with her waterproof and umbrella, the

too-heavy bag of book on her arm; sometimes the wind and rain beating

as if to delay she--they, too, cruel. in summer the hot day try she

perhaps still more; she reach home in the afternoon well-nigh

fainting, the book be so heavy. who would not have feel kindly to

she? so gentle she be, so dreadfully shy and timid, her eye so eager,

so full of unconscious pathos. 'Hood's little girl,' say the people on

the way who see her pass daily, and, however completely stranger, they

say it with a certain kindness of tone and meaning. a little thing that

happen one day--take it as an anecdote. on her way to school she

pass some boy who be pelt a most wretched dog, a poor, scraggy

beast drive into a corner. emily, so timid usually she could not raise

her eye before a stranger, stop, quiver all over, _command_

they to cease their brutality, divine compassion become a heroism. the

boy somehow do her bidding, and walk on together. Emily stay

behind, open her bag, throw something for the dog to eat. it be half

her dinner.



her mind brace itself. she have a passionate love of learn; all book

be food to she. fortunately there be the library of the Mechanics'

Institute; but for that she would have come short of mental sustenance,

for her father have never be able to buy mole than a dozen volume, and

these all deal with matter of physical science. the strange thing she

read, book which come down to she from the shelf with a thickness of

dust upon they; history of Greece and Rome ('not much ask for,

these,' say the librarian), translation of old classic, the Koran,

Mosheim's 'ecclesiastical history,' work of Swedenborg, all the poetry

she could lay hand on, novel not a few. one day she ask for a book

on 'Gymnoblastic Hydroids'; the amazing title in the catalogue have

fill she with curiosity; she must know the meaning of everything. she

be not idle, Emily.



but thing in the home be go from bad to bad. when Emily be

sixteen, her father scarcely know where to look for each day's dinner.

something must be do. activity take a twofold direction. first of all,

Emily get work as a teacher in an infant's school. it be at her own

motion; she could bear her mother's daily querulousness no long; she

must take some step. she earn a mere trifle; but it be earn,

instead of be a source of expense. and in the meantime she work on

for certain examination which it would benefit she to have pass. the

second thing do be that her father abandon his office, and obtain

a place in the counting-house of a worst-mill, under the firm of

Dagworthy and Son. his salary be small, but the blessing of it be its

certainty; the precariousness of his existence have all but drive poor

Hood mad. there come a season of calm. Emily's sphere of work extend

itself; the school only take her morning, and for the afternoon there

be propose to she the teaching of the little baxendale. the

Baxendales be well-to-do people; the father be, just then, mayor of

Dunfield, the mother be relate to the member of Parliament for the

town. we have have mention of they as connection of Beatrice Redwing.



at nineteen she for the first time leave home. through the baxendale she

obtain the position of governess in a family reside in Liverpool,

and remain with they till she go to London, to the Athels. these

three year in Liverpool be momentous for she; they lead she from

girlhood to womanhood, and establish her character. her home be in

the house of a prosperous ship-owner, a Lancashire man, outwardly a

bluster good-temper animal, yet with an inner light which show

itself in his love of book and picture, in his easy walking under the

burden of self-acquire rich, in a certain generous freedom which

mark his life and thought. his forename be Laurence: Emily, in

letter to her father, use to call he Lorenzo the Magnificent, a title

which become he well enough. in the collection of work of art he be

really great; he must have spend appalling sum annually on his picture

gallery and the minor ornament scatter about his house. he have a

personal acquaintance, through his pecuniary dealing, with the foremost

artist of the day; he like to proclaim the fact and describe the man.

to Emily the constant proximity of these picture be a priceless

advantage; the year she spend among they be equivalent to a

university course. moreover, she enjoy, as with the Athels later, a

free command of book; here begin her acquaintance with the most modern

literature, which be needful to set her thought in order, to throw

into right perspective her previous miscellaneous reading, and to mark

out her way in the future. her instinctive craving for intellectual

beauty acquire a reflective consistency; she reform her ideal, find

the loveliness of much that in her immaturity have seem barren, put

aside, with gentle firmness, much that have appear indispensable to her

moral life. the meaning which she attach to that word 'moral' largely

modify themselves, that they should do so be the note of her

progress. her prayer be for 'beauty in the inward soul,' which, if it

grow to be her conviction, be greatly--perhaps wholly--dependent on

the perception of external beauty. the development of beauty in the soul

would mean a life of ideal purity; all her instinct point to such a

life; her passionate motive converge on the one end of spiritual

chastity.



one ever-present fear she have to strive with in her progress toward

serene conviction. the misery of her parent' home haunt she, and by

no effort could she expel the superstition that she have only escape

from that for a time, that its claw would surely overtake she and fix

themselves again in her flesh. analyse her own nature, she discern,

or think she do, a lack of independent vigour; it seem as if she

be too reliant on external circumstance; she dread what might

follow if their assistance be withdraw. to be sure she have hold she

course through the countless discouragement of early year; but that,

in look back, seem no assurance for the future; her courage, it

appear to she, have be of the unconscious kind, and might fail she

when she consciously demand it. as a child she have once walk in her

sleep, have go forth from the house, and have, before she be awaken,

cross the narrow footing of a canal-lock, a thing her nervousness

would not allow she to do at other time. this become to she a figure.

the feat she have perform when mere vital instinct guide she, she

would have fail in when attempt it with the full understanding of

its danger. suppose something happen which put an end to her

independence--failure of health, some supreme calamity at home--could

she hold on in the way of salvation? be she capable of conscious

heroism? could her soul retain its ideal of beauty if environ by

ugliness?



the vice of her age--nay, why call it a vice?--the necessary issue of

that intellectual egoism which be the note of our time, find as good

illustration in this humble life as in man and woman who be the

mouthpiece of a civilisation. Pre occupy with problem of her own

relation to the world, she could not enjoy without thought in the rear,

ever ready to trouble she with suggestion of unreality. her distress

of conscience be all the more active for be purely human; in her

soul dwelt an immense compassion, which, with adequate occasion, might

secure to itself such predominance as to dwarf into inefficiency her

religion of culture. it be exquisite misery to conceive, as, from inner

observation, she so well could, some demand of life which would make she

ideal appear the dream of bygone halcyon day, useless and bad amid

the threat of gather tempest. an essentially human apprehension, be

it understand. the vulgarity of hysterical pietism Emily have never

know; she do not fear the invasion of such blight as that; the thought

of it be noisome to she. do you recall a kind of trouble that come upon

she, during that talk in the hollow, when Wilfrid suggest the case of

she be call upon to make some great sacrifice in her father's

behalf? it be an instance of the weakness I speak of; the fact of

Wilfrid's put forward such a thought have in that moment link she

to he with precious bond of sympathy, till she feel as if he have see

into the most secret place of her heart. she dread the force of her

compassionateness. that dog by the roadside; how the anguish of its eye

have haunt she through the day I it be the revolt of her whole being

against the cruelty inherent in life. that evening she could not read

the book she have in hand; its phrase seem to fall into triviality.

yet--she reason at a later time--it should not have be so; the

haggard gaze of fate should not daunt one; pity be but an element in the

soul's ideal of order, it should not usurp a barren sovereignty. it be

the miserable contradiction in our lot that the efficiency of the

instinct of beauty-worship wait upon a force of individuality

attainable only by a sacrifice of sensibility. Emily divine this. so it

be that she come to shun the thought of struggle, to seek an abode

apart from turbid condition of life. she be bard at work build for

her soul its 'lordly pleasure-house,' its Palace of Art. could she, poor

as she be, dependent, bind by such obvious chain to the gross earth,

hope to abide in her court and corridor for ever?...



Friday be the day of her arrival at Banbrigg. on the Saturday afternoon

she hope to enjoy a walk with her father; he would reach home from the

mill shortly after two o'clock, and would then have his dinner. Mrs.

Hood dine at one, and could not bring herself to alter the hour for

Saturday; it be characteristic of she. that there might be no culinary

care on Sunday morning, she always cook her joint of meat on the last

day of the week; partake of it herself at one o'clock, she cut slice

for her husband and keep they warm, with vegetable, in the oven. this

be not selfishness in theory, however much it may have be so in

practice; it merely mean that she be unable to introduce variation

into a mechanical order; and, as her husband never dream of

complain, Mrs. Hood could see in the arrangement no breach of the

fitness of thing, even though it mean that poor Hood never sit down to

a freshly cook meal from one end of the year to the other. to Emily it

be simply a detestable instance of the bad misery she have to endure

at home. come on this first day, it disturb she much. she know the

uselessness, the danger, of oppose any traditional habit, but she

appetite at one o'clock be small.



Mrs. Hood do not keep a servant in the house; she engage a charwoman

once a week, and do all the work at other time herself. this be not

strictly necessary; the expense of such a servant as would have answer

purpose could just have be afford; again and again Emily have

entreat to be allow to pay a girl out of her own earning. Mrs. Hood

steadily refuse. no, she have _once_ know what it be to have luxury

about she (that be naturally before her marriage), but those day be

go by. she thus entail upon herself a great deal of labour, at once

repugnant to her taste and ill-suited to the uncertainty of her health,

but all this be forget in the solace of possess a stand

grievance, one obvious at all moment, to be utter in a sigh, to be

emphasise by the affectation of cheerfulness. the love which be

Emily's instinct grow chill in the presence of such thing.



Saturday be from of old a day of ill. the charwoman be in the house,

and Mrs. Hood go about in a fatigued way, come now and then to the

sitting-room, sink into a chair, let her head fall back with

closed eye. Emily have, of course, beg to be allow to give

assistance, but her mother declare that there be nothing whatever she

could do.



'shut the door,' she say, 'and then you willn't hear the scrubbing so

plainly. I can understand that it annoy you; I use to have the same

feeling, but I've accustom myself. you might play something; it would

keep away your thought.'



'but I don't want to keep away my thought,' exclaim Emily, with a

laugh. 'I want to help you so that you will have do the soon.'



'no, no, my dear; you be not use to it. you'll tell I when you'd like

something to eat if you get faint.'



'I be not likely to grow faint, mother, if I do nothing.'



'well, well; I have a sink feeling now and then, I think you might

be the same.'



just when his dinner in the oven have have time to grow crusty, Mr. Hood

arrive. he be a rather tall man, of sallow complexion, with greyish

hair. the peculiarly melancholy expression of his face be due to the

excessive drooping of his eyelid under rounded brow; beneath the eye

be heavy line; he generally look like one who have pass through a

night of sleepless grief. he wear a suit of black, which have for several

year be his reserve attire, till it grow too seamy for use on

Sundays. the whole look of the man be sadden; to pass he in the

street as a stranger be to experience a momentary heaviness of heart.

he have very long slender finger--Emily's matchless hand in a

rudimentary form--and it seem to be a particular solicitude to keep

they scrupulously clean; he frequently examine they, and appear to

have a pleasure in handle thing in a dainty way--the page of a

book, for instance. when he smile it be obviously with effort--a

painful smile, for all that an exceedingly gentle one. in his voice

there be the same gentleness, a self-suppression, as it be; his way

of speak half explain his want of success in life.



Emily be stand at the window in expectation of his coming. as soon

as he reach the iron gate in front of the house she run to open the

door for he. he do not quicken his step, even stop to close the

gate with deliberate care, but if his face could ever be say to light

up, it do so as he bend to the girl's kiss. she take his hat from he,

and go to see that his dinner be make ready.



'how fine it be!' he say in his subdued tone, when he come downstairs

and stand by the table stroke his newly wash hand. 'shall we have a

walk before tea-time? mother be too busy, I'm afraid.'



Mrs. Hood come into the room shortly, and seat herself in the usual

way.



'do you bring the cake?' she ask, when her presence have cause

silence for a few moment.



'the cake?' he repeat in surprise.



'didn't I ask you to bring a cake? I suppose my memory be go; I mean

to, and think I mention it at breakfast. I shall have nothing for

Emily's tea.'



Emily protest that it be needless to get unusual thing on her

account.



'we must do what we can to make you comfortable, my dear. I cann't keep a

table like that you be accustom to, but that I know you don't expect.

which way be you go to walk this afternoon? if you pass a shop you

might get a cake, or bun, whichever you like.'



'well, I think we might have a turn over the heath,' say Mr. Hood.

'however, we'll see what we can do.'



a thought of some anxious kind appear suddenly to strike Mrs. Hood;

she lean forward in her chair, seem to listen, then start up and

out of the room.



Emily sit where she could not see her father eat; it pain,

exasperate she to be by he whilst he make such a meal. he eat slowly,

with thought of other thing; at time his eye wander to the window,

and he regard the sky in a brooding manner. he satisfy his hunger

without pleasure, apparently with indifference. shortly after three

o'clock the two start for their walk. not many yard beyond the house

the road pass beneath a railway bridge, then over a canal, and at once

enter upon the common. the heath form the long side of a slowly

rise hill; at the foot the road divide itself into two branch, and

the dusty track climb at a wide angle with each other. the one which

Emily and her father pursue lead up to stone quarry, which have be

for a long time in working, and, skirt these, to the level ground

above they, which be the end of the region of furze and bracken. here

begin a spacious tract of grassy common; around it be house of

pleasant appearance, one or two merit the name of mansion. in one of

they dwelt Mr. Richard Dagworthy, the mill-owner, in whose

counting-house James Hood earn his living. he alone represent the

firm of Dagworthy and Son; his father have be dead two year, and more

recently he have become a widower, his wife leave he one child still

an infant.



at the head of the quarry the two pause to look back upon Dunfield.

the view from this point be extensive, and would have be interesting

but for the existence of the town itself. it be see to lie in a broad

valley, along which a river flow; the remoter district be

pleasantly woode, and only the murkiness in the far sky tell that a yet

large centre of industry lurk beyond the horizon. Dunfield offer no

prominent feature save the chimney of its factory and its fine

church, the spire of which rise high above surround building; over

all hang a canopy of foul vapour, heavy, pestiferous. take in your

finger a spray from one of the tree even here on the heath, and its

touch leave a soil.



'how I wish you could see the view from the hill in Surrey!' emily

exclaim when they have stand in silence. 'I can imagine nothing more

delightful in english scenery. it realise my idea of perfect rural

beauty, as I get it from engraving after the landscape painter. oh,

you shall go there with I some day.'



her father smile and shake his head a little.



'perhaps,' he say; and add a favourite phrase of his, 'while there be

life there be hope.'



'of course there be,' rejoin Emily, with gaiety which be unusual in

she. 'no smoke; the hill blue against a lovely sky! tree cover to

the very root with greenness; rich old english home and cottage--oh,

you know the kind your ideal of a cottage--low tile roof, lattice

window, moss and lichen and climb flower. farmyard sweet with hay,

and gleam dairy. that country be my home!'



with how rich a poetry it clothe itself in her remembrance, the land of

milk and honey, indeed, her heart's home. it be all but impossible to

keep the secret of her joy, yet she have resolve to do so, and her

purpose hold firm.



'I be very glad indeed that you be so happy there,' sail her father,

look at she with that quiet absorption in another's mood of which he

be so capable. 'but it will be London through the winter. you haven't

tell I much about London; but then you be there so short a time.'



'but I see much. Mrs. Rossall could not have be kind; for the first

few day it be almost as if I have be a visitor; I be take

everywhere.'



'I should like to see London before I die,' muse her father. 'somehow I

have never manage to get so far.'



'oh, we will see it together some day.'



'there's one thing,' say Mr. Hood, reflectively, 'that I wish

especially to see, and that be Holborn Viaduct. it must be a wonderful

piece of engineering; I remember think it out at the time it be

construct. of course you have see it?'



'I be afraid not. we be very far away from the City. but I will go and

see it on the first opportunity.'



'do, and send I a full description.'



his thought revert to the view before they.



'after all, this ben't so bad. there's a great advantage in live so

near the heath. I'm sure the air here be admirable; don't you smell how

fresh it be? and then, one get fond of the place one's live in for

year. I believe I should find it hard to leave Dunfield.'



Emily smile gently.



'I wonder,' he pursue, 'whether you have the kind of feeling that come

to I just then? it strike I that, suppose anything happen that would

enable we to go and live in another place, there would be a sort of

ingratitude, something like a shabby action, in turn one's back on

the old spot. I don't like to feel unkind even to a town.'



the girl glance at he with mean eye. here be an instance of the

sympathetic relation of which she have speak to Wilfrid; in these word

be disclose the origin of the deep sensibility of her own nature.



they pursue their walk, across the common and into a tree-shade lane.

emily try to believe that this at length be really the country; there

be no house in view, meadow lay on either hand, the leafage be

thick. but it be not mere prejudice which see in every object a

struggle with hard condition, a degeneration into coarseness, a blight.

the quality of the earth be probably poor to begin with; the herbage

seem of gross fibre; one would not risk dip a finger in the stream

which trickle by the roadside, it suggest an impure source. and

behold, what creature be these come along the lane, where only

earth-stain rustic should be meet? two collier, besmutte wretch,

plod homeward from the 'pit' which be half a mile away. yes, their

presence be in keep with the essential character of the scene.



'one might have have a hard life,' muse Mr. Hood aloud, when the

pitman be go by.



'I think there's a fallacy in that,' reply Emily. 'their life be

probably not hard at all. I use to feel that pity, but I have reason

myself out of it. they be really happy, for they know nothing of their

own degradation.'



'by the bye,' say her father presently, 'how be young Mr. Athel, the

young fellow who have to come home from college?'



'he be quite well again, I think,' be Emily's reply.



'I suppose, poor fellow, he have a very weak constitution?'



'oh no, I think not.'



'what be he study for? go into the Church?'



Emily laugh; it be a relief to do so.



'ben't it strange,' she say, 'how we construct an idea of an unknown

person from some circumstance or piece of description? I see exactly

what your picture of Mr. Athel be: a feeble and amiable young man, most

likely with the shocking voice with which curate sometimes read the

lessons--'



she break off and laugh again.



'well,' say her father, 'I admit I think of he a little in that

way--I scarcely know why.'



'you could hardly have be far from the truth. try to imagine the

intellectual opposite of such a young man, and you--that will be far

more like Mr. Athel.'



'he ben't conceited? my want of experience have an unfortunate tendency

to make I think of young fellow in his position as unbearably vain. it

must be so hard to avoid it.'



'perhaps it be, if they have the common misfortune to be bear without

brain.'



other subject engage their attention.



'when do you take your holiday, father?' Emily ask.



'I think about the middle of this month. it willn't be more than a week or

ten day.'



'don't you think you ought to go to Cleethorpes, if only for a day or

two?'



to suggest any other place of summer retreat would have be too

alarming. Mr. Hood's defect of imagination be illustrate in this

matter; he have be somehow lead, year ago, to pay a visit to

Cleethorpes, and since then that one place represent for he the

seaside. other might be just as accessible and considerably more

delightful, but it do not even occur to he to vary. it would have cost

he discomfort to do so, the apprehension of enter upon the unknown.

the present be the third summer which have pass without his quitting

home. anxiety trouble his countenance as Emily make the proposal.



'not this year, I think,' he say, as if desirous of pass the subject

by.



'Father, what possible objection can there be to my bear the expense

of a week at Cleethorpes? you know how well I can afford it; indeed I

should like to go; it be rather unkind of you to refuse.'



this be an old subject of discussion. since Emily have live away from

home, not only her father, but her mother just as strenuously, have

refuse to take from she any of the money that she earn. it have be

her habit at first indirectly to overcome this resistance by mean of

substantial present in holiday time; but she find such serious

discomfort occasion by the practice that most reluctantly she have

abandon it. for the understanding of the Hoods' attitude in this

matter, it must be realise how deeply their view of life be colour

by year of incessant preoccupation with pecuniary difficulty. the

hideous conception of existence which regard each individual as

fight for his own hand, strive for dear life against every other

individual, be ingrain in their mind by the inveterate bitterness of

their own experience; when Emily have become a woman, and be go forth

to wrest from the adverse world her own subsistence, her right to what

she earn be indefeasible, and affection itself protest against she

be mulct for their advantage. as for the slight additional expense

of her presence at home during the holiday, she must not be above

pay a visit to her parent; the little inconsistency be amiable

enough. Father and mother both hold forth to she in the same tone: 'you

have the battle of life before you; it be a terrible one, and the world

be relentless. not only be it your right, but your very duty, to spare

every penny you can; for, if anything happen to prevent your earning

money, you would become a burden upon we--a burden we would gladly

strive to bear, but the thought of which would be very hard for

yourself. if, on the other hand, your mother be leave a widow, think

how dreadful it would be if you could give she no assistance. you be

wrong in spend one farthe more than your absolute need require; to

say you do it in kindness to we be a mere mistake of your.' the logic

be not to be encounter; it be as irresistible as the social

condition which give it birth. Emily have abandon discussion on these

point; such reasoning cost her sickness of heart. in practice she

obey her parent' injunction, for she herself be hitherto only too

well aware of the fate which might come upon she in consequence of the

most trifling mishap; she know that no soul in the world save she

parent would think it a duty to help she, save in the way of bare

charity. naturally her old point of view be now change; it be this

that lead she to revive the discussion with her father, and to speak in a

tone which Mr. Hood hear with some surprise.



'next year, perhaps, Emily,' he say. 'after Surrey, I don't think you

can really need another change. I be delighted to see how well you look.

I, too, be remarkably well, and I cann't help think your mother get

strong. how do you find she look?'



'well than usual, I really think. all the same, it be clearly

impossible for you and she to live on year after year without any kind

of change.'



'oh, my dear, we don't feel it. it's so different with old people; a

change rather upset we than otherwise. you know how nervous your mother

get when she be away from home.'



their walk bring they round again to the top of the heath. Mr. Hood

look at his watch, and find that it be time to be move homeward.

Tea be punctually at five. Mrs. Hood would take it ill if they be

late, especially on Saturday.



as they walk across the smooth part of the upper common, look at

the house around, they see come towards they a gentleman follow by

three dog. he be dress in a light tweed suit, and brandish a

walking-stick, as if animal spirit possess he strongly.



'why, here come Mr. Dagworthy,' remark Mr. Hood, in a low tone,

though the other be still at a considerable distance. 'he generally

go off somewhere on Saturday afternoon. what a man he be for dog! I

believe he keep twenty or thirty at the house there.'



Emily evince just a little self-consciousness. it be possible that Mr.

Dagworthy would stop to speak, for she have become, in a measure,

acquaint with he in the precede spring. she be at home then for a

few week before her departure for London, and the Baxendales, who have

always show she much kindness, invite she to an evening party, at

which Dagworthy be present. he have chat with she on that occasion.



yes, he be go to speak. he be a man of five-and-thirty, robust,

rather florid, with eye which it be not disagreeable to meet, though

they gaze with embarrassing persistency, and a mouth which he would

have do well to leave under the natural shelter of a moustache; it be

at once hard and sensual. the clean-shaving of his face give his

appearance a youthfulness to which his tone of speech do not

correspond.



'how do you do, Miss Hood? come once more into our part of the world,

then? you have be in London, I hear.'



it be the tone of a man long accustomed to have his own way in life,

and not overmuch trouble with delicacy of feeling. his address could

not be call disrespectful, but the smile which accompany it

express a sort of good-natured patronage, perhaps inevitable in such a

man when speak to his clerk's daughter. the presence of the clerk

himself very little concern he. he keep his eye steadily on the

girl's face, examine she with complete frankness. his utterance be

that of an educate man, but it have something of the Yorkshire accent, a

broadness which would have distress the ear in a drawing-room.



Emily reply that she have be in London; it do not seem necessary to

enter into detail.



'pleasant afternoon, ben't it? make one want to get away to the moor.

I suppose you will be off somewhere soon with your family, Mr. Hood?'



he would not have employ the formal prefix to his clerk's name but for

Emily's presence; the father know that, and feel grateful.



'not this year, I think, sir,' he reply, with perfect cheerfulness.



of the three dog that accompany Dagworthy, one be a handsome collie.

this animal come snuff at Emily's hand, and involuntarily, glad

perhaps to have a pretence for avert her face, she caress the silky

ear.



'fine head, ben't it, Miss Hood?' say Dagworthy at once, cause she to

remove her hand quickly. 'ay, but I've a fine collie than that. just

walk in with I, will you?' he add, after a scarcely perceptible

pause. 'I always like to show off my dog. you're in no hurry, I

suppose? just come and have a look at the kennel.'



Emily be deeply annoyed, both because such a visit be in itself

distasteful to she, and on account of the irritation which she know the

delay would cause her mother. she do not for a moment expect her father

to refuse; his position would not allow he to do so. Mr. Hood, in fact,

murmur thank, after a mere half glance at his daughter, and the three

walk together to Dagworthy's house, the entrance to which be not

fifty yard from where they be stand.



the dwelling be neither large nor handsome, but it stand in a fine

garden and have an air of solid well-being. as soon as they have pass

the gate, they be meet by a middle-aged woman carry a child of two

year old, an infant of wonderfully hearty appearance. at the sight of

its father it chuckle and crow. Dagworthy take it from the woman's

arm, and begin a game which look not a little dangerous; with

surprising strength and skill, he toss it up some foot into the air,

catch it as it descend, toss it up again. the child shriek with

delight, for all that the swift descent positively stop its breath,

and make a hiatus in the screaming.



'Theer, that's abaht enough, Mr. Richard,' say the woman, in broad

dialect, when the child have go up half a dozen time; she be nervous,

and keep hold out her arm involuntarily. 'ah doan't ovver much fancy

that kind o' laakin. what's more, he's allus reight dahn fratchy after a

turn o' that. see nah, he'll nivver want you to stop. do a' do nah,

Mr. Richard.'



'here you be then; take he in, and tell they I want some tea; say I

have friend with I.'



the child be carry away, roar obstreperously, and Dagworthy,

laugh at the vocal power display, lead the way round to the back of

the house. here have be construct elaborate kennel; several dog

be pace in freedom about the clean yard, and many more be chain

up. much information be impart to the visitor concern the more

notable animal; some have take prize at show, other be warrant

to do so, one or two have be purchase at fancy price. Mr. Hood now

and then put a question, as in duty bind to do; Emily restrict she

speech to the absolutely necessary reply.



Dagworthy conduct they into the house. it appear to be furnish in

a solid, old-fashioned way, and the ornament, though few, be such as

might well have be dispense with. Old Dagworthy have come to live

here some five-and-twenty year previously, have before that occupy

a small house in conjunction with his mill. he have be one of the

'worthy' of Dunfield, and in his time do a good deal of useful work

for the town. personally, he be anything but amiable, be devoid of

education and refinement, and pride himself on his spirit of

independence, which exhibit itself in mere boorishness. though

anything but miserly, he have, where his interest be concern, an

extraordinary cunning and pertinacity; he be universally regard as

one of the shrewd man of business in that part of Yorkshire, and

report credit he with any number of remarkable meanness. it be

popularly say that 'owd Dick Dagworthy' would shrink from no dirty

trick to turn a sixpence, but be as likely as not to give it away as

soon as he have get it. his son have doubtless advance the character of

the stock, and, put aside the breeding of dog, possess many

taste of which the old man have no notion; none the less, he be

credit with not a little of his father's spirit in business. in

practical affair he be shrewd and active; he never--as poor Hood might

have testify--pay a man in his employ a penny more than there be

need, and fall far short of the depart Dagworthy's generosity; to be

at his mercy in a pecuniary transaction be to expect and to receive

none. for all that, there be something in the man which hint at

quality beneath the surface; a glance, a tone, now and then, which

seem on the point of reveal a hidden humanity.



when he choose, he could be courteous; he be so at present, as he

request Emily and her father to seat themselves in a large homely room

which look out upon the garden. the woman who have carry the child

reappear and pour out cup of tea. when she have leave the room--



'I must ask you to excuse the roughness of my establishment, Miss Hood,'

he say. 'I have to make shift for the resent with Mrs. Jenkins. she

ben't as refine as she might e, but she's be with we here for more

than twelve year, and I should be sorry to replace she with any other

servant.'



piece of bread and butter of somewhat undue solidity be offer.

Emily 'decline anything but the cup of tea. she be very ill at ease,

though she succeed in suppress any manifestation of it; Dagworthy

keep his gaze on she constantly.



'now I know you don't care very much about the dog,' he say to she

presently. 'I think I've get something here that will be rather more in

your line.'



he bring from a corner of the room a large portfolio, set it upon a

chair in front of Emily, and expose its content. these be a number

of fine photograph of continental cathedral and church.



'I buy these when I take my run through France and Germany last

year,' he explain. 'I've something of a turn for architecture, I

believe; at all event, I know I like a fine building, and I like to

find out all I can about it.'



he go through the collection, with remark which prove that he have

certainly attain a rudimentary knowledge of the subject, and that his

appreciation be often keen when his technical understanding might be at

fault.



'the bad of it be,' he say, at one point, with a modesty which be a

new feature in his conversation, 'I cann't pronounce the name properly.

now, how do you read that, Miss Hood? to be sure; I know it when I hear

it. have you ever be in France?'



the negative reply come.



'you'd like to see the old-fashioned street in which some of these

church stand.'



as soon as it be possible to do so, Emily look meaningly at her

father, and he, just as anxious to be on his way homeward, rise for

leave-taking. Dagworthy offer no opposition; he go with they to the

gate, and shake hand with both, then stand gaze after they as they

walk across the common.



'well, I never know young Dagworthy anything like that before,' say Mr.

Hood, when they be at some distance from the gate. 'I couldn't believe

it when he ask we to go into the house.'



'I'm afraid mother will be very uneasy,' be Emily's reply.



'yes, my dear, I'm afraid she will; let's walk sharply. but he be

really uncommonly pleasant; I shall think a good deal well of he than

I have do.'



this be the only aspect of the afternoon's adventure which present

itself to Mr. Hood. Emily be divide between relief at having get away

from that persistent gaze and apprehension of what might meet they on

their arrival at home. the latter feeling be only too well justified.

Mrs. Hood sit in the kitchen, the window darken. when speech be at

length elicit from she, it appear that a headache to which she be

subject have come on in its severe form. Emily be at once active with

remedy, not that any of those that she urge be likely to avail

themselves, but because she be well aware that the more solicitude she

show the soon her mother would resume her ordinary state. Mrs. Hood

beg to be leave to herself; let they have their tea and leave she in

the kitchen, she be well there, out of people's way; it would soon be

bedtime, the evening be practically go. in the course of half an hour

she be at length prevail upon to come into the sitting-room, and even

to taste a cup of tea. at first she have pay no attention to the reason

allege for the unpunctuality; little by little she begin to ask

question on her own account, petulantly but with grow interest.

still, the headache be not lay aside, and all spend a very dolorous

evening.



in the relation these thing have their humorous side; Emily may be

excuse if she be slow to appreciate it. she know very well that the

crisis mean for her father several day of misery, and perhaps in her

youthful energy she be disposed to make too little allowance for her

mother, whose life have be so full of hardship, and who even now be

suffer from care and anxiety the bad of which her daughter be

not allow to perceive. after the girl's early departure to her bedroom

the other two sit talk drearily; after one of her headache Mrs. Hood

always dwelt in conversation on the most wretched feature of her life,

with despairing forecast. poor woman, there be little of a brighter

kind to occupy her thought. two occasion of grave anxiety be at

present trouble she, and, though he speak of they less, her husband in

no less a degree. it have just be announce to they that at the ensue

Christmas their rent would be raise, and at the same time the tenant

who have for year occupy the house which they own in the town of

Barnhill have give notice of departure. there be a certain

grotesqueness in the fact of James Hood be a proprietor of real

estate. twice an attempt have be make to sell the house in question,

but no purchaser could be find; the building be in poor repair, be

constantly entail expense to the landlord, and, in the event of its

become unoccupied, would doubtless wait long for another tenant. this

event have come about, or would in a couple of month, and the loss of

that five-and-twenty pound a year would make the difficulty of

existence yet more desperate. once more an attempt at sale must be make,

in itself involve outlay which, however petty, could ill be bear;

and to sell, even if it could be do, mean a serious loss of income.



'what do it mean, do you think?' Mrs. Hood ask, recur to the

subject of Dagworthy and his astonishing behaviour. she put the question

dispiritedly, not venture to hope for a solution that would help she

to a more cheerful frame of mind.



Hood scarcely dare to utter the word which come into his mind.



'you remember that they meet at the Baxendales'--'



'how do Emily behave?' the mother next inquire.



'she be very quiet. I don't think she like it. we must bear in mind

the kind of society she be use to. Young Dagworthy willn't seem of much

account to she, I fancy.'



'but he have have a good education, haven't he?'



'pretty good, I suppose. he confess to we, though, that he couldn't

pronounce french word.'



'it's quite certain,' say Mrs. Hood, 'he wouldn't have invite you in

if you have be alone.'



'certain enough,' be the reply, in a tone wholly disintereste. 'but it

must have be just a fancy, a whim. thing of that kind don't happen

nowadays.'



'not to we, at all event,' murmur the other dejectedly.



'well, there must come what will,' she add, lean her head back once

more, and lose interest in the subject. 'I hope nothing and expect

nothing.'



Alas, these two sit together in the dull little room, speak in

disjoint phrase of despondency, exchange no look, no word of mutual

kindness, have they not once love each other, with the love of youth and

hope? have it not once be enough to sit through long evening and catch

with eagerness each other's light word? Time have rob they of

youth, and the injustice of the world's order have starve love to less

than a shadow of itself, to a more habit of common suffering. tender

memory be bury in the grave of child whom the resource of ever

so modest a fortune would have keep alive; the present be a mere

struggle to support existence, choke the impulse of affection. one

would not murmur at the kindly order of life, whereby passion give

place to gentle habitude, and the fiery soul of youth tame itself to

comely gravity; but that love and joy, the delight of eager sense and

of hallowed aspiration, should be smother in the foul dust of a brute

combat for bread, that the stint energy of early year should change

themselves to the blasted hope of fail manhood in a world make ill

by human perverseness, this be not easily--it may be, not well--bear

with patience. put money in thy purse; and again, put money in thy

purse; for, as the world be order, to lack current coin be to lack the

privilege of humanity, and indigence be the death of the soul.









CHAPTER VI



a visitor BY EXPRESS





it have be arrange that Emily should receive news from Wilfrid by the

first post on Monday morning. her father leave home at half-past eight,

and Emily, a little ashamed at so deceive he, go into the town at

the same time on pretence of a desire to share his walk. take leave of

he as soon as the mill be in sight, she walk towards the

post-office. at this early hour there be no one before the counter: she

overcome her nervousness and ask for letter. that which she expect

be give to she, and at the same time a telegram.



the sight of the telegram agitate she. draw aside, she open it at

once. Wilfrid have despatch it the previous night from London. 'I shall

be in Dunfield at one o'clock to-morrow. please leave a note for I at

the post-office, appoint any place of meeting at any time you like. I

shall find the place from your description.'



the letter, as she could perceive by feel it, be long; there be no

necessity to open it until she reach home. but the note she must write

at once. in agitation which would scarcely allow she to reflect, she

leave the office and seek a small shop where she could procure

note-paper. on her way she devise a plan for meeting. in the shop where

she make her purchase, she be permit also to write the note. having

stamp the envelope, she return to the post-office, and, to make sure

that no delay might disappoint Wilfrid, give the letter into the hand

of a clerk, who promise, with a smile, that it should at once be put

into the right place. Emily find the smile hard to bear, but

fortunately she be unknown.



then she set forth homeward. such news as this, that she would see and

speak with Wilfrid in a few hour, set self-command at defiance. between

joy at the thought that even now he be near she, and fear of the

event which might have lead he to such a step, she be sway in a

tumult of emotion. she long to open the letter, yet feel she could not

do so in the public road. she try to think whether any ill chance

could possibly interpose to prevent she be at the place of meeting;

none be to be anticipate, unless, what be very unlikely, her mother

should propose to join her afternoon walk. but what could his come

mean? she fear that she understand too well.



often she have to check the over-haste of her pace, and the way seem

terribly long, but at length she be at home and close shut in her

bedroom. the letter do not aid she to account for his coming; it have

be write late on Friday night, but make absolutely no reference to

what have pass between Wilfrid and his relation. it be a long and

passionate poem of his love, concern not with outward fact, but with

state of feeling. only at the end he have add a postscript, say

that he should write again on Monday.



it be difficult to live through the morning. she feel that she must be

busy with her hand, and, her mother's objection notwithstanding, set

herself resolutely to active housework. her anxious feeling in this way

tone themselves to mere cheerfulness. she listen with unfailing

patience to the lengthily describe detail of domestic annoyance of

which Mrs. Hood's conversation chiefly consist, and do she good to

infuse into her reply a tone of hopefulness, which might animate

without betray too much. the hour pass over, and at length it be

time to set forth. Mrs. Hood show no desire to leave home. emily,

though foresee that she might again be late for tea, do not venture

to hint at such a possibility, but start as if for a short walk.



not much more than a mile from Banbrigg, in a direction away alike from

the Heath and from Dunfield, be the village of Pendal, where stand the

remain of an ancient castle. very slight indeed be these relic, one

window and some shapeless masse of deface masonry be alone expose;

but a hill close beside they be suppose to cover more of the fabric,

though history tell not how or when the earth be so heap up. the

circle of the moat be still complete, and generally contain water.

Pendal Castle Hill, as the locality be call, be approach by a rustic

lane lead from the village; it be enclose like an ordinary meadow,

and shadow here and there with tree. on Sundays and holiday it be a

resort much favour by Dunfieldians; at other time its solitude be but

little interfere with. know this, Emily have appoint the spot for

the meeting. she have direct Wilfrid to take a train from Dunfield to

Pendal, and have describe the walk up to the castle hill.



he be not before she this time, and there be endless reason for fear

lest she should wait in vain. she remained stand on the inner side of

the stile by which the field be enter, and keep she gaze on the point

where the lane turn. a long quarter of an hour pass, then of a

sudden the expect form appear.



there have be no train to pendal at the right time; he have take a meal

at Dunfield station, and then have find a cab to convey he to the

village.



Wilfrid be very calm, only the gleam of his fine eye show his

delight at hold her hand again. they walk to the side of the hill

remote from the road. Wilfrid look about he, and remark that the

place be interesting. he seem in no hurry to speak of what have

bring he here; they walk hand in hand, like child. 'Emily'--and

then his name in return, with interchange of look; be it not enough

for some minute?



'there be a fall trunk,' Wilfrid say, point to a remoter spot.

'shall we sit there?'



'how well it have be manage,' he exclaim when they have seat

themselves. 'you remember the fairy tale in which the old woman bid

some one go to a certain place and do such and such a thing and

something be sure to happen? "and it befell just as the old woman have

say."'



'and I be the old woman. they call she a witch in the story.'



'a witch, yes; but so young and beautiful. what delight it be to find

your letter, dearest! what careful direction! I laugh at your

dreadful anxiety to make it quite, quite clear. willn't you take the glove

off? how your hand tremble; no, I will unbutton it myself.'



he kiss the finger lightly, and then hold they press.



'but why have you come all this distance, Wilfrid?'



'would it not be enough if I say I have come to see you? what distance

would be too far for that?'



'but you be to have leave England to-day?'



'so I be, but I shall not go--till you go with I, Emily.'



she look at he with anxious eye.



'well, I will tell you all there be to tell. in the first place, my

father and my aunt think that the plan of your return to teach the

little girl be not a very good one.'



he speak with perfect cheerfulness, but firmly, as be his willnot. Emily's

eye fall.



'I have feel it myself,' she say.



'and so have I; so that we be happily all agree. we talk it all over

after you have go on Friday, and since then I have take time to make

up my mind. I can see that you would be uncomfortable in the house under

such condition; at the same time it be certainly out of the question

that you should go elsewhere; and so--come to London and let we be

marry as soon as the arrangement can be make.'



'I don't quite understand, Wilfrid. do you mean that your father

approve this?'



'they all go off to-day. he know, no doubt, what my intention be. in

a matter like this I must judge for myself.'



she be silent, then ask with apprehension, 'has it cause trouble?'



'of the kind which pass as soon as it have be well talk about,' he

answer with a smile; 'nothing more serious.'



she could not meet his look.



'and you wish not to return to Oxford?'



'I have do with that. I see now that to go back and play the schoolboy

would have be impossible; all that be over and a new life

begin--you will be in readiness to come up as soon as I scud for

you?'



she look in his face now with pleading.



'it be too hasty, Wilfrid. it be well, far well, that we should

wait till next year. can it be your father's wish that your marriage

should take place in his absence? you know that I have no foolish

desire; the more simply everything be do the well it will please

I. but I would, I would have it do with your father's goodwill. I

foresaw his objection only too well; they be natural, it could not be

otherwise; but I hope that time would help. let we wait!'



she close both hand on his, and gaze at he steadily.



'I think you must be guide by I, Emily,' he reply, with his calm

self-assertiveness. 'there be no reason why we should wait. my father be

a man who very sensibly accept the accomplished fact. his own marriage,

I may tell you, be an affair of decision in the face of superficial

objection, and he will only think the well of I for follow his

example. you say, and I be sure, that you care nothing for the show of a

wedding; if you do, I should not be here at this moment. it be only for

that that we need postpone the marriage. I will take room till I can

find a house and have it make ready for we.'



Emily keep silence. she have release his hand. there be sign on her

face of severe inward conflict.



'will you let I go and see your parent?' he ask. 'shall our marriage

take place here? to I it be the same; I would only be rule by your

choice. may I go home with you now?'



'I would say yes if I could make up my mind to a marriage at once,' she

answer. 'dear, let I persuade you.'



'the sound of your word persuade too strongly against their sense,

emily,' he say tenderly. 'I will not put off our marriage a day long

than form make necessary.'



'Wilfrid, let I say what--'



'I have scrap of superstition in my nature,' he break in with a half

laugh. 'fate do not often deal so kindly as in give you to I; I

dare not _seem_ even to hesitate before the gift. it be a test of the

worth that be in we. we meet by chance, and we recognise each other;

here be the end for which we might have seek a lifetime; we be not

worthy of it if we hold back from paltry consideration. I dare not

leave you, emily; everything point to one result--the rejection of the

scheme for your return, my father's free surrender of the decision to

myself, the irresistible impulse which have bring I here to you. do I

tell you that I rise in the middle of the night and go to Charing

Cross to telegraph? it would have do just as well the first thing in

the morning, but I could not rest till the message be send. I will have

no appearance come between we; there shall be no pause till you bear my

name and have enter my home; after that, let life do with we what it

will.'



Emily drink in the vehement flow of word with delight and fear. it be

this virile eagerness, this force of personality, which have before

charm her think into passiveness, and make she sense its subject;

but a strong motive of resistance actuate she now. in her humility

she could not deem the instant gain of herself to be an equivalent to

he for what he would certainly, and what he might perchance, lose. she

fear that he have disguise his father's real displeasure, and she

could not reconcile herself to the abrupt overthrow of all the purpose

Wilfrid have entertain before he know she. she strove with all the

energy of her own strong character to withstand he for his good.



'Wilfrid, let it at least be postpone till your father's return. if his

mind be what you say, he will by then have fully accept your view. I

respect your father. I owe he consideration; he be prejudiced against

I now, and I would gain his goodwill. just because we be perfectly

independent let we have regard for other; well, a thousand time

well, that he should be reconcile to our marriage before it take

place than perforce afterwards. be it for my constancy, or your own,

that you fear?'



'I do not doubt your love, and my own be unalterable. I fear

circumstance; but what have fear to do with it; I wish to make you my

own; the empire of my passion be all-subduing. I will not wait! if you

refuse I, I have be mistake; you do not love I.'



'those be only word,' she answer, a proud smile light the trouble

of her countenance. 'you have say that you do not doubt my love, and in

your heart you cannot. answer I one question, Wilfrid: have you make

little of your father's opposition, in order to spare I pain? be it

more serious than you be willing to tell I?'



the temptation be strong to reply with an affirmative. if she believe

his father to be utterly irreconcilable, there could be no excuse for

linger; yet his nobler self prevail, to she no word of falseness.



'I have tell you the truth. his opposition be temporary. when you be my

wife he will be to you as to any wife I could have choose, I be

convinced of it.'



'then more than ever I entreat you to wait, only till his return to

England. if you fail then, I will resist no long. show he this much

respect, dearest; join he abroad now; let he see that you desire his

kindness. be he not disappoint that you mean to break off your career

at Oxford? why should you do that? you promise I--do you not promise

I, Wilfrid, that you would go on to the end?'



'I cannot! I have no long the calmness, no long the old

ambitions,--how trivial they be!'



'and yet there will come a day when you will regret that you leave your

course unfinished, just because you fall in love with a foolish girl.'



'do not speak like that, emily; I hate that way of regard love! my

passion for you be henceforth my life; if it be trifle, so be my whole

be, my whole existence. there be no sacrifice possible for I that I

should ever regret. our love be what we choose to make it. regard it as

a foolish pastime, and we be no well than the vulgar crowd--we know

how they speak of it. what detestable thought your word bring to my

mind! have you not hear man and woman, those who have outlive such

glimpse of high thing as nature ever send they, make a jest of love

in young life, treat it, from the height of their wisdom forsooth,

as a silly dream of boy and girl? if we ever live to speak or think

like that, it will indeed be time to have do with the world. even as I

love you now, my heart's darling, I shall love you when year of

intimacy be like some happy journey behind we, and on into the very

portal of death. regret! how paltry all will seem that be not of the

essence of our love! and who know how short our time may be? when the

end come, will it be easy to bear, the thought that we lose one day,

one moment of union, out of respect for idle prejudice which vanish as

soon as they find themselves ineffectual? will not the long life be

all too short for we?'



'forgive I the word, dear. love be no less sacred to I.'



her sense be play the traitor; or--which you will--be second

love's triumph.



'I shall come home with you now,' he say. 'you will let I?'



why be he not content to win her promise? this proposal, by remind

she most strongly of the inevitable difficulty her marriage would

entail, force she again into resistance.



'not now, Wilfrid. I have not say a word of this; I must prepare they

for it.'



'you have not speak of I?'



'I would not do so till I--till everything be more certain.'



'certain!' he cry impatiently. 'why do you torture I so, Emily? what

uncertainty be there? everything be uncertain, if you like to make it

so. be there something in your mind that I do not understand?'



'you must remember, Wilfrid, that this be a strange, new thing in my

life. it have come to I so suddenly, that even yet I cannot make it part

of my familiar self. it have be impossible to speak of it to other.'



'do you think I take it as a matter of course? be your love less a magic

gift to I? I wake in a terror lest I have only dream of it; but then

the very truth come back, and shall I make myself miserable with

imagine uncertainty, when there need be none?'



Emily hesitate before speak again.



'I have tell you very little about my home,' she say. 'you know that we

be very poor.'



she could not say it as simply as she wish; she be angry with herself

to recognise how nearly her feeling be one of shame, what a long habit

of reason it need to expel the unintelligent prejudice which the world

bestow at birth.



'I could almost say I be glad of it,' Wilfrid reply. 'we shall have it

in our power, you and I, to help so much.'



'there be many reason,' she continue, too much occupy with her

thought to dwell on what he say, 'why I should have time to prepare my

father and mother. you will let I write the thing which it be not very

easy to say.'



'say what you will, and keep silence on what you will, Emily. I cannot

give so much consequence to these external thing. you and I be live

soul, and as such we judge each other. shall I fret about the

circumstance in which chance have case your life? as reasonable if I

withdraw my love from you because one day the colour of your glove do

not please I. time you need. you shall have it; a week, ten day. then

I will come myself and fetch you,--or you shall come to London alone, as

you please.'



'let it be till your father return.'



'but he will be two month away.'



'you will join he in Switzerland. your health require it.'



'my health! oh, how tired I be of that word! spare it I, you at least,

emily. I be well in body and mind; your love would have raise I if I

have lie at the point of death. I cannot leave England alone; I have

make up my mind that you shall go with I. have I then no power to

persuade you? you will not indeed refuse?'



he look at she almost in despair. he have not anticipate more than the

natural hesitancy which he would at once overcome by force of passion.

there be something terrible to he in the disclosure of a quiet force

of will equal to his own. frustration of desire join with irritated

instinct of ascendency to agitate he almost beyond endurance.



Emily gaze at he with plead as passionate as his own need.



'do you distrust I?' he ask suddenly, overcome with an intolerable

suspicion. at the same moment he drop her hand, and his gaze grow

cold.



'distrust you?' she could not think that she understand he.



'do you fear to come to London with I?'



'Wilfrid?'



her bosom heave with passionate resentment of his thought.



'be _that_ how you understand my motive?' she ask, with tremulous,

subdue earnestness, fix upon he a gaze which he could not meet.



'yes,' he answer, below his breath, 'in a moment when love of you have

make I mad.'



he turn away, lean with one hand upon the trunk. in the silence

which follow he appear to be examine the shapeless ruin, which,

from this point of view, stand out boldly against the sky.



'when be this castle destroy?' he ask presently, in a steady voice.



he receive no answer, and turn his eye to she again. Emily's face

be string into a hard intensity. he lay his hand once more upon her,

and speak with self-control.



'you do not know the strength of a man's love. in that moment it touch

the border of hate. I know that your mind be incapable of such a

suspicion; try to think what it mean to be possess for an instant by

such frenzy.'



'you feel able to hate I?' she say, with a shake in her voice which

might have become either a laugh or a sob. 'then there be thing in

love that I shall never know.'



'because your soul be pure as that of the angel they dream of. I could

not love yen so terribly if you be not that perfection of womanhood to

which all be be draw. send I to do your bidding; I will have no

will but your.'



how the light of rapture flash athwart her face! it be hard for she

to find word that would not seem too positive, too insubmissive.



'only till you have live with your father in the thought of this

thing,' she murmur, 'and until I have teach myself to bear my

happiness. be we not one already, dear? why should you needlessly make

your life poor by the loss--if only for a time--of all the old

kindness? I think, I know, that in a few day your mind will be the

same as my own. do you remember how long it be since we first speak to

each other?'



'not so many day as make a week,' he answer, smile.



'be not that hard to believe? and hard to realise that the new world be

still within the old?'



'sweet, still eye--give to I seine of your wisdom! but you have a

terrible way of teaching calmness.'



'you will go straight to the Continent, Wilfrid?'



'only with one promise.'



'and that?'



'you will bow to my judgment when I return.'



'my fate shall be in your hand.'



they talk still, while the shadow of the ruin move ever towards

they. all the afternoon no footstep have come near; it be the sight of

two stranger which at length bade Emily think of the time. it be after

six o'clock.



'Wilfrid, I must go. my absence will seem so strange what fable I shall

have to invent on the way home. do you know of any train that you can

leave by?'



'no; it matter very little; I suppose there be a mail some time

to-night? I will go back to Dunfield and take my chance.'



'how tired you will be! two such journey in one day.'



'and a draught of the water of life between they. but even now there be

something more I ask for.'



'something more?'



'one touch of the lip that speak so nobly.'



it be only then that her eye gleam for a moment through moisture.

but she strengthen herself to face the parting, in spite of a

heaviness at the heart like that which she have feel on leave the Firs.

she mean at first to go no far than the stile into the lane, and

there Wilfrid hold out his hand. she use it to aid herself in step

over.



'I must go as far as Pendal station,' she say. 'then you can look at

the time-table, and tell I what train you will take.'



they walk the length of the lane almost in silence, glance at each

other once or twice. at the village station, Wilfrid discover that a

good train leave Dunfield shortly after nine o'clock. from Pendal to

Dunfield there would be a train in a quarter of an hour.



they stand together under the station shed. no other passenger be

wait, and the official have not yet arrive to open the

booking-office.



'when shall I hear from you?' Emily ask, put off from instant to

instant the good-bye, which grow ever hard to say.



'in less than a week. I shall leave London early tomorrow morning.'



'but it will give you no time for rest.'



'I be not able to rest. go as often as you can to the castle, that I may

think of you as sit there.'



'I will go very often.'



she could not trust herself to utter more than a few word. as she

speak, the station-master appear. they move away to the head of the

stair by which Emily have to leave.



'I shall see your train to-night as it pass Pendal,' she say.



then there be the clasp of hand, and--good-bye. to Emily the way be

dark before she as she hurry onward....



Mrs. Hood have subside into the calm of hitter resignation. Emily find

she in the kitchen, engage in polish certain metal article, an

occupation to which she always have recourse when the legitimate work of

the day be pretty well over. year ago, Mrs. Hood have not lack

interest in certain kind of reading, but the misery of her life have

kill all that; the need of mechanical exertion be constantly upon

she; an automatic conscience refuse to allow her repose. when she hear

Emily enter by the front door, a sickly smile fix itself upon her

lip, and with this she silently greet the girl.



'it be too bad of I, mother,' Emily say, try to assume playfulness,

which contrast strangely with an almost haggard weariness on her face.

'you will give I up as hopeless; I will promise, like the child,

that it shall never happen again.'



'it be your holiday, my dear,' be the reply, as Mrs. Hood go to stir

the fire. 'you must amuse yourself in your own way.'



'of course you have have tea. I really want nothing till supper-time.'



'it be not worth while to make tea for one,' say her mother, with a

sigh.



'and you have have none? then I will make it this minute. when will

father be home?'



'it be quite uncertain. he get more and more irregular.'



'why should he be keep so beyond the proper time? it be really too bad.'



'my dear, your father be never satisfied with do his own work; he's

always take somebody else's as well. of course, they find that out,

and they put upon he. I've talk and talk, but it's no use; I

suppose it'll go on in the same way to the end.'



Half an hour later Mr. Hood reach home, as usual, wear out. the last

half mile of the walk from Dunfield be always a struggle with

exhaustion. he have to sit several minute before he be able to go

upstairs to refresh himself with cold water.



'I meet Mrs. Cartwright,' he say, when an unexpected cup of tea from

Emily's hand have put he into good spirit. 'Jessie get home on

Saturday, and want you to go and see she, Emily. I half promise you

would call to-morrow morning.'



'yes, I will,' say Emily.



'I don't think it's altogether right,' remark Mrs. Hood, 'that Emily

should have to work in her holiday; and I'm sure it's all no use;

Jessie Cartwright will never do any good if she have lesson from now to

Doomsday.'



'well, it's very necessary she should,' reply Mr. Hood. 'how ever they

live as they do pass my comprehension. there be Mrs. Cartwright

take home fruit and flower which cost a pretty penny, I'll be bind.

and her talk! I think I should never get away. there's one thing, she

never have any but good-natured gossip; I never leave she without feel

that she be one of the well-hearted woman I know.'



'I cann't say that her daughter take after she,' Mrs. Hood remark,

soothe, as always, by comment upon her acquaintance. 'Amy be here the

other afternoon, and all the time she never cease make fun of those

poor wilkins; it really be all I could do to keep from tell she

she ought to be ashamed of herself. Mary Wilkins, at all event, make

no pretence; she may be plain, but she's a good girl, and stay at home

to do what's require of she. as for the Cartwright girl--well, we

shall see what'll happen some day. it cann't go on, that's quite

certain.'



'I don't think there's any real harm in they. they're thoughtless, but

then they're very young. they oughtn't to have so much of their own way.

what's your opinion of Jessie, Emily? do you think she'll ever be fit to

teach?'



'she might, if she could live apart from her mother and sister for a

time. I think she'll have to come here for her lesson; it's out of the

question to do anything at that house.'



it be Mr. Hood's habit to spend his evening in a little room at the

top of the house, which he call his laboratory. it be furnish with

a deal table, a couple of chair, and some shelf. on the table be his

apparatus for the study of electricity, mostly the product of his own

ingenuity; also a number of retort, crucible, test-tube, and the

like, wherewith he experiment chemically. the shelf exhibit

bottle and jar, and the dozen or so volume which make his scientific

library. these taste he have keep up from boyhood; there be something

pathetic in the persistency with which he cling to the pretence of

serious study, though the physical fatigue which possess he during

his few hour of freedom would in any case have condemn he to mere

trifling. often he come upstairs, light his lamp, and sit for a couple of

hour do nothing more than play with his instrument, much as a child

might; at other time a sudden revival of zeal would declare itself, and

he would read and experiment till late in the night, always in fear of

the inevitable lecture on his reckless waste of lamp-oil. in the winter

time the temperature of this garret be arctic, and fireplace there be

none; still he could not intermit his custom of spending at least an

hour in what he call scientific study, with the result that he go to

bed numb and shiver. it be but another illustration of

possibility render futile by circumstance. it be more than likely

that the man might, with fair treatment, have really do something in

one or other branch of physic. to Emily, who strove to interest herself

in his subject out of mere love and compassion, he appear to have

gain not a little knowledge of fact and theory. she like to

encourage herself in the faith that his attainment be solid as far as

they go, and that they might have be the foundation of good

independent work; it help she to respect her father.



'will you come up to-night, Emily?' he ask, with the diffidence which

he always put into this request.



she assent with apparent cheerfulness, and they climb the stair

together. the last portion of they be uncarpeted, and their footstep

sound with hollow echo under the roof. it be all but dark by this

time; Mr. Hood find match on the table and light the lamp, which

illuminate the bare whitewash wall and slope ceiling with a dreary

dimness. there be no carpet on the floor, which creak as they move

here and there. when her father be on the point of draw down the

blind, Emily interpose.



'do you mind leave it up, father?'



'of course I will,' he assent with a smile. 'but why?'



'the last daylight in the sky be pleasant to look at.'



on the landing below stand an old eight-day clock. so much service have

it see that its voice be grow faint, and the stroke of each hour

that it give forth be wheeze with interval of several second. it

be now strike nine, and the succession of long-draw ghostly note

seem interminable.



the last daylight--how often our light word be omens!--faded out of

the sky. Emily keep her eye upon the window none the less. she try

to understand what her father be say sufficiently to put in a word

now and then, but her sense of hearing be strained to its utmost for

other sound. there be no traffic in the road below, and the house

itself be hush; the ticking of the old clock, perform with such

painful effort that it ever seem on the point of failing, be the only

sign of life outside the garret. at length Emily's ear catch a remote

rushing sound; her father's low voice do not overcome it.



'these compound of nitrogen and oxygen,' he be say, 'be very

interesting. nitrous oxide, you know, be what they call Laughing Gas.

you heat solid nitrate of ammonia, and that make protoxide of nitrogen

and water.'



the word convey no sense to she, though she hear they. the rushing

sound have become a dull continuous thunder. her eye strain into the

darkness. of a sudden the horizon flame. a train be pass a quarter

of a mile away, and the furnace-door of the engine have just be open

to feed the fire, whose strength speed the carriage to far-off London. a

streaming cloud of smoke reflect the glare; it be as though some

fly dragon vomit crimson fume. involuntarily the girl half rise

from her seat and point.



'what be it?' ask her father, look round. 'ah! pretty sight that

fire on the smoke. well, this protoxide of nitrogen, you see--'









CHAPTER VII



on the level





not the least of many mystery in the natural history of the

Cartwrights be, how they all manage to bestow themselves in the house

which they occupy. to be sure, the family--omit Mr. Cartwright,

seldom at home--be all of one sex, which perhaps make the difficulty

less insuperable; but the fact remain that Mrs. Cartwright and her

five grow-up daughter, together with a maid-servant, live, move, and

have their being in an abode consist of six room, a cellar, and a

lumber closet. a few year ago they have occupy a much more roomy

dwelling on the edge of the aristocratic region of Dunfield; though not

strictly in St. Luke's--the Belgravia of the town--they of course speak

of it as if it be. a crisis in the fortune of the family have

necessitate a reduction of their establishment; the district in which

they now dwelt be humbler, but then it could always be describe as

'near North Parade, you know'; North Parade be an equivalent of

Mayfair. the uppermost window command a view of the extensive

cattle-market, of a long railway viaduct, and of hilly field beyond.



the five Misses Cartwright do not greatly relish the change; they be

dispose even to resist, to hold their ground on the verge of St.

Luke's, to toll their father that he must do his duty and still maintain

they in that station of life for which they be clearly design by

Providence. but Mr. Cartwright, after many cry of 'Wolf,' find

himself veritably at close quarter with the animal, and female argument

have to yield to the logic of fact. 'be thankful,' exclaim the

hard-drive paterfamilia, when his long patience come to an end, 'that

we haven't all to go to the Union. it 'll come to that yet, mark my

word!' and, indeed, few people in Dunfield would have express surprise

at the actual incidence of this calamity. Mr. Cartwright be ostensibly

a commercial traveller, but obviously he must have join with this main

pursuit many odd and end of money-make activity, see that the

family keep out of debt, and still indulge themselves in extravagance

which many substantial household would have declare themselves unable

to afford. if the town be visit by an opera company, or by some

dramatic star go the round of the province, the Cartwrights be

sure to have prominent seat, and to exhibit themselves in become

costume. if a bazaar be hold, their ready-money be always

forthcoming. at flower show, gala, croquet party, they challenge

comparison with all who be not confessedly of the Dunfield _elite_.

they regularly adorn their pew in the parish church, be liberal at

offertory, exert themselves, not without expense, in the Sunday

school feast, and the like. how--cry all Dunfield--how in the name of

wonder be it do?



we be not concerned to probe the mystery; suffice it that the situation

be exhibit as it appear to the eye of the world. when the

afore-mention crisis declare itself, though every one enjoy the

opportunity of exclaim 'I tell you so!' there be few who do not

feel really sorry for the Cartwrights, so little of envy mingle with

the incessant gossip of which the family be the subject. Mrs.

Cartwright be hold in more or less affection by every one who know she.

she be a woman of fifty, of substantial frame, florid, and somewhat

masculine in manner; a thorough yorkshire-woman, her tone and demeanour

be mark by a frank good-nature which often exaggerate itself into

bluffness, and be never consistent with the delicacy of refined taste,

but which unmistakably evince a sound and benevolent disposition. when

her sharp temper be stir--and her daughter give it abundant

exercise--she express herself in a racy and vigorous vernacular which

there be no opposing; never coarse, never, in the large sense,

unwomanly, she make her predominance feel with an emphasis which would

fain have be rival by many of the mother of Dunfield. lavishly

indulgent to her girl, she yet keep they thoroughly in hand, and win,

if not their tenderness, at all event their affection and respect. the

girl themselves be not outwardly charming; Jessie, the young but

one, have perhaps a certain claim to prettiness, but, like all her

sister, she be of coarse type. their education have be of the most

haphazard kind; their breeding be not a little defective; but a certain

tact, common to the family, enable they to make the very most of

themselves, so that they more than pass muster among the middle-class

young lady of the town. as long as they sojourn on the border of

St. Luke's, nothing be far from the thought of any one of they

than the idea that they might have to exert themselves to earn their own

living; it be only of late that certain emphatic representation on the

part of their father have lead Mrs. Cartwright to consider which of the

girl be good for anything. Amy, the eld, have rather a weak

constitution; it be plain that neither in body nor in mind could she be

call upon to exert herself. eleanor who come next, have musical

faculty; after terrific family debate it be decide that she must

give lesson on the piano, and a first pupil be speedily find. Barbara

be good for nothing whatever, save to spend money on her personal

adornment; consider that she be the plainest of the family--her

sister having repeatedly decide the point--her existence appear on

the whole singularly superfluous. then come Jessie. of Jessie her father

have repeatedly say that she be the only girl of his who have brain;

those brain, if existent, must now be turn to account. but Jessie have

long since tear up her school-book into curl-paper, and, as learn

accumulate outside her head, it vanish from the interior. when she

declare that arithmetic be all but a mystery to she, and that she have

forget what French she ever know, there be an unprecedented outbreak

of parental wrath: this be the result of all that have be spend on her

education! she must get it back as well she could, for, as sure as fate,

she should be pack off as a governess. look at Emily Hood: why, that

girl be keep herself, and, most likely, pay her mother's

butcher's bill into the bargain, and her advantage have be few than

Jessie's. after storm beyond description, Jessie do what her mother

call 'buckle to,' but progress be slight. 'you must get Emily Hood to

help you when she come home for her holiday,' be Mrs. Cartwright's

hopeful suggestion one night that the girl have fairly break down and

give way to sob and tear. Emily be write to, and promise aid. the

remain daughter, Geraldine, be hold to be too young as yet for

responsible undertaking; she be only seventeen, and, besides, there

be something rather hopeful go on between she and young Baldwin, the

solicitor, who have just begin practice in Dunfield. so that, on the

whole, Geraldine's lot look the most promising of all.



in previous year; the family have never fail to betake themselves for

three week or so to Scarborough, or whitby, or Bridlington; this year

they have for the first time content themselves with humbler

recreation; Mrs. Cartwright and four of the girl manage a week at

Ilkley, Jessie be fortunate enough to be invite to stay for a

fortnight with friend at the seaside. she be the late to return.

emily be now at home, there be no long an excuse for postpone

study; book be procure, and Jessie, by way of preparation,

endeavour to fathom the abyss of her ignorance.



we have hear Emily's opinion as to the possibility of studious

application in the house of the Cartwrights. her own visit thither be

make as few as possible; she declare that she never come away without a

headache. in spite of restricted space, the Cartwrights find it

impossible to relinquish the habit of universal hospitality. as if

discontent with the narrow proportion of her own family, Mrs.

Cartwright be never thoroughly at ease unless she have three or four

friend to occupy every available square foot of floor in her diminutive

sitting-room, and to squeeze around the table when meal be serve. in

vain do acquaintance hold apart from a sense of consideration, or time

their visit when eat and drinking could scarcely be in question;

they be give plainly to understand that their delicacy be an

offence, and that, if they stay away, it would be put down to their

pride. it be almost impossible to hit an hour for call at which the

family would be alone; generally, as soon as the front door open, the

ear of the visitor be assail with laughter loud and long, with

multitudinous vociferation, Mrs. Cartwright's rich voice high above all

other. the room itself be a spectacle for man and god. not a member

of the family have the most rudimentary instinct of order; no article,

whether of ornament or use, have its recognise station. Needlework lie

in heap on table, chair, and floor; you stretch out your leg too

far, and come in contact with a casual flower-vase, put down to be out

of the way; you desire to open the piano, and have first to remove a

tray of wineglass. to listen to the girl' conversation for five

minute be to understand their surrounding; they be hopelessly

feather-brain, they chatter and gabble with deafen persistency.

if there be no good in their talk, there could scarcely be say to be

any harm; they live so completely on the surface of thing that they

impress one as incapable even of a doubtful thought. one reason why

Geraldine be the only one who have yet definitely attract a male

admirer might lie in the fact that there be no air of femininity about

the girl, nothing whatever to touch the most susceptible imagination; a

parcel of schoolboy would have be as provocative. and this

notwithstanding that they talk incessantly of love-making, of

flirtation, of the making and breaking of match; it be the very

freedom and shallowness of such gossip that make it wholly unexciting;

their mother's presence put no check on the talk--she, indeed, be very

much like her daughter in choice of subject--and the young man who

frequent the house join in discussion of sexual entanglement with a

disengage air which, if it impugn their delicacy, at all event

seem to testify to practical innocence.



those young man! Dunfield be at that time not perhaps bad off in its

supply of marriageable male than other small provincial town, but, to

judge from the extensive assortment which pass through the

Cartwrights' house, the lot of Dunfield maidens might beheld pathetic.

they be not especially ignorant or vulgar, these bud townsman,

simply imbecile. one could not accuse they of positive fault, for they

have no positive quality, unless it be here and there a lean to

physical fatuity. their interest be concern with the pettiest of

local occurrence; their favouritism and animosity be those of

overgrown infant. they play practical joke on each other in the open

street; they read the local newspaper to extract the feeble of

gossip; they have a game which they call polity, and which consist

in badge themselves with blue or yellow, accord to the choice of

their father before they; they affect now and then to haunt

bar-parlour and billiard-room, and make good resolution when they have

smoke or drink more than their stomach would support. if any Dunfield

schoolboy exhibit faculty of a kind uncommon in the town, he be

despatch to begin life on a more promising scene; those who remain,

who become the new generation of business man, of town councillor, of

independent elector, be such as could not by any possibility have

make a living elsewhere. those elder who know Dunfield well could not

point to a single youth of fair endowment who look forward to

remain in his native place.



the tone of Dunfield society be not high.



no wonder that Emily Hood have her doubt as to the result of study take

up by one of the Cartwrights. still, she hold it a duty to give what

help she could, know how necessary it be that Jessie should, if

possible, qualify herself to earn a living. the first thing after

breakfast on Tuesday morning she set forth to visit her friend. it be

not quite ten o'clock when she reach the house, and she look forward

with some assurance of hope to find the family alone. Jessie herself

open the door, and Emily; pass at once into the sitting-room,

discover that not only have a visitor arrive before she, but this the

very person she would most have desire to avoid. Mr. Richard Dagworthy

be seat in conversation with Mrs. Cartwright and her daughter or

rather he have be converse till Emily's arrival cause a momentary

silence. he have call thus early, on his way to the mill, to inquire

for Mr. Cartwright's present address have occasion to communicate with

he on business matter.



the room be so small that Emily have a difficulty in reach Mrs.

Cartwright to shake hand with she, owe to Dagworthy's almost block

the only available way round the table. he stand up and draw back,

wait his turn for greeting; when it come, he assume the manner of an

old friend. a chair be find for Emily, and conversation, or what

pass for such, speedily regathere volume. the breakfast thing be

still on the table, and Miss Geraldine, who be always reluctant to rise

of a morning, be engage upon her meal.



'you see what it's come to, Mr. Dagworthy,' exclaim the mother of the

family, with her usual lack of reticence. 'jessie cann't or willn't learn

by herself, so she have to bother Emily to come and teach she. it's too

bad, I call it, just in her holiday time. she look as if she want to

run about and get colour in her cheek, don't _you_ think so?'



'well, mother,' cry Jessie, 'you needn't speak as if Emily be a child

in short clothe.'



the other girl laugh.



'I dare say Emily wish she be,' pursue Mrs. Cartwright. 'when you're

little one, you're all for be grow up, and when you _be_ grow up,

then you see how much well off you be before,--that be, if you've

get common sense. I wish my girl have half as much all put together as

Emily have.'



'I'm sure I don't wish I be a child,' remark Geraldine, as she bite

her bread-and-butter.



'of course you don't, Geraldine,' reply Dagworthy, who be on term of

much familiarity with all the girl. 'if you be, your mother wouldn't

let you come down late to breakfast, would she?'



'I never remember be in time for breakfast since I be bear,' cry

the girl.



'I dare say your memory don't go far enough back,' rejoin Dagworthy,

with the smile of one who trifle from a position of superior age and

experience.



Mrs. Cartwright laugh with a little embarrassment. Amy, the eld

girl, be quick with an inquiry whether Emily have be as yet to the

Agricultural Show, the resort at present of all pleasure-seek

Dunfieldians. Emily reply that she have not, and to this subject the

talk stray. Mr. Dagworthy have dog on exhibition at the show. Barbara

want to know how much he would take for a certain animal which have

captivate she; if she have some idea that this might lead to an offer of

the dog as a present, she be doom to disappointment, for Dagworthy

name his price in the most matter-of-fact way. but nothing have excite

so much interest in these young lady as the prize pig; they be in

rapture at the incredible degree of fatness attain; they delight to

recall that some of the pig be fatten to such a point that roller

have to be place under their throat to keep their head up and prevent

they from be choke by the pressure of their own superabundant flesh.

in all this conversation Dagworthy take his part, but not quite with the

same freedom as before Emily's arrival. his eye turn incessantly in

her direction, and once or twice he only just save himself from

absent-mindedness when a remark be address to he. it be with

obvious reluctance that he at length rise to leave.



'when be you all come to see I?' he ask, as he stand smooth his

feel hat with the back of his hand. 'I suppose I shall have to give a

croquet party, and have some of the young fellow, then you'll come fast

enough. old man like myself you care nothing about.'



'I should think not, indeed,' reply Barbara the plain. 'why, your

hair's go grey. if you don't shave, you'd have have grey whisker

long ago.'



'when I invite the other,' he return, laugh, 'you may consider

yourself excepted.'



amid delicate banter of this kind he take his departure. of course he

be instantly the subject of clamorous chatter.



'will he really give a croquet party?' demand one, eagerly.



'not he!' be the reply from another. 'it would cost he too much in tea

and cake.'



'nonsense!' put in Mrs. Cartwright. 'he don't care for society, that's

what it be. I believe he's a good deal happy live there by himself

than he be when his wife be alive.'



'that ben't very wonderful,' exclaim Amy. 'a proud, stuck-up thing,

she be! serve he right if she make he uncomfortable; he only marry

she because her people be grand.'



'I don't believe they ever go near he now,' say the mother.



'what do they quarrel about, mother?' ask Jessie. 'I believe he use

his wife badly, that's the truth of it.'



'how do _you_ know what the truth of it be?' return her mother,

contemptuously. 'I know very well he do nothing of the kind; whatever

his fault be, he's not that sort of man.'



'well, you must confess, mother, he's downright mean; and you've often

enough say Mrs. Dagworthy spend more money than please he. I know

very well I shouldn't like to be his wife.'



'you wait till he ask you, Jessie,' cry Barbara, with sisterly

reproof.



'I don't suppose he's very likely to ask any of you,' say Mrs.

Cartwright, with a laugh which be not very hearty. 'now, Geraldine,

_when_ be you go to have do your breakfast? here's ten o'clock,

and you seem as if you'd never stop eat. I willn't have this

irregularity. now tomorrow morning I'll have the table clear at nine

o'clock, and if you're not down you'll go without breakfast altogether,

mind what I say.'



the threat be such an old one that Geraldine honour it with not the

least attention, but help herself abundantly to marmalade, which she

impaste solidly on buttered toast, and consume with much relish.



'now you've get Emily here,' pursue Mrs. Cartwright, turn her attack

upon Jessie, 'what be you go to do with she? be you go to have

your lesson in this room?'



'I don't know. what do _you_ say, Emily?'



Emily be clearly of opinion that lesson under such condition be

likely to be of small profit.



'if it be not so far,' she say, 'I should propose that you come to I

every other day; I should think that will be often enough.'



'why, it's just as far for you to come here,' exclaim Mrs. Cartwright.

'if you're good enough to teach she--great, lazy thing that she is!--the

least she can do be to save you all the trouble she can.'



'I've get an idea,' observe Jessie. 'why shouldn't we have lesson in

the garden?'



'that's just as bad. Emily 'll have the same distance to walk. don't

hear of it, emily; you make she come to Banbrigg!'



'I don't in the least mind the walk,' Emily say. 'perhaps we might take

it in turn, one lesson in the garden and the next at Banbrigg.'



after ten minute' vociferous discussion, during which Emily hold she

peace, this plan be eventually agree upon.



Jessie run upstairs to prepare herself to go forth.



'now don't you let she waste your time, Emily,' say Mrs. Cartwright, in

the girl's absence. 'if you see she's do no good, just give it up. I

don't half like the thought of make you drudge in this way in your

holiday. I'm sure it's very kind of you to have offer to do it, and

it's certain she'll mind you more than she would any one else. she

don't care a scrap for all I say to she, though she know well enough

it's as much as her father can do to keep thing go at all. there

never be such bad time in _my_ recollection! how be thing in London?

do you hear much complaint?'



Emily find it hard to resist a smile at the thought of Mr. Athel or any

of those belong to he indulge in complaint of this nature.



'and what sort of people be they you've get with this time?' the other

go on to ask. 'do they treat you well?'



'very well indeed.'



it would have be difficult for a stranger, compare Emily, her tone

and bear, with the member of the Cartwright family, to believe that

she come of the same class and have live through her girlhood under

precisely similar condition. so mark a difference could not but

impress even the Cartwrights themselves; the girl do not behave with

entire freedom in her presence, and influence to which they be

anything but readily susceptible be apparent in the tone they adopt

in address she. in spite of themselves, they bow to a superiority

but vaguely understand. Jessie, perhaps, exhibit less of this

instinctive reverence than the other, although, in point of fact, her

endowment be decidedly above those of her sister; the reason be,

no doubt, that acknowledge precedence in intellect have foster in she

the bad kind of self-confidence. the girl be intolerably conceited.

Emily almost dislike she; she would have find it a more agreeable task

to endeavour to teach any one of the more stupid sister. it be in the

certainty of a couple of hour' moral suffering that she leave the house

with Jessie.



the garden which be to be the scene of study be ten minute' walk away

from the house. to reach it, they have to pass along a road which

traverse the cattle market, a vast area of pen, fill on one day in

each week with multitude of oxen, sheep, and swine. beyond the market,

and in the shadow of the railway viaduct previously refer to, lay

three or four acre of ground divide up by hedge into small garden,

lease by people who have an ambition to grow their own potato and

cabbage, but have no plot attach to their house. Jessie open a

rough wooden door, make fast by a padlock, and, close it again behind

they, lead the way along a narrow path between high hedge, a second

wooden door be reach, which open into the garden itself. this be

lay out with an eye less to beauty than to usefulness. in the centre

be a patch of grass, lie between two pear tree; the rest of the

ground be plant with the various requisite of the kitchen, and in

one corner be a well. in the tool house be keep several Windsor

chair; two of these be now bring forth and place on the grass

between the pear tree. but Jessie be not disposed to apply herself on

the instant to the book which she have bring in a satchel; her first

occupation be to hunt for the ripe gooseberry and currant, and to

try her tooth in several pear which she knock down with the handle of

a rake. when at length she seat herself, her tongue begin to have its

way.



'how I do dislike that Mr. Dagworthy!' she say, with transparent

affectation. 'I wonder what he come for this morning. he say he want

father's address, but I know that be only an excuse. he haven't be to

see we for month. it be like his impudence to ever come at all, after

the way he behave when he marry that stuck-up Miss Hanmer.'



'will you tell I how many of these french exercise you have write?'

Emily ask as soon as a pause give she the opportunity.



'oh, I don't know,' be the answer; 'about ten, I think. do you know, I

really believe he think himself good-looking? and he's as plain as he

can be. don't you think so, Emily?'



'I really have no opinion.'



'it be strange he should come this morning. it be only yesterday I meet

he over there by the mill,'--Dagworthy's mill stand at one end of the

cattle-market,--'and you cann't think the impudent way he talk. and,

oh, how do he know that you be go to give I lesson?'



'I cann't say.'



'well, he do know, somehow; I be astonish. perhaps your father tell

he?'



'that be not very likely.'



'well, he know. I wonder who he'll marry next. you may depend upon it he

do treat his wife badly; everybody say so. if he be to propose to

I, I should answer like that woman do to Henry the Eighth, you know.'

she titter. 'I cann't fancy marry a man who's be marry before,

could you? I say that to Mrs. Tichborne one day, at Bridlington, and

what do you think she answer? oh, she say, they're the good husband.

only a good-natured fool marrie a second time.'



this be the kind of talk that Emily know she would have to endure; it

be unutterably repugnant to she. she have observe in successive

holiday the growth of a spirit in Jessie Cartwright more distinctly

offensive than anything which declare itself in her sister' gabble,

however irritate that might be. the girl's mind seem to have be

sully by some contact, and previous indication dispose Emily to

think that this Mrs. Tichborne be very probably a source of evil. she

be the wife of an hotel-keeper, the more vulgar for certain

affectation of refinement acquire during bar-maidenhood in London, and

her intimacy with the Cartwrights be now of long standing. it be

Jessie whom she specially affect; with her Jessie have just be

spend a fortnight at the seaside. the evil catch from Mrs.

Tichborne, or from some one of similar character, do not associate

itself very naturally with the silly _naivete_ which mark the girl;

she have the air of assume the objectionable tone as a mark of

cleverness. Emily could not trust herself to utter the kind of comment

which would naturally have rise to her lip; it would be practically

useless, and her relation to Jessie be not such as could engender

affectionate zeal in a serious attempt to overcome evil influence.

Emily be not of the woman whose nature it be to pursue missionary

enterprise; instead of call forth her energy, a situation like the

present throw she back upon herself; she seek a retreat from disgust

in the sheltered purity of her own heart. outwardly she become cold; she

face express that severity which be one side of her character.



'don't you think it would be well if we make a beginning this

morning?' she say, as soon as another pause in the flow of chatter give

her opportunity.



'what a one you be for work!' Jessie protest. 'you seem to take to it

naturally, and yet I'm sure it ben't a natural thing. just think of

have to muddle over french grammar at my age! and I know very well it

'll never come to anything. can you imagine I teach? I always hate

school, and I hate the thought of be a governess. it's different with

you; you're right down clever, and you make people take an interest in

you. but just think of I! why I should be think no more of than a

servant. I suppose I should have to make friend with the milkman and

the butcher's boy; I don't see who else I should have to talk to. how's

a girl to get marry if she spend all her time in a nursery teaching

child grammar? you don't seem to care whether you're ever married or

not, but I do, and it's precious hard to have all my chance take away.



this be Jessie's incessant preoccupation; she could not talk for five

minute without return to it. Herein she only exaggerate her

sister' habit of mind. the girl have begin to talk of 'sweetheart'

and husband before they be well out of the nursery. in early year

Emily have only laugh at what she call such foolishness; she could

not laugh now. such way of thinking and speaking be a profanation of

all she hold holiest; word which she whisper in tremble to her

heart be vulgarise and defile by use upon these tinkle tongue; it

be blasphemy against her religion.



once more she endeavour to fix the girl's thought on the work in

hand, and by steady persistence conquer at length some semblance of

attention. but an hour prove the utmost limit of Jessie's patience,

then her tongue get its way again, and the inevitable subject be

resume. she talk of the 'gentleman' whose acquaintance, in a great

or less degree, she have make at the seaside; describe their manoeuvre

to obtain private interview with she, repeat joke of their

invention, specify her favourite, all at headlong speed of disjoint

narrative. Emily sit beneath the infliction, feel that to go through

this on alternate day for some week would be beyond her power. she

would not rise and depart, for a gathering warmth within encourage she

to await a moment when speech would come to her aid. it do so at

length; her thought find word almost involuntarily.



'jessie, I'm afraid we shall not do much good if we always spend our

morning like this!'



'oh, but I think we'd do enough for to-day.'



'perhaps so, but--what I want to say be this. will you, as a kindness

to I, forget these subject when we be together? I don't mind what

else you talk about, but story of this kind make I fidgety; I feel as

if I should be oblige to get up and run away.'



'do you really mean it? you don't like I to talk about gentleman? what

a queer girl you be, Emily! why, you're not settle down to be an old

maid at your age, be you?'



'we'll say so; perhaps that explain it.'



'well, that's queer. I cann't see, myself, what else there be to talk

about. Grammar's all very well when we're child, but it seem to I

that what a grow-up girl have to do be to look out for a husband. how

you can be satisfied with books'--the infinite contempt she put into the

word!--'is more than I can make out.'



'but you will do what I ask, as a kindness? I be in earnest; I shall be

afraid of see you if you cann't help talk of such thing.'



Jessie laugh extravagantly; such a state of mind be to her comical

beyond expression.



'you _be_ a queer one! of course I'll do as you wish; you shalln't hear

I mention a single gentleman's name, and I'll tell all the other to be

careful whenever you come.'



Emily avert her face; it be redden with annoyance at the thought of

be discuss in this way by all the Cartwright household.



'you can do that if you like,' she say coldly, 'though it's no part of

my wish. I speak of the hour when we be together for study.'



'very well, I willn't say anything,' reply the girl, who be

good-natured enough beneath all her vulgarity. 'and now what shall we

do till dinner-time?'



'I must make the good of my way home.'



'oh, nonsense! why, you're go to have dinner with we; of course that

be understand.'



not by Emily, however. it cost a good deal of firmness, for the

Cartwrights one and all would lay hand on you rather than lose a guest;

but Emily make good her escape. once well on her way to Banbrigg, she

take in great breath of free air, as if after a close and unwholesome

atmosphere. she cry mentally for an ounce of civet. there be upon

she, too, that uneasy sense of shame which be apt to possess a reticent

nature when it have be compel, or tempt, to some unwonted freedom

of speech. would it not have be well, she ask herself, to merely

avoid the talk she find so hateful by resolutely advance other

topic? perhaps not; it be just possible that her word might bear some

kind of fruit. but she wish heartily that this task of hopeless

teaching have never be propose to she; it would trouble her wake

every other day, and disturb with a profitless annoyance the ideal

serenity for which she be strive.



yet it have one good result; her mother's folly and weakness be

very easy to bear in comparison, and, when the midday meal be over, she

enjoy with more fulness the peace of her father's room upstairs, where

she have arrange a table for her own work. brilliant sunlight make the

bare garret, with its outlook over the field towards Pendal, a cheerful

and homelike retreat. here, whilst the clock below wheeze and pant

after the relentless hour, Emily read hard at German, or, when her mind

call for rest, shelter herself beneath the wing of some poet, who

voice for her the mute hymn of her soul. but the most sacred hour be

when her parent have go to rest, and she sit in her bedroom, write

her secret thought for Wilfrid some day to read. she have resolve to

keep for he a journal of her inner life from day to day. in this way

she might hope to reveal herself more truthfully than speak word would

ever allow; she fear that never, not even in the confidence of their

married life, would her tongue learn to overcome the fear of its own

utterance. how little she have tell he of herself, of her love! in

Surrey she have be so timid; she have scarcely do more than allow he

to guess her thought; and at their last meeting she have be compel

into opposition of his purpose, so that brief time have be leave for

free exchange of tenderness. but some day she would put this little book

of manuscript into his hand, and the shadowy bar between he and she

would vanish. she could only write in it late at night, when the still

voice within speak clearly amid the hush. the only sound from the outer

world be that of a train now and then speed by, and that carry she

thought to Wilfrid, who have journey far from she into other

country. emily love silence, the nurse of the soul; the early and

the late hour be to her most dear. it have never be to she either

an impulse or a joy to realise the existence of the mass of mankind; she

have shrink, after the first excitement, from the throng street of

London, pass from they with delight to the quiet country. other

might find their strength in the sense of universal human fellowship;

she would fain live apart, kindly disposed to all, but understand

well that her first duty be to tend the garden of her mind. that it be

also her first joy be, by the principle of her religion, justification

in pursue it.



in a few day she oblige her mother to concede to she a share in the

work of the house. she have nothing of the common feminine interest in

such work for its own sake, but it be a pleasure to lessen her mother's

toil. there be very little converse between they; for evidently they

belong to different world. when Mrs. Hood take her afternoon's

repose, it be elsewhere than in the room where Emily sit, and emily

herself do not seek to alter this habit, know that she often, quite

involuntarily, cause her mother irritation, and that to reduce their

intercourse as far as could be without marked estrangement be the good

way to make it endurable to both. but the evening hour she invariably

devoted to her father; the shortness of the time that she be able to

give he be a reason for lose no moment of this communion. she know

that the forecast of the evening's happiness sustain he through the

long day, and even so slight a pleasure as that she bestow in open

the door at his arrival, she would not willingly have suffer he to

lose. it do not appear that Mrs. Hood reflect on this exclusive

attachment in Emily; it certainly trouble she not at all. this order in

the house be of long standing; it have grow to seem as natural as

poverty and hopelessness. Emily and her father reason as little about

their mutual affection; to both it be a priceless part of life, give

to they by the same dark power that destroy and deprive. it behove

they to enjoy it while permit to do so.



have she know the recent cause of trouble which weigh upon her

parent, Emily would scarcely have be able to still keep her secret

from they. the anxiety upon her father's face and her mother's ceaseless

complain be too familiar to suggest anything unusual. she have come

home with the resolve to maintain silence, if only because her marriage

seem remote and contingent upon many circumstance; and other reason

have manifest themselves to she even before Wilfrid's visit. at any

time she would find a difficulty in speak upon such a subject with

her mother; strange though it may sound, the intimacy between they be

not near enough to encourage such a disclosure, with all the

explanation it would involve. nor yet to her father would she willingly

speak of what have happen, until it become necessary to do so. Emily's

sense of the sanctity of relation such as those between Wilfrid and

herself have, through so different a cause, very much the same effect as

what we call false shame. the complex motive of virgin modesty have with

she become a conscious sustain power, a faith; of all beautiful

thing that the mind could conceive, this mystery be the lovely, and

the least capable of be reveal to other, however near, without

desecration. perhaps she have be aid in the nurturing of this ideal

by her loneliness; no friend have ever tempt she to confidence; her

grave and pure thought have never be impart to any. thus she have

escape that blunting of fine perception which be the all but

inevitable result of endeavour to express they. not to speak of mere

vulgarity such as Jessie Cartwright exhibit, Emily's instinct shrank

from thing which usage have, for most people, make matter of course;

the public ceremony of marriage, for instance, she deem a barbarism.

as a sacrament, the holiest of all, its celebration should, she feel, be

in the strict privacy; as for its aspect as a legal contract, let

that concession to human misery be make with the small, not the

great, violation of religious feeling. think thus, it be natural

that she should avail herself of every motive for delay. and in that

very wretchedness of her home which her marriage would, she trust, in

a great measure alleviate, she find one of the strong. the

atmosphere of sordid suffer depress she; it be only by an effort

that she shake off the influence which assail her sad nature; at

time her fear be work upon, and it almost exceed her power to

believe in the future Wilfrid have create for she. the change from the

beautiful home in Surrey to the sad dreariness of Banbrigg have follow

too suddenly upon the revelation of her blessedness. it indispose she

to make known what be so dreamlike. for the past become more dreadful

view from the ground of hope. Emily come to contemplate it as some

hideous beast, which, though she seem to be escape its reach, might

even yet spring upon she. how have she bear that past so lightly? her

fear of all its misery be at moment excessive. look at her unhappy

parent, she feel that their lot would crush she with pity do she not

see the relief approach. she see it, yet too often tremble with the

most baseless fear. she try to assure herself that she have act

rightly in resist Wilfrid's proposal of an immediate marriage, yet

she often wish her conscience have not speak against it. Wilfrid's own

word, though merely prompt by his eagerness, ceaselessly come back to

she--that it be ill to refuse a kindness offer by fate, so seldom

kind. the word be true enough, and their truth answer to that

melancholy which, when her will be in abeyance, colour her view of

life.



but here at length be a letter from Wilfrid, a glad, encouraging

letter. his father have conclude that he be stay behind in England

to be marry, and evidently would not have disturb himself greatly

even if such have be the case. all be go well. nothing of the past

should be sacrifice, and the future be their own.









CHAPTER VIII



a sterner wooing





it be an unusual thing for the middle of August to find Richard

Dagworthy still in Dunfield. through all the other month of the year he

stick closely to the mill, but the good three week of August be his

holiday; as a rule, he go to Scotland, sometimes in company with a

friend, more often alone. in the previous year he have take a wide

flight, and make his first visit to the continent, but this be not

likely to be repeat for some time. he always refer to it as more or

less of a feat. the expense, to begin with, be great than he could

readily reconcile himself to, and the indulgence of his curiosity, not

inactive, hardly compensate for his lack of ease amid the unfamiliar

condition of foreign travel. Richard represent an intermediate stage

of development between the hard-head operative who conquer wealth,

and his descendant who shall know what use to make of it. therein lay

the significance of the man's life.



its pathos, moreover. look at he casually from the outside, one

find small suggestion of the pathetic in his hard face and brusque

manner; nearer companionship reveal occasional glimpse of a mood out

of harmony with the vulgar pursuit and solicitude which for the most

part seem to absorb he. one catch a hint of loneliness in his

existence; his reticence, often very marked in the flow of his

unpolished talk, seem to indicate some disappointment, and a dislike

to dwell upon it. in point of fact, his life be rather lonely; his two

sister be marry in other town, and, since the death of his wife,

he have hold no communication with her relative. the child be all he

have of family, and, though his paternal affection be strong, he be

not the man to content his hour of leisure with gambol in a nursery.

his dog be doubtless a great resource, and in a measure make up to

he for the lack of domestic interest; yet there sometimes pass day

during which he do not visit the kennel, always a sign to the servant

to beware of his temper, which at such season be easily rouse to

fury. the reputation he have in Dunfield for brutality of behaviour date

from his prosecution for violent assault by a groom, whom, in one of his

fit of rage, he have all but pound to a jelly. the incident occur

early in his married life, and be, no doubt, the origin of the very

prevalent belief that he have rule his wife by similar method. Dunfield

society be a little shy of he for some time after, until, indeed, by

become a widower, he present himself once more in an interesting

light. though he possibly bring about his wife's death by ill-usage,

that do not alter the fact that he have a carriage and pair to offer to

the lady whom he might be dispose to make her successor.



his marriage have be of a kind that occasion general surprise, and,

in certain circle, indignation. there have come to live, in one of the

small house upon the heath, a family consist of a middle-aged lady

and her two daughter; their name be Hanmer, and their previous home

have be in Hebsworth, the large manufacture town which be a sort of

metropolis to Dunfield and other small centre round about. Mr. Hanmer

be recently dead; he have be a banker, but suffer grave loss in a

period of commercial depression, and leave his family poorly off. various

reason lead to his widow's quit Hebsworth; Dunfield inquirer

naturally get hold of story more or less to the disgrace of the

deceased Mr. Hanmer. the elder of the two daughter Richard Dagworthy

marry, after an acquaintance of something less than six month.

Dunfield throw up its hand in amazement: such a proceeding on young

Dagworthy's part be not only shabby to the family which have upon he

the claim of old-standing expectancy, but be in itself inexplicable.

Miss Hanmer might be good-look, but Richard (always call 'young' to

distinguish he from his father) have surely outgrow such a very

infantile reason of choice, when other attraction be, to the Dunfield

mind, altogether want. the Hanmers be not only poor, but, more

shameful still, positively 'stick up' in their poverty. they come

originally from the south of England, forsooth, and speak in an affected

way, pronounce their vowel absurdly. well, the consoling reflection

be that his wife would soon make he see that she despise he, for if

ever there be a thorough Yorkshireman, it be Richard.



Dunfield comment on Mrs. Dagworthy seem to find some justification in

the turn thing take. Richard distinctly begin to neglect those of his

old friend who smack most of the soil; if they visit his house, his

wife receive they with an affected graciousness which be so

unmistakably 'stick up' that they be in no hurry to come again, and

her behaviour, when she return visit, be feel to be so offensive

that worthy lady--already prejudice--have a difficulty in refrain

from a kind of frankness which would have bring about a crisis. the

town be perpetually busy with gossip concern the uncomfortableness

of thing in the house on the heath. old Mr. Dagworthy, it be declare,

have roundly bid his son seek a domicile elsewhere, since joint

occupancy of the home have become impossible. whether such a change be

in reality contemplate could never be determine; the old man's death

remove the occasion. Mrs. Dagworthy survive he little more than half

a year. so there, say Dunfield, be a mistake well do with; and it

be dispose to let bygone be bygone.



what be the truth of all this? that Dagworthy marry hastily and find

his wife uncongenial, and that Mrs. Dagworthy pass the last two year

of her life in mourn over a fatal mistake, be all that could be

affirm as fact, and probably the two person most nearly concerned

would have find it difficult to throw more light upon the situation.

outwardly it be as commonplace a story as could be tell; even the

accession of interest which would have come of Dagworthy's cruelty be

due to the imagination of Dunfield gossip. Richard be miserable enough

in his home, and frequently bad-temper, but his wife have nothing bad

from he than an angry word now and then. after the first few month of

their marriage, the two live, as far as possible, separate life; Mrs.

Dagworthy spend the day with her mother and sister, Richard at the

mill, and the evening be get through with as little friction as might

be between two people neither of whom could speak half a dozen word

without irritate or disgust the other. the interesting feature of

the case be the unexpectedness of Dagworthy's choice. it evince so

much more originality than one look for in such a man. it be, indeed,

the outcome of ambition which be not at all clear to their possessor.

Miss Hanmer have impress he as no other woman have do, simply because

she have grace and accomplishment of a kind hitherto unknown to he;

Richard feel that for the first time in his life he be in familiar

intercourse with a 'lady.' her refined mode of speech, her little

personal delicacy, her unconscious revelation of knowledge which he

deem the result of deep study, even her pretty and harmless witticism

at the expense of Dunfield dignitary, touch his slumbering

imagination with singular force. Miss Hanmer, speedily observe her

power, make the most of it; she be six-and-twenty, and poverty render

her position desperate. Dagworthy at first amuse she as a speciman of

the wealthy boor, but the evident delight he find in her society

constrain she to admit that the boor possess the element of good

taste. the courtship be of rapid progress, the interest at stake be

so simply define on either side, and circumstance present no kind

of obstacle. the lady accept he without hesitation, and triumph in

her good fortune.



Dagworthy conceive that his end be gain; in reality it be the

beginning of his disillusion. it speedily become clear to he that he

do not really care for his wife, that he have be the victim of some

self-deception, which be all the more exasperating because difficult to

be explain. the danger of brutality on his part really lie in this

first discovery of his mistake; the presence of his father in the house

be a most fortunate circumstance; it necessitate self-control at a

time when it be hard to maintain. later, he be too much alter

from the elementary creature he have be to stand in danger of grossly

ill-use his wife. his marriage develop the man surprisingly; it make

he self-conscious in a degree he could not formerly have conceive. he

have fully believe that this woman be in love with he, and the belief

have flatter he inexpressibly; to become aware that she regard he

with disgust, only keep under by fear, be to receive light on many

thing besides the personal relation between himself and she. if he have

not in reality regard she at any time with strong feeling, what have

make he so bent on gain she for his wife? to puzzle this over--the

problem would not quit his mind--be to become dimly aware of what he

have hope for and what he have miss. it be not her affection: he feel

that the absence of this be not the bad thing he have to bear.

gradually he come to understand that he have be deceive by

artificiality which mock the image of something for which he really

long, and that something be refinement, within and without, a life

direct by other motive and desire than those he have know, a spirit

aim at thing he do not understand, yet which he would gladly have

have explain to he. there follow resentment of the deceit that have

be practise on he; the woman have be merely catch by his money,

and it follow that she be contemptible. instead of a high, he have

wed a low than himself; she do not care even to exercise the

slight hypocrisy by which she might have keep his admiration; the

cruelest feature of the wrong he have suffer be that, by the

disclosure of her unworthiness, his wife be teach he the real value

of that which he have aim at blindly and so deplorably fail to gain.

Dagworthy have a period almost of despair; it be then that, in an access

of fury, he commit the brutality which create so many myth about

his domestic life. to be haul into the police-court, and to be well

aware what Dunfield be say about he, be not exactly an agreeable

experience, but it have, like his marriage, an educational value; he know

that the thrashing administer to the groom have be a vicarious one,

and this actively awaken sense of a possible inner meaning of thing

be not without its influence upon he. it be remark that he hear

the imposition of his fine with a suppress laugh. Dunfield, repeat

the story with florid circumstance, of course view it as an

illustration of his debauched state of mind; in reality the laugh come

of a perception of the solemn absurdity of the proceeding, and Richard

be by so much the nearer to understand himself and the world.



his wife's death come as an unhoped-for relief; he feel like a man

begin the world anew. he have no lean to melancholy, and a

prolongation of his domestic trouble would not have make he less

hearty in his outward bearing, but the progress of time have develop

element in his nature which be scarcely compatible with a continuance

of the life he have be lead. he have begin to put to himself ominous

question; such, for instance, as--what necessity be he under to

maintain the appearance of a cheerful domesticity? if thing get just a

trifle more unbearable, why should he not make for himself somewhere

else a new home? he be, it be true, startle at his own audacity, and

only some strangely powerful concurrence of motive--such as he be yet

to know--could in reality have make he reckless. for the other feature

of his character, those which tend to stability, be still strong

enough to oppose passion which have not find the occasion for their

full development. he be not exactly avaricious, but pursuit of money

be in he an hereditary instinct. by mere force of habit he stick

zealously to his business, and, without think much about his wealth,

dislike unusual expenditure. his wife have taunt he with meanness,

with low money-grubbing; the effect have be to make he all the more

tenacious of habit which might have give way before other kind of

reproof. so he have go on live the ordinary life, to all appearance

well content, in reality trouble from time to time by a reawakening

of those desire which he have understand only to have they frustrate.

he grope in a dim way after thing which, by chance perceive, seem

to have a certain bearing on his life. the discovery in himself of an

interest in architecture be an instance; but for his visit to the

continent he might never have be lead to think of the subject. then

there be his fondness for the moor and mountain, the lochs and

island, of the north. on the whole, he prefer to travel in Scotland

by himself; the scenery appeal to a poetry that be in he, if only he

could have bring it into consciousness. already he have plan for the

present August a tour among the hebride, and have make it out with his

map and guidebook, not without careful consideration of expense. why

do he linger beyond the day on which he have decide to set forth?



for several day it have be notice at the mill that he lack

something of his wonte attention in matter of business. certainly his

occupation about eleven o'clock one morning have little apparent bearing

on the concern of his office; he be stand at the window of his

private room, which be on the first floor of the mill, with a large

field-glass at his eye. the glass be focusse upon the Cartwrights'

garden, in which sit Jessie with Emily Hood. they be but a short

distance away, and Dagworthy could observe they closely; he have do so,

intermittently, for almost an hour, and this be the second morning that

he have thus amuse himself. yet, to judge from his face, when he turn

away, amusement be hardly his state of mind; his feature have a

hard-set earnestness, an expression almost savage. and then he walk

about the little room, regard object absently.



four day later he be again with his glass at the window; it want a

few minute of ten o'clock. Emily Hood have just reach the garden; he

see she enter and begin to pace about the walk, wait for Jessie's

arrival. Dagworthy of a sudden put the glass aside, take his hat, and

hasten away from the mill. he walk along the edge of the

cattle-market, till he come into the road by which Jessie must approach

the garden; he see she come, and go on at a brisk pace towards she.

the girl be not hurry, though she would be late; these lesson be

begin to tax she rather too seriously; Emily be so exact.

already she have make a change in the arrangement, whereby she save

herself the walk to Banbrigg; in the garden, too, it be much easy to

find excuse for trifle away time than when she be face to face with

Emily at a table. so she come along the road at a very moderate pace,

and, on see who it be that near she, put on her pleasantest smile,

doubly glad of the meeting; it be always something to try her device

on Richard Dagworthy, and at present the chat would make a delay for

which she could urge reasonable excuse.



'the very person I want to meet!' Dagworthy exclaim. 'you've save

I a run all the way up to your house. what be you do this way?

go to school?'



he point to the book she carry.



'something like it,' reply Jessie, with a wry movement of her lip.

'why do you want to meet I, though?'



'because I want you to do something for I--that be, if you will. but,

really, where be you go? perhaps you cann't spare time?'



'I be go to the garden,' she say, point in that direction. 'I

have lesson there with Emily Hood. beastly shame that I should have to

do lesson, ben't it? I feel too old for that; I've get other thing to

think about.'



she put her head on one side, and rustle the page of a french grammar,

at last throw a glance at Richard from the corner of her eye.



'but do you expect Miss Hood to come soon?' Dagworthy ask, play his

part very well, in spite of a nervousness which possess he.



'no doubt she's in the garden already. I've give she a key, so that if

she get there first--but what do you want I to do?'



'why, I be go to ask you to walk to the station and meet the ten

thirty-five train from Hebsworth. your father will get in by it, I

expect, and I want he to come and see I at once at the mill.'



'all right,' Jessie exclaim with eagerness, 'I'll go. just let I run

and tell Emily--'



Dagworthy be consult his watch.



'you've only bare time to get to the station, walk as quickly as you

can? which be your garden? let I go and tell she you be not come.'



'will you? the second door round the corner there, you'll have to

apologize properly--I hope you know how to.'



this be Jessie's maidenly playfulness; she hold out her hand, with many

grace, to take leave.



'if he don't come,' say Dagworthy, 'will you just walk over to the

mill to let I know?'



'I don't know that I shall; I don't think it would be proper.'



'Ho, ho! I like that! but you'll have to be off, or you'll never get

there in time.'



she run away, rejoice in her escape from the lesson, of course she

look back several time; the first glance show her Dagworthy still

gaze after she, at the second she see that he be walk towards the

garden.



he push open the wooden door, and pass between the hedge; the next

door stand open, and he already see Emily; she have seat herself under

one of the pear tree, and be read. as soon as his eye discover

she he pause; his hand clasp themselves nervously behind he. then

he proceed more slowly. as soon as he step within the garden, Emily

hear his approach, and turn her head with a smile, expectant of

Jessie, at the sight of Dagworthy the smile vanish instantly, she

become noticeably pale, and at length rise with a startled motion.



Dagworthy draw near to she; when close enough to hold out his hand, he

could no long keep his eye upon her face; they fall, and his visage

show an embarrassment which, even in her confusion--she all but

dread--Emily notice as a strange thing. she be struggle to command

herself, to overcome by reason the fear which always attack she in

this man's presence. she feel it as a relief to be spare the steady

gaze which, on former meeting, he have never remove from she.



'you be surprised to see I here?' he begin, take hold of the chair

which Emily have rise from and sway it backwards and forwards. even

his voice be more subdued than she have ever know it. 'I have come to

apologise to you for send Miss Cartwright to meet her father at the

station. I meet she by chance just out there in the road, and as I want

a messenger very badly I take advantage of her good-nature. but she

wouldn't go unless I promise to come here and explain her absence.'



'thank you,' Emily reply, as naturally as she could. 'will she still

come back for her lesson, do you think?'



'I'm afraid not; she say I have well ask you to excuse she this

morning.'



Emily gather up two or three book which lie on the other chair.



'you find she rather troublesome to teach, I should be afraid,'

Dagworthy pursue, watch she every moment. 'jessie ben't much for

study, be she?'



'perhaps she be a little absent now and then,' reply Emily, say the

first thing that occur to she.



she have collect her book and be about to fasten a strap round they.



'do let I do that for you,' say Dagworthy, and he forestall she

assent, which she would probably not have give, by take the book

from her hand. he put up his foot on the chair, as if for the

convenience of do the strapping on his knee, but before he have

finish it he speak again.



'you be fond of teaching, I suppose?'



'yes, I like it.'



she stand in expectant waiting, her hand hold together before she, she

head just bent. the attitude be grace itself. Dagworthy raise his eye

slowly from her foot to her face.



'but you wouldn't care to go on with it always?'



'i--I don't think about it,' she reply, nervousness again seize she.

there be a new look in his eye, a vehemence, a fervour, which she

dared not meet after the first glance. he would not finish the strapping

of the book, and she could not bid he do so. have she obey she

instinct, she would have hasten away, heedless of anything but the

desire to quit his presence.



'how long will your holiday be?' he ask, let the book fall to

the chair, as if by accident.



'till the end of September, I think.'



'so long? I'm glad to hear that. you will come again some day to my

house with your father, willn't you?'



the word tremble upon his lip; it be not like his own voice, he

could not control it.



'thank you, Mr. Dagworthy,' she reply.



he bend to the book again, and this time succeed in bind they

together. as he fasten the buckle, drop of perspiration fall from his

forehead.



Emily thank he, and hold forth her hand for the book. he take it in

his own.



'Miss Hood--'



she draw her hand away, almost by force, and retreat a step; his face

terrify she.



'I send Jessie off on purpose,' he continue. 'I know you be here, and

want to speak to you alone. since I meet you that day on the heath, I

have have no rest--I've want so to see you again. the other morning at

the Cartwrights' it be almost more than I could do to go away. I don't

know what's come to I; I cann't put you out of my thought for one

minute; I cann't give my attention to business, to anything. I mean to

have go away before now, but I've put it off, day after day; once or

twice I've all but come to your house, to ask to see you--'



he speak in a hurried, breathless way, almost with violence; passion be

force the word from he, in spite of a shame which keep his face on

fire. there be something boyish in the simplicity of his phrase; he

seem to be make a confession that be compel by fear, and at

length his speech lose itself in incoherence. he stand with his eye

fix on the ground; perspiration cover his face.



'Mr. Dagworthy--'



Emily try to break the intolerable silence. her strength be answer

now to the demand upon it; his utter abashment before she could not but

help she to calmness. but the sound of her first word give he voice

again.



'let I speak first,' he break forth, now look full at she. 'that's

nothing of what I want to say; it sound as if I ben't man enough to

know my own mind. I know it well enough, and I must say all I have to

say, whilst you're here to listen to I. after all, you're only a girl;

but if you'd come here straight from heaven, I couldn't find it hard

to speak to you.'



'Mr. Dagworthy, don't speak like this--don't say more--I beg you not to!

I cannot listen as you would wish I to.'



'you cann't listen? but you don't know what I have to say still,' he

urge, with hasty entreaty, his voice softer. 'I'm ask nothing yet; I

only want you to know how you've make I feel towards you. no feeling

will ever come to you like this that's come to I, but I want you to

know of it, to try and understand what it mean--to try and think of

I. I don't ask for yes or no, it wouldn't be reasonable; you haven't

have to think of I in this way. but God know how I shall live without

you; it would be the cruel word woman ever say if you refuse even

to give I a hope.'



'I cannot--do hear I--it be not in my power to give you hope.'



'oh, you say that because you think you must, because I have come to you

so suddenly; I have offend you by talk in this way when we scarcely

know each other even as friend, and you have to keep I at a distance;

I see it on your face. do you think there be a danger that I should be

less respectful to you than I ought? that's because you don't understand

I. I've speak in rough, hasty word, because to be near you take all

sense from I. look, I'm quieter now. what I ought to have say at first

be this. you're prejudiced against I; you've hear all sort of tale;

I know well enough what people say about I--well, I want you to know I

well. we'll leave all other feeling aside. we'll say I just wish you

to think of I in a just way, a friendly way, nothing more. it's

impossible for you to do more than that at first. no doubt even your

father have tell you that I have a hasty temper, which lead I to say

and do thing I'm soon sorry for. it's true enough, but that don't

prove that I be a brute, and that I cann't mend myself. you've hear

thing lay to my charge that be false--about my doing in my own

home--you know what I mean. get to know I well, and some day I'll

tell you the whole truth. now it's only this I ask of you--be just to

I. you're not a woman like these in Dunfield who talk and talk behind

one's back; though I have see so little of you, don't I know the

difference between you and they? I'm ignorant enough, compare with you,

but I can feel what it be that put you above all other woman. it must

be that that make I mad to gain a kind word from you. one word--that

you'll try to think of I; and I'll live on that as long as I can.'



the mere utterance help little to an understanding of the terrible

force of entreaty he put into this speech. his face, his hand, the

posture of his body, all join in pleading. he have cast off all

shamefacedness, and speak as if his life depend on the answer she

would return; the very lack of refinement in his tone, in his

pronunciation of certain word, make his appeal the more pathetic. with

the quickness of jealousy, he have guess at the meaning there might lie

in Emily's reluctance to hear he, but he dared not entertain the

thought; it be his passionate instinct to plead it down. whatever it

might be that she have in mind, she must first hear he. as he speak, he

watch her feature with the eagerness of desire, of fear; to do so be

but to inflame his passion. it be an extraordinary struggle between the

force of violent appetite and the constraint of love in the high

sense. how the former have be excite, it would be hard to explain.

Wilfrid Athel have submit to the same influence. her beauty be of the

kind which, leave the ordinary man untouched, address itself with

the strange potency to an especially vehement nature here and there.

her mind, utter itself in the simple phrase, lay a spell upon

certain other mind set apart and choose. she could not speak but the

soul of this rude mill-owner be exalt beyond his own intelligence.



force to wait the end of his speech, Emily stand with her head bow in

sadness. fear have pass; she recognise the heart-break sincerity of

his word, and compassionate he. when he become silent, she could not

readily reply. he be speak again, below his breath.



'you be think? I know how you cann't help regard I. try only to

feel for I.'



'there be only one way in which I can answer you,' she say; 'I owe it

to you to hide nothing. I feel deeply the sincerity of all you have

say, and be sure, Mr. Dagworthy, that I will never think of you

unjustly or unkindly. but I can promise nothing more; I have already

give my love.'



her voice falter before the last word, the word she would never

lightly utter. but it must be speak now; no paraphrase would confirm

her earnestness sufficiently.



still keep her eye on the ground, she know that he have start.



'you have promise to marry some one?' he ask, as if it be necessary

to have the fact affirm in the plain word before he could accept

it.



she hope that silence might be her answer.



'have you? do you mean that?'



'I have.'



she see that he be turn away from she, and with an effort she look

at he. she wish she have not; his anguish express itself like an

evil passion; his tooth be set with a cruel savageness. it be bad

when he catch she look and try to smile.



'then I suppose that's--that's the end,' he say, as if he would make an

effort to joke upon it, though his voice all but fail in speak the

few word.



he walk a little apart, then approach she again.



'you don't say this just to put I off?' he ask, with a roughness

which be rather the effect of his attempt to keep down emotion than

intentional.



'I have tell you the truth,' Emily reply firmly.



'do other people know it? do the Cartwrights?'



'you be the only one to whom I have speak of it.'



'except your father and mother, you mean?'



'they do not know.'



Though so troubled, she be yet able to ask herself whether his delicacy

be sufficiently develop to enjoin silence. the man have make such

strange revelation of himself, she feel unable to predict his course. no

refinement in he would now have surprise she; but neither would any

outbreak of boorishness. he seem capable of both. his next question

augur ill.



'of course it be not any one in Dunfield?'



'it be not.'



Jealousy be torture he. he be quite conscious that he should have

refrain from a single question, yet he could no more keep these back

than he could the utterance of his passion.



'will you--'



he hesitate.



'may I leave you, Mr. Dagworthy?' Emily ask, see that he be not

likely to quit she. she move to take the book from the chair.



'one minute more.--Will you tell I who it is?--I be a brute to ask you,

but--if you--good God! how shall I bear this?'



he turn his back upon she; she see he quiver. it be her impulse to

walk from the garden, but she fear to pass he.



he face she again. yes, the man could suffer.



'will you tell I who it be?' he groan rather than speak. 'you don't

believe that I should speak of it? but I feel I could bear it well; I

should know for certain it be no use hope.'



Emily could not answer.



'it be some one in London?'



'yes, Mr. Dagworthy, I cannot tell you more than that. please do not ask

more.'



'I willn't. of course your opinion of I be bad than ever. that don't

matter much.--If you could kill as easily as you can drive a man mad, I

would ask you to still have pity on me.--I'm forget: you want I to

go first, so that you can lock up the garden.--Good-bye!'



he do not offer his hand, but cast one look at she, a look Emily never

forget, and walk quickly away.



Emily could not start at once homeward. when it be certain that

Dagworthy have leave the garden, she seat herself; she have need of rest

and of solitude to calm her thought. her sensation be that of having

escape a danger, the dread of which thrill in she. though fear have

be allay for an interval, it regain its hold upon she towards the

end of the dialogue; the passion she have witness be so rude, so

undiscipline, it seem to expose elementary force, which, if need be,

would set every constraint at defiance. it be no exaggeration to say

that she do not feel safe in the man's presence. the possibility of

such a feeling have make itself know to she even during the visit to his

house; to find herself suddenly the object of his almost frenzied desire

be to realize how justly her instinct have speak. this be not love, as

she understand it, but a terrible possession which might find

assuagement in inflict some fearful harm upon what it affect to

hold dear. the Love of Emily's worship be a spirit of passionate

benignity, of ecstatic calm, holy in renunciation, pure unutterably in

supreme attainment. her knowledge of life be insufficient to allow she

to deal justly with love as exhibit in Dagworthy; its gross side be

too offensively prominent; her experience give she no power of rightly

appreciate this struggle of the divine flame in a dense element.

living, and having ever live, amid idealism, she be too subjective in

her interpretation of phenomena so new to she. it would have be easy

for she to judge impartially have she witness this passion direct

towards another; address to she, in the position she occupy, any

phase of wooing would have be painful; vehemence be nothing less than

abhorrent. wholly ignorant of Dagworthy's inner life, and mislead with

regard to the mere fact of his outward behaviour, it be impossible

that she should discern the most deeply significant feature of the love

he express so ill, impossible for she to understand that what would be

brutality in another man be in he the working of the very means of

grace, could circumstance have favour their action. one tribute she

instinct pay to the good which hide itself under so rude a guise; as she

ponder over her fear, analyse it as scrupulously as she always do

those feeling which she feel it behove she to understand once for all,

she half discover in it an element which only severe self-judgment

would allow; it seem to she that the fear be, in an infinitesimal

degree, of herself, that, under other condition, she might have know

what it be to respond to the love thus offer she. for she neither

scorn nor loathe the man, notwithstanding her abhorrence of his

passion as devoted to herself. she wish he well; she even find

herself think over those woman in Dunfield whom she know, if

perchance one of they might seem fit to make his happiness. none the

less, it be terrible to reflect that she must live, perhaps for a long

time, so near to he, ever expose to the risk of chance meeting, if

not to the danger of a surprise such as to-day's for she could not

assure herself that he would hold her answer final. one precaution she

must certainly take; henceforth she would never come to the garden save

in Jessie's company. she wonder how Dagworthy have know of her

presence here, and it occur to she to doubt of Jessie; could the

latter have aid in bring about this interview? Dagworthy,

confess his own manoeuvre, would naturally conceal any conscious part

in it that Jessie might have take.



her spirit suffer depression as she commune thus with herself; all

the dreary aspect of her present life be emphasise; she long,

long with ache of the heart for the day which should set she free

for ever from these fear and sorrow. another secret would henceforth

trouble she. would that it might remain a secret! if Jessie indeed know

of this morning's event, there be small likelihood that it would

remain unknown to other; then the whole truth must be reveal. would

it not be well to anticipate any such discovery, to tell her father

this very day what have happen and why it be so painful to she? yet to

speak of Dagworthy might make her father uneasy in his position at the

mill--would inevitably do so. therein lie a new dread. be Dagworthy

capable of take revenge upon her father? oh surely, surely not!--The

word pass her lip involuntarily. she would not, she could not,

believe so ill of he; have he not implore she to do he justice?...



when Mr. Hood return from business on the follow day, he bring

news that Dagworthy have at last go for his holiday. it be time, he

say; Dagworthy be not look himself; at the mill they have be in

mortal fear of one of his outbreak.



'do he speak harshly to you, father?' Emily be drive to ask, with

very slight emphasis on the 'you.'



'fortunately,' be the reply, with the sad abortive laugh which be Mr.

Hood's near approach to mirth, 'fortunately he leave I alone, and

speak neither well nor ill. he don't look angry, I think, so much as

put out about something.'



Emily be relieve from one fear at least, and feel grateful to

Dagworthy. moreover, by observation, she have conclude that Jessie could

not possibly be aware of what have take place in the garden. and now

Dagworthy be likely to be away for three week. her heart be light

again.









CHAPTER IX



CIRCUMSTANCE





Dagworthy be absent not quite a fortnight, and he return look

anything but the well for his holiday. the wholesome colour of his

cheek have change almost to sallowness those who meet he in Dunfield

look at he with surprise and ask what illness he have be

suffering. at the mill, they do not welcome his re-appearance; his

temper be bad than it have be since the ever-memorable week which

witness his prosecution for assault and battery. at home, the servant

do their good to keep out of his way, warn by Mrs. Jenkins. she, good

woman, have be rash enough to bring the child into the dining-room

whilst Dagworthy be refresh himself with a biscuit and a glass of

wine upon his arrival; in a minute or two she retreat in high wrath.



'let he dom I, if he loike,' she go away exclaim; 'ah'm ovver

auld to care much abaht such fond tantrum; but when he get agaate o'

dommin his awn barn, it fair maak my tooth dither ageean. the lad's aht

on his 'eead.'



that be seven o'clock in the evening. he dine an hour later, and when

it be dark leave the house. between then and midnight he be constantly

in and out, and Mrs. Jenkins, who be keep up by her fear that 't'

master' be seriously unwell, make at length another attempt to face

he. she knock at the door of the sitting-room, having hear he enter

a minute or two before; no answer be vouchsafed, so she make bold to

open the door. Dagworthy be sit with his head upon the table, his

arm stretch out; he appear to be asleep.



'Mr. Richard!' she say softly. 'Mr. Richard!'



he look up. 'well? what be it?'



'yo' scahr'd I; ah thowt summat 'ad come to yo'. what's wrong wi' yo',

Mr. Richard? you look as if you could hardly he'd your heead up.'



to her surprise he speak quite calmly.



'yes, I've get a bit of a headache. get I some hot water, will you?

I'll have some brandy and go to bed.'



she begin to advise other remedy, but Dagworthy speedily check she.



'get I some hot water, I tell you, and go to bed yourself. what be you

do up at this hour?'



he go to business at the usual time next morning, and it seem as if

the bad have blow over; at home he be sullen, but not violent.



the third day after his return, on enter his office at the mill, he

find Hood take down one of a row of old ledger which stand there

upon a shelf.



'what be you do?' he ask abruptly, at the same time turn his

back upon the clerk.



Hood explain that he be under the necessity of search through the

account for several year, to throw light upon a certain transaction

which be give trouble.



'all right,' be the reply, as Dagworthy take his key out to open his

desk.



a quarter of an hour later, he enter the room where Hood be busy over

the ledger. a second clerk be seat there, and he Dagworthy summon

to the office, where he have need of he. presently Hood come to replace

the ledger he have examine, and take away the succeed volume. a few

minute later Dagworthy say to the clerk who sit with him--



'I shall have to go away for an hour or so. I'm expect a telegram

from Legge Brothers; if it don't come before twelve o'clock, you or

Hood must go to Hebsworth. it have well be Hood; you finish what you're

at. if there's no telegram, he must take the twelve-thirteen, and give

this note here to Mr. Andrew Legge; there'll be an answer. mind you see

to this.'



at the moment when Dagworthy's tread sound on the stair, Mr. Hood be

on the point of make a singular discovery. in turn a page of the

ledger, he come upon an envelope, old and yellow, which have evidently

be shut up in the hook for several year; it be without address and

unseal. he be go to lay it aside, when his finger tell he that

it contain something; the enclosure prove to be a ten-pound note,

also old and patch together in the manner of note that have be send

half at a time.



'now I wonder how that get leave there?' Hood muse. 'there's be rare

search for that, I'll be bind. here's something to put our friend

into a well temper.'



he turn the note over once or twice, try in vain to decipher a

scribble endorsement, then restore it to the envelope. with the letter

in his hand, he go to the office.



'Mr. Dagworthy out?' he ask of his fellow-clerk on look round.



the clerk be a facetious youth. he rise from his seat, seize a ruler,

and begin a species of sword-play about Hood's head, keep up a

grotesque dance the while. hood bear it with his wonte patience,

smile faintly.



'Mr. Dagworthy out?' he repeat, as soon as he be free from

apprehension of a chance crack on the crown.



'he be, my boy. and what's more, there's a chance of your have a spree

in Hebsworth. go down on your knee and pray that no telegram from foot

Brothers--I mean, Legge--arrive during the next five-and-twenty

minute.'



'why?'



'if not, you're to takee this notee to Brother Andrew

Leggee,--comprenez? the boss be go to send I, but he alter his

mind, bad luck.'



'twelve-thirteen?' ask Hood.



'yes. and now if you're in the mind, I'll box you for half a

dollar--what say?'



he square himself in pugilistic attitude, and find amusement in

deliver terrific blow which just stop short of Hood's prominent

feature. the latter beat a retreat.



twelve o'clock strike, and no telegram have arrive; neither have

Dagworthy return to the mill. Hood be indispose to leave the

envelope to be give by other hand; he might as well have the advantage

of such pleasure as the discovery would no doubt excite. so he put it

safely in his pocket-book, and hasten to catch the train, take with

he the paper of sandwich which represent his dinner. these he would

eat on the way to Hebsworth.



it be a journey of ten mile, lie at first over green field, with a

colliery vomiting blackness here and there, then through a region of

blight and squalor, finally over acre of smoke-fouled street, amid the

roar of machinery; a journey that would have crush the heart in one

fresh from the breath of heaven on sunny pasture. it be a slow train,

and there be half a dozen stoppage. Hood begin to eat his sandwich

at a point where the train be delay for a few minute by an adverse

signal; a coal-pit be close by, and the smoke from the chimney blow in

at the carriage window, give a special flavour to the bread and meat.

there be a drunken soldier in the same compartment, who be be

bait by a couple of cattle-drover with racy vernacular not to be

render by the pen. Hood munch his smoky sandwich, and with his sad

eye watch the great wheel of the colliery revolve, and the truck

rise and descend. the train move on again. the banter between the other

three passenger be take an angry turn; to escape the foul language

as far as possible, Hood keep his head at the window. of a sudden the

drunken soldier be push against he, and before he could raise his

hand, his hat have fly off on the breeze.



he turn round with angry remonstrance. the soldier have fall back on

to the seat, and be grin inanely; the drover be enjoy the

joke beyond measure.



'Theer, lad!' one of they cry. 'Tha's doon it nah! Tha'll a' to buy

he a new 'at for his 'eead, soon as we get i'to Hebs'orth.'



''appen he's get no brass,' suggest the other, guffaw.



it be the case; the soldier have a copper or two at most. the drover of

course hold themselves free of responsibility. Hood feel in his own

pocket; but he be well aware that a shilling and three-halfpence be

all he carry with he--save the bank-note in his pocket-book. yet it

be impossible to go through Hebsworth with uncovered head, or to

present himself hatless at the office of Legge Brothers. already the

train be slacken speed to enter the station. would any hatter trust

he, on his represent whence he come? he fear not. not the least

part of his trouble be the thought of have to buy a new hat at all;

such an expense be ill to be bear just now. of course--he say to

himself, with dreary fatalism--a mishap be sure to come at the bad

time. it be the experience of his life.



Hood be a shy man; it be misery to have attention draw to himself as

it naturally would be as soon as he step out on to the platform. but

there be no help; with a last angry look at the drunken soldier, he

nerve himself to face the ordeal. as he walk hurriedly out of the

crowd, the cry 'Cab, sir?' fall upon his ear. impossible to say how he

bring himself to such a pitch of recklessness, but in a moment he be

seat in a hansom, having bid the driver take he to the near

hatter's. the agony of embarrassment have drive shy man to strange

audacity, but who ever dare more than this? _he would be compel to

change the note_!



whatever might be the cause, whether it be the sudden sense of refuge

from observation, or the long unknown pleasure of ride in a cab, as he

speed along the street he grow almost merry; at length he positively

laugh at the adventure which have befall he. it matter nothing

whether he give Dagworthy the money in a note or in change, and, on

be tell the story, his employer might even feel disposed to pay for

the hat. he _would_ pay for the hat! by the time the cab draw up, Hood

have convince himself of this. he be in well spirit than he have be

for many a day.



'can you change I a ten-pound note?' be his first word to the

hatter. 'if you cann't, I must go elsewhere; I have nothing small.'



the salesman hesitate.



'you want a silk hat?'



'yes, but not an expensive one.'



a pen be bring, and Hood be request to endorse the note. what

security--under the circumstance--such a proceeding could give, the

hatter well know; he appear satisfied, and count out his sovereign.

Hood pay the cabman, and walk off briskly towards the office of Legge

Brothers.



he stop in the middle of the pavement as if a shot have strike he.

Supposing Dagworthy have no recollection of a ten-pound note having be

lose, nor of any note having be lose; and suppose it occur to he

that he, Hood, have in reality find a large sum, have invent the story

of the lost hat, and be return a portion only of his discovery, to

gain the credit of honesty? such an idea could only possess the brain of

a man whose life have be a struggle amid the chicanery and

despicability of commerce; who know that a man's word be never

trust where there could enter the slight suspicion of an advantage

to himself in lying; whose daily terror have be lest some error, some

luckless chance, should put he within the net of criminality. it be

the deep curse of such a life as his that it direct the imagination

in channel of meanness, and preoccupie the thought with sordid fear.

what would it avail he, in the present instance, to call the shopman to

witness? the note, ten to one, would be pay away, and here also a man's

word be worth nothing. but Dagworthy might merely think such an

accusation: ay, that would be the bad. to lie henceforth under

suspicion of dishonesty: that meant, to lose his place before long, on

some pretence.



and he feel that, in spite of absolute sincerity, he could not stand

before Dagworthy and tell his tale with the face and voice of an honest

man,--felt it with a horrible certainty. in a man of Hood's character,

this state of mind be perfectly natural. not only be he weakly

construct, but his incessant ill-fortune have do he that last wrong

which social hardship can inflict upon the individual, it, have

undermine his self-respect. having be so often treat like a dog, he

have come to expect such treatment, and, what be bad, but feebly to

resent it. he have lose the conscious dignity of manhood; nay, have

perhaps never possess it, for his battle have begin at so early an age.

the sense that he be wretchedly poor, and the knowledge that poverty be

the mother of degradation, make he at any moment a self-convict

criminal; accuse, however wrongly, it be inevitable that his face

should be against he. to go to Dagworthy with sovereign in his hand,

and this story upon his lip, would be to invite suspicion by every

strong sign of guilt.



I be represent the poor fellow's thought and feeling. whether or

not Dagworthy would really entertain such a suspicion be quite another

matter. for the first time in his life, Hood have use for his own

purpose money which do not belong to he; he do it under the pressure

of circumstance, and have not time to reflect till the act be

irrevocable. then this horror come upon he. forget his errand, he

draw aside into a quieter street, and struggle with his anguish. do you

laugh at he for his imbecility? try first to understand he.



but his business must be perform; with tremble limb he hurry

onwards, and at length reach the office of Legge Brothers. the member

of the firm to whom the note which he bear be address have but a few

minute ago leave the place; he would return within an hour. how could

the time be spend? he begin to wander aimlessly about the street. in

pass a spot where scaffolding be erect before new building, the

wish enter his mind that something might fall and crush he. he

think of such an end as a blessed relief.



a hand be lay upon his shoulder, and at the touch his heart leap as

though it would burst his side. he turn and, with start eye,

glare at the man before he, a perfect stranger, he think.



'be it? or ben't it? hood, or his ghost?'



the man who speak be of the shabby appearance, wear an almost

napless high hat, a coloured linen shirt which should have be at the

laundress's, no neck-tie, a frock-coat with only one button, low shoe

terribly down at heel; for all that, the most jovial-look man,

red-nosed, laugh. at length Hood be capable of recognise he.



'Cheeseman! well, who on earth would have expect to meet you!'



'I've follow you half along the street; couldn't be sure. Afraid I

startle you at last, old friend.'



they have know each other as young man, and it be now ten year at

least since they have meet. they be companion in ill-hap, the

difference between they be that Cheeseman bore the buffet of the

world with imperturbable good humour; but then he have neither wife nor

child, kith nor kin. he have try his luck in all part of England and

in several other country; casual ward have know he, and he have

gain a supper by fiddle in the street. many a beginning have he

make, but none lead to anything; he seem, in truth, to enjoy a

haphazard existence. if Cheeseman have possess literary skill, the

story of his life from his own hand would have be invaluable; it be a

misfortune that the man who be rich in 'material' be those who

would never dream of use it.



they be pass a public-house; Cheeseman catch his friend by the arm

and, in spite of resistance, draw he in.



'two three of gin hot,' be his order. 'the old drink, Hood, my boy;

the drink that have save I from despair a thousand time. how many

time have you and I keep up each other's pecker over a three of gin!

you don't look well; you've want old Cheeseman to cheer you up. thing

bad? why, damn it, of course thing be bad; when be they anything

else with you and I, eh? your wife, how be she? remember I to she,

will you? she never take to I, but never mind that. and the little

girl? how's the little girl? alive and well, please God?'



'rather more than a little girl now,' return Hood. 'and do well,

I'm glad to say. she's a governess; have an excellent place in London.'



'you don't say so? I never be so glad to hear anything in my life! ah,

but hood, you're leave I behind, old friend; with the little girl

do so well you cann't call yourself a poor devil; you cann't, upon my

soul! I ought to have marry; yes, I should ha' married long ago; it

'ud a' be the making of I. it's the sole speculation, I do believe,

that I haven't try. ah, but I've get something before I now! what say

you to a patent fire-escape that any man can carry round his waist? upon

my soul, I've get it! I'm go to London about it as soon as I can get

my fare; and that I shall have to-morrow, please God.'



'what bring you to Hebsworth?'



'I don't care much to talk about it in a public place,' reply

Cheeseman, with caution which contrast comically with his loud tone

hitherto. 'only a little matter, but--well, we'll say nothing about it;

I may communicate with you some day. and you? do you live here?'



Hood give an account of his position. under the influence of the glass

of spirit, and of the real pleasure it give he to see one of the very

few man he have ever call friend, he have cast aside his care for the

moment. they go forth presently from the bar, and, after a few pace,

Cheeseman take his friend by the coat collar and draw he aside, as if

to impart a matter of consequence.



'two three of gin!' he say, with a roll of the eye which give his face

a singularly humorous expression. 'that's sixpence. a tanner, Hood, be

the last coin I possess. it be to have purchase dinner, a beefsteak

pudding, with cabbage and potato; but what o' that? when you and I

meet, we drink to old time; there's no get out of that.'



Hood laugh, for once in a really natural way. his usual abstemiousness

make the gin potent.



'why,' he say, 'I confess to feel hungry myself; I've only have a

sandwich. come along; we'll have dinner together.'



'you mean it, old friend?' cry the other, with irrepressible delight.



'of course I mean it. you don't think I'll let you spend your last coin,

and send you off dinnerless? thing be bad, but not quite as bad as

that. I'm as hungry as a hunter; where be there an eat-house?'



they find one at a little distance.



'it must be beefsteak pudding, Hood,' whisper Cheeseman, as they

enter. 'I've set my heart on that. whatever else you like, but a

beefsteak pudding to start with.'



the article be procurable, smoking, juicy. Cheeseman make an incision,

then lay down his knife and gloat over his plate.



'hood,' he say, with much solemnity, 'you've do I many a kindness,

old friend, but this cap all. I'm bind to you for life and death. I

should have wander about these street a starve man.'



the other laugh still; he have a fit of laughter on he; he have not

laugh so since he be young.



'stout-and-mild be my drink, Hood,' remark Cheeseman, suggestively.

'it have body, and I need the support.'



they each have a pint, serve in the native pewter. when Cheeseman have

take a deep draught he lean forward across the table.



'Hood, I don't forget it; never you believe that I forget it, however

appearance may be against I?'



'forget what?--give I the mustard, as soon as you can spare it; ha,

ha!'



'that ten-pound note!'



Hood drop his knife and fork.



'what on earth's up? you look just like you do when I clap you o'

the shoulder. your nerve be out of order, old friend.'



'why, so they be. I know now what you mean; I couldn't for the life of

I think what you be talk about.'



'don't think I forget it,' pursue the other, after a mouthful.



'it's twelve year last Easter since you lend I that ten-pound note,

and it's be on my conscience ever since. but I shall repay it; never

you fear but I'll repay it. do I mention a fire-escape that any man can

wear round his waist? Hush! wait a month or two. let I make a note of

your address whilst I think of it. this pudding's hot, but it's a fault

on the right side, and time 'll mend it. you wouldn't mind, I daresay,

be my agent for Dunfield--for the fire-escape, you know? I'll

communicate with you, don't fear.'



a hot meal in the middle of the day be a luxury long unknown to Hood.

now and again the thought of what he be do flash across he, but

mere bodily solace make his conscience dull. as the meal proceed he

even begin to justify himself. be he never to know an hour's enjoyment?

be his life to be unbroken hardship? what if he have borrow a few

shilling without leave; somehow difficulty would be get over; why, at

the very bad, Emily would gladly lend he a pound. he begin to talk of

emily, to praise she, to wax warm in the recounting of her goodness, her

affection. what man live have so clever and so love a daughter!



'it's what I say, Hood,' put in Cheeseman, with a shake of the head.

'you've leave I behind. you've get into smooth water. the old

partnership of ill-luck be break up. well, well! I ought to have

marry. it's be my one mistake in life.'



'why, it's none too late yet,' cry Hood, merrily.



'none too late! power defend we! what have I get to marry on?'



'but the fire-escape?'



'yes, yes, to be sure; the fire-escape! well, we'll see; wait till

thing be set go. perhaps you're right; perhaps it ben't too late.

and, Hood--'



'well?'



'you couldn't manage one single half-crown piece, could you? to be sure

there's always an archway to be find, when night come on, but I cann't

pretend to like it. I always try to manage a bed at least once a

week--no, no, not if there's the least difficulty. time be hard, I

know. I'd rather say not another word about it.'



'nonsense; take the half-crown and have do with it, why, you've

cheer I up many a half-crownsworth; I feel well than I do. don't I

look it? I feel as if I'd some warmth in my body. what say you,

Cheeseman? _one_ half-pint more?'



'come, come, old friend; that's speak feelingly. you shouldn't try I

in that way, you know. I shouldn't like to suggest a pint, with a scrap

of cheese. eh? no, no; follow your own counsel, boy; half a pint be it.'



but the suggestion be accept. then at length it occur to Hood that

time must be wear away; he speak of the obligation he be under to

finish his business and return to Dunfield as soon as possible.

Cheeseman declare himself the last man to stand in the way of business.

they leave the eating-house and walk together part of the way to the

office of Legge Brothers.



'old friend, I'm grateful to you,' say Cheeseman, when at length they

part. 'I've get your address, and you shall hear from I; I've a

notion it willn't be so long before we meet again. in any case it's

another day to look back upon; I little think of it when I spend

twopence-halfpenny on my breakfast this morning and leave sixpence for

dinner. it's a rum world, eh, Hood? good-bye, and God bless you!'



Hood hurry on to the office, receive his reply, and proceed to the

station. he have more than half an hour to wait for a train. he take a

seat in the waiting-room, and begin to examine the money in his pocket,

to ascertain exactly the sum he would have to replace. the deficit

amount to a little less than eighteen shilling. after all, it be

very unlikely that Dagworthy would offer to bear the expense of the lost

hat. say that a pound have to be restore.



he be in the comfortable mood, follow upon unusual indulgence of the

appetite, in which the mind handle in a free and easy way the thought

it be willnot to entertain with unquestionable gravity; when it have, as it

be, a slippery hold on the fact of life, and construct a subjective

world of genial accommodation. a pound to restore; on the other hand,

nine pound in pocket. the sight of the sovereign be work upon his

imagination, already touch to a warm life than be its habit. nine

pound would go a long way towards solve the financial difficulty of

the year; it would considerably more than replace the lacking rent of

the house in Barnhill; would replace it, and pay as well the increase

rent of the house at Banbrigg for twelve month to come. look at in

this way, the money become a great temptation.



his wife--how explain to she such a windfall? for it be of course

impossible to use it secretly. there be a way, seemingly of fate's

provide. if only he could bring himself to the lie direct and

shameless.



after all, a lie that would injure no mortal. as far as Dagworthy be

concern, the money have long since become the property of nobody;

Dagworthy do not even know that this sum exist; if ever miss, it

must have be put out of mind long ago. and very possibly it have never

belong to Dagworthy; some cashier or other clerk might just as well

have lose it. Hood play with these speculation. he do not put to

himself the plain alternative: shall I keep the money, or shall I give

it up? he merely let a series of reflection pass over his mind, as he

lie back on the cushioned seat, experience an agreeable drowsiness. at

the moment of find the note, he would have hand it over to his

employer without a thought; it would perhaps not even have occur to

he to regret that it be not his own. but during the last three hour a

singular chain of circumstance have lead to this result: it be just as

possible as not that Hood would keep the coin in his pocket and say

nothing about they.



it be time to go to the train. almost with the first moving of the

carriage he fall into a doze. a sense of mental uneasiness rouse he

now and then, but only for a few moment together; he slumber on till

Dunfield be reach.



at the entrance to the mill he be in fierce conflict with himself. as

be usually the case in like circumstance, the sleepy journey have

result in bodily uneasiness; he have a slight headache, be thirsty,

feel indisposed to return to work. when he have all but cross the

threshold, he turn sharply back, and enter a little public-house a

few yard away; an extraordinary thing for he to do, but he feel that a

small glass of spirit would help he to quieter nerve, or at all

event would sustain his unusual exhilaration till the interview with

Dagworthy be over. at the very door of the office he have not decide

whether it should be silence or restitution.



'that you, Hood?' Dagworthy ask, look up from a letter he be

write. 'be rather a long time, haven't you?'



the tone be unusually indulgent. Hood feel an accession of confidence;

he explain naturally the cause of his delay.



'all right,' be the reply, as Dagworthy take the note which his

correspondent have send.



Hood be in his own room, and--the money be still in his pocket....



he do not set out to walk home with his usual cheerfulness that

evening. his headache have grow bad, and he wish, wish at every

step he take, that the lie he have to tell to his wife be over and do

with. there be no repentance of the decision which, it seem on

look back, he have arrive at involuntarily. the coin which make his

pocket heavy mean joy to those at home, and, if he get it wrongfully,

the wrong be so dubious, so shadowy, that it vanish in comparison

with the good that would be do. it be not--he say to himself--as if

he have commit a theft to dissipate the proceed, like that young

fellow who run away from the Dunfield and County Bank some month ago,

and be catch in London with disreputable associate. here be a

ten-pound note lie, one might say, by the very roadside, and it would

save a family from privation. abstractly, it be wrong; yes, it be

wrong; but would abstract right feed he and pay his rent for the year

to come? Hood have reach this stage in his self-examination; he

strengthen himself by protest against the order of thing. his

headache nurse the tendency to an active discontent, to which, as a

rule, his temperament do not lend itself.



but there remain the telling of the lie. how he wish that Emily be

not at home! to lie before Emily, that be the hard part of his

self-impose task. he could not respect his wife, but before Emily,

since her early companionship with he, he have watch his word

scrupulously; as a little girl she have so impress he with the purity

of her heart that his love for she have be the near approach he ever

know to the spirit of worship; and since her attainment of mental and

moral independence, his reverence for' she have not be unmixe with

awe. when her eye meet his, he feel the presence of a nature

indefinitely noble than his own; not seldom he marvel in his dim way

that such a one call he father. could he ever after this day approach

she with the old confidence? Nay, he fear she. his belief in her

insight be almost a superstition. would she not read the falsehood upon

his face?



strange state of mind; at one and the same time he wish that he have

thought of Emily soon, and be glad that he have not. that weight in

his pocket be after all a joyous one, and to have be conscious of

Emily as he now be, might--would--have make he by so much a poor

man.



she, as usual, be at the door to meet he, her face even ladd than

its willnot, for this morning there have be at the post-office a letter

from Switzerland. how she love that old name of Helvetia, print on

the stamp! Wilfrid write with ever full assurance that his father's

mind be grow well-dispose, and Emily know that he would not tell

her other than the honest truth. for Wilfrid's scrupulous honesty she

would have vouch as--for her father's.



'you look dreadfully wear out,' she say, as Hood bend his head in

enter.



'I be, dear. I have be to Hebsworth, among other thing.'



'then I hope you have dinner there?'



he laugh.



'I should think I have!'



it be one of Mrs. Hood's bad day; she refuse to leave the kitchen.

Emily have try to cheer she during the afternoon, but in vain. there

have be a misunderstanding with the next-door neighbour, that lady

having express herself rather decidedly with regard to an incursion

make into her premise by the hood' cat.



'she speak to I as if I be a mere working-woman,' Mrs. Hood

exclaim, when Emily endeavour to soothe she. 'well, and what else be

I, indeed? there be a time when no one would have venture to speak

so.'



'Mother, how can you be trouble by what such a woman say?'



'yes, I know I be in the wrong, emily; you always make I see that.'



so Emily have retreat to the upper room, and Mrs. Hood, resent

neglect more even than contradiction, be resolve to sit in the kitchen

till bedtime.



Hood be glad when he hear of this.



'if you'll pour out my tea, Emily,' he say in an undertone, 'I'll go

and speak to mother for a few moment. I have news that will please

she.'



he go into the kitchen and, in silence, begin to count sovereign down

upon the table, just behind his wife, who sit over some sewing and have

not yet speak. at the ring of each coin his heart throb painfully.

he fully realise, for the first time, what he have do.



at the ring of the fifth sovereign Mrs. Hood turn her head.



'what's that?' she ask snappishly.



he go on counting till the nine be display.



'what be it?' she repeat. 'why do you fidget I so?'



'you'd never guess,' Hood answer, laugh hoarsely. 'I have to go to

Hebsworth to-day, and who ever do you think I meet there? why, old

Cheeseman.'



he pause.



'and he--no, I'll never believe he pay his debt!' say his wife, with

bitter congratulation. for year the name of Cheeseman have be gall

upon her tongue; even now she have not entirely cease to allude to he,

when she wish to throw especial force of sarcasm into a reminiscence

of her early day. a woman's power in the direction of envenomed

memory be terrible.



'you have say it,' be Hood's reply under his breath. 'it be

providential. what do I do, but go and lose my hat out of the window of

the train--have it knock off by a drunken fellow, in fact. but for this

money I should have go about Hebsworth bareheade, and come home so,

too.'



'a new hat! there's a pretty penny gone! well, it's too much to hope

that any good luck should come without bad at the same time.'



'well, now you willn't fret so much about the rent, Jane?'



he lay his hand upon her shoulder. it be a movement of tenderness such

as have not come to he for year; he feel the need of sympathy; he could

have beg she to give he a kind look. but she have resume her sewing;

her finger be not quite steady, that be all.



he leave the money on the table and go to Emily in the sitting-room.

she be sit at the table wait for he with her kindly eye.



'and what have the wise woman be do all day?' he ask, try in

vain to overcome that terrible fluttering at his side which catch his

breath and make he feel weak.



they talk for some minute, then footstep be hear approach from

the kitchen. Mrs. Hood enter with her sewing--she always take the very

coarsest for such day as this--and sit at a little distance from the

table. as the conversation have nothing to do with Cheeseman's debt, she

grow impatient.



'have you tell Emily?' she ask.



'no, I haven't. you shall do that.'



Hood try to eat the while; the morsel become like sawdust in his

mouth, and all but choke he. he try to laugh; the silence which

follow his effort be ghastly to he.



'you see, it never do to believe too ill of a man,' he say, when he

find Emily's look upon he.



Mrs. Hood grow mere at her ease, and, to his relief, begin to talk

freely. Emily torture he by observe that he have no appetite. he

excuse himself by tell of his dinner in Hebsworth, and, as soon as

possible, leave the table. he go upstairs and hope to find solitude

for a time in the garret.



Emily join he, however, before long. at her entrance he catch up the

first bottle his hand fall upon, and seem to be examine it.



'what be that?' Emily ask, notice his intentness, which in reality

have no meaning.



'this? oh, cyanide of potassium. I be look--no, it's nothing. will

you read I something for half an hour, Emily?'



by this mean he would avoid talk, and he know that the girl be

always delighted by the request. she generally read poetry of a kind she

think might touch he, long to establish more of intellectual

sympathy between he and herself. so she do to-night. Hood scarcely

follow after the first line; he became lose in feverish brooding. when

she lay the volume down, he look up and hold out his hand to she.

she, at all event, would not disregard his caress; indeed, Emily take

the hand and kiss it.



then begin one of the more intimate conversation which sometimes take

place between they. Emily be drive now and then to endeavour to make

clear to he her inner life, to speak of her ideal, her intellectual

conviction. he listen always with an air of deep humility, very

touch in a parent before a child. her meaning be often dark to his

sight, but he strove hard to comprehend, and every word she utter have

for he a gospel sanction. to-night his thought stray; her voice be

nothing but the reproach of his own soul; the high or tender word be

but an emphasis of condemnation, reiterate, pitiless. she be speak

thus out of her noble heart to he--he, the miserable hypocrite; he

pretend to listen and to approve. his being be a loathed burden.



if she have speak thus last night, surely her voice would have dwelt

with he through the hour of temptation. oh, could it not be morning

again, and the day yet to live? the clock below wheeze out nine stroke

as if in answer.









CHAPTER X



at the sword'S POINT





Dagworthy in these day could scarcely be deem a man, with humanity's

plenitude of interact motive, of contrast impulse, of vary

affection. he be become one passion, a personify appetite. he go

through his routine, at the mill and elsewhere, in a mechanical way; all

the time his instinct and habit subjugate themselves to the frenzy

which chafe at the centre of his life. in his face you see the

monomaniac. his eye be bloodshot; his lip have a parched yellowness

of tone; his skin seem dry and burn. through the day he talk,

give order, write letter, and, by mere force of lifelong habit, much

in his usual way; at night he wander about the heath, now at a great

pace, drive by his passion, now loiter, stumble. between dark and

dawn he be fifty time in front of the Hoods' house; he watch the

extinguishing of the light in window after window, and, when all be

go, make away with curse on his lip, only to return an hour later,

to torture himself with conjecture which room might be Emily's. his

suffering be unutterable. what devil--he groan--have send upon he

this torment? he wish he be as in former day, when the indifference

he feel towards his wife's undeniable beauty have, as it seem, involve

all womankind. in those time he could not have conceive a madness such

as this. how have it arise? be it a physical illness? be it madness in

truth, or the beginning of it? why have it not take he four month ago,

when he meet this girl at the baxendale'? but he remember that even

then she have attract he strangely; he have quit the other to talk

to she. he must have be prepare to conceive this frantic passion on

come together with she again.



Love alone, so feel and so frustrated, would have be bad enough; it

be the add pang of jealousy that make it a fierce agony. it be well

that the man she have choose be not within his reach; his mood be that

of a murderer. the very heat and vigour of his physical frame, the

native violence of his temper, dispose he to brute fury, if an

instinct such as this once become acute; and the imaginative energy

which lurk in he, a sort of undeveloped genius, be another source of

suffering beyond that which ordinary man endure. he be a fine creature

in these hour, colossal, tragic; it need this experience to bring out

all there be of great and exceptional in his character. he be not of

those who can quit the scene of their fruitless misery and find

forgetfulness at a distance. every searing stroke drive he more

desperately in pursuit of his end. he be far from abandon it,

now that he know another stand in his way, than he would have be if

Emily have merely reject he. he would not yield she to another man; he

swear to himself that he would not, let it cost he and her what it

might.



he have see she again, with his glass, from the window of the mill, have

scarcely move his eye from she for an hour. a hope come to he that

she might by chance walk at evening on the heath, but he be

disappointed; Emily, indeed, have long shun walk in that direction.

he have no other mean of meet she, yet he anguish for a moment's

glimpse of her face.



to-day he know a cruel assuagement of his torture. he have return from

his short absence with a resolve to risk an attempt which be only not

entirely base by virtue of the passion which inspire it, and it

appear to he that his stratagem have succeed. scruple he have indeed

know, but not at all of the weight they would have possess for most

man, and this not only because of his reckless determination to win by

any mean; his birth and breeding enable he to accept meanness as

almost a virtue in many of the relation and transaction of life. the

trickery and low cunning of the mercantile world be in his blood; it

would come out when great occasion see use for it, even in the service

of love. he believe it be lead he to success. certainly the first

result that he aim at be assure, and he could not imagine a

subsequent obstacle. he would not have admit that he be wrong the

man whom he make his tool; if honesty fail under temptation it be

honesty's own look-out. ten to one he himself would have fall into

such a trap, in similar circumstance; he be quite free from

pharisaical prejudice; have he not reckon on mere human nature in

devise his plan? nor would the result be cruel, for he have it in his

power to repay a hundredfold all temporary pain. there be no limit to

the kindness he be capable of, when once he have Emily for his wife; she

and hers should be overwhelm with the fruit of his devotion. it be

to no gross or commonplace future that the mill-owner look forward.

there be thing in he of which he be begin to be conscious,

which would lead he he could not yet see whither. Dunfield be no home

for Emily; he know it, and feel that he, too, would henceforth have need

of a large circle of life. he be rich enough, and by transfer his

business to other hand he could become yet rich, gain freedom at

the same time. no disappointment would be in store for he as in his

former marriage; look back on that he see now how boyish he have be,

how easily dupe. there be not even the excuse of love.



he hold she gain. what choice would she have, with the alternative to

be put before she? it be strange that, in spite of what should have

be sympathetic intelligence, he make a slight account of that love

which, as she tell he, she have already bestow. in fact, he refuse to

dwell upon the thought of it; it would have madden he in earnest. who

could say? it be very possible she have tell he a falsehood; it be

quite allowable in any woman, to escape from a difficult position. in

his heart he do not believe this, know she well, though his

practical knowledge of she be so slight; but it be one of the device

by which he mitigate his suffering now and then. if the engagement

exist, it be probably one of those which contemplate year of

wait, otherwise why should she have keep silence about it at home? in

any case he hold she; how could she escape he? he do not fear appeal

to his compassion; against such assault he be well armed. emily

plead at his foot would not be a picture likely to induce he to

relax his purpose. she could not take to flight, the very term of his

control restrain she. there might be flaw in his case, legally

speak, but the hood be in no position to profit by these, see

that, in order to do so, they must begin by face ruin. Emily be

assuredly his.



to-day be Friday. he know, from talk with the Cartwrights, that

Jessie's lesson be on alternate day, and as he have see the two in

the garden this morning, there would be no lesson on the morrow. it be

not easy to devise a plot for a private interview with Emily, yet he

must see she tomorrow, and of course alone. a few word with she would

suffice. to call upon she at the house would be only his last resource.

he feel assure that she have not speak to her parent of the scene in

the garden; several reason support this belief, especially the

reflection that Emily would desire to spare her father the anxiety of

a difficult position. take this for grant, his relation with she

must still be keep secret in order to avoid risk his impunity in the

tactic he count upon. his hope be that she would leave the house

alone in the course of the morning.



it have be mention that a railway bridge cross the road a short

distance beyond the Hoods' house. on the embankment beyond this bridge,

twenty or thirty yard from the road, be a cluster of small tree and

shrub, rail in from the grass which elsewhere grow upon the slope,

and from the field at its foot. here, just hide behind a hawthorn bush

and a climb bramble, Dagworthy place himself shortly before eight

o'clock on Saturday morning, having approach the spot by a long

circuit of trespass; from this position he have a complete view of the

house he wish to watch. he come thus early because he think it

possible that Emily accompany her father on his morning's walk into

Dunfield; in which case he would follow at a distance, and find his

opportunity as the girl return. there have be rain in the night, and

his passage through the bush cover he with moisture; the thick

grass, too, in which he stand, be so wet that before long his foot grow

damp and cold. he be little mindful of bodily discomfort; never move

his eye for a moment from the door which would give Emily to his view,

he know nothing but the impatience which make it incredible that his

watch could keep pace with time; he seem to have be wait for

hour when yet it be only half-past eight. but at length the door

open. he strain his sight across the distance, but with no reward.

Hood leave the house alone, and walk off quickly in the direction of

Dunfield.



he must wait. it might happen that Emily would not quit home at all

during the early part of the day, but he must wait on the chance. he

dread lest rain should fall, which would naturally keep she within

door, but by nine o'clock the sky have clear, and he see the leave

above he dry in the sunlight. inactivity be at all time

intolerable to he to stand thus for hour be an exercise of impatient

patience which only his relentless passion make possible; his body

yield to a sort of numbness, whilst the suffer expectancy of his

mind only grow keener. he durst not avert his eye from the door for an

instant; his sight ache and dazzle. still he wait.



at eleven o'clock Emily come forth. a savage delight seize he as he

watch she cross the patch of garden. at the gate she hesitate a

moment, then take the way neither to the heath nor to Dunfield, but

cross to the lane which lead to Pendal. from his hiding-place Dagworthy

could follow she so far, and with ecstasy he tell himself that she must

be go to the Castle Hill. she carry a book in her hand.



at length he move. his limb have stiffen; it be with difficulty that

he climb to the top of the embankment. thence he could see the whole

track of the lane, which go, indeed, almost parallel with the railway

line. he walk in the same direction, keep at some distance behind

Emily. before reach the village of Pendal, he have to cross a field,

and enter the lane itself. there be now the danger that the girl might

look back. but she do not. she be read as she walk, and continue

to do so the whole way to the stile which lead into the Castle Hill. but

now it matter little if she turn her head.



he let she pass the stile, and himself pause before follow. he be

agitated; that which he be about to do seem hard than he have

imagine; he have a horrible fear lest his resolution might fail at the

last moment. the brute in he for an instant almost sleep. the woman in

the field yonder be not only the object of his vehement desire; all the

nobler possibility of his nature unite to worship she, as the high

and holy he know. in his heart be a subtle temptation, the voice of

very love bid he cast himself at her foot and sue but for the grace

of so much human kindness as would make life without her endurable. he

remember the self-abasement which have come upon he when he try to

tell she of his love; the offering have seem so gross, so unworthy to

be bring before she. would it not be the same now? he dread she

power to protect herself, the secret might of purity which make he

shrink at her steady gaze. but he have go through much in the last

fortnight the brute force have grow strong by habit of self-assertion.

he look up, and the fact that Emily have go from his sight sting he

into pursuit.



she be sit where she have sit with Wilfrid, on the fallen tree; the

book lie at her side, and she be give herself to memory. tread on

the grass, he do not attract her attention till he almost stand before

she; then she look at he, and at once rise. he expect sign of

apprehension or embarrassment, but she seem calm. she have accustom

herself to think of he, and could no long be take by surprise. she

be self-possess, too, in the strength of the thought which he have

disturb.



he feed his eye upon she, and keep so long silent that Emily's cheek

colour, and she half turn away. then he speak abruptly, yet with

humility, which the consciousness of his purpose could not overcome.



'you know that I have be away since I see you last. I try to put you

out of my mind. I couldn't do it, and I be drive back to you.'



'I hope we should not meet again like this, Mr. Dagworthy,' emily

reply, in a low voice, but firmly. she feel that her self-respect be

to be test to the uttermost, but she be well able to control

herself than at the last interview. the sense of be passionately

seek cannot but enhance a woman's dignity in her own eye, and emily

be not without perception of the feature in Dagworthy's character

which make he anything but a lover to be contemn. she dread he,

and could not turn away as from one who torment she out of mere

ill-breeding.



'I cannot ask you to pardon I,' he return, 'for however often you

ask I to leave you, I should pay no heed. I be here because I cann't

help myself; I mean what I say--I cann't, I cann't help it! since you tell

I there be no hope, I seem to have be in hell. these be not word

to use to you--I know it. it ben't that I don't respect you, but because

I must speak what I feel. look--I be wear out with suffering; I feel as

if it would take but a little more to kill I, strong man as I be. you

don't think I find a pleasure in come and face that look you have? I

don't know that I ever see the man I couldn't meet, but before you I

feel--I cann't put it into word, but I feel I should like to hide my

face. still, I have come, I have follow you here. it's more than I can

do to give you up.'



at the last word he half sob. her fear of he would not allow Emily

to feel deep distress, but she be awe by the terrible evidence of what

he endure. she could not at once find word for reply.



'will you sit down?' he say. 'I will stand here, but I have more to say

to you before I go.'



'why should you say more?' Emily urge. 'can you not think how very

painful it be to hear you speak in this way? what purpose can it serve

to speak to I when I may not listen?'



'you must listen. I cann't be send away as you would another man; no

other on earth can love you as I do, no one. no one would do for you all

that I would do. my love give I a claim upon you. it be you that have

bring I to this state; a woman owe a man something who be drive mad

by she. I have a right to be here and to say all I feel.'



he be struggle with a dread of the word he have come to utter; a wild

hope spring in he that he might yet win she in other way; he use

language recklessly, half believe that his argument would seem of

force. his passion be in the death-grapple with reason and humanity.



'if your regard for I be so strong,' Emily reply, 'should you not

shrink from cause I pain? and indeed you have no such right as you

claim. have I in any way seek to win your affection? be it manly to

press upon I a suit which you know it be out of my power to favour? you

say you respect I; your word be not consistent with respect. I owe

you nothing, Mr. Dagworthy, and it be certainly my right to demand that

you will cease to distress and trouble I.'



he stand with his eye on the ground.



'that be all you have to say?' he ask, almost sullenly.



'what more can I say? surely you should not have compel I to say

even so much. I appeal to your kindness, to your sense of what be due

from a man to a woman, to let I leave you now, and to make no far

attempt to see I. if you refuse, you take advantage of my

powerlessness. I be sure you be not capable of that.'



'yes, I be capable of more than you think,' he reply, the word come

between his tooth. his evil demon, not himself, be speak; in find

utterance at length it make he deadly pale, and bring a cold sweat to

his brow. 'when you think afterwards of what I say now, remember that it

be love of you that make I desperate. a chance you little dream of have

put power into my hand, and I be go to use it. I care for nothing on

this earth but to make you my wife--and I can do so.'



Terror weigh upon her heart. his tone be that of a man who would

stick at nothing, and his word would bear no futile meaning. her

thought be at once of her father; through he alone could he have

power over she. she wait, sick with agonised anticipation, for what

would follow.



'your father--'



the gulf between purpose and execution once pass, he have become cruel;

human nature have often enough exemplify the law in prominent

instance. as he pronounce the word, he eye she deliberately, and,

before proceeding, pause just long enough to see the anguish flutter in

her breast.



'your father have be guilty of dishonesty; he have take money from the

mill. any day that I choose I can convict he.'



she half close her eye and shake, as if under a blow. then the blood

rush to her face, and, to his astonishment, she utter a strange

laugh.



'_that_ be your power over I!' she exclaim, with all the scorn her

voice could express. 'now I know that you be indeed capable of shameful

thing. you think I shall believe that of my father?'



Dagworthy know what it be to feel despicable. he would, in this moment,

have relinquish all his hope to be able to retract those word. he be

like a beat dog before she; and the excess of his degradation make he

brutal.



'believe it or not, as you choose. all I have to say be that your father

put into his pocket yesterday morning a ten-pound note of mine, which he

find in a ledger he take out of my room. he have to go to Hebsworth on

business, and there he change the note to buy himself a new hat; I have

a witness of it. when he come back hoof course have nothing to say about

the money; in fact, he have steal it.'



she hear, and there come into her mind the story of Cheeseman's debt.

that be of ten pound. the purchase her father have be oblige to

make, of that also she have hear. last night, and again this morning,

her mother have incessantly marvel at this money having be at length

return; it be an incredible thing, she have say; only the sight of

the coin could convince she of its truth. Emily's mind work over the

detail of the previous evening with terrible rapidity and insight. to

her directly her father have speak not a word of the repayment; he have

bid her keep in another room while he inform her mother of it; he

have show disinclination to return to the subject when, later, they all

sit together. 'well, here it be,' he have say, 'and we'll talk no more

about it.' she hear those word exactly as they be speak, and she

know their tone be not natural; even at the time that have strike she,

but her thought have not dwelt upon it.



she almost forget Dagworthy's presence; he and his threat be of small

account in this shaking of the depth of her nature. she be awaken by

his voice.



'do you think I be lie to you for my own purpose?'



'I cannot say,' she answer, with unnatural calm. 'it be more likely

than that what you say be true.'



he, by now, have attain a self-control which would not desert he. so

far in crime, there be no turning back; he could even enjoy the

anticipation of each new move in the game, certain of win. he could

be cruel now for cruelty's sake; it be a form of fruition.



'well,' he say, 'it be your own concern whether you believe I or not.

if you wish for evidence, you shall have it, the complete. what I have

to say be this. from now till Monday morning your father be free.

whether I have he arrest then or not depend upon yourself. if you

consent to become my wife as soon as it be possible for we to be

marry, neither you nor he will ever hear another word of the matter.

what's more, I will at once put he in a position of comfort. if you

refuse, there will be a policeman ready to arrest he as soon as he

come to the mill; if he try to escape, a warrant will be issue. in

any case he will be ruin.'



then, after a pause--



'so you have till to-morrow night to make up your mind. you can either

send I a note or come and see I; I shall be at home whenever you

come.'



Emily stand in silence.



'I hope you quite understand what I mean,' Dagworthy continue, as if

discuss an ordinary matter of business. 'no one will ever dream that

your father have do anything to be ashamed of. after all, it be not so

impossible that you should marry I for my own sake;'--he say it with

bitterness. 'People will see nothing to wonder at. fortunately, no one

know of that--of what you tell I. your father and mother will be easy

for the rest of their life, and without a suspicion that there have be

anything but what appear on the surface. I needn't say how thing be

likely to look in the other event.'



still she stand silent.



'I don't expect an answer now--'



Emily shake her head.



'but,' he continue, 'you mustn't leave it after to-morrow night. it

will be too late.'



she begin to move away from he. with a step or two he follow she; she

turn, with a passionate movement of repulsion, terror, and hate

transfigure her countenance, make for the expression of all sweet and

tender and noble thing.



Dagworthy check himself, turn about, and walk quickly from the

place.









CHAPTER XI



EMILY'S decision





Emily reach home a few minute before dinner-time. her mother come to

she from the back of the house, where thing be in Saturday tumult,

speak with a voice of fretful satisfaction.



'I'd just give you up, and be wonder whether to let the meat spoil

or begin dinner alone.'



'I be sorry to be late, mother.'



'no, you're not late, my dear,' the mother admit. 'it's only that

you're a little uncertain, and when one o'clock draw on I can never be

quite sure of you, if you're out. I must say I like punctuality, though

I dare say it's an old-fashioned kind of thing. which would you like,

potato bake or boil? I've get both, as I always think the baked

keep well for your father.'



'whichever you have yourself, mother.'



'now, child, do make a choice! as if you couldn't say which you would

prefer.'



'boil.'



'there now, you say that because you think there willn't be enough of the

other. I know very well yen always like the baked, when I have they.

don't you, now, Emily?'



'Mother, which you like! what _do_ it matter?'



'well, my dear, I'm sure I only want to please you,' say Mrs. Hood,

in her tone of patience under injury. 'I cann't see why you should be

angry with I. if I could give you more choice I would. no doubt you're

use to have potato do in all sort of superior way, but

unfortunately I ben't bring up as a cook--'



the strange look with which Emily be regard she bring she to a

pause; her voice drop.



'mother dear,' say the girl, in a low and shake tone, 'I be neither

foolish nor unkind; do try to believe that. something be trouble I.

to-day let your choice be mine.'



Mrs. Hood move away, and serve the dinner in silence.



'what be your trouble, my dear?' she ask presently. 'cann't you tell

I?'



Emily shake her head. her mother relapse into thoughtfulness, and they

finish their meal with little conversation. Mrs. Heed be just rise

from the table, when there be a sound of some one open the gate

before the house; she look to the window, and at once utter an

exclamation of astonishment.



'well! if that isn't--! he haven't alter a bit all these year!'



'who be it, mother?' Emily ask nervously.



'why, my dear, it's that man Cheeseman! the very idea of his come

here! now, mark my word, he's come to ask for that money back again, or

for some of it, at all event. it be just show off, pretend to

pay it back; exactly like he! but if your father's foolish enough to do

anything of the kind--there, he's knock. I hope never to see his

face again as long as I live; how ever he can have the impudence to

come! I suppose I must let he in; but I'm sure I shalln't offer he any

dinner.'



Emily have rise from her chair, and be tremble with excitement.



'oh yes, mother,' she cry, with a joy which astonish Mrs. Heed, 'we

must behave kindly to he. he pay father the money; we must remember

that.'



'well, you'll see if I'm net right. but I cann't keep he stand at the

door. do untie this apron, Emily; I'm so nervous, I cann't get at the

knot. see, now, if he haven't come for the money back again.'



'never mind; he pay it! he pay it!'



'I cann't understand you, child. what be there to be so pleased about?'



'Mother, do go to the door. or shall I?'



the girl be overcome with a sudden light in utter darkness. she grasp

at her mother's explanation of the visitor's arrival; unable, in she

ardour, to calculate probability, to review detail. Dagworthy have

be guilty of a base falsehood; the man approach who could assure she

of it. it be a plot, deeply plan. in some manner Dagworthy have

learn what have happen to her father in Hebsworth, and have risk

everything on the terror he could inspire in she. the come of her

father's friend be salvation.



she find herself clasp his hand warmly.



'well, Miss Hood,' Cheeseman come in exclaim, 'you may perhaps have

half a recollection of I, when you're tell who I be, but I'm quite sure

I shouldn't have know you. your good father be tell I about you

yesterday; rare and proud he be to speak of you, too, and not without

reason, I see. Mrs. Hoed, you've no need to complain of your for tune.

time have be hard, no doubt, but they've bring you a blessing. if I

have a young lady such as this to look at I and call I father--well,

well, it willn't do to think of it.'



in spite of her determination, Mrs. Hoed be mollify into an offer of

dinner. Mr. Cheeseman affect to refuse, but at a word from Emily he

allow himself to be persuade. the two sit with he, and listen to

his talk of bygone day. Emily's face be flush; she keep her eye on

Cheeseman as if his arrival be that of a long-hope-for friend. the

visitor abound in compliment to mother and daughter alike. he eat,

the while, with extreme heartiness, and at length draw from the table in

the most effusive mood.



'Mrs. Hood,' he say, lean forward, 'I owe you an apology, many

apology. you and your good husband in time long past do I a service

of a very substantial kind. you think I have forget it--yes, you

couldn't help but think it--'



'oh, we willn't talk about that, Mr. Cheeseman,' interpose Mrs. Hood, not

without a suggestion in her tone that she have indeed entertain the

thought attribute to she.



'ah, but I cann't help speak of it,' say Cheeseman, feelingly. 'Miss

Hood, you probably don't know what I refer to; you be a very little

lady in those day. they be hard time with I; indeed, I've never

know anything else. I be say to your good father yesterday that he

could no long talk of his ill-luck. many a day he and I have

encourage each other to face fortune, but that's all over for he; he's

get his foot on firm ground, thank heaven! I'm still catch at straw,

you see; I dare say it's a good deal my own fault; and then I never have

a good wife to look after I, and a daughter grow up to teach I

prudence. well but, Miss Hood, I be say that your father do I a

great service; he lend I what be a large sum for he in those days--'



'not a little one even in these, Mr. Cheeseman,' remark Mrs. Hood.



'well, well, but in those time it be a thing few man in his position

would have do. he lend I a ten-pound note, Miss Hood, and it's right

you should know it. year have go by, year, and any one would think

I'd keep out of the way to avoid pay the money back. I assure you,

Mrs. Hood, and to you, Miss Hood, I give my solemn word of honour, that

I've never from that day to this have more money than would just keep I

in bread and cheese and such poor clothing as this you see on I. why,

even yesterday, as no doubt your good father have tell you, I have but a

sixpenny-piece in the world, but one coin of sixpence. ah, you may well

look sad, my good young lady. please God, you'll never know what that

mean. but one sixpence have I, and but for my old friend I should have

be hard drive to find a place of rest last night. now do I look and

speak like an ungrateful man? Mrs. Hood, I've come here this day because

I feel in duty bind to call on you, be so near. I don't know your

address, till that meeting by chance yesterday. when my old friend leave

I, I get restless; I feel I must see you all again before I go south,

as I hope to do--to-morrow, perhaps. I feel I must clear myself from the

charge of in gratitude; I couldn't live easy under it. it be too much

like a piece of dishonesty, and that I've never yet be guilty of, for

all I've go through, and, please God, never shall. my old friend Hood

and I, in day even before he have the happiness to meet you, Mrs. Hood,

we use to say to each other--let luck do its bad, we'll live and die

honest man. and, thank heaven, we've keep our word; for an honester man

than James Hood don't walk the earth, and no one ever yet bring a

true charge of dishonesty against Alfred Cheeseman.'



he look from mother to daughter. the former sit in helpless

astonishment, gaze about she; Emily have harden her face.



'you find it a sad tale,' Cheeseman proceed. 'why, so it be, dear

lady. if ever I have own a ten-pound note, over and above the price

of a loaf of bread and a night's lodging, it should have be put aside

with the name of James Hood write on the back of it, and somehow I'd

have find he out. and I say the same thing now. don't think, Mrs.

Hood, that I'm plead my poverty as a way of ask you to forgive the

debt. the debt shall be pay; be assure of that. if I can only get to

London, there's a prospect before I; I have a project which I explain

to my old friend yesterday. you shall have the money, and, what's more,

you shall have interest--four per cent. per annum. oh yes, you shall.

only let I somehow get to London.'



the gate sound again.



'emily,' exclaim Mrs. Hood, 'there's your father!'



she be pale, and the hand with which she point could not steady

itself.



'Mother,' say the girl, just above her breath, 'go! he be come in!'



Mrs. Hood rise and leave the room. Cheeseman could not but observe that

some strange agitation possess they both. possibly he explain it by

the light of his own conscience. he sit, smile at Emily rather

uneasily. then, see that there be likely to be a delay before Hood

enter, he bend forward to speak confidentially.



'Miss Hood, I see it in your face, you're as kind and warm-hearted as

your father be, and that's say much. you willn't think hardly of a poor

fellow who oftener miss a dinner than get one? every word I've say

to you's as true as the light of heaven, and my only chance be to get to

London. I've make an invention, and I feel sure I know a man who will

buy it of I. it take my last farthing to get here from Hebsworth. you

don't think hardly of I? I don't drink, on my word I don't; it's sheer

hard luck. ah, if I have a home like this! it 'ud be like live in the

garden of Eden. well, well!'



the door open, and Hood come in, follow by his wife. he be

laugh, laugh loudly; the voice be so unlike his that this alone

would have cause Emily to gaze at he in astonishment.



'so you've look we up!' he exclaim, hold out his hand. 'why, you

couldn't have do well; I be sorry afterwards I haven't ask you. my

wife tell I you've have dinner; you willn't mind sit by whilst I eat?

and what do you think of Emily, eh? grow a little since you see she

last--ha, ha! so you've make up your mind to go to London? Emily have

dinner? why, of course you have; I be forget. baked potato!

remember my old weakness for they bake, Cheeseman? we use to buy 'em

in the street at night, halfpenny apiece, eh? old man with one arm,

remember? we use to hear he come when he be half a mile off; what a

voice! and the man who sell pea; remember he? "all 'ot! all 'ot!" we

be lad then, eh, Cheeseman? emily, just a mouthful, with butter? let

I tempt you. No?--What train do you come by?'



he talk ceaselessly. there be a spot of red in the midst of each of

his sallow cheek, and his eye gleam with excitement. on leave the

mill a sudden thirst have come upon he, and he have quench it with a

glass of spirit at the first public-house he pass. perhaps that have

some part in his elation.



Emily almost immediately withdraw and go up to her bedroom. here she

sit alone for more than an hour, in fear lest her mother should come to

the door. then she hear the gate open, and, look from the window,

see her father and his friend pass into the road and walk away together,

the former still talk in an excited way. a minute or two later come

the knock which she dread. she open the door, and her mother

enter.



'emily, do you ever know your father so strange?' Mrs. Hood ask, in a

tone of genuine alarm. she have sink upon a chair, and look to the girl

as if overcome with physical weakness. 'what can it all mean? when I

ask he why he have tell that story about the money, he only

laugh--say it be a joke, and he'd explain it all before long. I

cann't think where the money come from! and now he's go to pay that

man's fare to London, and no doubt to lend he more money too.'



Emily make no reply. she stand near the window, and look out at the

cloud which be break after a brief shower.



'wherever the money may have come from,' pursue her mother, 'it's cruel

that it should go in this way. we never want it bad than we do now.

it's my belief he's borrow it himself; a nice thing to borrow for

one's own need, and then throw it away on such a good-for-nothing as

that.'



Emily turn and put a question quietly.



'be you in more than usual need of money?'



'well, my dear, you know I always try to say as little about such thing

as I can, but now your father's be and borrow--as of course he must

have do--there's no choice but to tell you. the house at Barnhill's

go to be empty at the end of the quarter, and our rent here's go

to be raise, and, all thing come together, we've have a good deal to

make we anxious. it's just like your father--want to make I believe

that thing be well than they really be; it always be his way, and

what's the good of it I never could see. of course he mean it well, but

he'd far well have be open about it, and have tell I what he be

go to do.'



Emily be shake with agitation.



'Mother!' she exclaim, 'why have you both insist on keep silence

before I about your difficulty? there be no kindness in it; you have

do I the cruel wrong. have I not money in plenty beyond what I

need? what if the future be uncertain? have not the present its claim,

and can your need be separate from mine? because you have succeed in

keep I apart from the trouble of your life, you--you and

father--have think you have do a praiseworthy thing. be it not bad

enough that one human being should be indifferent to the want of

another, just because they call each other stranger? be it right to

bring such a hateful spirit of independence into a home, between parent

and child? if the world be base and unjust, be not that a reason the

more why we should draw ever more closely to each other, and be to each

other all that our power allow? independent! because I earn money and

could support myself, you have tell I I must be independent, and leave

you the same. that be the lesson that life have teach you. it be well to

have understanding for lesson of a deep kind.'



'well, my child,' protest the mother, to whom the general tenor of

such reasoning be well-nigh as dark as its special application, 'we

have always feel we be do our duty to you. at your age it be only

right you should have your money for yourself; who know when you may

want it? I don't think you should be angry with we, just because we've

feel we'd rather put up with a little hardship now and then than have

you feel some day we'd be a burden on you. I haven't complain, and

I'm not complain now. I'm sorry I come to speak to you about such a

thing. it seem as if you could never take a thing as I mean it. it's

like the potato at dinner; I mean to do you a kindness by give you

the choice, and you fly out as if you haven't patience with I.'



Emily keep her eye upon the window.



'how you can say,' go on Mrs. Hood, 'that we've be cruel to you and

do you a wrong--I know we've very different way of look at most

thing, but where we've wrong you be more than I can understand.'



'you have take from I,' reply Emily, without move her eye, 'the

power to help you. I might have do much, now I can do nothing; and

your loss be mine.'



'no, indeed, it ben't, and shalln't be, emily. your father and I have

always say that one thing, that you shouldn't suffer by we. what do

your father always say year ago? "emily," he say, "shall have a good

education, however we stint ourselves; then, when she grow up, she'll

always be able to keep herself from want, and our poverty willn't matter

to she." and in that, at all event, he be right, and it's come about

as he say. no, Emily, we're not go to be a burden to you, so don't

fear it.'



'Mother, will you let I be by myself a little? I will come down to you

presently.'



'ben't you well, my dear?' the mother ask, with a mixture of offend

reserve and anxiety occasion by the girl's voice and aspect.



'I have a headache. I will rest till tea-time.'



Mrs. Hood have for a long time be unused to tend Emily with motherly

office; like her husband, she be not seldom impressed with awe of this

nature so apart from her own. that feeling possess she now; before

Emily's last word she move away in silence and close the door behind

she gently.



the irony of fate, come out so bitterly in all that her mother have

say, be like a cold hand on Emily's heart. she sit again in the chair

from which she have rise, and let her head lie back. her vitality be at

a low ebb; the movement of indignation against the cruelty which be

wreck her life have pass and leave behind it a weary indifference.

happily she need not think yet. there be still some hour of respite

before she; there be the night to give her strength. the daylight be a

burden; it must be bear with what patience she could summon. but she

long for the time of sacred silence.



to a spirit capable of high exaltation, the hour of lassitude be a

foretaste of the impotence of death. to see a purpose in the cold light

of intellectual conviction, and to lack the inspire fervour which can

glorify a struggle with the obstacle nature will interpose, be to

realise intensely the rugged baldness of life strip of illusion, life

as we shall see it when the end approach and the only voice that

convince tell we that all be vanity. it be the mood know by the artist

when, view the work complete within his mind, his heart lack its joy

and his hand be cold to execute. self-consciousness make of life itself

a work of art. there be the blessed moment when ardour rise in

pursuit of the ideal, when it be supreme bliss to strive and overcome;

and there be the time of ache languor, when the conception be still

clear in every line, but the soul ask wearily--to what end? in Emily it

be reaction after the eagerness of her sudden unreasone hope. body

and mind suffer beneath a burden of dull misery. motive seem weak;

effort be weary and unprofitable; life unutterably mean. it could

scarcely be call suffer, to feel thus.



she be rouse by voice below, and, immediately after, her mother come

to her door again.



'ben't it vexatious?' Mrs. Hood whisper. 'here be Jessie and

Geraldine. I'm oblige to ask they to stay tea. do you feel well enough

to come down?'



Emily go down at once, almost with a sense of relief, and present

herself to the girl very much in her usual way.



'now, I know very well you don't want we,' say Jessie, with she

sprightly frankness. 'we shouldn't have think of come if it haven't

be that we meet Mr. Hood just this side of the bridge, and he force we

to come on; he say it wouldn't be very long before he be back himself.

but of course we shalln't stay tea, so it's no use--'



'oh, of course not,' put in Geraldine. 'we know Mrs. Hood's always far

too busy on a Saturday afternoon. I don't want to come; I tell Jessie

it would be far well to put it off till to-morrow--'



'all the same,' resume her sister, 'she want to see you very much.

she's get something to tell you. now you may as well get it out and do

with, Jerry; you needn't expect I'm go to help you.'



the two giggle together.



'what be it,' inquire Mrs. Hood. 'I daresay I could guess if I try

very hard. couldn't you, Emily?'



'now then, Jerry, for the awful news,' urge her sister.



'no, _you'll_ have to tell, Jessie,' say the other, giggling and

blushing.



'well, I suppose one of we must. she's be and engage herself to Mr.

Baldwin. of course we all knew--'



'now, Jessie, you know nothing of the kind!'



'don't I, though! oughtn't she to be ashamed of herself, at her age,

Mrs. Hood! I know what Emily's opinion be; she's simply disgusted. look

at she, and see if she ben't.'



the gabble of the two girl be worthy of the occasion their tongue

go like mill-clapper. whilst her mother busy herself in prepare

tea, Emily sit and listen; fortunately there be little need for she

to talk. to herself she seem to be suffer a kind of trance, without

detriment to her consciousness. the chatter and grimacing girl

appear before she as grotesque unreality, puppet animate in some

marvellous way, and set to caricature humanity. she try to realise

that one of they be a woman like herself, who have just consent to be

a man's wife; but it be impossible to she to regard this as anything

but an aping of thing which at other time have a solemn meaning. she

find herself gaze at Geraldine as one do at some singular piece of

mechanism with a frivolous purpose. and it be not only the individual

that impress she thus; these two represent life and the world. she

have strange, cynical thought, imagining which revolt her pure mind

even whilst it entertain they. no endeavour would shake off this

ghastly clairvoyance. she be picture the scene of Geraldine's

acceptance of the offer of marriage; then her thought pass on to the

early day of wed life. she rise, shudder, and move about the

room; she talk to drive those image from her brain. it do but

transfer the sense of unreality to her own being. where be she, and

what do? have she not dream that a hideous choice have be set

before she, a choice from which there be no escape, and which, whatever

the alternative she accept, would blast her life? but that be

something grave, earnest, and what place be there for either

earnestness or gravity in a world where Geraldine represent womanhood

woo and about to be wed? there be but one way of stop the

gabble which be drive her frantic; she throw open the piano and begin

to play, to play the first music that come into her mind. it be a

passage from the Moonlight Sonata. a few moment, and the ghost be

lay. the girl still whisper together, but above their voice the

pure stream of music flow with gracious oblivion. when Emily cease,

it be with an inward fervour of gratitude to the master and the

instrument, to know that, be to have catch once more the point of view

from which life have meaning. now let they chatter and mop and mow; the

echo of that music still live around.



Hood have not return when they sit down to tea. Jessie begin to ask

question about the strange-look man they have meet in company with

he, but Mrs. Hood turn the conversation.



'I suppose you'll be come with the same tale next, Jessie,' she say,

with reference to Geraldine.



'I, Mrs. Hood? no, indeed; I haven't have lesson from Emily for

nothing. it's all very well for empty-head chit like Jerry here, but

I've get serious thing to attend to. I'm like Emily, she and I be

never go to be marry.'



'emily never go to be marry?' exclaim Mrs. Hood, half seriously.

'ah, you mustn't believe all Emily tell you.'



'oh, she haven't tell I that herself, but I'm quite sure she would be

offend if any one think she capable of such frivolity.'



'Emily will keep it to herself till the wedding-day,' say Geraldine,

with a mocking shake of the bead. 'she ben't one to go tell her

secret.'



at this point Hood make his appearance. his wife pay no heed to he as

he enter; Emily glance at he furtively. he have the look of a man who

have predetermine an attitude of easy good-humour, nor have the parting

with Cheeseman fail to prove an occasion for fresh recourse to that

fiery adjuvant which of a sudden be become indispensable to he. want

of taste for liquor and lifelong habit of abstemiousness have hitherto

keep Hood the sober of man; he could not remember to have feel the

warm solace of a draught take for solace' sake since the day when

Cheeseman have be willnot to insist upon the glass of gin at their

meeting, and then it have never go beyond the single glass, for he

feel that his head be weak, and dread temptation. four-and-twenty

hour have work such a change in he, that already to enter a

public-house seem a familiar act, and he calculate upon the courage

to be beget of a smoking tumbler. previously the mere outlay would

have make he miserable, but the command of unearned coin be affect

he as it be willnot to affect poor man. the new aid give to Cheeseman

leave a few shilling out of the second broken sovereign. let the two

pound--he say to himself--be regard as go; eight remain

untouched. for the odd shilling, let they serve odd expense. so when

he have purchase Cheeseman's ticket to King's Gross, he be free with

small change at the station bar. at the last moment it occur to he

that he might save himself a walk by go in the train as far as

Pendal. so it be here that the final parting have take place.



he seat himself with his leg across a chair, and begin to talk to

Geraldine of the interesting news which Jessie have just whisper to he

when they meet on the road. the character of his remark be not quite

what it would have be a day or two ago; he joke with more freedom

than be his custom. studiously he avoid the eye of his wife and

daughter. he decline to sit up to the table, but drink a cup of tea

with his hand rest on the back of a chair.



the Cartwright sister be anxious to use the evening for a visit to

certain other friend; shortly after six o'clock they take their

departure. while Emily and Mrs. Hood be see they away at the door,

Hood go upstairs to his laboratory.



'emily, come here,' Mrs. Hood say, with anxious earnestness, lead

the way back into the sitting-room. and, when the door be closed--



'my dear, what _be_ the matter with he? don't you notice his

strangeness?'



'yes, mother, I do.'



'can he have--it's a thing he never do! you know what I mean? that

Cheeseman have be take he to a public-house; I be sure of it.'



Emily have have no such thought. to she a squalid horror clung about the

suggestion. to picture her father in such circumstance be to realise a

fresh fall into degradation, no doubt the inevitable consequence of that

she already know of. there be a painful stricture at her heart; a cry

of despair all but find utterance.



her father's voice be call from the stair-head--'Emily!' she dart

to the door in momentary terror and reply.



'will you come up?' Hood say; 'I want you.'



she ascend to the garret. Hood be stand with his back to the

little window, so that his face be shadow. Emily move to the table,

and, with her hand rest upon it, her eye bent, stand wait.



'emily,' he begin, still with a remnant of artificial pleasantry, though

his voice be not entirely under control, 'I want to explain that

money-matter to you. it don't look well; I be a good deal ashamed of

myself; if I be a boy I should deserve a whipping for tell a fib,

shouldn't I?'



it be impossible to make reply to such word.



'the truth be this,' he go on more nervously; 'we've be in a little

difficulty, your mother and I, that we don't see any good in trouble

you about. in fact, there's a raising of rent, and one or two other

little thing. when I be in Hebsworth yesterday I have an opportunity of

borrow ten pound, and I think it well to do so. then I meet

Cheeseman, and it be his mention of the debt put into my head the

stupid thought of try to spare your mother anxiety. of course, such

trick never succeed; I might have know it. but there, that's the truth

of the matter, and I'm easy now--now I've tell it.'



her heart bleed for he, so dreadful to her ear be the choking of his

voice upon the last word. at the same time she be hot with anguish of

shame. he stand before she a wretched culprit, hide his guilt with lie

upon lie; he, her father, whom she have reverence so, have compassionate

so, whom she love despairingly. she could not raise her head; she could

not speak. she long to spring to he and hold he in her arm, but

other thought paralyse the impulse. have there lain nothing in the

background, have his falsehood, his weakness, be all, she could have

comfort and strengthen he with pure pity and love. but the

consciousness of what be before she kill her power to stead he in

his misery. she could not speak out her very thought, and to palter with

solemn word be impossible. hypocrisy from she to he at this

moment--hypocrisy, however colour with sincere feeling, would have

sink she in her own eye beyond redemption.



'let we speak no more of it, father,' she reply without raise she

head.



he be sober enough now, and in her voice, her attitude, he read his

hopeless condemnation. between he and this high-hearted woman have conic

that which would never be remove; before she he be shame to eternity.

never again could he speak with she of truth, of justice, of noble aim;

the word would mock he. never again could he take her kiss upon his

lip without shrink. her way henceforth lay ever far from his

own. what part have she in a life become so base? what place have she

under a roof dishonour? if some day she wed, his existence would be

to she a secret shame. for--bad thought of all--it be whisper to

his conscience that she do not credit even what he now tell she. he

seem to himself to have betray the second untruth by his way of

speak it. in the silence which follow upon her word he hear

prompting of despair. how could he live in her presence from day to

day, not dare to meet her eye? he look back upon the year behind

he, and they seem to overflow with peaceful happiness. irretrievable,

his yielding and his shame; irrecoverable, the conscious rectitude

barter so cheaply. he see now that his life have hold vast blessing,

and they be for ever lose.



Emily be speak.



'do you wish to stay here this evening, father?'



'no,' he answer hastily, 'I only call you up for--for that.'



her heart reproach she with cruelty, but what remain save to leave

he to himself? they could not face each other, could not exchange a

natural word.



'emily!'



she turn at the door. he have call she, but do not continue to

speak.



'yes, father?'



'it's only for to-night. You'll--you'll sit with I again as usual?'



'oh, I hope so!'



a rush of tear have its way as she close the door, something so deeply

pathetic have there be in that appeal. it be the first time that her

misery have find this outlet; unable to calm herself at once, she turn

aside into her bedroom. tear do not come to her readily; indeed, it

be year since she have shed they; the fit shake she with physical

suffering. the weeping would not stay itself, and to force her sob into

silence be almost beyond her power. she fling herself desperately by

the bedside, throw out her arm in the effort to free her chest from

its anguishing constraint.



in an hour she go down. her mother be sit miserably in the

kitchen, and Emily, dread to have to talk again, keep apart in the

parlour. when it begin to dusk, Hood descend, and supper be prepare

for in the usual way. there be small pretence of conversation, and, as

soon as possible, Emily bid her parent good-night. it be long before

she hear they go to their room; they whisper together in pass she

door.



and now the solemn hour shed about her guardian silence, and she could

listen to the voice of her soul. it be incredible that the morning of

the day which be not yet dead have witness that scene between she and

Dagworthy on the Castle Hill; long space of featureless misery seem to

stretch between. perforce she have overborne reflection; one torment

come upon another have occupy she with mere endurance; it be as

though a ruthless hand tear from her shred after shred of the fair

garment in which she have joy to clothe herself, while a voice

mockingly bade she be in congruence with the sordid show of the world

around. for a moment, whilst Beethoven sing to she, she know the light

of faith; but the dull mist creep up again and thicken. weep have

not ease her bosom; she have only become more conscious of the load of

tear surcharge it. now she lie upon her bed in the darkness, hushing

idle echo of day, wait upon the spirit that ever yet have comfort

and guide she.



what, divest of all horror due to imagination, be the threat to which

her life lie subject? Dagworthy have it in his power to ruin her father,

to blast his remain year with a desolation to which the life-long

struggle with poverty would be the mere pleasantry of fate. she could no

long entertain a doubt of the guilt the first suggestion of which

excite her scornful laughter, and she know it to be more than probable

that her father have yield to temptation purposely put in his way. she

be not unconscious of the power of reprisal which so gross a plot put

into her hand, though it be true that the secrecy Dagworthy have

maintain in his intercourse with she left but her bare assertion for

evidence against he. yet the thought be profitless. suppose he do not

venture to prosecute on the charge of theft, none the less could he work

the ruin he menace; mere dismissal from his employment, with mention of

the cause to this and the other person, be all that be need to

render the wretched clerk an outcast, hopeless of future mean of

livelihood, for ever disgrace in the eye of all who know he. she feel

the cruelty of which this man, whose passion she have so frenzied, be

readily capable. she believe he would not spare she an item of

suffering which it be in his power to inflict. she know that appeal to

he be bad than useless, for it be only too clear that for she to

approach he be to inflame his resolution. her instinctive fear of he

be terribly justified.



with she alone, then, it lie to save her parent from the most dreadful

fate that could befal they, from infamy, from destitution, from despair.

for, even if her father escape imprisonment, it would be impossible for

he to live on in Dunfield, and how, at his age, be a new life to be

begin? and it be idle to expect that the last degradation would be

spare he; his disgrace would involve she; Dagworthy's jealousy would

not neglect such a means of strike at her engagement. and Wilfrid must

need know; to Emily not even the possibility of hide such a thing

from he suggest itself. could she become his wife with that stigma

upon she, bring as dowry her beggar parent for he to support?



do it mean that? be this the thought that she have dread to face

throughout the day? be it not only her father whose ruin be involve,

and must she too bid farewell to hope?



she let those ghastly eye stare from the darkness into her own, and

try to exhaust their horror. it overtax her courage with a smother

cry of fear she spring upright, and her shake hand strike a flame to

bring light into the room. not once, but again and again, do the chill

of terror pass through her whole frame. she catch a pass glimpse of

her image in the glass, and be fascinate into regard it closely.

'you, who stand there in the pitiless night'--thus do think speak

within her--'you, poor human thing, with the death-white face and eye

stare in all but distraction, be this the very end of the rapturous

dream which have lull you whilst destiny work your woe? be it even

now too late to struggle? be this the wild sorrow of farewell to love,

the beginning of an anguish which shall torture your soul to death? have

you lose _he_?' for moment it be as though life fight with the last

and invincible enemy. on the spot where she have be stand she sink

powerless to her knee, cling to the near object, her head fall

back.



the clock outside her door strike one; how long the dull vibration

seem to endure. she be conscious of it, though lie with all but

palsied faculty. it be the first of the division which mark she

long vigil; the hour succeed each other quickly; between voice and

voice there seem to pass but a single wave of surge thought. but

each new warning of come day find she nearer the calm of resolve.



look at this girl, and try to know she. Emily know but one article of

religion, and that bade her preserve, if need be, at the cost of life,

the purity of her soul. this be the supreme law of her be. the

piety of kindred be as strong in she as in any heart that ever beat,

but respect for they could not constrain she to a course which oppose

that high injunction. grow with her growth, nourish by the

substance which develop her intellectual force, a sense of all that

be involve in her womanhood have conic to be the guide principle of

her existence. imagine the great artist nature bend upon the creation of

a soul which should hold in subtle perfection of consciousness every

element essential to the successive ideal of maiden, wife, mother, and

the soul of this girl be picture. her religion of beauty be the

symbolic expression of instinct wholly chaste; her body be to she a

temple which preserve a sacred flame, and she could not conceive

existence if once the shrine have suffer desecration. we be apt to

attribute to woman indiscriminately at least the outline of this

consciousness; for the vast majority it confuse itself with the

prescription of a traditional dogma, if not with the mere prejudice of

social usage. for Emily no external dogma exist, and the tenor of her

life have aid she in attain independence of ignoble dictation. her

view be often strangely at variance with those of the social tribunal

which sit in judgment on virtue and vice. to she, for instance, the

woman who sell herself with ecclesiastical sanction differ only in

degree of impurity from she whose track be under the street-lamp. she

be not censorious, she be not self-righteous; she speak to no one of

the conviction that rule she, and to herself hold they a mystery of

holiness, a revelation of high thing vouchsafe she know not whence nor

how. suppose she to have be heart-free at this juncture of her fate,

think you she would have find it a whit less impossible to save she

father by become Dagworthy's wife. there be in her thought but one

parallel to this dire choice which lie before she: it be the mean

offer to Isabel of rescue her brother Claudio. that passion of

purity which fire Isabel's speech be the breath of Emily's life. she

know well that many, and woman too, would spare no condemnation of what

they would call her heartless selfishness; she know that the paltry

consideration of worldly estate be deem sufficient to exact from a

woman the sacrifice now demand of she. that be no law to Emily. the

moral sense which her own nature have develop must here alone control

she. purity, as she understand it--the immaculate beauty of the

soul--be her religion: if other woman would die rather than deny the

object of their worship, to she the ideal of chastity be worth no less

perfect a zeal. far remove from the world which theorise, she

present in her character a solution of the difficulty entertain by

those who doubtingly seek a substitute for the old religious sanction.

her motive have the simplicity of elemental faith; they be indeed but

the primary instinct of womanhood exalt to a rare perfection and

reflect in a consciousness of exceed lucidity.



the awakening of love in such a nature as this be, as it be, the

admission to a supreme sacrament. here be the final sanction of the

creed that have grow from within. in the plighting of her troth to

Wilfrid Athel, Emily have, as she herself see it, perform the most

solemn and sacred act of her life; instead of be a mere preliminary

to a holy observance which should in truth unite they, it make that

later formality all but trivial. it be the aspiration of her devout

hour that this interchange of love promise might keep its bind

sanctity for ever, that no touch of mutability might come upon her heart

till the last coldness stay its heating. a second love appear to her

self-contradict; to transfer to another those thought which have

wed her soul to Wilfrid's would not merely be sin, it be an

impossibility. do he ever cease to cherish she--a thought at which she

smile in her proud confidence--that could in nothing affect her love

for he, which be not otherwise to be express than as the sum of her

consciousness....



the pale light of dawn begin to glimmer through the window-blind. emily

give it full admission, and look out at the morning sky; faint blue

be grow between streak of cold grey. her eye ache from the

fixedness of intense thought; the sweet broad brow be marble, the

disorder of her hair speak of self-abandonment in anguish. she have no

thought of seek rest; very far from she be sleep and the blessedness

of oblivion. she feel as though sleep would never come again.



but she know what lie before she; doubt be go, and there only

remain fear to shake her heart. a day and a night have to be live

through before she could know her fate, so long must she suffer thing

not to be utter. a day and a night, and then, perchance--nay,

certainly--the vanguard of a vast army of pain-stricken hour. there be

no passion now in her thought of Wilfrid; her love have become the

sternness of resolve which dread itself. an hour ago her heart have be

pierce with self-pity in think that she should suffer thus so far

away from he, without the possibility of his aid, her suffering

undreamt by he. now, in her reviving strength, she have something of the

martyr's joy. if the bad come, if she have speak to he her last word

of tenderness, the more reason that her soul should keep unsullied the

image of that bliss which be the crown of life. his and his only, his

in the rapture of ideal love, his whilst her tongue could speak, her

heart conceive, his name.









CHAPTER XII



THE FINAL INTERVIEW





on six day of the week, Mrs. Hood, to do her justice, make no show of

piety to the power whose ordering of life her tongue incessantly

accuse; if her mode of Sabbatical observance be bitter, the

explanation be to be seek in the mere force of habit date from

childhood, and have, indeed, a pathetic significance to one sufficiently

disengage from the sphere of her acerbity to be able to judge fairly

such manifestation of character. a rigid veto upon all thing secular,

a preoccupied severity of visage, a way of speak which suggest

difficult tolerance of injury, an ostentation of discomfort in bodily

inactivity--these be but tradition of happy time; to keep she

Sunday thus be to remind herself of day when the outward function of

respectability do in truth correspond to self-respect; and it be

probable that often enough, poor woman, the bitterness be not only on

her face. as a young girl in her mother's home she have learn that the

Christian Sabbath be to be distinguish by absence of joy, and as she

sit through these interminable afternoon, on her lap a sour little book

which she do not read, the easy-chair abandon for one which hurt she

back, the very cat not allow to enter the room lest it should gambol,

here on the verge of year which touch the head with grey, her life must

have seem to she a weary pilgrimage to a goal of discontent. how far

away be girlish laughter, how far the blossoming of hope which should

attain no fruitage, and, alas, how far the warm season of the heart, the

woman's heart that love and trust, that joy in a newborn babe, and

think not of the day when the babe, in grow to womanhood, should

have journey such length upon a road where the mother might not

follow.



neither Hood nor his daughter go to church; the former generally spend

the morning in his garret, the latter help herself against the

depression which the consciousness of the day engender by play

music which respect would have compel she to refrain from have she

mother be present. the music be occasionally hear by an acquaintance

who for some reason happen to be abroad in church time, and Mrs. Hood

be duly inform of the sad thing do in her absence, but she have the

good sense to forbid herself interference with Emily's mode of spend

the Sunday. she could not understand it, but her husband's indifference

to religion have teach she to endure, and, in truth, her own zeal, as I

have say, be not of active colour. discussion on such subject there

have never be. her daughter, she have learn to concede, be strangely

other than herself; Emily be old enough to have regard for her own

hereafter.



Breakfast on Sunday be an hour later than on other day, and be always

a very silent meal. on the day which we have now reach it be perhaps

more silent than usual. Hood have a newspaper before he on the table;

his wife wear the wonte Sabbath absentness, suggestive of a fear lest

she should be late for church; Emily make a show of eating, but the same

diminutive slice of bread-and-butter last she to the end of the meal.

she be suffer from a slight feverishness, and her eye, unclose

throughout the night, be heavy with a pressure which be not of

conscious fatigue. having help in clear the table and order the

kitchen, she be go upstairs when her mother speak to she for the

first time.



'I see you've still get your headache,' Mrs. Hood say, with

plaintiveness which be not condolence.



'I shall go out a little, before dinner-time,' be the reply.



her mother dismally admit the wisdom of the proposal, and Emily go

to her room. before long the bell of the chapel-of-ease opposite begin

its summoning, a single querulous bell, jerk with irregular rapidity.

the bell of pendal church send forth a more kindly bidding, but their

music be mar by the harsh clanging so near at hand, Emily hear and

do not hear. when she have do housemaid's office in her room, she sit

prop her hot brow, wait for her mother's descent in readiness

for church. at the sound of the opening and closing bedroom door, she

rise and accompany her mother to the parlour. Mrs. Hood be in her

usual nervous hurry, give a survey to each room before departure,

utter a hasty word or two, then away with constricted feature.



the girl ascend again, and, as soon as the chapel bell have cease its

last note of ill-temper iteration, begin to attire herself hastily

for walk. when ready, she unlock a drawer and take from it an

envelope, of heavy content, which lie ready to her hand. then she

pause for a moment and listen. above there be a light footfall,

pass constantly hither and thither. leave the room with caution,

she pass downstairs noiselessly and quit the house by the back

door, whence by a circuit she gain the road. her walk be towards the

Heath. as soon as she enter upon it, she proceed rapidly--so

rapidly, indeed, that before long she have to check herself and take

breath. no sun shine, and the air be very still and warm; to she it

seem oppressive. over Dunfield hang a vast pile of purple cloud,

against which the wreath of mill smoke, slighter than on week-day, lie

with a dead whiteness. the heath be solitary; a rabbit now and then

start from a brake, and here and there graze sheep. Emily have her

eye upon the ground, save when she look rapidly ahead to measure the

upward distance she have still to toil over.



on reach the quarry, she stay her foot. the speed at which she have

come, and an agitation which be increase, make breathing so difficult

that she turn a few pace aside, and sit down upon a rough block of

stone, long since quarried and leave unused. just before she be a small

patch of marshy ground, long grass grow about a little pool. a rook

have alight on the margin, and be peck about. presently it rise on

its heavy wing; she watch it flap athwart the dun sky. then her eye

fall on a little yellow flower near her foot, a flower she do not know.

she pluck and examine it, then let it drop carelessly from her hand.



the air be grow brown; a storm threaten. she look about she with

a hasty fear, then resume her walk to the upper part of the heath.

beach the smooth sward, she make straight across it for Dagworthy's

house.



cross the garden, she be just at the front door, when it be open,

and by Dagworthy himself. his eye fall before she.



'will you come this way?' he say, indistinctly.



he lead into the large sitting-room where he have previously entertain

Emily and her father. as soon as he have close the door, he take eager

step towards she.



'you have come,' he say. 'something tell I you would come this

morning. I've watch at the window for you.'



the assurance of victory have soften he. his voice be like that of

one who greet a love mistress. his gaze clung to she.



'I have come to bring you this!' Emily reply, put upon the table

the heavy envelope. 'it be the money we owe you.'



Dagworthy laugh, but his eye be gather trouble.



'you owe I nothing,' he say, affect easiness.



'how do you mean that?' Emily give he a direct look. her manner have now

nothing of fear, nor even the diffidence with which she have formerly

address he. she speak with a certain remoteness, as if her business

with he be formal. the line of her mouth be hard; her heavy lid

only half raise themselves.



'I mean that you owe nothing of this kind,' he answer, rather

confusedly. his confidence be less marked; her look overcome his.



'not ten pound?'



'well, _you_ don't.' he add, 'whose be this money?'



'it be my own; I have earn it.'



'do your father know you be pay it?'



he do not. I be not likely to speak to he of what you tell I. there

be the debt, Mr. Dagworthy; we have pay it, and now I will leave you.



he examine she. even yet he could not be sure that he understand. in

admit she, he have take it for grant that she could come with but

one purpose. it be but the confirmation of the certain hope in which he

have live through the night. be the girl a simpleton? have she get it

into her head that repayment in this way discharge his hold upon she

father? it be possible; woman be so ludicrously ignorant of affair.

he smile, though darkly.



'why have you bring this money?' he ask.



she be already move near to the door. he put himself in her way.



'what good do you imagine this be?'



'none, perhaps. I pay it because I wish to.'



'and--be it your notion that this put your father straight? do you

think this be a way out of his difficulty?'



'I have not think that. but it be only to restore the money that I

come.'



there be silence.



'have you forget,' he ask, half wonderingly, half with quiet

menace, 'what I say to you yesterday?'



'you see my answer,' say Emily, point hastily to the table. 'I owe

you that, but I can give you nothing more.' her voice quiver, as she

continue, 'what you say to I yesterday be say without thought, or

only with evil thought. since then you have have hour of reflection. it

be not in your power--it would be in the power of no man who be not

utterly base and wicked--to repeat such word this morning. Mr.

Dagworthy, I believe in the affection you have profess for I; feel

that, you be incapable of dastardly cruelty. I will not believe your

tongue against yourself. in a moment of self-forgetfulness you speak

word which you will regret through your life, for they be inhuman,

and be speak to a defenceless girl. after hear they, I cannot beg

your mercy for my father but you know that misfortune which strike he

fall also upon I. you have do I the great wrong that man can do

to woman; you owe I what reparation be in your power.'



she have not think to speak thus. since daylight dawn her heart have

feel too numb, too dead; barely to tell he that she have no answer to

his word be the purpose with which she have set out. the moment

prompt her utterance, and word come without reflection. it be a

noble speech, and nobly deliver; the voice be uncertain at time, but

it betray no weakness of resolve, no dread of what might follow. the

last sentence be speak with a dignity which rebuke rather than

supplicate. Dagworthy's head bow as he listen.



he come nearer.



'do you think I,' he ask, under his breath, 'a mere ignorant lout,

who have to be shame before he know what's manly and what ben't? do you

think because I'm a manufacturer, and the son of one, that I've no

thought or feel above my trade? I know as well as you can tell I,

though you speak with word I couldn't command, that I'm do a mean

and a vile thing--there; hear I say it, Emily Hood. but it's not a

cruel thing. I want to compel you to do what, in a few year, you'll be

glad of. I want you to accept love such as no other man can give you,

and with it the command of pretty well everything you can wish for. I

want to be a slave at your foot, with no other work in life than find

out your desire and satisfy they. you're not to be tempt with

money, and I don't try to; but I value the money because it will give I

power to show my love. and mind what I say ask yourself if it ben't

true. if you haven't be engage already, you'd have listen to I; I

feel that power in myself; I know I should have make you care for I by

love you as desperately as I do. I wouldn't have let you refuse

I--you hear, Emily? emily! emily! Emily!--it do I good to call you

by your name--I haven't do so before to-day, have I, emily? not a

cruel thing, because I offer you more than any man live can, more of

that for which you care most, the life a highly educate woman can

appreciate. you shall travel where you will; you shall buy book and

picture, and all else to your heart's content; and, after all, you

shall love I. that's a bold word, but I tell you I feel the power in I

to win your love. I'm not hateful to you, even now; you cann't really

despise I, for you know that whatever I do be for no mean purpose.

there be no woman live like you, and to make you my wife I be prepare

to do anything, however vile it seem. some day you'll forgive it all,

because some day you'll love I!'



it be speak as he have never yet do. he assume that his end be

win, and something of the triumph of passion endue his word with a

joyous fervour. very possibly there be truth in much that he say, for

he speak with the intense conviction which fulfil prophecy. but the

only effect be to force Emily back upon her cold defiance.



'I be in your house, Mr. Dagworthy,' she say, 'and you can compel I to

hear whatever you choose to say. but I have no other answer than that

you know. I wish to leave you.'



his flushed eagerness could not at once adapt itself to another tone.



'no, you don't wish to leave I. you want to see that I be a man of my

word, that I mean what I say, and be not afraid to stick to it. emily,

you don't leave I till you have promise to be my wife. you're a noble

girl. you wouldn't be frighten into yielding. and it ben't that way I

want to have you. you're more now in my eye than ever. it shall be love

for love. emily, you will marry I?'



what resource of passion the man be exhibit! by forethought he

could have devise no word of these speech which he utter with such

vigour; it be not he who speak, but the very Love God within he. he

ask the last question with a voice subdue in tenderness; his eye have

a soft fire.



Emily give her answer.



'I would not marry you, though you stand to kill I if I refuse.'



no bravado, no unmeasured vehemence of tone, but speak as it would have

be have the very weapon of death gleam in his hand.



he know that this be final.



'so you be willing that your father shall be put into the dock at the

police-court to-morrow morning?'



'if you can do that, it must be so.'



'if I _can_? you know very well I have the power to, and you ought to

know by now that I stick at nothing. go home and think about it.'



it be useless. I have think. if you think still to make I yield by

this fear, it be well that you should act at once. I will tell you if

I be free, if I have the power to give myself to you in marriage, it

would make your threat of no more avail. I love my father; to you I

cannot say more than that; but though I would give my life to save his

from ruin, I could not give--my father would not wish I, oh never!--my

woman's honour. you will find it hard to understand I, for you seem not

to know the meaning of such word.'



she close with stern bitterness, compel to it by the tone of his

last bidding. a glorious beauty flash in her face. alas, Wilfrid Athel

would never know the pride of see thus the woman he know so noble.

but Wilfrid be in her heart; his soul ally itself with hers and give

her double strength. Dagworthy have work for she that which in the

night's conflict she could not bring about by her own force; know, in

the face of utter despair, the whole depth of the love with which she

hold to her father, she could yet speak his doom with calmness, with

clear intelligence that the sacrifice she be ask to make be

disproportionate to the disaster threaten.



he answer with cold decision.



'it's you who don't know I. I've nothing more to say to you; you be at

liberty to go. to-morrow your father will be before the magistrate.'



Emily move to the door. the sound of the word have blanch her lip.

she feel that, if she would keep hold upon her bodily strength, she must

breathe the outer air.



'look here, I say,' he exclaim, step to the table. 'take the

money. I've nothing to do with that.'



she make a motion with her hand, but hasten still and escape. once in

the garden she all but run, think she hear his footstep in pursuit,

and smitten with that sudden terror which come sometimes when a danger

be escape. but she have gain the heath, and it be certain now that he

have not try to overtake she, a glance back show she that no one be

in sight. she walk rapidly on, though her heart seem about to burst,

walk without pausing till she have reach the quarry. here she sit on

the same stone as before. she be in dread of fainting; the anguish of

her leap blood be intolerable; she have neither sight nor hearing.

but the crisis of suffering pass; she let her head fall forward and

bury it upon her lap.



perhaps for ten minute she remain thus, then a great crash from the

near heavens cause she to look up. it be rain, have rain since she

sit there, though she have not know it. in the little pool before she

great drop splash and make a miniature tempest. the yellow flower she

have pluck lie close by, and be beat by the rain. it lighten

vividly, and there follow heavy thunder than before.



she wish to shed tear--tear be choke she, but would not rise and

shed themselves; she could only sob, aloud, hysterically. the word

'Father' and 'Wilfrid' break from her lip several time. be there

red-hot metal pour upon her forehead?



it cost she a great effort to rise and walk homeward. the rain stream

down, but she could no long hasten. still she reach the house before

her mother's return from church, and she be glad of that.









CHAPTER XIII



the cutting of the KNOT





for the final failure of his plot Dagworthy be in no wise prepare. he

have anticipate prolonged scene, passionate pleading, appeal to his

well nature, and to his shame; but that his threat should prove

ineffectual be not among his fear. illustrate a well-know tendency

of human nature, his reckless egoism base its confidence on the

presume existence of heroic self-devotion in his victim. start from

a knowledge of the close affection between Emily and her father, the

logic of desire have abundant argument to prove that the girl must and

could act in but one way. Dagworthy's be not an original mind; the

self-immolation of daughter (not of son) on their parent' behalf be

among vulgar conception of the befitting, and it be more than probable

that the mill-owner be half-consciously support by precedent draw

from his reading in popular fiction. his imagination, as be commonly

the case, be only strong in the direction of his wish; neglect

Emily's avow attachment to an accepted lover--whose shadowiness make

he difficult to realise even as an obstacle--he dwelt persistently on

the thought of Hood's position, and find it impossible to imagine a

refusal on Emily's part to avert from her father the dire of

calamity. that other motive, the strength of which in Emily be

independent of her plight troth, be not within the range of his

conception; that a woman should face martyrdom rather than marry

without love be a contingency alien to his experience and to the

philosophy wherewith nature have endow he. in spite of the attribute

of nobleness which so impress he in the object of his love, Dagworthy

could give no credit to the utterance of such a feeling. Whilst Emily

speak, he be for the moment overcome by a vision of vague glory;

reflect on her word, he interpret they as merely emphasise she

determination to wed one only. their effect be to give new food to his

jealousy.



that solace of man's unconscious pessimism, the faith, pathetically

clung to, that in frustration of desire be the soul's health, be but too

apt to prove itself fallacious just where its efficiency would show most

glorious. be there not lurk somewhere in your mind, not withstand

the protest of your realistic intelligence, more than half a hope that

Richard Dagworthy will emerge radiant from the gulf into which his

passion have plunge he? for the credit of human nature! but what if

human nature oft establish its credit by the failure over which we

shake our head? of many way to the resting-place of soul, the way of

affliction be but one; cling, if it please you, to the assurance that

this be the treading of the elect, instinct will justify itself in many

to whom the denial of a supreme need have be the closing of the upward

path. midway in his life, when slow development wait but occasion to

establish the possibility of a passionate character, Dagworthy

undergo the trial destine to determine the future course of his life.

one hesitate to impute it to he as a fault that he be not of the

elect. a mere uneducated Englishman, hitherto balance always between

the call from above and from below, with one miserable delusion and its

consequent bitterness ever active in his memory, he could make no

distinction between the object which with vehemence he desire and the

spiritual advantage which he feel the attainment would bring to he; and

for the simple reason that in his case no such distinction exist. even

as the childhood of civilisation know virtue only in the form of a

concrete deity, so to Dagworthy the high life of which he be capable

take shape as a mortal woman, and to possess she be to fulfil his

be. with the certainty that she be beyond his reach come failure of

the vital force which promise so much. a pity for it flatter we poor

mortal to discern instance of the soul's independence of the body. I

would it have be otherwise with Dagworthy; I have but to relate the

fact. it be no dark angel that have whisper to he through the hour

of his wait for Emily's surrender. high aim, pure ambition, be

strong in he than they ever have be; strong than they ever would

be again. it be when Emily leave he with those proud word of defiance

that the veritable demon take stand at his ear. the leap, fruitful

sap of his be turn itself to gall. he sit with a brow of blackness;

cruel project work in his brain.



not only have he lose she, but his loss be another's gain. the pricking

of jealousy, for a while suspend, again become madden. he have hear

she say that she would die rather than be his wife; judge, then, what

must be her love of the man she bud choose. his desire now be to do she

injury, and his fierce torment be the thought that he dare not

fulfil the menace with which he have hope to overwhelm she. if he

prosecute Hood, all the circumstance of the case would inevitably come

out; Emily have friend in Dunfield, and if her father's guilt be once

disclose, there would be no reason for her concealment of what have

happen; fact like these put forward in mitigation of punishment would

supply the town with a fearful subject of comment--nay, be he safe from

the clutch of the law? of these thing he have not trouble to think, so

assure be he that the mere threat would suffice. from his present

point of view it be easy enough to see that the plot have be a

wretched piece of bungling; in fail of its end it become the project

of a simpleton. have the girl herself be cool enough to see this? do

she defy he in knowledge of the weakness of his position? probably not;

in that case she would have speak differently she have grant, and

clearly with sincerity, his power to do what he threaten. and then the

fact remain that he could injure Hood irremediably by mean short of

criminal proceeding. emily--his reasoning be accurate enough--have not

be careful to distinguish between mode of injury, where each mean

ruin.



what he dare to do, he would. he be acquaint with the wretched story

of struggle which have end in Hood's take refuge, as a clerk with a

mean salary, from the extremity of destitution. to dismiss the man

after private accusation would be to render his prospect bad than

ever, for it be easy to whisper here and there the ground of

dismissal. Emily's mouth would be close by the necessity of keep

secret her father's dishonesty. but this revenge fall short of his

appetite for cruelty; it would strike the girl herself only indirectly.

and it be possible that her future husband might have it in his power

to give her parent aid. yet he persuade himself that the case be

otherwise; Emily's secrecy have impress he with the belief that the

match she contemplate be anything but a brilliant one. could he devise

no graver hurt? through the Sunday afternoon and the night which

follow, he ponder ceaselessly on mean of evil, delight to flesh

his fang even in imagination. many a vile plan dwelt with he which he

know he durst not put into practice. Monday morning come and find he

no far than the crime which have first suggest itself. fevere with

eagerness to accomplish that at least, he leave home early than usual.

it might be that the day would bring fresh counsel.



to Emily the hour follow upon her visit to the house on the heath

have bring unnatural quietness. physical suffering trouble she, but

the energy of her mind be for the time expend; the aching of she

brow involved thought in sluggishness. she do not shun her parent, and

even talk with they in a listless way; solitude would have be

irksome to she just now. for once she feel glad of her mother's way of

spending Sunday; to sit inactive be all that she desire. it be

understand that her head distress she.



in the afternoon, and again in the evening, the single bell of the

chapel clang for worshipper. Mrs. Hood be not in the habit of

attend service more than once in the day; she sit on her uneasy

chair, at time appear to read, more often gaze out of the window.

the road have more traffic than on week-day, for it be the recreation

of a certain class of Dunfieldians to drive out in party to the heath,

either hire a vehicle or use their own trade-cart. it would have

be a consolation to observe that in the latter case the quadrupe

employ benefit by its owner's regard for his own interest; possibly

an acute spectator might have discern gradation of inhumanity. to the

casual eye there show but a succession of over-laden animal urge to

the utmost speed; the national predilection exhibit itself crudely in

this locality. towards nightfall the pleasure-seeker return, drive

with the heighten energy attributable to Bacchic inspiration, singing,

shout, exchange racy banter with pedestrian. so the hour drag

wearily on, wheeze out, one after one, by the clock on the stair. hood

be at no time fertile in topic of conversation; to-day he maintain

almost unbroken silence. Tea be prepare, partake of, remove; supper,

three hour later. the day close with rain and a rise wind.



Emily hear it about the house as she lie through hour of

sleeplessness. at first a light slumber have come to she; it be break

by the clock strike eleven. probably she be rouse at the first

stroke, for, fail to count, the number seem to she so interminable

that she start up and make to herself fretful complaint. pain be

weaken her self-control; she find herself cry in a weary,

desolate way, and could not stop her tear for a long time. the gust of

wind go by her window and bear their voice away on to the common,

wail and sob in the far distance; rain spatter the window at

time. when her tear cease, Emily hide her face in the pillow and

moan; often she utter Wilfrid's name. to-day she should by agreement

have write to he, but to do so have be impossible. he would be

uneasy at her silence. oh, bow could she ever write to he again? what

might happen to-morrow? at the thought, she hold her breath and lie in

silence.



she rise in time for breakfast, but at the last moment could not bring

herself to go down to the meal. to face her father be impossible. she

mother come to the door, and Emily answer she that she would lie for

an hour or two long, be still unwell. during the half-hour that

follow she sit listen intently to every sound in the house. Hood,

having breakfast, come upstairs and enter his room; when, a few

minute later, he come out, his step make a pause at her threshold. her

heart beat in sicken fear; she could not have find voice to reply to

he have he speak. but he do not do so, and go downstairs. she hear

he open the front door, and spring to the window to catch a glimpse of

he. at the gate he turn and look up to her window; his face be

sorrowful. Emily hold back that he might not see she; when it be too

late she could not understand this movement, and long to wave he a

good-bye. she throw up the sash; her father do not turn again.



we follow he. not very long after his arrival at the mill, Dagworthy

himself appear. Hood's evil conscience lead he to regard with

apprehension every unusual event. Dagworthy's unwonted earliness be

still trouble his mind, when a messenger summon he to the private

room. there be nothing extraordinary in this, but Hood, as he cross

the passage, shake with fear; before knock and push open the door,

he dash drop from his forehead with his hand. Dagworthy be alone,

sit at the desk.



'shut the door,' he say, without turn his eye from a letter he be

read.



the clerk obey, and stand for a full minute before anything more be

address to he. he know that the bad have come.



Dagworthy face half round.



'one day early last week,' he begin, avert his eye after a single

glance, 'I be look over one of these ledgers'--he point to the

shelf--'and leave an envelope to mark a place. I forget about it, and

now that I look, the envelope have go. it contain a bank-note. of

course you come across it in the course of your work.'



it be rather an assertion than a question. whilst he be speak, the

courage of despair have take hold upon his hearer. like the terrible

flash of memory which be say to strike the brain of a drown man,

there smite on Hood's mind a vision of the home he have just quit, of

all it have be and all it might still be to he. this be his life, and

he must save it, by whatever mean. he know nothing but that necessity;

all else of consciousness be vague swimming horror.



'no, sir,' be his reply, give with perfect firmness, 'I find no

envelope.'



Dagworthy's coarse lip form a smile, hard and cruel. he face his

clerk.



'oh, you don't?'



'in which ledger do you leave it, sir?' Hood ask, the dryness of his

throat render speech more difficult as he proceed. still, his eye

be fix steadily on Dagworthy's face; it be life at stake. 'I have

not have they all.'



'I don't remember which it be,' reply the other, 'and it don't much

matter, since I happen to know the note. I dare say you remember buy

a new hat in Hebsworth last Friday?'



the love of inflict pain for its own sake, an element of human nature

only overgrow by civilisation, be show itself strongly in

Dagworthy. he be prolong this scene. on his way to the mill he have

feel that the task would be rather disagreeable; but we cannot nurture

baseness with impunity, and, face to face with a man under torture, he

enjoy the spectacle as he scarcely would have do a little while ago.

perhaps the feeling that his first blow at Emily be actually strike

give he satisfaction, which he dwell upon.



Hood make no reply to the question. he would not admit to himself that

this be the end, but he have no voice.



'you hear I?' Dagworthy remind he.



'yes. I buy a hat.'



'and you pay for it with the note I have lose. I happen to know it.'



there be silence.



'well, you understand that under ordinary circumstance you would be at

once give in charge.' Dagworthy speak almost cheerfully. 'if I don't do

that it's out of consideration for your age and your family. but as you

be not to be trust, of course I cann't continue to employ you.'



a wild hope spring in Hood's eye, and the rush of gratitude at his

heart compel he to speak.



'oh, Mr. Dagworthy, you arc generous! you have always treat I with

kindness; and this be how I repay you. it be base; I deserve no mercy.

the temptation--' he grow incoherent; 'I have be drive hard by want

of money. I know that be no excuse. I have no intention at first of

take the money; I come here to give it you; I should have do so

without a thought of dishonesty, but you happen to be away. in go

to Hebsworth I lose my hat, and I have not enough money of my own to buy

another; I have to change the note--that be the temptation--I will

return it.--But for this work here, I might by now have be in the

workhouse. try, sir, to forgive my baseness; I cannot forgive myself.'



Dagworthy turn his face away.



'well,' he say, with a wave of the hand, 'all that's too late.'



'Sir,' Hood pursue, spur by foresight of penury perhaps as much as

by dread of have to explain his dismissal at home, for penury have be

his relentless foe through life Sir, be it in vain to ask you to give I

another chance? I be not a dishonest man; never before have such a

temptation come to I, and surely never would again. will you--I entreat

you to think what it mean--at my age--my wife--I ought to be content

with thank you for having spare I--how few would have do that!

let I continue to serve you--a low salary--if it be ever so

little--till I have regain your confidence--'



Dagworthy be drum with his finger on the desk. not for an instant

do he falter in his purpose, but it give he pleasure to be thus pray

to. the employer of labour be not as a rule trouble with a lively

imagination; a pity, for it would surely gratify he to feel in its

fulness at time his power of life and death. native defect and force of

habit render it a matter of course that a small population should eat or

starve at his pleasure; possibly his resolution in season of strike be

now and then attributable to awakening of insight and pleasure in

prolong his role of hunger-god. Dagworthy appreciate his victim's

despair all the more that it make present to he the wretchedness that

would fall on Emily. think not that the man be unashamed. with

difficulty he could bring himself to meet Hood's look. but self-contempt

may well consist with perseverance in gratification of ignoble

instinct.



when Hood cease, there come this reply.



'I shall not grant what you ask, simply because it be against my

principle. I let you off, for it would do I no good to punish you, and

certainly, as regard yourself, the lesson will be enough. but I cann't

keep you in my employ, so we'll talk no more about it. you be go to

take your holiday from the end of this week, I think? very well, let it

be suppose that you begin to-day instead, and in a day or two write I

a note give up your place.'



this be not yield on Dagworthy's part; it merely occur to he as

a way of protect himself if there should be future need.



Hood be stand with bent head; he seem unable either to speak or to

depart.



'you may go,' Dagworthy say.



'Sir,--I may refer to you?' ask the wretched man, rouse by the

bidding.



'no, I think not,' be the calm reply. 'unless, of course, you be

willing that I should state the plain fact of the case?'



Hood stagger from the room....



when Emily come down in the course of the morning, her appearance be

such that her mother utter an exclamation of alarm.



'why, child, you be like a ghost! why don't you stay in bed? I be

just come up to you, hope you'd be asleep. I must go for Dr. Evans

at once.'



Emily resist.



'but I certainly shall, say what you like. no headache would make you

look like that. and you're as feverish as you can be. go up to bed

again; you hardly look, though, as if you could climb the stair. I'll

put on my thing and go round.'



it be only by affect anger that Emily could overcome her mother's

purpose. she do indeed feel ill, but to submit to treatment be

impossible whilst this day last. far bad than her bodily fever be

the mental anguish which would not allow she to remain in one place for

more than a few minute at a time, and do not suffer the pretence of

occupation. how would it come about? be her father at this moment in

the hand of the police? how would the first news come to Banbrigg, and

when? the sound of every vehicle on the road be an approach terror;

she be constantly at the window to watch the people who come near. it

have seem to she that she realise what this trial would be, yet her

anticipation have fall far below the experience of these fearful

hour. at instant, she all but repent what she have do, and ask

herself if there be not even now a chance of somehow save her father.

the face which he have raise to the window as he leave home smote her

heart. not a word of kindness have she speak to he since Friday night.

oh, what inconceivable cruelty have possess she, that she let he go

this morning without even having touch his hand! could her mind endure

this? be she not now and then near to delirium? once she go to the

window, and, to her horror, could see nothing; a blue and red mist

hover before her eye. it leave she, but other symptom of physical

distress grow from hour to hour, and she dread lest strength to endure

might wholly forsake she before night come. she try to picture her

father return as usual; human pity might have speak even in

Dagworthy's heart; or if not so, then he might have be induce to

forbear by a hope of win her gratitude. very agony make her feel

almost capable of reward such mercy. for Wilfrid seem now very far

away, and her love have fall to the background; it be not the supreme

motive of her be as hitherto. would she suffer thus for Wilfrid? the

question force itself upon she, and for reply she shudder; such bond

seem artificial compare with those which link she to her father,

the love which be coeval with her life. all feeling be so relative to

circumstance, and what make so stable as the cement of habit?



in the early hour of the afternoon a lull of utter weariness relieve

she; she lie upon the couch and all but sleep; it be something between

sleep and loss of consciousness follow on excessive pain. she awake

to find the doctor bend over she; Mrs. Hood have become so alarmed

that she have despatch a neighbour secretly on the errand. Emily be

passive, and by her way of speak half disguise the bad feature of

her state. nevertheless, the order be give that she should go to bed.

she promise to obey.



'as soon as father come,' she say, when alone again with her mother.

'it cannot be long till his time.'



she would not yield beyond this. but the hour of return come, and her

father delay. then be every minute an eternity. no long able to

keep she reclining position, she stand again by the window, and her eye

lose their vision from strain upon one spot, that at which Hood would

first appear. she lean her head upon the window-sill, and let her ear

take their turn of watch; the first touch of a hand at the gate would

reach she. but there come none.



can hour thus be live through? ah, which of we to whom time have not

be a torment of hell? be there no nether Circle, where dread

anticipation eternally prolong itself, eternally varied with hope in

vain for ever?



Mrs. Hood have abandon her useless protest; she come and sit by the

girl.



'I've no doubt he's go to the walker',' she keep say, name

acquaintance with whom Hood occasionally spend an evening. then, 'and

why need you wait for he, my dear? cann't he go up and see you as soon

as he get in?'



'Mother,' Emily say at last, 'will you go to the walker' and ask? it

be not really very far. will you go?'



but, my child, it will take I at least an hour to walk there and back!

I should only miss he on the way. be you afraid of something?



'yes, I be. I believe something have happen to he.'



'those be your fancy. you be very poorly; it be cruel to I to

refuse to go to bed.'



'will you go, mother?--If you do not, I must; ill or not, I must go.'



she start to her foot. her mother gaze at she in fear,--believing it

the beginning of delirium.



'emily, my dear child,' she plead, lay her hand on the girl's arm,

'willn't you come upstairs,--to please I, dear?'



'Mother, if you will go, I promise to lie here quietly till you return.'



'but it be impossible to leave you alone in the house. look, now, it be

nine o'clock; in half an hour, an hour at most, your father will be

back. why, you know how often he stay late when he get talk.'



Emily be silent for a few minute. then she said--



'will you ask Mrs. Hopkins to send her servant?'



'but think--the trouble it will be give.'



'will you do it? I wish it. will you go and ask she I will give the girl

money.'



'if you be so determined, of course I will ask she. but I'm sure--'



at length she leave the room, to go out of the house by the back-door and

call at the neighbour'. Scarcely be she away, when Emily dart

upstairs, and in an instant be down again, with her hat and a cloak;

another moment, and she be out in the road. she do not forget the

terror her mother would suffer, on find she go; but endurance have

reach its limit. it be grow dark. after one look in the direction

of Dunfield, she take the opposite way, and run towards the heath, run

till her breath fail and she have to drop into a quick walk. once more

she be go to the Upper Heath, and to the house which be the source

of all her misery. when she reach the quarry it be quite dark at her

approach she see the shape of a man move away into the shadow of the

quarried rock, and an unreasone fear spur she past the spot. five

minute more and she be at Dagworthy's gate. she ring the door-bell.



the servant tell she that Mr. Dagworthy be at home; she decline to

give her name, but say she must see he at once. speedily she be lead

into a room, where her enemy sit alone.



he look at she wonderingly, then with a deep flush--for now he surely

have gain his end,--he advanced towards she without speak.



'where be my father?' she ask; the voice which disabuse he do not

seem Emily's.



'ben't he at home?'



'he have not come home. what have you do?'



'not come home?'



'then he be free? he be safe--my father? you have spare he?'



Dagworthy inwardly curse himself for shortsightedness. be he but able

to answer 'yes,' would she not yield he anything? why have he not make

trial of this policy? or be it now too late? but Hoed have not return

home. the man have go forth from he in despair. as he gaze at the

girl, a suspicion, all but a fear, touch he. why should Hood remain

away from his house?



she be repeat her question imploringly.



'he be free, as far as I be concern, Emily.'



'you have forgive he? oh, you have have that mercy upon we?'



'sit down, and let we talk about it,' say Dagworthy.



she do not seem to notice that he have take her hand; but the next

moment he be hold she in his arm, and with a cry she break away.



'there be other in the house,' she exclaim, her wild, fearful eye

seek other exit than that which he stop. 'I must call for their

help. can you not see that I be suffer--ill? be you pitiless? but

no--no--for you have spare he!'



Dagworthy master himself, though it cost he something, and speak with

an effort at gentleness.



'what thank have you to give I, Emily?'



'my life's gratitude--but that will be your least reward.'



'ay, but how be the gratitude go to be show?'



her keen sense find a fear in his manner of speak.



'you have not say a word to he,' she ask, seem to forget his

question.



of what ultimate use be it to lie? and she would not suffer he within

reach of she.



'I couldn't very well help do that,' he reply, unable to resolve

how it be good to speak, and utter the first word that come,

carelessly.



'then he know you have discovered--'



her voice fail. such explanation of her father's absence be a new

terror.



'yes, he know,' Dagworthy answer, cruelty resume its fascination.

'I couldn't keep he at the mill, you know, though I let he off his

punishment.'



'you dismiss he?'



'I do. it's not too late to have he back, and something well.'



'let I go!' she say hoarsely.



he move from the door; sight of such misery vanquish even he.



when she reach home, her mother be stand with two or three

neighbour in front of the house at the sight of Emily there be

exclamation of relief and welcome.



'my child, where can you have be?' Mrs. Hood cry, follow the girl

who pass the garden-gate without pause.



'be father come?' be the reply.



'no, not yet. but where have you be? why, you be come from the

Heath, Emily, in the night air, and you so ill!'



'I have be to ask Mr. Dagworthy,' Emily say in a tired voice. 'he

know nothing of he.'



her strength bear she into the parlour, then she sink upon the couch and

close her eye. Mrs. Hood summon the help of her friend.

Unresisting, with eye still close, silent, she be carry upstairs

and lay in her bed. her mother sit by she. midnight come, and Hood do

not return. already Mrs. Hood have begin to suspect something mysterious

in Emily's anxiety; her own fear now become active. she go to the

front door and stand there with impatience, by turn angry and alarmed.

her husband have never be so late. she return to the bedroom.



'emily, be you awake, dear?'



the girl's eye open, but she do not speak.



'do you know any reason why your father should stay away?'



a slight shake of the head be the reply.



the deep stillness of night be upon the house. as Mrs. Hood seat

herself with murmured bewailing of such wretchedness, there sound a

heavy crash out on the staircase; it be follow by a peculiar ringing

reverberation. Emily rise with a shriek.



'my love--hush! hush!' say her mother. 'it's only the clock-weight

fall. how that do shake my nerve! it do it only last week, and

give I such a start.'



grasp her mother's hand, the girl lie back, death-pale. the silence

be deep than before, for not even the clock tick....



Dagworthy could not sleep. at sunrise he have weary himself so with

vain effort to lie still, that he resolve to take a turn across the

Heath, and then rest if he feel able to. he rise and go into the still

morning air.



the Heath be beautiful, see thus in the purple flush of the dawn. he

have call forth a dog to accompany he, and the animal career in

great circle over the dewy sward, bark at the bird it start up,

leap high from the ground, mad with the joy of life. he run a race

with it to the wall which bound the top of the quarry. the exercise

do he good, drive from his mind shadow which have clung about it in

the night. beach the wall he rest his arm upon it, and look over

Dunfield to the glory of the rise sun. the smoke of the mill-chimney,

thickening as fire be coal for the day's work, catch delicate

reflection from the sky; the lofty spire of the church seem build of

some beautiful rose-hue stone. the grassy country round about wear a

fresher green than it be willnot to show; the very river, so foul in

reality with the refuse of manufacture, gleam like a pure current.



Dagworthy's eye fix themselves on the horizon, and grow wide with the

sense of thing half understand.



the dog have leave he and be go round into the quarry. a bark come

from below. at a second bark Dagworthy look down. the dog be snuff

at a man who lie between a big piece of quarried stone and a little

grass-border pool. asleep--be he? yet it be not the attitude in

which man sleep. the dog bark a third time.



he leave his position, and follow the circuit which would bring he

down to where the man lie. whilst still a few yard off, he check

himself. if the man sleep, his body be strangely distort; one arm

seem to be beneath he, the other be extend stiffly; the face

look at the sky. a few step, and Dagworthy, gaze upon the face,

know it.



a cold shudder thrill he, and he draw back. his foot strike against

something; it be a bottle. he pick it up, and read a word in large

print on the white label.



the temptation to look full into the face again be irresistible, though

horror shake he as he approach. the feature be hideous, the eye

start from their socket, the lip draw back over the tooth. he

turn and walk away rapidly, follow by the dog, which rouse the

quarry echo with its barking.



'my God! I never think of that.'



the word utter themselves as he speed on. only at the garden-gate

he stay, and then seem to reflect upon what he should do. the

temptation be to return into the house and leave other to spread the

news; there would be workman in the quarry in less than an hour. yet he

do not do this, but hurry past his own door to the house of a doctor

not a hundred yard away. he he call forth....



about midday a cover burden be bring in a cart to Banbrigg; the

cart stop before the Hoods' house, and two man, lift the burden,

carry it through the gate and to the door. Mrs. Hood have already

open to they, and stand with her face half-hide. the burden be

take into the parlour, and place upon the couch. the outline be that

of a man's form.



in the kitchen be two woman, neighbour; as soon as the man have

depart, and the front door be close, they steal forward, one

sobbing, the other pale with fear. they enter the sitting-room, and

Mrs. Hood go in with they. she be strangely self-control. all

three stand look at the wrap form, which be that of a man.



'I shalln't dare to look at he!' Mrs. Hood whisper. 'the doctor tell I

I ben't to. oh, my husband!'



with the sublime love of woman, conquer all dread, she drop to her

knee and lay her head on the pillow of the couch by the side of that

head so closely shroud.



'thank God, Emily cann't see this!' she groan.



'hadn't I well go up to she?' one of the woman ask. both of they

stand at a distance.



'yes, perhaps you have. but you'll be want at home. stay with I a

minute, then I'll lock this door and go up myself.'



at the sound of a hand on the door all turn with a movement of

surprise and affright. there enter emily, hurriedly dress, her hair

loose upon her shoulder. she look round the room, with

half-conscious, pitiful gaze, then upon her mother, then at the form on

the couch. she point to it.



'he have come?'



her voice be unearthly. the sound give her mother strength to run to

she, and throw her arm about she, sobbing, terror-stricken.



she suffer herself to be lead upstairs, and do not speak.









CHAPTER XIV



NEWS and comment





as a man who take the world as he find it, and on the whole find it

well worth accept on such term, Mr. Athel be not likely to allow

his annoyance with Wilfrid to threaten the habitual excellence of his

digestion. his disappointment be real enough. when of a sudden Wilfrid

have announce that he could not accompany the family party to

Switzerland, Mr. Athel be save from undignified irresolution by a

hearty outburst of temper, which see he well over the Straits before it

give way to the natural reaction, under the influence of which he call

himself a blockhead. he have, beyond a doubt, precipitate the marriage,

when postponement be the only thing he really care about. to abuse

himself be one thing, the privilege which an Englishman be ready enough

to exercise; to have his thought utter to he by his sister with

feminine neatness and candour be quite another matter. Mrs. Rossall have

in vain attempt to stem the flood of wrath rush Channelwards.

Overcome, she clothe herself in mean silence, until her brother, too

ingenuous man, be compel to return to the subject himself, and,

towards the end of the journey, rashly give utterance to half a wish

that he have not leave 'that young fool' behind. Mrs. Rossall, herself a

little too impetuous when triumph be no long doubtful, make such

point remark on the neglect of good advice that the ire which be

cool shoot forth flame in another direction. brother and sister

arrive at Geneva in something less than perfect amity. their real

affection for each other be quite capable of bear not infrequently

the strain of irritability on both side. a day of mutual causticitie

have well prepare the ground for the return of good temper, when the

arrival of Wilfrid, by astonishing both, hasten their complete

reconciliation. Wilfrid be mysterious; for a week he keep his counsel,

and behave as if nothing unusual have happen. by that time Mr. Athel's

patience have reach its limit; he request to be tell how matter

stand. Wilfrid, determine not to compromise his dignity by speak

first, but glad enough when his father broach the topic, relate the

story of his visit to Dunfield. possibly he lay needless emphasis on

Emily's unselfish prudence.



'I fail to see the strike meritoriousness of all that,' Mr. Athel

observe, put into a good humour by the result, and consequently

allow himself a little captiousness. 'it merely mean that she

behave as any woman who respect herself would under the

circumstance. your own behaviour, on the other hand--well, let it

pass.'



'I don't see that I could have act otherwise,' say Wilfrid, too

content to care about argue the point.



'you of course see her parent?'



Wilfrid have give no detailed account of the way in which his interview

with Emily have be obtain. he mention it now, his father listen

with the frown smile of a man who judge such puerility from the

standpoint of comfortable middle age.



the tone between they return before long to the friendliness never

previously interrupt. Mr. Athel shortly write a letter to Mr.

Baxendale of Dunfield, whom he only know by name as Beatrice Redwing's

uncle, and beg for private information regard Emily's family. he

receive a courteous reply, the detail not of course wholly palatable,

but confirmatory of the modest hope he have entertain. this reply he

show to his sister. Mrs. Rossall raise her eyebrow resignedly, and

return the letter in silence.



'what one expect, I suppose?' say Mr. Athel.



'I suppose so. Mr. Baxendale probably think the man have be apply

for a position in your pantry.'



'well, I be oblige, you know, to hint at my reason for seek

information.'



'you do? then Beatrice know all about it by this time. as well that

way as any other, I suppose.'



'we shall have to take the matter like reasonable being, Edith,' say

her brother, a trifle annoy by her failure to countenance he.



'yes; but you seem anxious that I should rejoice. that would not be very

reasonable.'



something warn Mr. Athel that he have well abstain from rejoinder. he

purse his lip and walk away.



Wilfrid have not speak of the subject to his aunt since the disclosure

at the Firs, and Mrs. Rossall be offend by his silence at least as

much as by the prospect of his marry Miss Hood. clearly he regard

the matter as no concern of her, whereas a woman claim by natural

right a share in the matrimonial project of all her male relative with

whom she be on a footing of intimacy. perhaps the main cause of her

displeasure in the first instance have be the fact that thing should

have get to such a pass without she have as much as suspect the

imminence of danger; she regard Emily as one that have outwit she.

dearly would she have like to be able to meet her brother with the

assertion that she have suspect it all along; the impossibility of

do so--not from conscientious scruple, but because in that case it

would clearly have be her duty to speak--exasperate she

disappointment at the frustration of the match she desire. now that she

be getting use to the state of thing, Wilfrid's behaviour to she

become the chief ground of her offence. it seem to she that at least

he owe some kind of apology for the distress he have naturally cause

she; in truth she would have like he to undertake the task of win

she over to his side. between she and her nephew there have never exist

a warm confidence, and Wilfrid's present attitude be too much a

confirmation of the feeling she have experience now and then, that his

affection be qualified with just a little contempt. she be not, she

know, a strong-minded woman, and on that very account care more for the

special dominion of her sex. since Wilfrid have cease to be a

hobbledehoy, it would have become he to put a little more of the

courtier into his manner towards she. for be there not country in

which their degree of kin be no bar to matrimony? Mrs. Rossall be of

the woman who like the flavour of respectful worship in all man who be

neither father, brother, nor son. Wilfrid have fall short of this, and

hence the affectation with which she have persist in regard he as a

schoolboy. his late exploit be vastly more interesting to she than

anything he have do in academic sphere, and she suffer a sense of

exclusion in see he so determined to disregard her opinion.



she persuade he to row she cut one evening on a lake by which they

be spend a few day. Wilfrid, suspect that she aim at a

_tete-a-tete_, propose that his father should accompany they. Mrs.

Rossall overrule the suggestion.



'how wonderfully you be pick up,' she say, after watch he pull

for a few minute. 'do you know, Wilf, your tendency be to stoutness; in

a few year you will be portly, if you live too sedentary a life.'



he look annoyed, and by so do gratify she. she proceed.



'what do you think I overhear one of our spectacled friend say this

morning--"_Sehen Sie mal_,"--you be walk at a little

distance--"_da haben Sie das Muster des englischen Aristokraten_. _o,

der gute, schlichte Junge_!"'



Wilfrid have be work up his German. he stop row, red with

vexation.



'that be a malicious invention,' he declare.



'nothing of the kind! the truth of the remark strike I.'



'I be oblige to you.'



'but, my dear boy, what be there to be offend at? the man envy you

with all his heart; and it be delightful to see you begin to look so

smooth about the cheek.'



'I be neither an aristocrat, nor _schlicht_!'



'an aristocrat to the core. I never know any one so sensitive on point

of personal dignity, so intolerant of difference of opinion in other,

so narrowly self-willed! do you imagine yourself to have the air of a

hero of romance, of the intense school?'



Wilfrid look into her eye and laugh.



'that be your way of say that you think my recent behaviour

incongruous. you wish to impress upon I how absurd I look from the

outside?'



'it be my way of say that I be sorry for you.'



he laugh again.



'then the english aristocrat be an object of your pity?'



'certainly; when he get into a false position.'



'Ah!--well, suppose we talk of something else. look at the moon rise

over that shoulder of the hill.'



'that, by way of prove that you be romantic. no, we willn't talk of

something else. what news have you from England?'



'none,' he reply, regard the gleam drop that fall from his

suspend oar.



'and you be troubled that the post bring you nothing?'



'how do you know?'



'your emotion be on the surface.'



he make no reply.



'ah!' Mrs. Rossall sigh, 'what a pity you be so independent. I often

think a man's majority ought to come ten year later than it do. Most

of you be mere boy till thirty at least, and you go and do thing that

you repent all the rest of your life. dare you promise to come to I in

ten year and tell I with complete frankness what you think of--a

certain step?'



he smile scornfully.



'certainly; let we register the undertaking.'



after pause a moment, he continue with an outburst of vehemence--a

characteristic of Wilfrid's speech.



'you illustrate a thought I have often have about woman. the majority of

you, at all event as you get into the world, have no kind of faith in

anything but sordid motive. you be cynical beyond anything man can

pretend to; you scoff at every suggestion of idealism. I suppose it be

that which make we feel the conversation of most woman of refinement so

intolerably full of hypocrisy. having cast away all faith, you cannot

dispense with the show of it; the tradition of your sex must be

support. you laugh in your sleeve at the very thing which be

suppose to constitute your claim to worship; you be worldly to the

core. man be very Quixotes compare with you; even if they put on

cynicism for show, they be ashamed of it within themselves. with you,

fine feeling be the affectation. I have feel it again and again. explain

it now; defend yourself, if you can. show I that I be wrong, and I will

thank you heartily.'



'my word, what an arraignment!' cry Mrs. Rossall, between amusement at

his boldness and another feeling which warm her cheek a little. 'but

let we pass from broad accusation to particular. I illustrate all these

shocking thing--poor I! how do I illustrate they?'



'in the whole of your attitude towards myself of late. you pooh-pooh my

feeling, you refuse to regard I as anything but a donkey, you prophesy

that in a year or two I shall repent having make a disinterested

marriage. I observe the difference between your point of view and my

father's. the bad of it be you be sincere: the circumstance of the

case do not call upon you for an expression of graceful sentiment, and

you be not ashamed to show I how meanly you regard all that be high

and purest in life.'



'shall I explain it? woman be very quick to get at reality, to see

below the surface in conduct and profession. we become, you say, worldly

as soon as we get into the world. precisely because we have to be so

wide awake to protect ourselves. we instinctively know the difference

between the ring of false and true, and as we hear the false so much the

oftener your charge against we of want of real feeling be the result of

your ignorance of woman; you don't see below the surface.'



'well now, apply all this to the present instance. what have your insight

discern in my propose marriage to cause you to regard it as a piece

of folly?'



'simply this. you ally yourself with some one from a class beneath your

own. such marriage very, very seldom prove anything but miserable, and

_always_ bring a great many trouble. you will say that Miss Hood be

raise by education above the class in which she be bear; but no doubt

she have relative, and they cann't be entirely got rid of. however, that

ben't the point I lay most stress on.'



'well?'



'I be quite sure you will make her miserable. you be marry too

young. your character be not fix. in a few year, before that, you

will want to get rid of she.'



'well, that be at all event intelligible. and your ground for the

belief?'



'you be inconstant, and you be ambitious. you might marry a woman from

a class high than your own, and when it be too late you will

understand what you have lose.'



'worldly advantage, precisely.'



'and how if your keen appreciation of worldly advantage result in your

wife's unhappiness?'



'I deny the keen appreciation, in your sense.'



'of course you do. come to I in ten year and tell I your opinion of

woman's way of thinking.'



this be the significant part of their conversation. Wilfrid come to

land confirm in his view; Mrs. Rossall, with the satisfaction of

having prophesy uncomfortable thing.



she have a letter on the follow morning on which she recognise

Beatrice Redwing's bend. to her surprise, the stamp be of Dunfield. it

prove that Beatrice be on a visit to the Baxendales. her mother, prior

to go to the Isle of Wight, have decide to accept an invitation to a

house in the midland county which Beatrice do not greatly care to

visit; so the latter have use the opportunity to respond to a summon

from her friend in the north, whom she have not see for four year.

Beatrice reply to a letter from Mrs. Rossall which have be forward

to she.



after breakfast, Mrs. Rossall take her brother aside, and point out to

he a paragraph in Beatrice's letter. it run thus:--



'a very shocking thing have happen, which I suppose I may mention, as

you will necessarily hear of it soon. Miss Hood's father have commit

suicide, poison himself; he be find dead on a common just outside

the town. nobody seem to know any reason, unless it be trouble of a

pecuniary kind. Miss Hood be seriously ill. the Baxendales send daily to

make inquiry, and I be afraid the late news be anything but hopeful.

she be to have dine with we here the day after her father's death.'



there be no further comment; the writer go on to speak of certain

peculiarity in the mode of conduct service at St. Luke's church.



Mr. Athel read, and, in his manner, whistle low. his sister look

interrogation.



'I suppose we shall have to tell he,' say the former. 'probably he have

no mean of hearing.'



'I suppose we must. he have be anxious at not receive letter he

expect.'



'how do you know?'



'I have a talk with he last night.'



'ah, so I think. the deuce take it! of course he'll pack off on the

moment. what on earth can have induce the man to poison himself?'



such a proceeding be so at variance with Mr. Athel's view of life that

it make he seriously uncomfortable. it suggest criminality, or at

least lunacy, both such very unpleasant thing to be even remotely

connect with. poverty he could pardon, but suicide be really

disreputable. from the philosophic resignation to which he have attain,

he fall back into petulance, always easy to he than grave protest.



'the deuce take it!' he repeat.



Mrs. Rossall point to the word report Emily's condition at the

time of writing.



'that be more than two day ago,' she say meaningly.



'H'm!' go her brother.



'will you tell he?'



'I suppose I must. yes, it be hardly allowable even to postpone it.

where be he?'



Wilfrid be find in the hotel garden.



'your aunt have have a letter from Beatrice,' Mr. Athel begin, with the

awkwardness of a comfortable Englishman call upon to break bad news.

'she be stay in Dunfield.'



'indeed?'



'there's something in the letter you ought to know.'



Wilfrid look anxiously.



'it appear that Miss Hood's father have--don't let it be a shock to

you--have just die, and die, in fact, by his own hand.'



'have kill himself?' Wilfrid exclaim, turn pale.



'yes, I be sorry to say that be the report. Miss Hood be naturally

suffer from--from the shocking occurrence.'



'she be ill?' Wilfrid ask, when he have examine his father's face for

a moment.



'yes, I be afraid she be. Beatrice give no detail.'



'you be not keep anything from I?'



'indeed, nothing. the word be that she be ill, and, it be fear,

seriously.'



'I must go at once.'



it be say with quiet decision. Wilfrid consult his watch, and walk

rapidly to the hotel. he have to wait a couple of hour, however, before

he could start on his journey, and he spend the time by himself. his

father feel he could be of no use, and Mrs. Rossall find a difficulty

in approach her nephew under such circumstance.



'you will telegraph?' Mr. Athel say, at the station, by way of

express himself sympathetically.



the train move away; and the long, miserable hour of travel have to

be live through. Wilfrid's thought be all the more anxious from his

ignorance of the dead man's position and history. even yet Emily have

say very little of her parent in write to he; he imagine all

manner of wretched thing to connect her silence with this catastrophe.

his fear on her own account be not excessive; the state of vigorous

health into which he have grow during late week perhaps help he to

avoid thought of a desperate kind. it be bad enough that she lie ill,

and from such a cause; he fear nothing bad than illness. but his

uneasiness increase as time go on; the travelling seem intolerably

tardy. he have to decide what his course would be on reach Dunfield,

and decision be not easy. to go straight to the house might result in

painful embarrassment; it would at all event be well first to make

inquiry elsewhere. could he have recourse to Beatrice? at first the

suggestion do not recommend itself, but nothing well come into his

mind, and, as his impatience grow, the obstacle seem so trifle that

he overlook they. he remember that the address of the Baxendales be

unknown to he; but it could easily be discover. yes, he would go

straight to Beatrice.



reach London at ten o'clock in the morning, he drive directly to

King's Cross, and pursue his journey northward. though wear with

fatigue, excitement would not allow he more than a snatch of sleep now

and then. when at length he step out at Dunfield, he be in sorry

plight. he go to an hotel, refresh himself as well as he could, and

make inquiry about the baxendale' address. at four o'clock he present

himself at the house, and send in a card to Beatrice.



the Baxendales live in St. Luke's, which we already know as the

fashionable quarter of Dunfield. their house stand by itself, with high

wall about it, enclose a garden; at the door be stone pillar, the

low half paint a dull red. it seem the abode of solid people, not

trouble with scruple of taste. it be with surprise that Wilfrid find

himself in a room abundantly supply with book and furnish in

library fashion. his state of mind notwithstanding, he glance along a

few shelf, discover yet more unexpected thing, to wit,

philosophical work. unfortunately the corner of the room show bust

of certain modern english statesman: but one look for weakness

everywhere.



Beatrice enter, rustle in a light, shimmery dress. her face

express embarrassment rather than surprise; after the first exchange

of glance, she avoid his eager look. her hand have lie but coldly in

his. Wilfrid, face to face with she, find more difficulty in speak

than he have anticipate.



'I have come directly from Switzerland,' he begin. 'you mention in a

letter to my aunt that--'



his hesitation of a moment be relieve by Beatrice.



'you mean Miss Hood's illness,' she say, look down at her hand,

which be lightly clasped on her lap.



'yes. I wish for news. I think it likely you might know--'



probably it be the effect of his weariness; he could not speak in his

usual straightforward way; hesitancy, to his own annoyance, make gap

and pause in his sentence.



'we hear this morning,' Beatrice say, look past his face to the

window, 'that she be well. the danger seem to be over.'



'there have be danger?'



'the day before yesterday she be give up.'



'so ill as that.' Wilfrid speak half to himself, and indeed it cost he

an effort to make his voice louder. he begin, 'can you tell me--' and

again pause.



'have you hear nothing from any other quarter?' Beatrice ask, after a

silence of almost a minute.



he look at she, wonder what she know of his relation to Emily. it

be clear that his interest occasion her no surprise.



'I come away immediately on hear what your letter contain. there be

no one else with whom I could communicate. I hesitate to go to the

house, not know--will you tell I what you know of this horrible

event?'



Beatrice stroke one hand with the other, and seem to constrain

herself to lock up and to speak.



'I myself know nothing but the fact of Mr. Hood's death. it take place

some ten day ago, on Monday of last week. I arrive here on the

Wednesday.'



'of course there be an inquest--with what result?'



'none, beyond the verdict of suicide. no definite cause could be

discover. it be say that he suffer from very narrow mean. his body

be find by Mr. Dagworthy.'



'who be Mr. Dagworthy?'



'I think you probably know,' return Beatrice, glance quickly at

he. 'he be employ by Mr. Dagworthy as clerk in a manufactory. he have

just leave for his summer holiday.'



'what evidence do his employer give?'



'he only state that Mr. Hood have be perfectly regular and

satisfactory at his work.'



'then in truth it be a mystery?'



'Mr. Baxendale think that there have be a long struggle with poverty,

quite enough to account for the end.'



Wilfrid sit in gloomy silence. he be picture what Emily must have

endure, and reproach himself for not having claim a right to her

entire confidence, when it be in his power to make that hard path

smooth, and to avert this fearful misery. look up at length, he meet

the girl's eye.



'I need not explain myself to you, Beatrice,' he say, find at last a

natural tone, and call she by her christian name because he have much

need of friendly sympathy. 'you appear to know why I have come.'



she answer rather hurriedly.



'I should not have know but for something that Mrs. Baxendale tell I.

Mr. Athel write a short time ago to ask for information about

they--about the hood.'



'he write?'



Wilfrid hear it with a little surprise, but without concern.



'do you know whether Mrs. Hood be alone--with she?' he go on to ask.



'I believe so.'



'and she be well?' he add quickly, 'has she proper attendance? have

any friend be of aid?'



'the Baxendales have show much kindness. my aunt see she yesterday.'



'will it be long before she be able to leave her room, do you know?'



'I be not able to say. Mrs. Baxendale hope you will go upstairs and see

she; she can tell you more. will you go?'



'but be she alone? I cann't talk with people.'



'yes, she be alone, quite.'



he rise. the girl's eye fix themselves on he again, and she say:



'you look dreadfully tired.'



'I have not sleep, I think, since I leave Thun.'



'you leave they all well?' Beatrice ask, with a change in her voice,

from anxious interest which would have veil itself, to the tone of one

discharge a formal politeness.



Wilfrid reply with a brief affirmative, and they ascend the stair

together to a large and rather dim drawing-room, with a scent of earth

and vegetation arise from the great number of grow plant arrange

about it. Beatrice present her friend to Mrs. Baxendale, and at once

withdraw.



the lady with whom Wilfrid find himself talk be tall and finely

make, not very graceful in her bearing, and with a large face, the

singular kindness of which speedily overcome the first sense of

dissatisfaction at its plainness. she wear a little cap of lace, and

from her matronly costume breathe a pleasant freshness, akin to the

activity of her flame. having take the young man's hand at greeting,

she hold it in both her own, and with large, grey eye examine his face

shrewdly. yet neither the action nor the gaze be embarrassing to

Wilfrid he feel, on the contrary, something wonderfully soothe in the

pressure of the warm, firm hand, and in she look an invitation to the

repose of confidence which be new in his experience of woman--an

experience not extensive, by the bye, though his characteristic

generalisation seem to claim the opposite. he submit from the

first moment to an influence maternal in its spirit, an influence which

his life have lack, and which can perhaps only be fully appreciate

either in mature reflection upon a past make sacred by death, or on a

meeting such as this, when the heart be open to the helpfulness of

disintereste sympathy. Mrs. Baxendale's countenance be grave enough to

suit the sad thought with which she seek to commune, yet show an

under-smile, suggest the consolation hold in store by one much at

home in the world's sorrow. as she smile, each of her cheek dimple

softly, and Wilfrid could not help notice the marvellous purity of her

complexion, as well as the excellent white tooth just visible between

her lip.



'so you have come all the way from Switzerland,' she say, lead he

to a chair, and seat herself by he. her voice have a touch of

masculine quality, even as her shape and feature, but it chain

attention, and impress as the utterance of a large and strong nature.

'you be tired, too, with travel; I can see that. when do you reach

Dunfield?'



'half an hour ago.'



'and you come here at once. Beatrice and I be on the point of go to

Hebsworth this afternoon; I rejoice that we do not. I'm continually

afraid lest she should find the house dull. my husband and myself be

alone. my eld girl be marry three month ago, my young one be

just go to Germany, and my son be spend half a year in the United

States; the mother find herself a little forsaken. it be really more

than kind of Beatrice to come and bury herself with I for a week or

two.'



she pass by tactful transition to the matter in hand.



'ben't it a strange link that she should meet Miss Hood at your house!

she have be so sadden. I never yet know any one who could talk with

Emily without feel deep interest in she. my daughter Louisa, I be

convince, will never forget what she owe to her teacher she and my

young child use to be Miss Hood's pupil--perhaps you have hear?

my own Emily--she be dead--be passionately fond of her namesake; she

talk of she among the last word she ever speak, poor little mite.'



'Miss Redwing tell I you see she yesterday,' Wilfrid say.



'yes, for the first time.'



'be she conscious?'



'quite. but I be afraid to talk to she more than a minute or two; even

that excite she too much. I fear you must not let she know yet of your

presence.'



'I be glad I know nothing of this till the bad be over. from the way

in which she speak of her father I should have fear horrible thing.

do you know he with any intimacy?'



'only slightly, I be sorry to say. the poor man seem to have have a very

hard life; it be clear to I that sheer difficulty in make end meet

drive he out of his sense. be you a student of political economy?'

she ask suddenly, look into Wilfrid's face with a peculiar smile.



'I be not. why do you ask?'



'it be the one subject on which my husband and I hold no truce. Mr.

Baxendale make it one of his pet study, whilst I should like to make

a bonfire of every volume contain such cruel nonsense. you must know,

Mr. Athel, that I have an evil reputation in Dunfield; my view be hold

dangerous; they call I a socialist. Mr. Baxendale, when particularly

angry, offer to hire the hall in the Corn Exchange, that I may say my

say and henceforth spare he at home. now think of this poor man. he have

a clerkship in a mill, and receive a salary of disgraceful smallness;

he never know what it be to be free of anxiety. the law of political

economy will have it so, say my husband; if Mr. Hood refuse, there

be fifty other man ready to take the place. he couldn't have live at

all, it seem, but that he own a house in another town, which bring

he a few pound a year. I cann't talk of such thing with patience.

here's my husband offer himself as a liberal candidate for Dunfield

at the election come on. I say to he: what be you go to do if you

get into Parliament? be you go to talk political economy, and make

believe that everything be right, when it's as wrong as can be? if so, I

say, you'd well save your money for other purpose, and stay where you

be. he tell I my view be impracticable; then, I say, so much the

bad for the world, and so much the more shame for every rich man who

find excuse for such a state of thing. it be dreadful to think of

what those poor people must have go through. they be so perfectly

quiet under it that no one give a thought to their position. when Emily

use to come here day after day, I've often suspect she don't have

enough to eat, yet it be impossible for I to ask question, it would

have be call pry into thing that don't concern I.'



'she have tell I for how much kindness she be indebted to you,' Wilfrid

say, with gratitude.



'Pooh! what could I do? oh, don't we live absurdly artificial life? now

why should a family who, through no fault of their own, be in the most

wretched strait, shut themselves up and hide it like a disgrace? don't

you think we hold a great many very nonsensical idea about self-respect

and independence and so on? if I be in want, I know two or three

people to whom I should forthwith go and ask for succour; if they

think the bad of I for it, I should tell they they ought to be

ashamed of themselves. we act, indeed, as if we ourselves have make the

world and be bind to pretend it an admirable piece of work, without a

screw loose anywhere. I always say the world's about as bad a place as

one could well imagine, at all event for most people who live in it,

and that it's our plain duty to help each other without grimacing. the

death of this poor man have distress I more than I can tell you; it

do seem such a monstrously cruel thing. there's his employer, a man

call Dagworthy, who never know what it be to be without

luxuries,--I'm not in the habit of listen to scandal, but I believe

there's a great deal of truth in certain story tell about his

selfishness and want of feeling. I consider Mr. Dagworthy this poor

man's murderer; it be his bounden duty to see that a man in his

employment be pay enough to live upon,--and Mr. Hood be not. imagine

what suffering must have bring about such an end as this. a sad

case,--say people. I call it a case of crime that enjoy impunity.'



Wilfrid listen gloomily. the broad question stir he to no strong

feeling, but the more he hear the more passionate be his longing to

bear Emily away from the scene of such a past. with what devotion would

he mould his life to the one task of heal her memory! yet he know it

must be very long before her heart could recover from the all but deadly

wound it have receive. a feeling which one may not call jealousy,--that

be too inhuman,--but still one of the million form which jealousy

assume to torture we, drive he to ask himself what the effect of such

a crisis in her life might be on Emily's love for he. there would

always remain in her inmost soul one profound sadness in which he have no

part, and which by its existence would impugn the supremacy of that bond

which unite he and she.



'how do Mrs. Hood bear it?' he ask, when he find Mrs. Baxendale

again examine his face.



'I think Emily's illness have be her great help,--poor creature that

we be, need one great grief to balance another. but she seem in a

very weak state; I don't like her look yesterday.'



'will you describe she to I?' ask Wilfrid.



'she be not the kind of mother you would give to Emily. I'm afraid she

miserable life have tell upon she greatly, both in mind and body.'



'Emily never speak of she, though so often of her father.'



'that be what I should have expect. still, you must not think she

quite unworthy. she speak as an educate woman, and be certainly very

devoted.'



'what of her present position? she must be in extreme difficulty.'



'no, she want nothing for the present. friend have be very anxious

to help she. that's what I say,--only let your misery drive you out of

the world, and people will find out all at once how very easily they

might have save you. a hundredth part of the interest that have be

show in the family since poor Mr. Hood's death would have find endless

way of make his life very different. all sort of people have

suddenly discover that he really be a very deserving man, and that

something ought long since to have be do for he. I don't know what

have be tell you of his history. he be once in independent business; I

don't know exactly what. it be only utter failure that drive he to the

miserable clerkship. how admirable it be of a man in such circumstance

to have his daughter so well educate!'



Wilfrid smile.



'emily,' he say with gentle fervour, 'would have find her own way.'



'ah, don't depreciate his care!' Mrs. Baxendale urge. 'you'll find out

by degree what a great deal of heathen doubt there be in I; among

other thing, I be impress by the power of circumstance. Emily would

always have be a remarkable girl, no doubt; but, without her

education, you and I should not have be talk about she like this,

even if we have know she. we cann't dispense with these aid; that's

where I feel the cruelty of deprive people of chance. man and woman

go to their grave in wretchedness who might have do noble thing with

an extra pound a week to live upon. it do not sound lofty doctrine,

do it? but I have vast faith in the extra pound a week. Emily have the

advantage of it, however it be manage. I don't like to think of she as

she might have be without it. what be it Beatrice call I

yesterday? a materialist; yes, a materialist. it be a reproach, though

she say it in the kind way; I take it as a compliment. we cann't get

out of the world of material; how long will the mind support itself on

an insufficient supply of dry bread?'



Wilfrid's intellectual sympathy be be arouse by his new friend's

original way of talk. he begin to feel a keen satisfaction at have

she near he in these trouble.



'do you think,' he ask, return to his immediate need, 'that I

might write to she?'



'not yet; you mustn't think of it yet.'



'do Mrs. Hood--' he hesitate. 'do you think Emily have tell she

mother--have speak to she of I?'



Mrs. Baxendale look surprised. 'I cann't say; I take it for grant.'



'I wonder why she be reluctant to do so?' Wilfrid say, already

speak with complete freedom. 'her father cannot have know; it would

have relieve his bad anxiety; he would surely never have be

drive to such thing.'



'no; I think not. the poor girl will feel that, I fear. I suppose one

can get a glimpse of her reason for keep silence?' she give Wilfrid

a friendly glance as she speak.



'how glad I be,' he exclaim, 'to be able to talk to you! I should have

be in the utmost difficulty. think of my position if I have be

without a friend in the town. then, indeed, but for Miss Redwing I

should have hear nothing even yet.'



'she write to you?'



'not to I; she mention the matter in a letter to my aunt, Mrs.

Rossall.'



'do Beatrice--you let I question?--did she know?'



'only, she say, in consequence of a letter my father address to Mr.

Baxendale.'



the lady smile again.



'I ask because Beatrice be now and then a little mysterious to I. I

speak to she of that letter in the full belief that she must have

knowledge of the circumstance. she deny it, yet, I think, as if it

be a matter of conscience to do so.'



'I think it more than likely that my aunt have write to she on the

subject. and yet--no; she would not have deny it to you. that would

be unlike she.'



'yes, I think it would.'



Mrs. Baxendale muse. before she speak again a servant enter the room

with tea.



'you will be glad of a cup, I be sure,' say the lady. 'and now, what do

you propose to do? shall you return to London?'



'oh, no! I shall stay in Dunfield till I be able to see she.'



'very well. in that case you will not refuse our hospitality. the long

you stay the well pleased I shall be.'



she would hear of no difficulty.



'I wouldn't ask you,' she say, 'if I be not able to promise you any

degree of privacy you like. a sitting-room be at your disposal--beg

to be occupy since my boy Charlie go away. my husband be over head

and ear in electioneer business, foolish man, and I cann't tell you

how I feel the need of someone to talk to on other subject than the

manufacture of vote. where be your luggage?'



Wilfrid name the hotel.



'it shall be fetch. and now I'll ask my niece to come and pour out tea

for we.'



with the entrance of Beatrice the conversation naturally take a

different turn. she hear with become interest of Wilfrid's

establishment as a guest, and, after a little talk of Mrs. Rossall and

the twin, lead to the subject of certain 'revivalist' meeting then

be hold in Dunfield, an occasion of welcome excitement to such of the

inhabitant as could not absorb themselves in politic. Mrs. Baxendale

seem to regard the religious movement dispassionately, and relate a

story she have from her husband of a certain prominent townsman drive to

such a pass by his wife's perpetual absence from home on revivalist

expedition, that he at length fairly turn the key on she in her

bedroom, and through the keyhole bade her stay there till she have

remember her domestic duty. he be that night publicly pray for at

a great meeting in the Corn Exchange as one who, not content with lose

his own soul, do his good to hold back other from the way of grace.



Beatrice affect to pay no heed to this anecdote.



'what be your side in politic?' she ask Wilfrid. 'here we be all

either Blues or yellow.'



'what do they represent?' Wilfrid inquire.



'oh, you shouldn't ask that,' say Mrs. Baxendale. 'Yellow be yellow,

and Blue, blue; nothing else in the world. I think it an excellent idea

to use colour. liberal and Conservative suggest idea; name,

therefore, quite out of place in Dunfield politic--or any other

politic, I dare say, if the truth be know. my husband be a Yellow.

it please he to call himself a Liberal, or else a Radical. he may have

be a few month ago; now he's a mere Yellow. I tell he he's in

serious danger of deprive himself of two joy; in another month a

cloudless sky and the open sea will he detestable to he.'



'but what be you, Mr. Athel?' Beatrice ask. 'a Liberal or a

Conservative? I should really find it hard to guess.'



'in a Yellow house,' he reply, 'I be certainly yellow.'



'Beatrice be far from be so complaisant,' say Mrs. Baxendale. 'she

detest our advanced view.'



'rather, I know nothing of they,' the girl reply. the quiet air with

which she express her indifference evince a measure of spiritual

pride rather in excess of that she be willnot to show. indeed, her manner

throughout the conversation be a little distant to both her companion.

if she jest with Wilfrid it be with the idleness of one condescend

to subject below the plane of her interest. to her aunt she be rather

courteous than affectionate.



whilst they still sit over tea, Mr. Baxendale come in. like his wife, he

be of liberal proportion, and he have a face full of practical

sagacity; if anything, he look too wide awake, a fault of shrewd man,

constitutionally active, whose imagination play little part in their

life. he wear an open frock-coat, with much expanse of shirt-front. the

fore part of his head be bald, and the hair on each side be brush

forward over his ear in a manner which give he a singular appearance.

his bearing be lack in self-possession; each of his remark be

follow by a short laugh, deprecatory, apologetic. it seem impossible

to he to remain in a state of bodily repose, even with a cup of tea in

his hand he pace the room. constantly he consult his watch--not that

he have any special concern with the hour, but from a mere habit of

nervousness.



he welcome the visitor with warmth, at the same time obviously

suppress a smile of other than merely polite significance: then he

begin at once to speak of electioneer matter, and do so, pace the

carpet, for the next half hour. Wilfrid listen with such show of

interest as he could command; his thought be elsewhere, and weariness

be begin to oppress he.



shortly after dinner fatigue pass the point at which it could be

struggle against. long wake, the harassment of fear at length

console, and the exhaustion consequent upon his journey, besiege he

with invincible drowsiness. Mrs. Baxendale, observe it, beg he to

discard ceremony and go to rest. gladly he suffer himself to be lead to

his room; once there, he could not note the object about he; the very

effort of take off his clothe be almost beyond his strength. Sleep

be bind his brow with oblivion, and relax every joint. his

dear concern be nothing to he; with a wave of the hand he would

have resign an eternity of love; cry to he blood-chill horror,

and his eyelid would make no sign. the feather-softness mould itself

to his limb; the pillow press a yielding coolness to his cheek; his

sense fail amid faint fresh odour. blessed state! how enviable above

all wake joy the impotence which make we lord of darkness, the

silence which suffer not to reach our ear so much as an echo of the

farce of life.









CHAPTER XV



MRS. BAXENDALE'S QUESTS





a servant go to Banbrigg each morning for tiding; Emily, so the

report say, move steadily towards recovery. on the second day after

Wilfrid's arrival Mrs. Baxendale take he with she in the brougham, and

let he wait for she whilst she make a call upon Mrs. Hood; Wilfrid see

an upper window of which the blind be down against the sun, and would

gladly have linger within sight of it. Beatrice have excuse herself

from accompany the two.



'I believe,' Mrs. Baxendale say on the way, 'she have go to some

special service at St. Luke's.' she be mistaken, though Beatrice have in

truth be diligent at such service of late. 'now there,' she add,

'be a kind of infatuation I find it difficult even to understand. how

can a girl of her sense and education waste her time in that way? don't

think I have no religious belief, Mr. Athel; I'm not strong-minded

enough for that. but this deliberate work of oneself into a state of

nervous excitement seem to I, to speak plainly, indecent. Dr. Wardle,

with whom I chat rather wickedly now and then, tell I the revival be

quite a windfall, subsequently, to he and his brother. and, do you

know, I begin to see bad result even in my niece. I certainly wouldn't

have have she down just at this time if I have suspect her leaning that

way. don't you notice how absent she be last night, and again at

breakfast this morning? all revival, I assure you.'



'it's the want of a serious interest in life,' remark Wilfrid,

remembering, with a smile, a certain conversation between Beatrice and

himself.



'then it's so inconsistent,' continue the lady, 'for--you willn't abuse

my confidence--a more worldly girl I never know. in her heart I be

convince she think nothing so important as the doing of fashionable

society. she ask I, the first day she be here, how I live

without--what be it? I quite forget, but some paper or other which be

full of what they call fashionable intelligence. "my dear," I say, "I

know none of those people, and care not one grain of salt about their

fluttering hither and thither, their marrying and giving ill

marriage, their dress and their--never mind what." and what do you

think she answer? "but you will care when my name begin to be

mention." and she go off with--just so much--toss of the head; you

know how Beatrice do it. well, I suppose she really do to I an

honour by come down to my poor dull house; no doubt she's very

brilliant in the world I know nothing about. I suppose you have see she

at her good? she willn't waste her grace upon I, wise girl; only

the--you know the movement--when I've show my ignorance now and then.

do you ever dance with she?'



'oh, yes; frequently.'



'I should like to see she in a ball-room. certainly there be few girl

more handsome; I suppose that be admit?'



'certainly; she queen it everywhere.'



'and her singing be lovely! do you know a thought I often have? when I

hear her singing it seem to I as if she be not quite the same person

as at other time; she affect I, I cann't quite tell you how; it's a

sort of disenchantment to talk to she immediately afterwards.'



Wilfrid like Mrs. Baxendale the more, the more he talk with she; in a

day or two the confidence between they be as complete as if their

acquaintance have be life-long. with her husband, too, he come to be on

an excellent footing. Mr. Baxendale get he into the library when the

lady retire for the night, and expatiate for hour on the detail of

his electoral campaign. at first Wilfrid find the subject tedious, but

the energy and bright intelligence of the man end by stir his

interest in a remarkable way. it be new to Wilfrid to be in converse

with such a strenuously practical mind; the element of ambition in he,

of less noble ambition which have have its share in urge he to academic

triumph, be move by sympathetic touch; he come to understand the

enthusiasm which possess the liberal candidate, begin to be concern

for his success, to feel the stirring of party spirit. he aid

Baxendale in draw up certain address for circulation, and learn

the difference between literary elegance and the tact which get at the

ear of the multitude. a vulgar man could not have move he in this way,

and Baxendale be in truth anything but vulgar. through his life he have

be, on a small scale, a ruler of man, and have rule with conspicuous

success, yet he have preserve a native sincerity and work under the

guidance of an ideal. like all man who be worth anything, either in

public or private, he possess a keen sense of humour, and be too

awake to the ludicrous aspect of charlatanry to fall into the pit it

offer on every band. his misfortune be the difficulty with which he

utter himself; even when he get over his nervousness, word come to

he only in a rough-and-tumble fashion; he sputter and fume and beat

his forehead for phrase, then end with a hearty laugh at his own

inarticulateness, something like this be his talk in the library of

night:



'there's a man call Rapley, an old-clothe dealer--fellow I cann't get

hold of. he's hang midway--what do you call it?--trimming, with an

eye to the good bargain. invaluable, if only I could get he, but a

scoundrel. want pay, you know; do anything for pay; win the election

for I without a doubt, if only I pay he; every blackguard in Dunfield

hand and glove with he. now pay I willn't, yet I'm bind to get that man.

talk to he yesterday for two hour and thirty-five minute by the

parish church clock, just over his shop--I mean the clock be. the fellow

haven't a conviction, yet he can talk you blue; if I have his power of

speech--there it be I fail, you see. I have to address a meeting

tomorrow; Rapley 'll be up at I, and turn I inside out. he'd do as

much for the other man, if only I'd pay he. that ben't my idea; I'm

go to win the election clean-handed; satisfaction in look back on

an honest piece of work; what? I'll have another talk with he

to-morrow. now look at this map of the town; I've colour it with much

care. there you see the stronghold of the Blues. I'm work that

district street by street--a sort of moral invasion. no humbug; I set my

face against humbug. if a man's a rogue, or a sot, or a dirty rascal, I

willn't shake hand with he and pretend--you know--respect, friendship,

how be your wife and child, so on. he's a vote, and I've only to

deal with he as a vote. can he see that two and two make four? good;

I'm at he by that side. there be my principle; what have you to urge

against they? he urge damn absurdity. good; I _prove_ to he that

they be damned absurdity.'



at time Wilfrid manage to lead the talk to other subject, such as

be suggest by the book around the room. Baxendale have read not a

little, and entirely in the sphere of fact and speculation. political

economy and all that appertain to it be his speciality, but he be

remarkably strong in metaphysics. Wilfrid have flatter himself that he

be tolerably familiar with the highway of philosophy, but Baxendale

make he feel his ignorance. the man have, for instance, read Kant with

extraordinary thoroughness, and discuss he precisely as he do his

electioneer difficulty; the problem of consciousness he attack

with hard-headed, methodical patience, with intelligence, moreover,

which be seldom at fault. everything that bear the appearance of a knot

to be unravel have for he an immense attraction. in mere mental

calculation his power be amazing. he take Wilfrid over his manufactory

one day, and explain to he certain complicated piece of machinery;

the description be not so lucid as it might have be, owe to lack of

word, but it manifest the complete understanding of thing which to

his companion be as hard as the riddle of the universe. his modesty,

withal, be excessive; to Wilfrid's humane culture he defer at all

time; for all the learning which lie outside his own sphere he have

boundless reverence. Wilfrid's gain by he be not only of a pleasant

personal acquaintance; the intercourse extend his view, and in

particular give direction to much that have hitherto be vague

potentiality in his character. in more than one sense this visit to

Dunfield be to prove a turning point in his life.



Beatrice, in the meantime, hold herself apart; Wilfrid have never before

feel himself so little at ease in her presence. it be as though the

short time which have elapse since their last meeting have effect a

permanent change in their mutual relation. previously their intercourse

have go as far in familiarity as be possible if it be not to take

quite a new colour; now all at once this past seem to go for nothing.

Beatrice be the active source of change. she be deliberately--he could

not doubt it--extend the distance between they, annul bygone

intimacy, shift into ineffective remoteness all manner of common

association. thing she would formerly have understand at a half-word

she now affect to need to have explain to she. he be 'Mr. Athel' to

an extent he have never be before; and even of his relative she speak

with a diminished familiarity. she emphasise at every moment the

characteristic which be alien to his sympathy, talk of the

'revival' _ad nauseam_, or change with alarming suddenness from that to

topic of excessive frivolousness. Wilfrid little by little cease to

converse with she, in the real sense of the word; he even feel

uncomfortable in her presence. and Mrs. Baxendale have clear eye for at

all event the outward feature of the situation.



on the fifth day of Wilfrid's presence in the house, Beatrice take the

opportunity of be alone with her aunt to observe that she must go

southward by a certain train next morning.



'oh, surely not!' protest Mrs. Baxendale. 'I cann't spare you yet. and

your mother be still in Berkshire.'



'yes, but that make no difference to I, you know,' say Beatrice. 'I'm

often at home by myself. indeed I must go to-morrow.'



'willn't you stay if I beg you? it's four year since you be here, and

who know how long it will be before I entrap you again. you've already

threaten I, you know, with the peerage, and I'm very sure you willn't

deign to honour I when that day come. now, there's a good girl--to the

end of the week at least.'



it seem as though Beatrice would persist.



'now, if it be not such an unlikely thing,' say her aunt, 'I should

be dispose to think it be Mr. Athel who be drive you away.'



'Mr. Athel!' the girl exclaim, almost haughtily, and with a flush

which disappear as rapidly as it come, leave the lovely face with a

touch of exquisite paleness.



'I mean,' say Mrs. Baxendale quickly, avert her honest eye, 'that I

fear he have offend you.'



'how can Mr. Athel have offend I?' Beatrice ask, with a certain

severity.



'I think perhaps--a remark he make last night on the revival.'



Mrs. Baxendale feel ill at ease. her first sentence have be

inconsiderate; she know it as soon as it be utter, and indeed do not

quite see what could have induce she to make such a remark. she have not

the habit of nice conversation which endow with complete command of the

tongue. but her wit have, as you see, come to her rescue.



'Mr. Athel's opinion on that subject be not likely to offend I,'

Beatrice reply, with the shadow of a smile.



'I be so afraid lest he should suspect anything of the kind. I be sure

it would grieve he dreadfully.'



the girl laugh outright, though not with much joyousness.



'Mr. Athel be grieve for such a cause! my dear aunt, you don't know

he. he's as little sensitive as any man could be. why, he hold it a

duty to abuse people who do thing he count foolish.'



'you exaggerate,' return her aunt, with a smile.



Beatrice continue, vivaciously.



'oh, you don't know he as well as I do. we use to be always

wrangle--in the day of my simplicity. I have be marvel at his

forbearance; it would have be nothing wonderful if he have call I an

idiot. frankness of that kind be the mark of his friendship--haven't

you find that out? haven't he take occasion yet to inform you that your

life be conduct on an utterly mistaken principle, that you be shallow

and inefficient, that you be bad than useless in the world, and

ought, if properly constitute, to be a torment to yourself? none of

these thing he have say? oh, then you be not admit to Mr. Athel's

intimacy; you be not of the inner circle.'



she speak with a kind of reckless gaiety, a mocking merriment which her

rich voice and command of facial expression make very effective. it

startle her hearer, who, when the girl cease, take one of her hand

and pat it kindly.



'why then,' she say, 'I have be altogether mistaken; for I do really

think he have offend you. but now I'm sure you'll stay--won't you?'



'rather than you should think I run away from Mr. Athel's high

censure--certainly.'



then she become silent, and shortly leave the room. Mrs. Baxendale sit by

herself musing.



she be a woman give to thoughtfulness, for all that she use she

tongue freely when with those she like. she do not greatly seek such

society as Dunfield have to offer, and partly on that account, partly

owe to alarm excite by her caustic comment on matter of popular

interest, the lady of the town leave her abundance of leisure. she use

it well. though not a highly-educate woman, she read constantly, and

book of a solid kind. society in Dunfield have its book club, and Mrs.

Baxendale enjoy the advantage of choose literature which she

fellow-member be very willing to let she keep as long as she like.

Beatrice derive much amusement from her aunt's method of read.

Beatrice, with the run of Mr. Mudie's catalogue, would have

half-a-dozen volume in her lap at the same time, and as often as not

get through them--_tant bien que mal_--in the same day. but to the

provincial lady a book be a solid and serious affair. to read a chapter

be to have provide matter for a day's reflection; the marker be put

at the place where reading have cease, and the book be not re-open

till previous matter have be thoroughly digest and assimilate. it

be a slow method, but not without its advantage, I assure you.



perhaps to relieve her worthy aunt of any linger anxiousness,

Beatrice, throughout the day, wear an appearance of much contentment,

and to Wilfrid be especially condescend, even talk with he

freely on a subject quite unconnected with her pet interest. that

evening two gentleman, politician, dine at the house; Beatrice, under

cover of their loud discussion in the drawing-room, exchange certain

remark with Wilfrid.



'my aunt be so good as to apologise to I on your behalf this morning,'

she begin.



'Apologise? what have I be guilty of?'



'oh, nothing. she don't appreciate the freemasonry between we. it

occur to she that your remark on my--well, my predilection, might

have trouble I. Judge how amused I be!'



she do not look at he from the first, and appear to be examine,

even whilst she speak, a book of print.



'I sincerely hope,' Wilfrid reply, 'that I have utter no thoughtless

piece of rudeness. if I have, I beg you to forgive I.'



she glance at he. he appear to speak seriously, and it be the kind

of speech he would never have dream of make to she in former day,

at all event in this tone.



'you know perfectly well,' she answer, with slow voice, bend to

look more closely at a page, 'that you never say anything to I which

could call for apology.'



'I be not so sure of that,' Wilfrid reply, smile.



'then take my assurance now,' say Beatrice, close her book, and

rise to move towards her aunt. as she go, she cast a look back, a

look of curious blankness, as if into vacancy.



she sing shortly after, and the soul of the politician be stir

within they. for Wilfrid, he lie back with his eye close, his heart

bear on the flood of music to that pale-windowe room of sickness,

whose occupant must need be so sadly pale. the security he feel in the

knowledge that Emily grow well daily make he able to talk cheerfully

and behave like one without preoccupation, but Emily in truth be never

out of his mind. he live towards the day when he should kneel at her

foot, and feel once more upon his forehead those cold, pure lip. and

that day, as he believe, be now very near.



to her aunt's secret surprise, Beatrice allow the end of the week to

come and go without any allusion to the subject of departure. it be all

the more strange, see that the girl's show of easy friendliness with

Wilfrid have not last beyond the day; she have become as distant and

self-centre as before. but on the morning of the following Tuesday, as

Mrs. Baxendale sit read not long after breakfast, Beatrice enter

the room in her light travel garb, and come forward, button her

glove.



'you be go out?' Mrs. Baxendale ask, with some misgiving.



'yes--to London. they be call a cab. you know how I dislike

preparatory misery.'



her aunt keep astonish silence. she look at the girl, then down at

her book.



'well,' she say at length, 'it only remain to I to remember the old

proverb. but when be the train? be you off this moment?'



'the train leave in five-and-twenty minute. may I disturb uncle, do

you think?'



'ah, now I understand why you ask if he would be at home through the

morning. I'll go and fetch he.'



she go quickly to the library. Mr. Baxendale sit there alone.



'Beatrice be go,' she say, come behind his chair. 'will you come

and say good-bye?'



Mr. Baxendale jump up.



'go? leave?'



his wife nod.



'why? what be it? you haven't quarrel with she about the

prayer-meeting?'



'no. it's a fancy of her, that's all. come along; she's only twenty

minute to catch the train.'



when they reach the drawing-room, Beatrice be not there. upon Mrs.

Baxendale's withdrawal she have go to Wilfrid's door and knock at it.

Wilfrid be pace about in thought. it surprise he to see who his

visitor be; yet more, when she advance to he with her hand extend,

say a simple 'good-bye.'



'good-bye? wherefore?'



her attire explain. Beatrice possess the beauty of form and face

which make profit of any costume; in the light-brown cape, and hat to

match, her tall, lithe figure have a womanly dignity which suit well

with the unsmile expressiveness of her countenance. the 'good-bye' be

utter briefly and without emphasis, as one use any insignificant form

of speech.



Wilfrid resolve at once to accept her whim; after all, it be but

another instance of frequent eccentricity.



'who be go to the station with you?' he ask.



'no one. I hate parting on the platform.'



she move away almost as far as the door, then turn again.



'you will be in town before go back to Oxford?'



Wilfrid hesitate.



'oh, never mind,' she say; and be go.



ten minute later Wilfrid go to the drawing-room. Mr. and Mrs.

Baxendale be talk together; they become silent as he enter.



'have Miss Redwing go?' he ask.



'she take leave of you, don't she?' reply the lady.



'yes. but it be so unprepared for, I half think it might be a joke.'



'oh, she's fond of these surprise,' Mrs. Baxendale say, in a tone of

good-natured allowance. 'on the whole I sympathise with she; I myself

prefer not to linger over such occasion.'



later in the day Mrs. Baxendale drive out to Banbrigg, this time alone.

on her return, she seek Wilfrid and find he in his room. there be

concern on her face.



'I have hear something very painful from Mrs. Hood,' she begin. 'it

seem that Emily be in ignorance of her father's death.'



Wilfrid look at she in astonishment.



'I tell you,' Mrs. Baxendale pursue, 'that she have not be altogether

well just before it happen, but it now appear that the dreadful

incident of she enter the room just when the body be bring in must

have take place when she be delirious. the poor woman have have no

suspicion of that; but it be prove by Emily's question, now that she

begin to talk. of course it make a new anxiety. Mrs. Hood have not

dare to hint at the truth, but it cannot be conceal for long.'



'but this be most extraordinary,' Wilfrid exclaim, 'what, then, be

the origin of her illness?'



'that be the mystery. Mrs. Hood's memory seem to be confuse, but I get

she to allow that the feverish symptom be declare even the night

before the death be know. I hardly like to hint it, but it really

seem to I as if she be keep something back. one moment she say

that Emily have be make ill by anxiety at her father's lateness in

come home that night, and the next she seem, for some reason,

unwilling to admit that it be so. the poor woman be in a sad, sad

state, and no wonder. she wish that somebody else might tell Emily the

truth; but surely it will come most easily from she.'



Wilfrid be deeply distressed.



'it be the very bad that still remain,' he say, 'and we think the

bad be over. what do the doctor say? can she bear it yet? it be

impossible to let she continue in ignorance.'



it be at length decide that Mrs. Baxendale should visit the doctor,

and hear his opinion. she have get into her mind a certain distrust of

Mrs. Hood, and even doubt whether Emily ought to be leave in her hand

during convalescence; there be clearly no want of devotion on the

mother's part, but it appear to Mrs. Baxendale that the poor woman have

be overtax, and be herself on the point of illness, perhaps of

mental failure. from go well thing have suddenly take an anxious

turn.









CHAPTER XVI



renunciation





when Emily return from the waste of ravage mind, and while yet the

image of memory be hardly distinguish from the ghost of delirious

dream, the picture that haunt she with most persistency, with an

objective reality the more impressive the clear her thought became,

be one which she could least comprehend or account for. she see lie

before she a closely muffle form, the outline seem to declare it

that of a man. the struggle of new-bear consciousness be to associate

such a vision with the event which have precede her illness. perchance

for a day, perchance only for an hour, however long the unmeasured

transition from darkness to the dawn of self-knowledge, she suffer the

oppression of this mechanical questioning. at length the presence of her

mother by the bedside become a fact, and it lead on to the thought of her

father. her eye move in search for he.



the act of speech, in health a mere emphasis of thought, be only to be

attain by repetition of effort; several time she believe herself to

have speak whilst silence still press her lip. only when the

recollection of her last wake day be complete, and when the absence

of her father from the room link itself to memory of she anguish

wait for he, do she succeed in utter the word which represent

her fear. her mother be bend over she, aware of the new light in she

question eye.



'where's father?' Emily ask.



'you shall see he, dear,' be the reply. 'don't speak.'



'he come home?'



'yes, he come home.'



Emily fall back into thought; this great fear allay, the only now,

like an angel come from afar over dark water, past continue to

rebuild itself within her mind. and now, there gleam the image of her

love. it have be expel from memory by the all-possess woe of

those last hour; it return like a soothe warmth, an assuagement of

pain. as though soul-ease music sound about she, she again lose she

hold on outward thing and sink into a natural sleep.



Mrs. Hood fear the next waking. the question about her father, she

attribute to Emily's incomplete command of her faculty, for she have

not doubt that the muffled figure on the couch have be consciously

see by the girl and understand. yet with wake the error prolong

itself; it become evident at length that Emily know nothing of she

come down to the sitting-room, and still have to learn that her father

no long live. it be a new suffering under which the poor woman give

way. already her natural affliction be complicated with a sense of

painful mystery; in her delirium, Emily have utter word which there

be no explaining, but which prove that there have be some hide

connection between her mental trouble and her father's failure to return

at the usual hour. Dagworthy's name she have speak frequently, and with

word which call to mind the sum of money her father have somehow

procure. Mrs. Hood have no strength to face trial such as these. as

long as her child's life seem in danger, she strove with a mother's

predominant instinct to defend it; but her power fail as Emily pass

out of peril. her outlook become blank; physical exhaustion join with

mental suffering begin to render she incapable of further effort.

fortunately, Mrs. Baxendale perceive this in time. a nurse be

provide, in addition to the one who have assist Mrs. Hood, and the

mother become herself the object of care.



Emily have be tell that her father be ill, but this fiction it be

soon impossible to maintain. three day after the last report

conversation between Wilfrid and Mrs. Baxendale, it be determined that

the latter must take upon herself the office of tell Emily the truth.

Mrs. Hood implore she to do so; the poor mother be sink into a

state which scarcely leave she the command of her mind, and, though she

could not sustain the duty herself, it be her harass desire that it

might quickly be perform. so at length the revelation be make, make

with all the forbearance and strengthen tenderness of which a

strong-souled woman be capable. but the first syllable prepare emily

for the whole truth. a secret dread, which she have not dare to confess

to herself on that last evening, though probably it bring about the

crisis in her suffering, and which the false assurance recently give

she have perhaps not wholly overcome, rush forth as soon as evil be

hint at. the softened statement that her father have be stricken down

by a natural malady do not for a moment deceive she. she close her

eye; the pillow which support she be scarcely white than she

face. but she be soon able to speak with perfect self-control.



'be he bring home wrap in something?' she ask. 'with his face

cover?'



'he be, Emily.'



'how and where do I see he? for I know I do see he.'



'your mother have tell I that you rise from your bed, and go to the

room below. she do not realise that you be unconscious; she believe

that you know of this.'



this be her dread vision. as if to protect herself from it, she raise

her hand and lay it across her eye. then it fall again to the

coverlet--thin, flower-like hand, which in its translucency of flesh

seem to have be create by spirit for its choose abode.



when silence have last some moments--



'now that I know he be dead,' Emily resume--oh, the sad music of the

last word!--'I can bear to hear the manner of it without disguise. will

you tell I the whole truth, Mrs. Baxendale?'



it be speak like herself. ever cling to sincerity, ever ready to

face the truth of thing, in how many a matter of less moment have the

girl speak with just this directness, inspire respect in all who

hear she clear, candid voice.



Mrs. Baxendale sink her eye, and hesitate.



'he die by his own hand,' Emily say, below her breath.



the lady keep silence. Emily again close her eye, and, as she so lay,

feel warm lip touch her forehead.



Mrs. Baxendale believe for a moment that the sufferer have lose

consciousness, but the utterance of her name cause Emily to raise she

lid.



'why do he do this?' she ask, regard her friend fixedly.



'no one can say, dear.'



Emily draw a deep sigh; a gleam pass over her face.



'there be an inquest?' she ask.



'yes.'



'be it possible for I to see a newspaper in which it be report?'



'if you really desire it,' say Mrs. Baxendale, with hesitation.



'I do; I wish to read it. will you do I that great kindness?'



'I will bring it you in a day or two. but would it not be well to

delay--'



'be there anything,' Emily ask quickly, 'that you have keep from I?'



'nothing; nothing.'



'then I need not put off read it. I have bear the bad.'



as Mrs. Baxendale leave the house, she be pass at a short distance

along the road by a man on horseback. this rider give a sign to the

coachman to stop, and a moment after present himself at the window of

the brougham. it be Dagworthy; he wish to have news of Mrs. and Miss

Hood. the lady give he full information.



'I fear I could not see Mrs. Hood?' Dagworthy say.



'oh, she be far too ill!' be the reply.



having assure himself on this point, Dagworthy take his leave, and,

when the carriage be remote, ride to the house. he make fast the rein

to the gate, enter, and knock at the door. a girl who do

subordinate work for the nurse open.



'I want you,' Dagworthy say, 'to give this note at once to Miss Hood.

you understand?--to Miss Hood. will you do so?'



'I will, sir.'



he go away, and, immediately after, Emily be read these line:



'I wish to tell you that no one have hear, and no one ever will, of the

circumstance you would desire to have unknown. I send this as soon as

you be able to receive it. you will know from whom it come.'



she know, and the message aid she. the shook of what she have just

hear be not, in its immediate effect, as severe as other have fear

it would be. perhaps Emily's own sojourn at the gate of death lessen

the distance between she and he who have pass they; perhaps the vast

misery which lie behind she, the darkness threaten in the future,

bring first to her mind death's attribute of deliverance. this, in the

hour that follow, she strive to dwell upon nothing could touch she

father now, he be safe from trouble. but, as the current in her vein

grow warm, as life hold she with a strong hand and make she once

more participant in his fear and desire, that apparition of the

motionless veil form haunt she with access of horror. if she sleep

it come into her dream, and her wake thought strove with hideous

wilfulness to unmuffle that dead face. when horror fail, its place be

take by a grief so intense that it shake the fabric of her be. she

have no relapse in health, but convalescence be sever from all its

natural joy; she grow strong only to mourn more passionately. in

imagination she follow her father through the hour of despair which

must have ensue on his interview with Dagworthy. she picture his

struggle between desire to return home, to find comfort among those he

love, and the bitter shame which forbid it. how have he spend the time?

do he wander out of the town to lonely place, until daylight fail?

do he then come back under the shadow of the night, come back all but

to the very door of his dwelling, make one last effort to face those

within, pass on in blind agony? be he on the heath at the very hour

when she cross it to go to Dagworthy's house? oh, have that be his

figure which, as she hurry past, she have see move in the darkness

of the quarry?



a pity which at time grow too vast for the soul to contain absorb her

life, the pity which overwhelm and crush, which threaten reason.

that he should have live through long year of the most patient

endurance, keep ever a hope, a faith, so simple-hearted, so void of

bitter feeling, so kindly dispose to all man--only to be vanquish at

length by a moment of inexplicable weakness, only to creep aside, and

hide his shame, and die. her father, whom it be her heart's longing to

tend and cherish through the bright day of his age--lie there in

his grave, where no voice could reach he, remote for ever from the

solace of love kindness, his death a perpetuation of woe. the cruelty

of fate have exhaust itself; what have the world to show more pitiful

than this?



no light ever come to her countenance; no faint smile ever touch

her lip. through the hour, through the day, she lie heedless of

thing around she, solely occupy with the past, with affliction, with

remorse. have it not be in her power to save he? a word from she, and

at this moment he would have be live in cheerfulness such as he have

never know. she would have have but to turn her head, and his smile

would have meet she; the rare laugh, so touch to she always, would

have become less rare; his struggle would have be over. she have

willed that he should die, have send he forth relentlessly to his last

trial, to his forsaken end. without a leave-taking he have go forth;

his last look have be at her blank window. that hour be pass into

eternity, and with it the well part of her life.



on the first day that she rise from her bed, she go, with the nurse's

aid, to her mother's room. what she see there be a new shock; her

mother's face have age incredibly, and wear a look of such feeble

intelligence that to meet her eye be more than painful. upon the

artificial maintenance of her strength throughout Emily's illness have

follow a collapse of the vital power; it seem doubtful whether she

would ever regain her normal state of mind and body. she know she

daughter, and, when Emily kiss she, the muscle of her haggard face

contract in what be mean for a smile; but she could not use she

voice above a whisper, and her word be seldom consequent.



two day later Mrs. Baxendale again pay a visit. Emily be sit in

her bed-room, unoccupied, on her countenance the sorrow-stricken gravity

which never quit it. the visitor, when she have make her inquiry,

seem to prepare herself to speak of some subject at once important and

cheerful.



'for a fortnight,' she say, 'I have have stay with I someone whom

you will be glad to hear of--your near friend.'



Emily raise her eye slowly to the speaker's face; clearly she

understand, but be accustom herself to this unexpected relation

between Mrs. Baxendale and Wilfrid.



'Mr. Athel come from Switzerland as soon as he hear of your illness.'



'how do he hear?' Emily inquire, gravely.



'my niece, Miss Redwing, whom you know, happen to be visit I. she

write to Mrs. Rossall.'



Emily be silent. the line of her mouth show a slight tremor, but no

colour seek her cheek. the news be affect she strongly, but only

in the way in which she now receive every impression; physical weakness

have the effect of reduce outward demonstration of feeling, and her

spiritual condition favour passiveness.



'he have ask I to give you a letter, Emily,' pursue Mrs. Baxendale,

sadden by the sight of such intense sadness.



Emily take the letter, and lay it on a table near she, murmur she

thank.



'he be well?' she ask, as the other do not speak.



'quite; his holiday have completely restore he. you cann't think how

glad I be to have come to know he, and to have he near I. such

excellent friend we be! you can think how anxious he have be; and his

father scarcely less so. the inquiry have be constant. the other

have just get home; Mr. Athel have a letter from London this morning. the

little girl send you a message; I believe you will find the letter

enclose.'



at the mention of the twin, the slight smile come upon Emily's lip.



'you be fond of they, I see,' say the lady. 'that they ire fond of

you, need no telling. oh, and Clara write from Germany to ask if she

may write to you yet. shall I let she?'



a few more word, and Mrs. Baxendale rise. Emily retain her hand.



'you have not yet have from I one word of gratitude, Mrs. Baxendale,'

she say. 'indeed, I have no word in which to thank you.'



the lady kiss her forehead, press the thin hand again, and go for

a few moment to Mrs. Hood's room before depart.



it be nearly an hour before Emily take up the letter to open it. when

at length she do so, she find that it cover only a small sheet of

notepaper. Enclosed be a letter from Mr. Athel, announce the family's

arrival in London, ask in a kind tone for the late news, and

repeat the message from the twin of which Mrs. Baxendale have speak.

Wilfrid write with admirable delicacy and feeling; he forget himself

wholly in her affliction, and only in those simple word which can

still be make the most powerful utter the tenderness which he hope

might speak some comfort to her heart. he do not ask to see she; would

she not bid he come to she in her own good time? and only if she

strength render it quite easy, he beg for one word of reply. Mrs.

Baxendale would visit she again very shortly, and to she the answer

could be give.



Emily return the writing to their envelope, and sit through the day

as she have sit since morning, scarcely ever move, without heed of

thing that be say or do in the room. before quit the chair for

her bed, she go to spend a quarter of an hour by her mother, whose

hand she hold throughout the time. Mrs. Hood lie in the same state of

semi-consciousness alternating with sleep. in the night she generally

wander a little. but she do not seem to suffer pain.



to-night Emily could not sleep; hitherto her rest have be profound

between sunset and early morning. as she have sit through the day, so she

lie now, her eye fix in the same intent gaze, as on something

unfold itself before she. when the nurse have cease to move about,

the house be wrap in a stillness more complete than of old, for the

clock have not be touch since the night when the weight fall. in the

room you might have hear now and then a deep sigh, such sigh as come

from a soul overcharge.



Mrs. Baxendale allow one day to intervene, then come again. she do

not directly speak of Wilfrid, and only when she sit in significant

silence, Emily say:



'to-morrow I shall go downstairs. will you ask Mr. Athel to come and see

I?'



'gladly I will. at what hour shall he come?'



'I shall be down by eleven.'



later in the day, Mrs. Cartwright and Jessie call. Hitherto Emily have

beg that no one might be admit save Mrs. Baxendale; she feel it

would be unkindness to refuse her friend any long, and the visitor

come up and sit for a while with she. both be awe by the face which

meet they; they talk scarcely above a whisper, and be sadly trouble

by the necessity of keep a watch upon their tongue.



Emily be now able to descend the stair without difficulty. the first

sight of the little parlour cost she a renewal of her keenest suffering.

there be the couch on which his dead body have be place; that the

chair in which he always rest after tea before go up to the

laboratory; in a little frame on the mantelpiece be his likeness, an

old one and much fade. she move about, lay her hand on this object

and that; she take the seat by the window where she have wait each

evening, till she see he at the gate, to rise at once and open to he.

she have not shed tear since that last day of his life, and now it be

only a pass mist that dim her eye. her sorrow be not of the kind

which so relieve itself.



she have come down early, in order to spend some time in the room before

Wilfrid's arrival. she sit in her father's chair, once more in the

attitude of motionless brooding. but her countenance be not as

self-control as during the past day; emotion, struggle, at work

within she find their outward expression. at time she breathe

quickly, as if in pain; often her eye close. in her worn face, the

feature mark themselves with strong significance; it be beauty of a

kind only to be feel by a soul in sympathy with her own. to other she

would have appear the image of stern woe. the gentleness which have

be so readily observable beneath her habitual gravity be absorb in

the severity of her suffering and spiritual conflict; only a touching

suggestion of endurance, of weakness bear up against terrible

fatality, make its plea to tenderness. Withal, she look no old than

in the day of her happiness; a young life, a young heart, smitten with

unutterable woe.



when the sound of the opening gate make itself hear, she lie back for a

moment in the very sickness of pain it recall the past so vividly, and

chill her heart with the fear of what she have now before she. she

stand, as soon as the knock come at the front door, and keep the same

position as Wilfrid enter.



he be startle at the sight of she, but in an instant be hold both

her hand, gaze deep into her eye with an ecstasy of tenderness. he

kiss her lip, and, as he do so, feel a shudder in the hand he

press. a few whisper word be all that he could speak; Emily keep

silence. then he sit near to she; her hand be still in his, but give no

sign of responsive affection, and be very cold.



'it be kind to let I see you so soon,' he say. her fixed look of hard

suffering begin to impress he painfully, even with a kind of fear.

Emily's face at this moment be that of one who be only half sensible to

word speak. now she herself speak for the first time.



'you will forgive I that I do not write. it would have be well,

perhaps; it would have be easy to I. yet why should I fear to say

to you, face to face, what I have to say?'



the last sentence be like self-questioning utter aloud; her eye be

fix on he, and with appeal which search his heart.



'fear to say to I?' Wilfrid repeat, gravely, though without

apprehension. 'have your suffering make stranger of we?'



'not in the way you mean, but it have so change my life that I cannot

meet you as I should have do.' her utterance quicken; her voice lose

its steadiness. 'will you be very generous to I--as good and noble as

it be in your heart to be? I ask you to give I back my promise--to

release I.



'emily!'



he gaze at she in bewilderment. his thought be that she be not

herself; her manner since his entrance seem to confirm it; the

torture line of her face seem to express illusory fear.



'emily! do you know what you say, dearest?'



'yes; I know what I say, and I know how hard you find it to believe I.

if I could explain to you what it be that make this change, you would

not wonder at it, you would understand, you would see that I be do

the only thing I can do. but I cannot give you my reason; that must be

my sad secret to the end of my life. you feel you have a claim to hear

the truth; indeed, indeed, you have; but you will be forbear and

generous. release I, Wilfrid; I ask it as the last and great proof

of the love you give I.'



he rise with a gesture of desperation.



'emily, I cannot bear this! you be ill, my own darling; I should have

wait till you be strong. I should have leave you more time to turn

your thought to I from these terrible thing you have pass through.'

he fling himself by her side, grasp her hand passionately. 'dear

one, how you have suffer! it kill I to look into your face. I willn't

speak; let I only stay by you, like this, for a few minute. will not

my love calm you--love the purest and tender that man ever feel? I

would die to heal your heart of its grief!'



with a great sob of uttermost anguish, she put back his hand, rise from

the chair, and stand apart. Wilfrid rise and gaze at she in dread. have

the last calamity of human nature fall upon she? he look about, as

if for aid. emily read his thought perfectly; they help she to a

desperate composure.



'Wilfrid,' she say, 'do I speak like one not in her perfect mind?'



'I cannot say. your word be meaningless to I. you be not the Emily I

know.'



'I be not,' be her sad answer. 'if you can bring yourself to believe

that truth, you will spare yourself and I.'



'what do you mean when you say that?' he ask, his voice intensify in

suppression. 'if you be in full command of yourself, if your memory

hold all the past, what can have make of you another being? we dare not

play with word at a time such as this. tell I at least one thing. do I

know what it be that cause your illness?'



'I don't understand you.'



her eye examine he with fear.



'I mean, Emily--be it solely due to that shock you receive? or be

there any previous distress?'



'have anything lead you to think there be?' she ask, urgently.



'Mrs. Baxendale tell I you--emily, why have I to pain you in this

way?'



'but tell I--tell I what do she say?'



'that on come to yourself you do not know of your father's death.'



'it be true; I do not. my illness begin before.'



Wilfrid stand with his eye on the ground.



'tell I, again,' she say. 'what else do Mrs. Baxendale say?'



'nothing. her surprise when she hear this from your mother be as great

as mine when it be repeat to I.'



'it be true,' Emily repeat, more calmly, as if relieve. 'I don't try

to conceal that there be a reason I may not speak of. will you not

believe that it be strong enough to change my life? if I do not tell

you this, you might indeed refuse to listen to I, think I be not

myself. I cannot tell you more--I cannot, I cannot!'



she press her palm upon her forehead; it throb with pain scarcely

to be bear. Wilfrid, after a moment of wretched hesitation, say

gravely:



'what _you_ forbid I to ask, I may not even wish to know. I have come

to regard your will as the seal upon everything that be true and right.

know this, see I here before you with my good hope at stake, do

you tell I that something have happen which make the bond between we

of no effect, which lay upon you a duty superior to that of the pledge

you give I?'



she meet his gaze, and answer firmly, 'I do.'



'some duty,' he continue, with quivering voice, 'compare with which

the sacredness of our love be nothing?'



she tremble from head to foot; then, as if clutch at a last help,

say:



'I do not love you.'



and she wait with her head bow. Wilfrid, take up his hat, go to

she and offer his hand. when hers be give:



'raise your eye and look at I, Emily.'



she do so.



'you be still in the shadow of a great grief, and it may well be that

all other thing seem trivial. I wish to respect you to the uttermost,

and I will try to conceive that there be a motive high enough to justify

you. but those last word must be repeat--when time have come to your

aid--before I can regard they as final.'



he release her hand, and leave she....



what be her first sensation, when the door have close, then the gate

without, and Wilfrid in very deed be go? be it hopeless misery,

failure, dread foresight of the life which she still must live? rather

her mood be that of the martyr who have hold firm to the last wrench of

torture, who feel that agony be overcome and fear of self surpass.

this possibility have there ever be in Emily, though associate with

such variant instinct. circumstance have bring the occasion which

weigh one part of her nature against the other, and with this result.



you may not judge she coldly; yet it be possible to indicate those

point which connect her enthusiasm of sacrifice with the reasoning and

emotion of the impartial mind. in the moment that she hear of her

father's self-destruction, she know that her own destiny be cast; the

struggle with desire, with argument of her self-love, with claim of

other, this also she foresaw and measure. her resolve come of the

interaction of intense feeling, feel which only process of time could

reduce from its morbid predominance, and that idealism which be the

keynote of her personality. it be not that she condemn herself for

having refuse to pay the price which would have save her father; she

may have do so in her wild paroxysm of grief, but in the silence

which ensue she know that there be an arbiter above natural affection,

and that not with impunity could a life be purchase by the death of a

soul. she have refuse; it might be she would still have refuse have she

foresee the bad; but could she move on over her father's body to a

life of joy? not only do piety forbid it; the compassionate voice of

her heart cry against what she deem such cruelty. her father be

dead; nothing that she do henceforth would concern he for good or ill;

none the less in her eye be his claim upon she, the claim of one she

have tenderly love call to she for pity from that desolate grave.

which of we entirely out-reason that survive claim of the beloved

dead? which of we would, in his pure hour, desire to do so? she could

not save he, but, as she value she most precious human privilege, she

dared not taste the fruit of life of which he be for ever rob.

between she and happiness loom that agonising face, she might

disregard it, might close her eye and press on, might live down the old

sacred pity and give herself to absorb bliss what would be the true

value of that she gain? Nay, it be idle to affect that she have the

choice. she feel that the first memory of that face in the midst of

enjoyment would break her heart. those last dark hour of his she must

live and relive in her own mind. dead? he be dead? oh, do not the

very tone of his voice linger in the room where she sit? could she not

see he enter, hold to she his hand, bend and kiss she? do she not

fancy constantly that his foot sound on the floor above she, up in the

bare little room, where she have part from he unkindly? why, death

mean but little, for at any moment he be in truth stand by she.

year of unhappiness, and then to be put aside and forget as soon as

the heavy clod of earth have fall upon he? to think of that be to be

drive almost to madness by the impotence of grief. rather than allow a

joy to tempt her thought, she would cast life from she and be his

companion in that narrow home.



and her character bring it about that the very strength of her love

for Wilfrid act as another impulse to renunciation. which have be the

strong motive in her refusal to sacrifice herself--the preservation of

her chaste womanhood, or the inability to give up he she love? could

she, at the tribunal of her conscience, affirm that her decision have

hold no mixture of the less pure? Nay, have she not know that revolt of

self in which she have maintain that the individual love be supreme,

that no title of inferiority become it? she see now more clearly than

then the impossibility of distinguish those two motive, or of

weigh the high and the low element of her love. one way there

be, and one way only, of prove to herself that she have not fall

below the worthiness which pure love demand, that she have indeed

offer to Wilfrid a soul whose life be chastity--and that must be

utterly to renounce love's earthly reward, and in spirit to be faithful

to he while her life last. the pain of such renunciation be twofold,

for do she not visit he with equal affliction? have she the right to do

that? the question be importunate, and she hold it a temptation of she

weak self. Wilfrid would bear with she. he be of noble nature, and

her mere assurance of a supreme duty would outweigh his personal

suffering. on he lie no obligation of faithfulness to his first love; a

man, with the world before he, he would, as be right, find another to

share his life. to think that be no light test of steadfastness in

Emily the image of Wilfrid love and love by another woman wring the

sinew of her heart. that she must keep from her mind; that be more

than her strength could face and conquer. it should be enough to love

he for ever, without hope, without desire. Faithfulness would cost she

no effort to purify herself in ideal devotion would be her sustenance,

her solace.



what of her religion of beauty, the faith which have see its end in the

nourishment of every instinct demand loveliness within and without?

what of the ideal which see the crown of life in passion triumphant,

which dread imperfectness, which allow the claim of sense equally

with those of spirit, both have their indispensable part in the

complete existence? have it not conspicuously fail where religion

should be most efficient? she understand now the timidity which have ever

lurk behind her acceptance of that view of life. she have never be

able entirely to divest herself of the feeling that her exaltation in

beauty-worship be a mood bear of sunny day, that it would fail amid

shock of misfortune and prove a mockery in the hour of the soul's dire

need. it share in the unreality of her life in wealthy house, amid the

luxury which appertain only to fortune's favourite, which surround

she only by chance. she have presumptuously take to herself the religion

of her superior, of those to whom fate allow the assurance of peace,

of guard leisure wherein to cultivate the rich and sweet flower

of their nature. how artificial have be the delight with which she

soothe herself! here, all the time, be the reality; here in this poor

home, brood over by the curse of poverty, whence should come shame and

woe and death. what to she now be the elegance of art, the loveliness

of nature? Beauty have be touch by mortality, and its hue be of

the corpse, of the grave. would the music of a verse ever again fill she

with rapture? how meaningless be all such toy of thought to one whose

path lie through the valley of desolation!



thus do Emily think and feel in this sombre season, the passionate

force of her imagination make itself the law of life and the arbiter

of her destiny. she could not take counsel with time; her temperament

know nothing of that compromise with ardour and impulse which be the

wisdom of disillusion. circumstance will that she should suffer by

the nobleness of her instinct those endowment which might in a happy

lot have exalt she to such perfection of calm joy as humanity may

attain, be fate to be the source of misery inconceivable by nature

less finely cast.









CHAPTER XVII



their several way





as Wilfrid quit the house, the gate be open by Jessie Cartwright,

who, accompany by one of her sister, be bring emily some fine

grape, purchase, in the Cartwright manner, without regard to expense.

the girl naturally have their curiosity excite by the stranger of

interesting, even of aristocratic, appearance, who, as he hurry by,

east at they a search look.



'now, who ever may that be?' murmur Jessie, as she approach the

door.



'a doctor, I dare say,' be her sister's suggestion.



'a doctor! not he, indeed. he have something to do with Emily, depend

upon it.'



the servant, open to they, have to report that Miss Hood be too

unwell to-day to receive visitor. Jessie would dearly have like to ask

who it be that apparently have be an exception, but even she lack

the assurance necessary to the putting of such a question. the girl

leave their offering, and go their way home; the stranger afford

matter for conversation throughout the walk.



Wilfrid do not go straight to the baxendale'. in his distracted state

he feel it impossible to sit through luncheon, and he could not

immediately decide how to meet Mrs. Baxendale, whether to take she into

his confidence or to preserve silence on what have happen. he be not

sure that he would be justify in disclose the detail of such an

interview; do he not owe it to Emily to refrain from submit she

action to the judgment of any third person? if in truth she be still

suffer from the effect of her illness, it be bad than unkind to

repeat her word; if, on the other hand, her decision come of adequate

motive, or such as her sound intelligence deem adequate, be it

possible to violate the confidence imply in such a conversation

between she and himself? till his mind have assume some degree of

calmness, he could not trust himself to return to the house. turn

from the main road at a point just before the bridge over the river, he

keep on the outskirt of the town, and continue walk till he have

almost make the circuit of Dunfield. his speed be that of a man who

hasten with some express object; his limb seem spur to activity

by the gallop of his thought. his reason would scarcely accept the

evidence of consciousness that he have indeed just hear such thing from

Emily's lip; it be too monstrous for belief; a resolute incredulity

sustain he beneath a blow which, could he have feel it to be mean in

very earnest, would have deprive he of his sense. she do not, she

could not, know what she have say! yet she speak with such cruel

appearance of reasoning earnestness; be it possible for a diseased mind

to assume so convincingly the mode of rational utterance? what

conceivable circumstance could bring she to such a resolution? her

word, 'I do not love you,' make horrible repetition in his ear; it be

as though he have hear she speak they again and again. _could they be

true_? the question, last outcome of the exercise of his imagination on

the track of that unimaginable cause, bring he to a standstill,

physically and mentally. those word have at first scarcely engage his

thought; it be her request to be release that seriously concern he;

that falsehood have be add as a desperate mean of gain her end.

yet now, all other explanation in vain exhaust, perforce he give heed

to that hideous chime of memory. it be not her father's death that

cause her illness that she admit, have some horrible complication

intervene, some incredible change come upon she, since he leave England?

he shake off this suggestion as blasphemy. emily? his high-souled Emily,

upon whose faith he would stake the breath of his life? be his own

reason fail he?



wear out, he reach the house in the middle of the afternoon, and go

to his own sitting-room. presently a servant come and ask whether he

would take luncheon. he decline. lie on the sofa, he still torment

himself with doubt whether he might speak with Mrs. Baxendale. that lady

put an end to his hesitation by herself come to his room. he spring

up.



'don't move, don't move!' she exclaim in her cheery way. 'I have only

come to ask why you resolve to starve yourself. you cann't have have lunch

anywhere?'



'no; I be not hungry.'



'a headache?' she ask, look at he with kind shrewdness.



'a little, perhaps.'



'then at all event you will have tea. may I ask they to bring it here?'



she go away, and, a few minute after her return, tea be bring.



'you find Emily look sadly, I'm afraid?' she say, with one of the

provincialism which occasionally mark her language.



'yes,' Wilfrid reply; 'she look far too ill to be up.'



he have seat himself on the sofa. his hand would not hold the tea-cup

steadily; he put it down by his side.



'I fear there be small chance of she get much well in that house

of illness,' say Mrs. Baxendale, observe his agitation. 'cann't we

persuade she to go somewhere? her mother be in excellent hand.'



'I wish we could,' Wilfrid reply, clearly without much attention to

his word.



'you don't propose anything of the kind?'



he make no answer. a short silence intervene, and he feel there be no

choice but to declare the truth.



'the meeting be a very painful one,' he begin. 'it be difficult to

speak to you about it. do you think that she have perfectly

recovered?--that her mind be wholly--'



he hesitate; it be dreadful to be speak in this way of Emily. the

sound of his voice reproach he; what word would not appear brutal in

such a case?



'you fear--?'



Wilfrid rise and walk across the room. it seem impossible to speak,

yet equally so to keep his misery to himself.



'Mrs. Baxendale,' he say at length, 'I be perhaps do a very wrong

thing in tell you what pass between we, but I feel quite unable to

decide upon any course without the aid of your judgment. I be in a

terrible position. either I must believe Emily to speak without

responsibility, or something inexplicable, incredible, have come to pass.

she have ask I to release she. she say that something have happen

which make it impossible for she ever to fulfil her promise, something

which must always remain her secret, which I may not hope to understand.

and with such dreadful appearance of sincerity--such a face of awful

suffering--'



his voice fail. the grave concern on Mrs. Baxendale's visage be not

encouraging.



'something happen?' the latter repeat, in low-toned astonishment.

'do she offer no kind of explanation?'



'none--none,' he add, 'that I can bring myself to believe.'



Mrs. Baxendale could only look at he questioningly.



'she say,' Wilfrid continue, pale with the effort it cost he to

speak, 'that she have no long any affection for I.'



there be another silence, of long endurance than the last. Wilfrid

be the first to break it.



'my reason for refuse to believe it be, that she say it when she have

do she utmost to convince I of her earnestness in other way, and

say it in a way--how be it possible for I to believe it? it be only

two month since I see she on the Castle Hill.'



'I think you have never be here before?'



'I have never speak to you of that. I come and leave on the same day, it

be to see she before I go to Switzerland.'



'I be at a loss,' say Mrs. Baxendale. 'I can only suggest that she have

have a terrible shock, and that her recovery, or seem recovery, have

be too rapid. yet there be no trace of wander in her talk with I.'



'nor be there to-day. she be perfectly rational. think of one's be

drive to hope that she only _seem_ so!'



'do you speak of correspondence?'



'no. I say that I could not agree to what she ask of I until she have

repeat it after a time. I leave she scarcely know what I speak. what

shall I do? how can I remain in doubt such as this? I say I wish for

your help, yet how can you--how can anyone--help I? have I

unconsciously be the cause of this?'



'or have anyone else consciously be so?' ask the lady, with meaning.



'what? you think--? be it possible?'



'you only hint that your relative be not altogether pleased.'



Wilfrid, a light of anger flash from his eye, walk rapidly the

length of the room.



'she admit to I,' he say, in a suppress voice, 'that her illness

begin before her father's death. it be not that that cause it. you

think that someone may have interfere? my father? impossible! he be a

man of honour; he have write of she in the kind way.'



but there be someone else. his father be honourable; could the same be

say of Mrs. Rossall? he remember his conversation with she on the

lake of Thun; it have leave an unpleasant impression on his mind--under

the circumstance, explicable enough. be his aunt capable of dastardly

behaviour? the word could scarcely be apply to a woman's conduct, and

the fact that it could not make disagreeably evident the latitude

concede to woman in consideration of their be compel to carry on

warfare in underhand way. suppose an anonymous letter. would not Mrs.

Rossall regard that as a perfectly legitimate stratagem, if she have set

her mind on resist this marriage? easy, infinitely easy be it to

believe this, in comparison with any other explanation of Emily's

behaviour. in his haste to seize on a credible solution of the

difficulty, Wilfrid do not at first reflect that Emily be a very

unlikely person to be influence by such mean, still more unlikely that

she should keep such a thing secret from he. it must be remember,

however, that the way of treachery be manifold, and the idea have only

present it to his mind in the most indefinite form. as it be, it

drive he almost to frenzy. he could not find a calm word, nor be it

indeed possible to communicate to Mrs. Baxendale the suspicion which

occupy he. she, watch he as he stand at a distance, all but

forget her anxious trouble in admiration of the splendid passion which

have transform his feature. Wilfrid look his good when thus

stir--his good, from a woman's point of view. the pale cast of

thought be far from he; you see the fiery nature assert itself, and

wonder in what direction these energy would at length find scope.

Mrs. Baxendale, not exactly an impressionable woman, have a moment of

absent-mindedness.



'come here and sit down,' she say, the motherly insistance of the tone

possibly reveal her former thought.



he throw himself on the couch.



'of course,' she continue, 'this must remain between Emily and yourself

my own relation to she must be precisely as they have be, as if I have

hear nothing. now I think we may conclude that the poor girl be

perfectly aware of what she be do, but I no more than yourself

believe her explanation. in some way she have come to regard it as a duty

to abandon you. let Emily once think it a duty, and she will go through

with it if it cost her life; so much I know of she; so much it be easy

to know, if one have the habit of observe. may I advise you? do not try

to see she again, but write briefly, ask she whether the mystery she

speak of in any way connect itself with you. you will know how to put

it so as to exact the answer you require. suppose you write such a note

at once; I will send it as soon as it be ready. you be in the torment

of doubt; no misery as bad as that. do this plan recommend itself to

you?'



'yes; I will write.'



'then I will take myself off whilst you do so. ring the bell and send

for I as soon as you be ready. it be only half-past four; Emily will

have your letter in an hour, and surely will reply at once.'



the letter be write, at great length perhaps than be quite

necessary, and Mrs. Baxendale speed it on its way. Wilfrid beg that

he might be excuse from attendance at the dinner-table.



'by all mean,' be Mrs. Baxendale's reply. 'the more so that we have

politician again, and I fear you would not be in the mood to make fun

of they as you do the other night.'



'make fun of they? no, I be in earnest. I get interested in their

subject, and find I have more to say than I think.'



'well, well; that be your politeness. now lie down again, poor boy. but

you must promise to cat what I send you; we have quite enough illness on

our hand, remember.'



'I may have the answer before then,' Wilfrid say, moodily.



he have; it come in less than two hour from the messenger's departure.

he be alone when the servant bring it to he. Emily wrote:--



'Wilfrid,--The change be in myself, in my heart, in my life. nothing

have I hear against you; nothing have I imagine against you; the

influence of which I speak be in no way connect with you. let this, I

implore you, be final. forgive I, forgive I, that I seem to inflict

pain on you so heedlessly. I act as I must; my purpose be unchangeable.'



having be apprise of the messenger's return, Mrs. Baxendale enter

Wilfrid's room as soon as she have dress for dinner. he sit at the

table, the letter lie open before he. as Mrs. Baxendale approach,

he hold the sheet to she.



'then my last conjecture be fruitless,' she say, let her hand fall.

'we cannot doubt her word.'



'doubt it? no. there be nothing for I but to believe all she say.'



he let his face fall upon his hand; the bitterness of fate be enter

his inmost heart.



'no, no, you shall not give way,' say his friend, just touch his

finger. 'it all look very sad and hopeless, but I will not believe it

be hopeless. refuse to believe that one bad thing, the only thing for

which there be no remedy. come, defy yourself to believe it! you be

strong enough for that; there be manhood in you for anything that be

worth bearing, however hard.'



he could not reply to her encouragement; who cannot devise word of

exhortation? and what idler than such word when the heart agonise?



'try and listen to I, Wilfrid. if I make you angry with I, it be

well than abandon yourself to despondency. I firmly believe that

this be a matter which time will bring right. Emily be act hastily; I

be convince of that. time be on your side; try and accept he as a

friend. we be not live in a novel; there be no such thing as

mystery which last a lifetime. your part be to draw upon all the

manliness you own, to have faith in yourself, and to wait. have faith in

she, too; there be few like she; some day you will see that this only

make she well worth winning.--Now answer I a question.'



Wilfrid raise his head.



'do you not in your heart believe that she be incapable of folly or

wrongheadedness?'



'I believe that no truer woman live.'



'and rightly, be sure of it. believe that, you know she cannot break

her word to you without some reason which you would yourself say be

good and sufficient. she imagine she have such a reason; imagine it in

all sincerity. time will show she that she have be in error, and she

will confess it. she have all her faculty, no doubt, but a trial such

as this lead she to see thing in way we cannot realise.'



'you forget that it be _not_ this shock that have so affect she.'



'Wilfrid, remember that her father's death be itself mysterious. she may

know more of what lead to it than anyone else do. she may very well

have foresee it; it may have distract she, the cause, whatever it

be. she could not disclose anything--some secret, perhaps--that nearly

concern her father; you know how strong be the tie between they.'



perhaps it be inevitable that a suggestion of this kind should

ultimately offer itself. Wilfrid have not hit upon the idea, for he have

from the first accept without reflection the reason for Hood's

suicide which be accept by everyone who speak of the subject. Mrs.

Baxendale only deliver herself of the thought in fervour of

kindly-devise argument. she pause, review it in her mind, but do

netlike to lay more stress upon it. Wilfrid, also thoughtful, kept

silence.



'now, there's the gong,' Mrs. Baxendale continue, 'and I shall have to

go to the politician. but I think I _have_ give you a grain of

comfort. think of a prosy old woman incite _you_ to endure for the

sake of the great prize you can aim at? keep say to yourself that

Emily cannot do wrong; if she do say a word or two she don't

mean--well, well, we poor woman! go to bed early, and we'll talk again

after breakfast to-morrow.'



she give he her hand, and hurry away. even in his wretchedness,

Wilfrid could not but follow she with his eye, and _feel_ something

like a blessing upon her strong and tender womanhood.



fortunate fellow, who have lay behind he thus much of his earthly

journey without one day of grave suffering. ah, something he should have

sacrifice to the envious god, some less joy, that the essential

happiness of his life might be spare he. Wilfrid have yet to learn that

every sun which rise for we in untroubled sky be a portent of

inevitable gloom, that nature only prolong our holiday to make the

journey-work of misery the hard to bear. he have enjoy the way of his

will from childhood upwards; he have come to regard himself as exempt

from ill-fortune, even as he be exempt from the degradation of material

need; all his doing have prosper, save in that little matter of his

overtax health, and it have grow his habit to map the future with a

generous hand, say: thus and thus will I take my conquering course.

know love for the first time, he have meet with love in return, love to

the height of his desire, and with a wave of the hand he have sweep the

trivial obstacle from his path. now that the very sum of his exultant

youth offer itself like a wine-cup to his lip, come forth the

mysterious hand and spill relentlessly that divine draught. see how he

turn, with the blaze of royal indignation on his brow I who of god or

man have dare thus to come between he and his bliss? he be not willnot to

be so thwart; he demand that the cup shall be refill and bring

again; only when mocking laughter echo round he, when it be but too

plain that the spirit no long serve he, that where he most desire

his power be least, do his resentment change by cold degree to that

chill anguish of the abandon soul, which pay the debt of so many an

hour of triumph. for the moment, word of kindness and sustain hope

might seem to avail he; but there be the night wait in ambush for

his weakness, that season of the sun's silence, when the body denude of

vestment typify the spirit's exposure to its enemy. let he live

through his fate-impose trial in that torture-chamber of ancient

darkness. he will not come forth a well man, though perchance a wiser;

wisdom and goodness be from of old at issue. henceforth he will have

eye for many an ugly spot in his own nature, hide till now by the

veil of happiness. do not pity he; congratulate he rather that the

inevitable have be so long postpone.



he put on a bold face at breakfast next morning, for he could not

suppose that Mrs. Baxendale would feel any obligation to keep his secret

from her husband, and it be not in his character to play the knight of

the dolorous visage. you see the ring round his eye, but he be able

to discuss the late electioneering intelligence, and even to utter one

or two more of those shrewd remark by which he have lately be prove

that politic be not unlikely to demand more of his attention some

day. but he be glad when he could get away to the drawing-room, to

await Mrs. Baxendale's come. he try to read in a volume of Boswell

which lie out; at other time the book be his delight, now it have the

succulence of a piece of straw. he be in that state of mind when five

minute of waiting be intolerable. he have to wait some twenty before

Mrs. Baxendale appear. only a clinging remnant of common-sense keep

he from address she sourly. Wilfrid be not eminently patient.



'well, what counsel have sleep bring?' she ask, speak as if she

have some other matter on her mind--as indeed she have--a slight

difficulty which have just arise with the cook.



'I should not be much advanced if I have depend upon sleep,' Wilfrid

reply cheerlessly. always sensitive, he be especially so at this

moment, and the lady seem to he unsympathetic. he should have allow

for the hour; matter involve sentiment should never be touch till

the day have grow to ripeness. the first thing in the morning a poet be

capable of mathematic.



'I fear you be not the only one who have not sleep,' say Mrs.

Baxendale.



Wilfrid, after wait in vain, go on in a tone very strange to he:



'I don't know what to do; I be incapable of thought. another night like

the last will drive I mad. you tell I I must merely wait; but I cannot

be passive. what help be there? how can I kill the time?'



Mrs. Baxendale be visibly hard than on the previous evening. a

half-smile cause she to draw in her lip; she play with the

watch-chain at her girdle.



'I fear,' she say, 'we have do all that can be do. naturally you

would find it intolerable to linger here.'



'I must return to London?'



'under any other circumstance I should be the last to wish it, but I

suppose it be well that you should.'



he be prepare for the advice, but unreason strove in he desperately

against the fact of the situation. it be this impotent quarrel with

necessity which rob he of his natural initiative and make Mrs.

Baxendale wonder at his unexpected feebleness. to he it seem

something to stand his ground even for a few minute. he could have

ease himself with angry speech. remember that he have not sleep, and

that his mind be sore with the adversary's blow.



'I understand your reluctance,' Mrs. Baxendale pursue. 'it's like a

surrendering of hope. but you know what I say last night; I could only

repeat the same thing now. don't be afraid; I will not.'



'yes,' he murmur, 'I must go to London.'



'it would be far bad if you have no friend here. you shall hear from I

constantly. you have an assurance that the poor thing cann't run away.'



in the expressive vulgar phrase, Wilfrid 'shake himself together.' he

begin to perceive that his attitude lack dignity; even in our misery

we cannot bear to appear ignoble.



'I will leave you to-day,' he say, more like his old self. 'but there

be other thing that we must speak of. what of Emily's practical

position?'



'I don't think we need trouble about that. Mr. Baxendale tell I he have

no doubt that the house in Barnhill can be sell at all event for a sum

that will leave they at ease for the present. as soon as Mrs. Hood get

well, they must both go away. you can trust I to do what can be

do.'



'it be my fear that Emily will find it difficult to accept your

kindness.'



'it will require tact. only experience can show what my course must be.'



'I sincerely hope the house _will_ be sell. otherwise, the outlook be

deplorable.'



'I assure you it will be. my husband do not give up anything he have

once put his hand to.'



'I shall keep my own counsel at home,' Wilfrid say.



'do so, certainly. and you will return to Oxford?'



'I think so. I shall find it easy to live there--if, indeed, I can

live anywhere.'



'I have rather you haven't add that,' say Mrs. Baxendale with

good-natured reproof. 'you know that you will only work the hard just

to forget your trouble. that, depend upon it, be the only way of kill

the time, as you say; if we strike at he in other way we only succeed

in make he angry.'



'another apophthegm,' say Wilfrid, with an attempt at brightness. 'you

be the first woman I have know who have that gift of neatness in

speech.'



'and you be the first man who ever have discernment enough to compliment

I on it. after that, do you think I shall desert your cause?'



Wilfrid make his preparation forthwith, and decide upon a train early

in the afternoon. at luncheon, Mr. Baxendale be full of good-nature

regret that his visit could not be prolong till the time of the

election--now very near.



'when your constituent have send you to Westminster,' say Wilfrid, 'I

hope you will come and report to I the detail of the fight?'



so he cover his retreat and retrieve in Mrs. Baxendale's eye his

weakness of the morning. she take he to the station in her brougham,

but do not go on to the platform. their parting be very like that of

lover, for it end with mutual promise to 'write often.' Mrs.

Baxendale be down-hearted as she drive home--in she a most unusual

thing.



two day later she go to Banbrigg, carry the satisfactory news that

at last a sale of the Barnhill property have be negotiate. to emily

this intelligence give extreme relief; it restore her independence.

have this subject to speak of make the meeting easy on both side

than it could otherwise have be. Emily be restlessly anxious to take

upon herself the task of nurse her mother; with the maid to help she,

she declare herself able to bear all responsibility, and persist so

strongly that Mrs. Baxendale have no choice but to assent to the nurse

who have remain be withdraw. she could understand the need of

activity which possess the girl, but have grave fear of the result of

an undertaking so disproportione to her strength.



'will you promise I,' she say, 'to give it up and get help if you find

it be try you excessively?'



'yes,' Emily reply, 'I will promise that. but I know I shall be well

for the occupation.'



'and you will let I still come and see you frequently?'



'I should miss you very much if you cease to,' be Emily's answer.



both feel that a difficulty have be surmount, though they look at

it from different side.



October pass, and the first half of November. Mrs. Hood have not rise

from her bed, and there seem slight chance that she ever would; she

be sink into hopeless imbecility. Emily's task in that sick-room be

one which a hospital nurse would have find it burdensome to support;

she bear it without a sign of weariness or of failure in physical

strength. incessant companionship with bodily disease be the least

oppressive of her burden; the state of her mother's mind afflict she

far more. occasionally the invalid would appear in full possession of

her intellect, and those be the hard day; at such time she be

incessantly querulous; hour long she lay and pour forth complaint

and reproach. when she could speak no more for very weariness, she

moan and wept, till Emily also find it impossible to check the tear

which come of the extremity of her compassion. the girl be superhuman

in her patience; never do she speak a word which be not of perfect

gentleness; the bitter misery seem but to augment the tenderness of

her devotion. Scarcely be there an hour of the day or night that she

could claim for herself; whilst it be daylight she tend the sufferer

ceaselessly, and her bed be in the same room, so that it often happen

that she lie down only to rise before she could sleep. her task be

light when her mother's mind stray from the present; but even then

Mrs. Hood talk constantly, and be irritated if Emily fail in

attention. the usual subject be her happiness in the day before her

marriage; she would revive memory of her school, give long account of

her pupil, even speak of proposal of marriage which she have have the

pleasure of decline. at no time do she refer to Hood's death, but

often enough she utter lamentation over the hardship in which her

marriage have result, and compare her lot with what it might have be

if she have choose this or that other man. Emily be pain unspeakably

by this revelation of her mother's nature, for she know that it be idle

to explain such tendency of thought as the effect of disease; it be,

in truth, only the emphasising of the fault she have always find it so

hard to bear with. she could not understand the absence of a single note

of affection or sorrow in all these utterance, and the fact be indeed

strange, bear in mind Mrs. Hood's outburst of love grief when her

husband be bring home, and the devotedness she have show throughout

Emily's illness. be the selfish habit of year too strong for those

well instinct which have never find indulgence till stir by the

supreme shock? think over the problem in infinite sadness, this be

the interpretation with which Emily have to satisfy herself, and she see

in it the most dreadful punishment which a life-long fault could have

entail.



though to her mother so sublimely forbear, in her heart she know too

well the bitterness of revolt against nature's cruelty; her own cause

of suffer become almost insignificant in her view of the tragedy of

life. be not this calamity upon her survive parent again a result of

her own action? be it possible to avoid a comparison between this

blast home and the appearance it might at this moment have present

if she have sacrifice herself? what crime have she ever be guilty of

that such expiation could be demand of she? she mock at her misery

for so questioning; as if cause and effect be to be thus discern

in fate's dealing. Emily have never know the phase of faith which find

comfort in the confession of native corruptness, nor do the desolation

of her life guide she into that orthodox form of pessimism. she be not

conscious of impurity, and her healthy human intelligence could only see

injustice in the woe that have befall she. from her childhood up she

have strive towards the light, have love all that be beautiful, have

worship righteousness; out of this have it issue that her life be

sink in woe unfathomable, hopeless of rescue for ever. she be the

sacrifice of other' wrong-doing; the evil-heartedness of one man, the

thoughtless error of another, have bring this upon she.



her character, like the elemental force of earth, convert to

beneficent energy the burden of corruption thrust upon it. active at

first because she dread the self-communing of idleness, she find in

her labour and her endurance source of stern inspiration; she

indestructible idealism grasp at the core of spiritual beauty in a

life even such as this. she do not reason with herself hysterically of

evil passion to be purify by asceticism, of mysterious iniquity to

be wash out in her very life's blood; but the great principle of

devotion and renunciation become soothe and exalt presence, before

which the detail of her daily task lose their toilsome or revolting

aspect in a hallowed purpose. her work be a work of piety, not only to

the living, but to the beloved dead. if her father could know of what

she be now do, he would be comfort by it; if he know that she do

it for his sake it would bring he happiness. this truth she see: that

though life be strip of every outward charm there may yet remain in

the heart of it, like a glorious light, that which be the source of all

beauty--love. she strove to make Love the essence of her be. her

mother, whom it be so hard to cherish for her own sake, she would and

could love because her father have do so; that father, whose only

existence now be in her own, she love with fervour which seem to

grow daily. Supreme, foster by these other affection, exalt by the

absence of a single hope for self, reign the first and last love of

her woman-soul. every hard task achieve for love's sake render she in

think more worthy of he whom she make the ideal man. he would never

know of the passion which she perfect to be her eternal support; but,

as there be a sense of sweetness in the thought that we may be hold dear

by some who can neither come near we nor make known to we their

good-will, so do it seem to Emily that from her love would go forth a

secret influence, and that Wilfrid, all unknowing, would be bl by her

faithfulness.









CHAPTER xviii



a compact





on the last day of the year, a Sunday, Dagworthy sit by his fireside,

alone; luncheon have be remove, and decanter stand within his reach.

but the glass of wine which he have pour out, on turn to the fire

half an hour ago, be still untasted, the cigar, of which he have cut the

end, be still between his finger, unlighted. for the last three month

our friend have not lack matter for thought; to do he justice, he have

exercise his mind upon it pretty constantly. to-day he have receive

news which give a fresh impulse to his rumination.



Dagworthy have never, since the year of early manhood, care much for

any of the various kind of society open to he in Dunfield, and his

failure to show himself at the house of his acquaintance for week

together occasion no comment; but during these past three month he

have hold so persistently aloof that people have at length begin to ask

for an explanation--at all event, when the end of the political turmoil

give they leisure to think of minor matter once more. the triumphant

return of Mr. Baxendale have naturally lead to festive occasion; at one

dinner at the Baxendales' house Dagworthy be present, but, as it

seem, in the body only. People who, in the provincial way, make old

joke last a very long time, remark to each other with a smile that

Dagworthy appear to be in a mood which promise an item of interest in

the police report before long. one person there be who have special

reason for observe he closely that evening, and even for induce he

to converse on certain subject; this be Mrs. Baxendale. a day or two

previously she have hear a singular story from a friend of her, which

occupy she thought not a little. it interest she to discover how

Dagworthy would speak of the Hood family, if lead to that topic. he do

not seem to care to dwell upon it, and the lady, after her experiment,

imagine that it have not be make altogether in vain.



with that exception Dagworthy have keep to his mill and his house. it be

seldom that he have a visitor, and those person who do call could

hardly feel that they be desire to come again. Mrs. Jenkins, of the

Done tongue, rule in the household, and have but brief interview with

her master; provide that his meal be serve at the proper time,

Dagworthy care to inquire into nothing that go on--outside his

kennel--and even those he visit in a sullen way. his child he

scarcely see; Mrs. Jenkins discover that to bring the 'bairn' into its

father's presence be a sure occasion of wrath, so the son and heir take

lesson in his native tongue from the housekeeper and her dependent,

and profit by their instruction. Dagworthy never inquire about the

boy's health. once when Mrs. Jenkins, alarm by certain symptom of

infantine disorder, venture to enter the dining-room and broach the

subject, her master's reply be: 'send for the doctor then, cann't you?'

he have formerly make a sort of plaything of the child when in the mood

for it; now he be not merely indifferent--the sight of the boy anger

he. his return home be a signal for the closing of all door between

his room and the remote nursery. once, when he hear cry he have

summon Mrs. Jenkins. 'if you cann't stop that noise,' he say, 'or keep

it out of my hearing, I'll send the child to be take care of in

Hebsworth, or somewhere else far off, and then I'll shut up the

house and send you all about your business. so just mind what I say.'



of late it have become know that he be about to take a partner into his

business, a member of the Legge family--a name we remember. dunfieldian

discuss the news, and revive their pleasure in speculate on the sum

total of Dagworthy's fortune. but it be as one talk of possible mine

of treasure in the moon; practical interest in the question could

scarcely be say to exist, for the chance of Dagworthy's remarriage

seem remoter than ever. the man be begin to be one of those

figure about whom gather the peculiar air of mystery which ultimately

lead to the creation of myth. let he live on in this way for another

twenty year, and story would be tell of he to child in the

nursery. the case of assault and battery, a thing of the far past, would

probably develop into a fable of manslaughter, of murder; his wife's

death be already regard very much in that light, and would class he

with Bluebeard; his house on the heath would assume a forbidding aspect,

and dread whisper would be exchange of what go on there under the

shadow of night. be it not already begin to be remark by his

neighbour that you meet he wander about lonely place at unholy

hour, and that he shun you, like one with a guilty conscience? let

he advance in year, his face lose its broad colour, his hair grow

scant and grey, his figure, per chance, stoop a little, his eye acquire

the malignity of miserly old age--and there you have the hero of a

Dunfield legend. even thus do such grow.



but he be sit by his fireside this New Year's Eve, still a young

man, still fresh-colour, only look tired and lonely, and, in fact,

meditate an attempt to recover his interest in life. he have admit a

partner to his business chiefly that he might be free to quit Yorkshire

for a time, and at present he be settle affair to that end. this

afternoon he expect a visit from Mr. Cartwright, who have be serve

he in several way of late, and who have promise to come and talk

business for an hour. the day be anything but cheerful; at time a

stray flake of snow hiss upon the fire; already, at three o'clock,

shadow be invade the room.



he hear a knock at the front door, and, suppose it to be Cartwright,

rouse himself. as he be stir the fire a servant announce--instead

of the father, the daughter. Jessie Cartwright appear.



'something amiss with your father?' Dagworthy ask, shake hand with

she carelessly.



'yes; I'm sorry to say he have such a very bad sore-throat that he

couldn't possibly come. oh, what an afternoon it be, to be sure!'



'why do _you_ come?' be Dagworthy's not very polite Inquiry. 'it

ben't so important as all that. walk all the way?'



'of course. I'm afraid the wet 'll drip off my cloak on to the floor.'



'take it off, then, and put it here by the fire to dry.'



he help she to divest herself, and hang the cloak on to the back of a

chair.



'you may as well sit down. shall I give you a glass of wine?'



'oh, indeed, no! no, thank you!'



'I think you'd well have one,' he say, without heed she. 'I

suppose you've get your foot wet? I cann't very well ask you to take your

shoe off.'



'oh, they're not wet anything to speak of,' say Jessie, settle

herself in a chair, as if her visit be the most ordinary event. she

watch he pour the wine, put on the face of a child who be go

to be treat to something reserve for grown-up person.



'what do they mean by send you all this distance in such weather?'

Dagworthy say, as he seat himself and extend his leg, rest an

elbow on the table.



'they don't send I. I offer to come, and mother wouldn't hear of

it.'



'Well--?'



'oh, I just slip out of the room, and be off before anyone could get

after I. I suppose I shall catch it rarely when I get back. but we

want to know why you haven't be to see we--not even on Christmas

Day. now that, you know, be too bad of you, Mr. Dagworthy. I say you

must be ill. have you be?'



'Ill? no.'



'oh!' the girl exclaim, upon a sudden thought. 'that remind I. I

really believe Mrs. Hood be dead; at all event all the blind be down

as I come past.'



'yes,' be the reply, 'she be dead. she die early this morning.'



'well, I never! ben't poor Emily have a shocking Christmas! I declare,

when I see she last week, she look like a ghost, and bad.'



Dagworthy gaze at the fire and say nothing.



'one cann't be sorry that it's over,' Jessie go on, 'only it's so

dreadful, her father and mother dead almost at the same time. I'm sure

it would have kill I.'



'what be she go to do?' Dagworthy ask, slowly, almost as if

speak to himself.



'oh, I daresay it 'll be all right as soon as she get over it, you

know. she's a lucky girl, in one way.'



'lucky?' he raise his head to regard she. 'how?'



'oh well, that ben't a thing to talk about. and then I don't know

anything for certain. it's only what people say you know.'



'_what_ do people say?' he ask, impatiently, though without much sign

of active interest. it be rather as if her manner annoy he, than the

subject of which she speak.



'I don't see that it can interest you.'



'no, I don't see that it can. still, you may as well explain.'



Jessie sip her wine.



'it's only that they say she's engage.'



'to whom?'



'a gentleman in London--somebody in the family where she be teach.'



'how do you know that?' he ask, with the same blending of indifference

and annoyed persistency.



'why, it's only a guess, after all. one day Barbara and I go to see

she, and just as we get to the door, out come a gentleman we'd never

see before. of course, we wonder who he be. the next day mother and

I be in the station, buy a newspaper, and there be the same

gentleman, just go to start by the London train. Mother remember

she'd see he walk with Mrs. Baxendale in St. Luke's, and then we

find he'd be stay with the baxendale all through Emily's

illness.'



'how do you find it out? you don't know the Baxendales.'



'no, but Mrs. Gadd do, and she tell we.'



'what's his name?'



'Mr. Athel--a queer name, ben't it?'



Dagworthy be silent.



'now you're cross with I,' Jessie exclaim. 'you'll tell I, like you

do once before, that I'm no good but to pry into other people's

business.'



'you may pry as much as you like,' be the murmured reply.



'just because you don't care what I do?'



'drink your wine and try to be quiet just for a little.'



'why?'



he make no answer, until Jessie asked--



'why do it seem to interest you so much?'



'What?--all that stuff you've be tell I? I be think of

something quite different.'



'oh!' exclaim the girl, blankly.



there be a long silence. Jessie let her eye stray about the room,

steal a glance at Dagworthy occasionally. presently he rise, poke

the fire with violence, and drink his own wine, which have be wait

so long.



'I must have out the carriage to send you back,' he say, go to the

window to look at the foul weather.



'the carriage, indeed!' protest the girl, with a secret joy. 'you'll

do no such thing.'



'I suppose I shall do as I choose,' he remark, quietly. then he come

and ring the bell.



'you're not really go to--?'



a servant answer, and the carriage be order.



'well, certainly that's one way of getting rid of I,' Jessie observe.



'you can stay as long as you please.'



'but the carriage will be round.'



'cann't I keep it wait half through the night if I choose? I've do

so before now. I suppose I'm master in my own house.'



it be strictly true, that, of the carriage. once the coachman have be

five minute late on an evening when Dagworthy happen to be

ill-temper. he bid the man wait at the door, and the waiting last

through several hour.



the room be grow dusk.



'ben't you very lonely here?' Jessie ask, an indescribable change in

her voice.



'yes, I suppose I be. you willn't make it any well by tell I so.'



'I feel sorry.'



'I dare say you do.'



'of course you don't believe I. all the same, I _do_ feel sorry.'



'that willn't help.'



'No?--I suppose it willn't.'



the word be breathe out on a sigh. Dagworthy make no answer.



'I'm not much well off,' she continue, in a low-spirited voice.



'nonsense!' he ejaculate, roughly, half turn his back on she.



Jessie fumble a moment at her dress; then, succeed in get she

handkerchief out, begin to press it against her eye furtively.

strangely, there be real moisture to be remove.



'what's the matter with you?' Dagworthy ask with surprise.



she no long attempt concealment, but begin to cry quietly.



'what the deuce have come to you, Jessie?'



'You--you--speak very unkindly to I,' she sob.



'speak unkindly? I don't know it. what do I say?'



'you willn't believe when I say I'm sorry you feel lonely.'



'why, confound it, I'll believe as much as you like, if it come to

that. put that handkerchief away, and drink another glass of wine.'



she stand up, and go to lean on the mantelpiece, hide her face. when

he be near she again, she continue her complaint in a low voice.



'it's so miserable at home. they want I to be a teacher, and how can I?

I never pretend to be clever, and if I'd all the lesson under the

sun, I should never be able to teach French--and--arithmetic--and those

thing. but I wish I could; then I should get away from home, and see

new people. there's nobody I care to see in Dunfield--nobody but one--'



she stop on a sob.



'who's that?' Dagworthy ask, look at she with a singular

expression, from head to foot.



she make no answer, but sob again.



'what Christmas present have you have?' be his next question,

irrelevant enough apparently.



'oh, none--none to speak of--a few little thing. what do I care for

present? you cann't live on present.'



'cann't live on they? be thing bad at home?'



'I don't mean that. but of course they're bad; they're always bad

nowadays. however, Barbara's go to be marry in a week; she'll be

one out of the way. and of course I haven't a dress fit to be see in

for the wedding.'



'why then, get a dress. how much will it cost?' he go to a

writing-table, unlock a drawer, and take out a cheque-book. 'now

then,' he say, half jestingly, half in earnest, 'what be it to be?

anything you like to say--I'll write it.'



'as if I want money!'



'I can give you that. I don't see what else I can do. it ben't to be

despise.'



'no, you can do nothing else,' she say, press each cheek with her

handkerchief before put it away. 'will you help I on with my cloak,

Mr. Dagworthy?'



he take it from the chair, and hold it for she. jessie, as if by

accident, approach her face to his hand, and, before he see she

purpose, kiss his hard finger. then she turn away, hide her face.



Dagworthy drop the garment, and stand look at she. he have a half

contemptuous smile on his lip. at this moment it be announce that the

carriage be come round. Jessie catch at her cloak, and throw it over

her shoulder. then, with sunk head, she offer to shake hand.



'no use, Jessie,' Dagworthy remark quietly, without answer she

gesture.



'of course, I know it's no use,' she say in a hurried voice of shame.

'I know it as well as you can tell I. I wish I'd never come.'



'but you don't act badly,' he continue.



'what do you mean?' she exclaim, indignation help she to raise she

eye for a moment. 'I'm not act.'



'you don't mean anything by it--that's all.'



'no, perhaps not. good-bye.'



'good-bye. I'm go away before very long. I dare say I shalln't see you

again before then.'



'where be you go to?'



'abroad.'



'I suppose you'll bring back a foreign wife,' she say with sad

scornfulness.



'no, I'm not likely to do that. I shouldn't wonder if I'm away for some

time, though--perhaps a couple of year.'



'year!' she exclaim in astonishment.



he laugh.



'that startle you. I shalln't be back in time for your wedding, you see.'



she sob again, avert her face.



'I shalln't ever be marry. I'm one of those wretched thing nobody ever

care for.'



'you'll have to show you deserve it. why, you couldn't give your word

and keep it for two year.'



through this extraordinary scene Dagworthy be utterly unlike himself.

it be as if a man suffer physical agony should suddenly begin to

jest and utter wild mirth; there be the same unreality in his

behaviour. throughout it all the line of his face never lose their

impress of gloom. misery have its clutch upon he, and he be drive by

an inexplicable spirit of self-mockery to burlesque the subject of his

unhappiness. he have no sense of responsibility, and certain instinct

be strongly excited, make a kind of moral intoxication.



Jessie answer his question with wide eye.



'I couldn't?--Ah!'



she speak under her breath, and with sincerity which be not a little

amusing.



'it's New Year's Eve, ben't it?' Dagworthy pursue, throw out his

word at random. 'be here this day two year--or not, as you like. I'm

go to wander about, but I shall be here on that day--that be, if I'm

alive. you willn't though. good-bye.'



he turn away from she, and go to the 'window. Jessie move a little

nearer.



'do you mean that?' she ask.



'mean it?' he repeat, 'why, yes, as much as I mean anything. be off;

you're keep that poor devil in the snow.'



'Mr. Dagworthy, I shall be here, and you daren't pretend to forget, or

to say you ben't in earnest.'



he laugh and wave his hand.



'be off to your carriage!'



Jessie move to the door reluctantly; but he do not turn again, and she

depart.









CHAPTER XIX



the COMPLETION of MISCHANCE





upon Emily have fall silence. the tongue which for three month have

incessantly sound in her ear, with its note of wail, of

upbraiding, of physical pain, of meaningless misery, be at rest for

ever. as she stand beside the grave--the grave whose earth have not have

time to harden since it receive her father--she seem still to hear

that feeble, querulous voice, with its perpetual iteration of her own

name; the casting of clay upon the coffin make a sound not half so real.

return home, she go up to the bedroom with the same hurried step

with which she have be willnot to enter after her brief absence. the bed

be vacant; the blind make the air dim; she see her breath rise before

she.



there remain but a little servant-girl, who, come to the

sitting-room to ask about meal, stand cry with her apron hold to her

eye. Emily speak to she almost with tender kindness. her own eye have

shed but few tear; she only weep on hear those passage read which,

by their promise of immortal life, be to she as mockery of her grief.

she do not venture to look into the grave's mouth she dread lest

there might be visible some portion of her father's coffin.



Mrs. Baxendale, the Cartwrights, and one or two other friend have

attend the funeral. at Emily's request no one accompany her home.

Mrs. Baxendale drive she to the door, and go on to Dunfield.



the last link with the past be sever--almost, it seem, the last

link with the world. a sense of loneliness grow about her heart; she

live in a vast solitude, whither come faint echo of lamentation,

the die resonance of thing that have be. it could hardly be call

grief, this draw off of the affection, this desiccation of the

familiar kindness which for the time seem all her be. she force

herself to remember that the sap of life would flow again, that love

would come back to she when the hand of death release she from its

cruel grip; as yet she could only be sensible of her isolation, her

forlorn oneness. it need a long time before the heart can companion

only with memory. about its own centre it wrap such warm fold of

kindre life. tear these away, how the poor heart shiver in its

nakedness.



she be alone. it no long matter where she live, for her alliance

henceforth be only of the spirit. she must find some sphere in which

she could create for herself a new activity, for to sit in idleness be

to invite dread assault. the task of her life be an inward one, but

her nature be not adapt to quiescence, and something must replace the

task which have come to an end by her mother's death. already she have

shape plan, and she dared not allow needless time to intervene before

practically pursue they.



in the evening of that day Mrs. Baxendale again come to Banbrigg. she

find Emily with write material before she. her object in come be

to urge Emily to quit this lonely house.



'come and stay with I,' she entreat. 'you shall be as unmolested as

here; no one but myself shall ever come near you. emily, I cannot go

home and sleep with the thought of you here alone.'



'you forget,' Emily reply, 'that I have in reality live alone for a

long time; I do not feel it as you imagine. no, I must stay here, but

not for long. I shall at once find a teacher's place again.'



'that be your intention?'



'yes. I shall sell the furniture, and ask the landlord to find another

tenant as soon as possible. but till I go away I wish to live in this

house.'



Mrs. Baxendale know that Emily's project be not to be combat like a

girl's idle fancy. she do not persevere, but let sad silence be her

answer.



'would you in no case stay in Dunfield?'



'no; I must leave Dunfield. I don't think I shall find it difficult to

get employment.'



Mrs. Baxendale have never venture to ask for the girl's confidence, nor

even to show that she desire it. Emily be more perplexing to she now

than even at the time of Wilfrid Athel's rejection. she console herself

with the thought that a period of active occupation be no doubt the

good mean of restore this complex nature to healthy view of life;

that at all event it be likely to bring about an unravelling of the

mystery in which her existence seem to have become involve. you

could not deal with she as with other girl; the source of her strength

and her weakness lie too deep; counsel to she would be a useless, an

impertinent, interference with her grave self-guiding. Mrs. Baxendale

could but speak word of extreme tenderness, and return whence she have

come. on go away, she feel that the dark spot of night be over

that house.



Emily live at Banbrigg for more than three week. after the first few

day she appear to grow light in mind; she talk more freely with

those who come to see she, and gladly accept friendly aid in little

practical matter which have to be see to. half-way between Banbrigg and

Dunfield lie the cemetery; there she pass a part of every morning,

sometimes in grief which open all the old wound, more often in

concentration of thought such as make she unaware of the passage of

time. the winter weather be not severe; not seldom a thin gleam of

sunshine would pass from grave to grave, and give promise of spring in

the say reign of the year's first month. Emily be almost the only

visitor at the hour she choose. she have give direction for the raising

of a stone at the grave-head; as yet there be only the newly-sod

hillock. close at hand be a grave on which friend place hot-house

flower, shelter they beneath glass. Emily have no desire to express

her mourning in that way; the flower of her love be plant where it

would not die.



but she long to bring her time of wait to an end. the step she have

as yet take have lead to nothing. she have not request Mrs. Baxendale to

make inquiry for she, and her friend, think she understand the

reason, do not volunteer assistance, nor do she hear any particular

of the correspondence that go on. ultimately, Emily communicate with

her acquaintance in Liverpool, who be at once anxious to serve she.

she tell they that she would by preference find a place in a school. and

at length they draw her attention to an advertisement which seem

promising; it be for a teacher in a girl' school near Liverpool. a

brief correspondence lead to she be engage.



she be in perfect readiness to depart. for a day or two she have not

see Mrs. Baxendale, and, on the afternoon before the day of her leave

Banbrigg, she go to take leave of her friend. it be her intention to

visit Mrs. Baxendale first, then to go on to the Cartwrights'. as it

rain, she walk to Pendal and take train for Dunfield.



at Dunfield station she be delay for some moment in leave the

carriage by traveller who get out before she with complexity of

baggage. to reach the exit of the station she have to cross the line by a

bridge, and at the foot of this bridge stand the porter who collect

ticket. as she draw near to he her eye fall upon a figure move

before she, that of a young man, wear thick travel apparel and

carry a bag. she do not need to see his face, yet, as he stop to

give up his ticket, she catch a glimpse of it. the train by which she

have travel have also bring Wilfrid to Dunfield.



she turn and walk to a little distance away from the foot of the

stair. there be no room that she could enter on this platform. she

drop her black veil, and seat herself on a bench. in truth she have

a difficulty in stand, her body tremble so.



for five minute she remain seat, calm herself and determine

what course to take. she hold it for certain that Wilfrid have come at

Mrs. Baxendale's bidding. but would he go to that house first, or

straight to her own? with the latter purpose he would probably have leave

the train at Pendal. she would have time to get home before he could

come. at this moment a train be enter the station on the other side.

she hurry over the bridge, and, without stop to obtain a ticket,

enter a carriage.



it be not without dread lest Wilfrid might have already arrive, and be

wait within for her return that she approach the house door. she

fear be groundless. the servant tell she that no one have call.



'if anyone should call this evening,' she say, 'I cannot see they. you

will say that I shall not be able to see anyone--anyone, whoever it

be--till to-morrow morning.'...



at this same hour, Mrs. Baxendale, enter a shop in Dunfield, find

Dagworthy make purchase.



'I shall not see you again for a long time,' he say, as he be leave.

'I start to-morrow on a long journey.'



'out of England?'



he do not specify his route, merely say that he be go far from

England. they shake hand, and Mrs. Baxendale be leave with a musing

expression on her face. she turn her eye to the counter; the purchase

for which Dagworthy have just pay be a box of lady' glove. the

shopman put they aside, to be make into a parcel and send away.



when, half an hour later, she reach home, she be at once inform

that Mr. Athel be in the drawing-room. the intelligence cause she to

bite her low lip, a way she have of express the milder form of

vexation. she go first to remove her walking apparel, and do not

hasten the process. when she at length enter the drawing-room Wilfrid

be pace about in his accustomed fashion.



'you here?' she exclaim, with a dubious shake of the head. 'why so

soon?'



'so soon! the time have go more quickly with you than with I, Mrs.

Baxendale.'



clearly he have not spend the last three month in ease of mind. his

appearance be too like that with which he have come from Oxford on the

occasion of his break-down.



'I could bear it no long,' he continue. 'I cannot let she go away

without see she.'



'you will go this evening?'



'yes, I must. you have nothing hopeful to say to I?'



Mrs. Baxendale drop her eye, and answer, 'nothing.' then she

regard he as if in preface to some utterance of moment, but after all

keep silence.



'has she hear of anything yet?'



'I believe not. I have not see she since Tuesday, and then she tell I

of nothing. but I don't ask she.'



'I know--you explain. I think you have do wisely. how be she?'



'well, seemingly.'



he let his feeling get the upper hand.



'I cann't leave she again without an explanation. she _must_ tell I

everything. have I not a right to ask it of she? I cann't live on like

this; I do nothing. the day pass in misery of idleness. if only in pity

she will tell I all.'



'don't you think it possible,' Mrs. Baxendale ask, 'that she have

already do so?'



he gaze at her blankly, despairingly.



'you have come to believe that? her word--her manner--seem to prove

that?'



'I cannot say certainly. I only mean that you should be prepare to

believe if she repeat it.'



'yes, if she repeat it. I shall have no choice. well, I wish to see

you first; I will go to Banbrigg at once.'



Mrs. Baxendale seem reluctant to let he go, yet at length she do. he

be absent an hour and a half. at his return Mrs. Baxendale have friend

with she in the drawing room. Wilfrid ascertain it from the servant,

and say that he would go to the sitting-room he have formerly occupy,

and wait there till the lady be alone.



she come to he before very long, and learn that he have not be able

to see Emily; the servant have tell he that she could see no one till

the next morning.



Mrs. Baxendale sigh.



'then you must wait.'



'yes, I must wait.'



he pass the night at the house. Mr. Baxendale be in London,

parliamentarily occupy. at eleven next morning he go again to

Banbrigg. again he be but a short time absent, and in his face, as he

enter the drawing-room, Mrs. Baxendale read catastrophe.



'she have go!' he say. 'she leave very early this morning. the girl have

no idea where she have go to, but say she willn't return--that she have

leave for good. what do this mean?'



'what do it mean?' the lady repeat musingly. 'I wonder, I wonder.'



'she know I call yesterday; I leave my name. she have go to avoid I.'



'that may be. but all her preparation be evidently make.'



'but it may not be true. the girl of course would say whatever she be

bid to. I don't believe that she have really go.'



'I do,' say Mrs. Baxendale, with quiet significance.



'on what ground? you know more than you will tell I. be there no one

with common humanity? why do you plot against I? why willn't you tell I

what you know?'



'I will, if you sit down there and endeavour to command yourself. that

be, I will tell you certain thing that I have hear, and something that

I have see. then we will reason about they.'



Wilfrid's brow darken. he prepare to listen.



'about six week ago,' the lady begin, 'I go to see a friend of mine,

a lady who be recover from an illness, someone who know Emily,

though not intimately. in her illness she be nurse by the same woman

who help poor Mrs. Hood when Emily be in her fever. this woman, it

appear, be induce to talk about Emily, and give it as a secret that

Emily's illness have something to do with an attachment between she and

Mr. Dagworthy, her father's employer. her ground for believe this

be, first of all, the fact of Emily frequently utter his name in

her delirium, with word which seem to refer to some mystery between

they; then the circumstance of Mr. Dagworthy's having, shortly after,

leave a note at the house, with special injunction to the servant that

it should be give into Emily's own hand. this story, you may imagine,

surprise I not a little. a few day later Mr. Dagworthy dine with we,

and I take an opportunity of talk with he; it seem to I certain

that Emily have some special place in his thought. I know, too, that he

be particularly anxious throughout the time of her illness, and that of

her mother.'



the listener be paralyse.



'why have you keep this from I?' he ask, indignation blend with

his misery.



'because it be no well than gossip and speculation. I have no right to

report such thing--at all event, so it seem to I. now I be go to

add something which may be the wild error, but which cannot trouble

you much if you imagine that the story be true. yesterday, just before I

come home to find you here, I meet Mr. Dagworthy by chance in a draper's

shop, and he tell I that he be go away to-day, leave England.'



'to-day?'



'yes. and I see that he have be buy a box of lady' glove.'



'what do you mean?' Wilfrid stammer out.



'I know that he have no female relative--except his wife's, who live in

another part of England, and be on bad term with he.'



'his _wife_--you say?'



'his late wife; he be a widower. now we may be imagine in the silly

way, but--'



'but why--' Wilfrid check himself. 'do I understand you? you think

Emily have go with he--have go to be married to he?'



'it be almost impossible seriously to think it.'



'and you think she would shrink from be marry here?'



'for one or two reason--at all event, so soon.'



'but be it possible to believe that she deliberately deceive you--make

a pretence of seek employment?'



'I cann't say. she never give I any detail of what she be do.

another thing--she would not come to stay with I after her mother's

funeral. Mr. Dagworthy live on the heath, only just beyond Banbrigg.

you see to what thing we can be lead, if we begin interpret shadow;

but Emily be a mystery to I, and, as I have begin, I must gossip to you

all I know.'



Mrs. Baxendale be certainly do more in the way of gossip

conjecture than perhaps she have ever do before; the occasion excite

she, and that coincidence of Dagworthy's purchase, together with his

departure this very day, strike she with a force which unsettle her

usual balance of thought. Wilfrid be as ready to believe; to he there

be a certain strange relief in feeling that he have at length reach

the climax of his suffering. he have only to give credence to Emily's

own word. she have say that a change have come in her heart, in her

life, and that she no long love he. understand it he of course could

not, nor ever would, unless he lose all faith in woman's honour.



'but this can be either confirm or refute speedily,' he exclaim.

'can you not make inquiry of this Mr. Dagworthy's friend? if they

know nothing yet, they will soon hear from he.'



'yes, I can make such inquiry. but he have a peculiar reputation in

Dunfield; I think he scarcely have an intimate friend.'



'well, there be, at all event, Emily herself. if this story be

baseless, she will be write to you.'



'I think so. again we must wait. poor Wilfrid! from my heart I feel for

you!'



it be decide that Wilfrid should remain in Dunfield for a day or two,

till news might be obtain. news come, however, soon than be

anticipate. in the afternoon a letter be deliver, post by Emily at

pendal in the morning. she write to Mrs. Baxendale to say that she have

leave to take a place in a school; then continue:



'I have a reason for leave suddenly. a reason you will understand. I

should have come to say good-bye to you yesterday, but something

happen to prevent I. the same reason have decide I to keep secret

even from you, my dear and honoured friend, the place to which I be

go; in time you shall hear from I, for I know I cannot have

forfeit your love, though I fear I have give you pain. think of I

with forbearance. I do what I _must_ do.'



that be all. no word for Wilfrid.



'this prove it,' Wilfrid say, with bitter coldness. 'all she say be

false. she do what she be ashamed of, and lie to conceal it for a few

day or week.'



'do not let we even yet be sure,' say Mrs. Baxendale, who be

recover her calm judgment.



'I _be_ sure! why should she keep the place secret? she fear that I

should follow she? could she not anywhere keep I off by her mere

bidding? have I be brutally importunate? what secret can exist that

she might not disclose to I--that she be not bind to disclose? I

think she incapable of a breath of falsehood, and she must have

deceive I from the first, from the very first!'



'Wilfrid, that be impossible. I cannot abandon my faith in Emily. new you

speak in this way, it convince I that we be wrong, utterly and

foolishly mistaken. I believe what she say here; she have _not_ go

with he.'



Wilfrid laugh scornfully.



'it be too late; I cann't twist my belief so quickly. I do not need that

kind of comfort; far easy to make up my mind that I have always be

fool--as I have!'



he be beyond the stage at which reasoning be possible; reaction, in

full flood, beat down the nobler feature of his mind and swamp he

with the rage water of resentment.



so here be a myth well on its way to establishment. for no one could

afford Mrs. Baxendale satisfactory news of Dagworthy. she would not take

the only step which remain, that of openly avow to his partner the

information she desire to obtain, and get he to make inquiry his

partner appear to be the only person in direct communication with

Dagworthy. it have to be remember that Emily's own statement might be

true; she must not be speak of lightly. it be say that Mr. Legge, the

partner, pooh-poohe the idea that Dagworthy be secretly marry. but

Mr. Legge might know as little as other people.



there be circle in Dunfield in which another and quite a different

myth grow up around the name of Emily Hood. the Cartwrights originate

it. they too have receive a mysterious note of farewell, and their

interpretation be this Emily, they hold, have go to London, there to

be happily married to a certain Mr. Athel, a gentleman of aristocratic

appearance and enormously wealthy. Mrs. Baxendale hear this story now

and again; she neither affirm nor contradict. Jessie Cartwright

reflect much on Emily's slyness in keep her affair so secret. she

be not as envious as she would have be but for a certain compact

which she be determined should not--if it lie in her power to prevent

it--be some day laugh away as a mere joke. and have she not receive,

on the very eve of Dagworthy's departure, a box of glove, which could

only come from one person?



the second myth hold its ground, I believe, to the present day. the

more mischievous fable be refute before very long, but only when it

have bear result for Wilfrid practically the same as if it have be a

truth.









CHAPTER XX



wilfrid the LEGISLATOR





let time and change do their work for six year and six month, their

building and their destroying, their ripen for love, their ripen

for death. then we take our way to the Capital, for, behold, it be

mid-season; the sun of late June be warm upon the many-chariot

street, upon the park where fashion's progress circle to the 'Io

Triumphe' of regardant throng, even upon the quarter where life know

but one perennial season, that of toil. the air be voiceful; every house

which boast a drawing-room gather its five o'clock choir; every

theatre, every concert-room resound beneath the summer night; in the

hall of Westminster be the culmination of sustained utterance. there,

last night, the young member for a Surrey borough make his maiden

speech; his name, Mr. Wilfrid Athel.



the speech be well report than such be willnot to be, for it

contain clever thing, and quite surprisingly resemble in its tone of

easy confidence and its mastery of relevant fact the deliverance of

man of weight in politic. it have elicit a compliment from a leader of

the oppose party; it have occasion raising of the eyebrow in

capable judge, and have lead to remark that a young man so singularly

self-possess, so agreeably oracular, so remarkably long-headed, might

be expect, in the course of some five-and-twenty year, to go far. he

be, to be sure, a child--not yet thirty--but there be old child

in the House decidedly of less promise. Mr. Wilfrid Athel might go home,

and, if he could, go to sleep, in the assurance that his career have

open.



the next day, a Saturday, this finish little piece of talk be the

starting-point of a vast amount of less coherent speech in a

drawing-room within sight of Kensington's verdure. here Mrs. Ashley

Birks do her friend the honour of receive they; a lady well regard

in certain discriminating circle. a widow formerly, she have now be

two year married to a barrister new in silk. we have the pleasure of

know she; for she once bear the name of Mrs. Rossall.



at half-past five Mrs. Ashley Birks' drawing-room contain some two

dozen people, mostly lady. two of the gentleman present be not

without interest for we. he whom you observe standing, so to speak, the

focus of a concave mirror of three gracious dame, with his back

somewhat difficultly bent, as if under ordinary circumstance he would

be as upright as any Briton who owe not a penny, with very wholesome

cheek and lip which move in and out as he form his well-round

period, be, of course, Mr. Athel the elder; he play with his

watch-guard, and be clearly in hearty mood, not at all dislike the

thing that be be say about a certain member of the legislature.

the other be as emphatically an Englishman, but of a different type; his

clothe be good, but he do not wear they with grace; he be tall and

solidly build, but he walk awkwardly, and be not quite at home among

these gracious lady of the silvern tongue, have much difficulty in

express himself on subject which he perfectly understand, and

absolutely without faculty for speech on subject unfamiliar to he.

when we see he last he be in the heat of a contested election; there

have be another election since then, but Mr. Baxendale still represent

Dunfield.



you see his wife at a little distance, still the same smooth-skin,

well-preserve lady, with goodness declare itself upon her large and

homely feature. for three year now she have be in the habit of

spend she three month in town, find it lonely in Dunfield, and

even nourish a late ambition, which have not be altogether futile;

for there re people who have a peculiar liking for the little room in

which she hold her modest gathering. she be talk at present with a

lady who, by her costume, be of the house, a lady of some

seven-and-twenty year or a little more, and strikingly beautiful.

Beatrice Redwing have not yet change her name, though often enough

solicit to do so; when her mother die, now rather more than a year

ago, she willingly accept the shelter of Mrs. Ashley Birks' roof, as

she would else have have to live alone. in one respect she have not

change, her dress be exquisite; but to judge from her expression as she

talk, she have become somewhat graver. visitor have a special reason

for regard she with glance of curiosity and admiration. though know

to be extremely wealthy, it be rumour that she be about to appear

before the public as a vocalist, having prepare herself by a long

course of the most rigid study. her first appearance be look forward

to as an event of note in the musical world, for her native gift be

unusual, and the result of her training proportionately significant.



'it must be very gratifying to you,' Mrs. Baxendale have say, as she

come to a chair by her niece and begin to talk of Wilfrid's success.



'yes, I be glad of it,' be the quiet reply.



'will he be here this afternoon?'



'I'm not sure; I think so. ah, there he be!'



for at that moment have come the announcement of the name they have on

their lip. Beatrice's exclamation be make in a very subdued voice, but

she move slightly in her chair, and it be not within her resource to

subdue the glister of her dark eye and the warmth softly expand upon

her cheek. Mrs. Birks float towards her nephew with air of

rightly-tune welcome; she could not, of course, make much of he, but

her very familiarity make graceful claim to a share in his glory.

Wilfrid be sensibly change during the year we have allow to pass

silently by. to begin with, he have grow a beard. his health seem

finally to have establish itself on a sound basis; his cheek be

grow sunny, and he show the proportion of a very complete man. at

the present moment, his consciousness of regard fix upon he

heighten his colour; his fine eye dance in light; he check a

smile, and speak sparingly here and there. one part of his nature

revel in the joy of this foretaste of distinction; he have look

forward to it, have labour for it, its sweetness be beyond all

telling. Triumph have be his aim as a schoolboy; he hold it fit

that as a man he should become prominent amongst his fellow. this of

politic be the easy way. to be sure, he tell himself that it be a

way he would once have sneer at, that it be to rub shoulder with man

altogether his inferior in culture, that, have he hold to the ideal of

his youth, a long, a weary course would have be his, and the

chance of a simple, nobler crown. but he have the gift of speech, and by

an effort could absorb himself as completely in blue-book as in the

page of historian or poet. an hour such as this be the first of his

reward.



two there be in this assembly who turn their eye upon he with

adoration which could scarcely have fall short of Wilfrid's utmost

demand. they be his cousin, Minnie and Patty Rossall. the twin be

'out,' very sweet girl, still too delicate in health, shadow of each

other. have they regard Wilfrid as a mere mortal, both would have be

die for love of he; as it be they droop before he the veiled eye

of worshipper; a word from he make their pulse tingle blissfully

throughout the day. such be their mutual love, that each scheme to win

his kindness for the other, his brotherly kindness, for they never

think, have never dare to think, of anything else. Wilfrid be very

gracious to they both.



he shake hand with Beatrice, but neither speak. after a few word with

Mrs. Baxendale, he pass on to other lady. Wilfrid's manner be now

all that could be desire in a young man who, destine to succeed in

politic, would naturally make a figure in society. he be pliant, he

strike the note of good-breeding, he be unsurpasse in phrasing; with

lady who choose to be 'superior,' he could find exactly the right tone,

keep clear of pedantry, yet pay she with whom he speak the

compliment of utter serious opinion. with the more numerous class of

lady, who neither be nor affect to be anything but delightful

chatterbox, he could frolic on the light air of society gossip. he

be fast making of himself an artist in talk; woe to he, if he begin to

discover that exertion of his brain be waste of time, since his more

obvious end could be gain equally well without it. as yet, though

hint of such a mood have come to he, he do not give way to the

temptation of loquacious idleness; he still work, and purpose to

work still hard. just of late he have spend a good deal of time in

room not exactly arrange for purpose of study--but for this there be

a special reason.



an hour later, when most of the visitor be depart, he go to

Beatrice's corner of the room.



'when shall I call for you?' he ask, stand before she.



'oh, but you will dine here?'



she lean forward, look up into his face. the gaze would have

intoxicate most man; Wilfrid keep his calm smile.



'no, I be sorry to say I cann't,' be his reply. 'I have thing to see to

at home. will 8.15 do?'



'quite well; I need not be at the hall before a quarter to nine.'



his father come up.



'walk my way, Wilf?'



'yes, and in a hurry. I think we must have a hansom.'



Father and son still live together, in the same house as formerly.

after a brief stretch of pavement, they hail a conveyance.



'go to St. James's Hall, I suppose?' Mr. Athel ask, as they drive

on.



Wilfrid give an affirmative.



'be it the last time?'



the other laugh.



'I cann't say. I fear it trouble you.'



Mr. Athel have, we know, long pass the time when the ardour of youth

put he above the prejudice of the solid Englishman. when it be first

announce to he that Beatrice be go to sing on a public platform,

he screw up his lip as if something acid have fall upon they; he

scarcely credit the story till his own eye see the girl's name in

print. 'what the deuce!' be his exclamation. 'it would be all very well

if she have to do it for her living, but she certainly owe it to she

friend to preserve the decency as long as there be no need to violate

they.' the reason advance he utterly refuse to weigh. since then

event have come to pass which give he even a near interest in Miss

Redwing, and his protest have grow serious.



'why, yes,' he answer now, 'it do trouble I, and not a little. I

very strongly advise you to put an end to it. let she sing in her

friend' house; there's no objection to that. but to have her name

on--great heavens!--on placard! no, no; it must stop, Wilf. every day

it become more imperative. your position demand that she should become

a private lady.'



Wilfrid know well that the question could not be argue, and, in his

secret mind, there be just a little tendency to take his father's view.

he would never have allow this shade of thought to appear in his

speech; but be he not an Englishman and a member of Parliament?



this which have come about be inevitable. after his departure from

Dunfield on that winter day, when his life seem crush, he have for a

long time not even seek to hear of Emily. he do not write to Mrs.

Baxendale, and from she have no letter. correspondence between they only

recommence some ten month later, when Wilfrid have finally leave Oxford,

and then there be no mention on either side of the old trouble.

Wilfrid begin by write that he have thought of take up politic; his

father advise he to the step, and other friend second the

recommendation. 'I really believe I can talk,' he say, and Mrs.

Baxendale smile at the confession. three month more go by; then

Wilfrid at length ask plainly whether Emily have send any news of

herself, or whether the suspicion have prove ground. the reply be

this:--



'as I know perfectly well, as soon as I come to my sense, Emily have

tell we the truth. I hear from she for the first time nearly half a

year ago, but, as she appeal to my honour not to disclose the place of

her abode, I think it needless to speak to you on the subject before

you yourself seem desirous of hearing. she be teach in a school,

and I be convinced that the story we together concoct be base on

some utter mistake; I don't think she be ever relate to that man in

the way we think. but it be more than probable that there be some

mystery about her father's death, in which Mr. D. be concern. I

cannot imagine what it could be. something it be which, to Emily's

mind, impose upon she a necessity of break her engagement. I have

speak to she of you, have ask she directly if she still think she

decision final; she assure I most solemnly that it be. I therefore

advise you once for all to accept this; I be convinced she will never

waver. try to forget she; there be no choice. I don't think I be likely

to see she again for a very long time, if ever, and our correspondence

will be very slight, for I know she wish it so. let this, then, close

a sad, sad story.'



there be indeed no choice, as far as outward relation go, but so

profound a passion be not to be easily outgrow. the view which make

first love alone eternally valid derive from a conception of the nature

of love which, out of the realm of poetry, we may not entertain; but it

sometimes happen that the first love be that which would at any period

of life have be the supreme one, and then it doubtless attain a

special intensity of hold from the fact of its be ally with the

early outburst of physical passion. above all it be thus if the

attachment have be bring about by other charm than those of mere

personal beauty. Emily could not be call beautiful, in the ordinary

acceptation of the word; for all that, her face grow to possess for

Wilfrid a perfection of loveliness beyond anything that he would ever

again see in the countenance of fair woman. have he be markedly

susceptible to female beauty, it be certain that he would have fall in

love with Beatrice Redwing long before he ever see Emily, for Beatrice

be fair to look upon as few girl be. he have not do so; he have

scarcely--a strange thing--be tempt to think of do so. that be to

say, it need something more to fire his instinct. the first five

minute that he spend in Emily's presence make he more conscious of

womanhood than year of constant association with Beatrice. this love,

rivet itself among the intricacy of his being, could not be tear

out, and threaten to resist all piecemeal extraction. Wilfrid regain

the command of his mind, and outwardly seem recover beyond all

danger of relapse; but he do not deceive himself into believe that

Emily be henceforth indifferent to he. he know that to stand again

before she would be to declare again his utter bondage, body and soul.

he love she still, love she as his life; he desire she as

passionately as ever. she be not often in his thought no more be the

consciousness of the process whereby our being support itself. but he

have only to let his mind turn to she, and he scoff at the hope that

any other could ever be to he what Emily have be, and be, and would

be.



he see very little of Beatrice, but it come to his ear that her life

have undergo a change in several respect, that she spend hour daily

in strenuous study of music, and be less see in the frivolous world.

no hint of the purpose Beatrice secretly entertain ever reach he

till, long after, the purpose become action. he feel that she shun

he, and by degree he think he understand her behaviour. Wilfrid have

none of the vulgar vanity; another man would long ago have suspect

that this beautiful girl be in love with he; Wilfrid have remain

absolutely without a suspicion of the kind. he have always take in good

faith she declare aversion for his view; he have believe that her

nature and his own be definitely irreconcilable. this be

attributable, first of all to his actual inexperience in life, then to

the seriousness with which he hold those view which Beatrice vow

detestable. he, too, be an idealist, and, in many respect, destine to

remain so throughout his life; for he would never become, on the one

hand, the coldly critical man who dissect motive--his own and those of

other--to the last fibre, nor yet the superficial cynic who profess,

and half-belief, that he can explain the universe by mean of a few

maxim of cheap pessimism. so he take, and continue to take, Beatrice's

utterance without any grain of scepticism, and consequently hold it for

certain that she grow less friendly to he as she grow old.



be it Mrs. Baxendale or Mrs. Birks who at length give he the hint

which set his mind at work in another direction? possibly both about the

same time, see that it be the occasion of Mrs. Baxendale's first

make acquaintance with his aunt that date the beginning of new

reflection in Wilfrid. one or other of these lady--of course it be

manage so delicately that he really could not have determine to which

of they he owe the impulse--succeed in suggest to he that he have

miss certain obvious meaning in Beatrice's behaviour whilst he

reside with she at Dunfield. certainly, when he look back at those

day from his present standpoint, Beatrice do appear to have conduct

herself singularly, the mode of her departure and leave-taking being

above all curious. be it possible that--? the question form itself at

last, and be the beginning of conviction. he seek Beatrice's society,

at first merely for the sake of resolve his doubt, and behold, she no

long shrink from he as formerly. of course he might take it for

grant that she know the detail of his story, see that her close

intimate, Mrs. Baxendale and Mrs. Birks, be ignorant of none of they.

have she, then, wait for sign of his freedom? do his revival of the

old tone in their conversation strike she as something mean to be

significant, mean to convey to her certain suggestion? it be so in

point of fact, and Wilfrid could not be long, his eye now open, without

convince himself that the girl love he ardently, that it cost she

struggle with herself to avoid a revelation of her feeling. how do it

affect he?



naturally, he be flatter. it afford another instance of his

lordship among man; a woman whom other long for desperately and in

vain be his when he choose to extend his hand to she. he see, too, an

appropriateness in the chance which offer he such a wife; Beatrice

be in harmony with the future to which he aspire. her property join

to his would make he so wealthy that he might aim almost at anything;

political and social progress would aid each other, both rapid. Beatrice

be in many respect brilliant; there be no station that she would not

become; she have the taste and habit of society. he compare she with

his career; she represent worldly success, the thing which glitter on

the outside--action, voice; even her magnificent power of song he use

as parallel--the god forgive him!--to his own forensic ability.

suppose he must marry early, and not rather expect the day when he

might bid for a partner from a rank considerably above his own, Beatrice

be clearly the one wife for he. she would devote herself with ardour

to his worldly interest--for he begin to understand that the

divergence of her express view mean little in comparison with her

heart's worship--and would enable he immediately to exchange the social

inferiority of bachelor life for the standing of a man with his own very

substantial roof-tree; she would have her drawing-room, which might be

make a _salon_, where politic and art might rule alternately.



this be do injustice to Beatrice, and Wilfrid feel it; but it be

thus he regard she as in distinction from the woman who should have

be his wife. she typify his choose career; that other path which have

lain open to he, the path of intellectual endeavour, of idealism

incompatible with loud talk, of a worship which know no taint of

time-serve, that for ever be represent by the image of the woman he

have lose. her memory be encompass with holiness. he never hear the

name she bear without a thrill of high emotion, the touch of exalted

enthusiasm; 'emily' be write in starlight. those aspect of her face

which have answer to the pure moment of his rapturous youth be as

present as if she have be his daily companion. he need no picture to

recall her countenance; often he have long for the skill of an artist,

that he might portray that grave sweetness, that impassioned faith, to

be his soul's altar-piece. lost, lose! and, with she, lose the

uncompromising zeal of his early manhood. only too consciously he have

descend to a low level; politic tempt he because they offer a

field in which he could exercise his most questionable faculty, and earn

with it a speedy return of the praise to which he be so susceptible. it

mark his position to state that, when politic begin seriously to hold

his thought, he be with difficulty able to decide to which party he

should attach himself. to be sure, if name could be take as

sufficient, he be a Liberal, a Radical; but how different his

interpretation of such title from that they bear to man of affair!

respect for the masse he have none; interest in their affair he have

none either. on the other hand, the tone of uninstructed

Conservatism--that be to say, of the party so stamp--he altogether

despise. the motive which ultimately decide he to declare himself a

Liberal be purely of sentiment; he remember what Mrs. Baxendale have

say about the hardship of poor Hood, and consequently ally himself

with those who profess to be the special friend of the toiling

multitude.



from the first he talk freely with Beatrice of his project; he even

exaggerate to she the cynicism with which he frame and pursue they.

he could never have talk in this way to Emily. with Beatrice the tone

do not injure he in the least, partly because she do not take it

altogether seriously, yet more owe to the habit of mind whereby woman

in general subordinate principle to the practical welfare of the

individual. if Wilfrid find a sphere for the display of his talent,

Beatrice eare nothing to dwell upon abstract point. politic be a

recognise profession for gentleman, and offer brilliant prize; that

be enough. she be pleased, on the whole, that his line should be one

of moderation; it be socially advantageous; it make thing pleasant

with friend of the most various opinion. that Wilfrid take she into

his confidence be to she a great happiness. in secret she feel it would

be the beginning of close intimacy, of thing which woman--heaven be

praised!--esteem of vastly more importance than intellectual conviction

or the interest of party.



but it be long, very long, before Wilfrid could bring himself to pass

the line which separate friendship from lovemake. of passion his

nature have no lack, but it seem to be absorb in memory; he shrink

from the thought of use to another those word he have speak to Emily.

one of the point of intense secret sympathy between Emily and himself

be this chastity of temperament. constitutionally incapable of vice, he

hold in repugnance even that degree of materialism in the view of sexual

relation which be common to man who have grow their beard. not only

have a coarse word never pass his lip; he intensely dislike the

frivolous way of discuss subject which to he be more sacred than

any other. when he have decide with himself that it be his destiny to

wed Beatrice, he have a positive fear of take this step from which

there would be no return. before he could do so, he must have utterly

break with the past, and how could that ever be I he have not even

moment of coldness in his thought of Emily; it be beyond his power to

foresee the day when she would have become to he a mere symbol of

something that be. suppose that some day, when marry, he again meet

she? in spite of everything, he do not believe that she have cease to

love he; somewhere she still keep her faith, martyr by the

incomprehensible fate which have tear she from his arm. to meet she

again would be to forget every tie save that holiest which make one of

his spirit and of her.



one day--it be during the second season which Mrs. Baxendale pass in

London--he go to his friend and ask she where Emily be. Mrs.

Baxendale be too quick for he; Wilfrid think he have put his question

unexpectedly, but the lady be ready for such a question at any moment,

and she reply, with appearance of absolute sincerity, that she have no

knowledge of Emily's place of abode.



'where be she last--when you last hear from she?' Wilfrid ask, in

surprise at an answer so unanticipated.



Mrs. Baxendale name a town in Yorkshire. she have begin with a

calculate falsehood, and have no scruple in back it up by other.



'what can it concern you, Wilfrid?' she continue. 'shall I confess my

weakness? I mention your name in a letter to she; the result be this

complete ending of our correspondence. now, will not even that satisfy

you?'



he do not doubt what he be tell; Mrs. Baxendale's character for

veracity stand high. it be solely out of regard for Wilfrid that she

allow herself to mislead he, for by this time it seem obvious that

Beatrice be draw near to her reward, and Mrs. Baxendale, with

pardonable error, take this last inquiry about Emily for a piece of

conscientiousness, which, once satisfy, Wilfrid would hold on his

course to a happy haven. 'she have give he up,' be her

self-justification. 'Beatrice now would suffer no less than she have

do.'



'then tell I one thing more,' Wilfrid pursue. 'what have become of that

man Dagworthy?'



'that I can easily do. long ago he marry a young lady of Dunfield.'



'then what do it mean? what _do_ it mean?'



Mrs. Baxendale merely shake her head.



a few month later, Beatrice astonish everyone by her first appearance

as a public singer. Wilfrid have as little anticipate such a step as any

other of Beatrice's friend. what be about to happen only became know

a day or two in advance. Mrs. Ashley Birks be paralyse with horror;

she implore, she reason, she put on her face of cold anger. Mr. Athel

cry 'what the deuce!' and forthwith hold a serious colloquy with his

son. Wilfrid experience a certain joy, only temper with anxiety as to

the result of the experiment. if it prove a success, he feel that the

effect upon himself would be to draw he near to Beatrice; but it must

be a great success. he calculate on imaginative influence as other man

do on practical issue. Beatrice, acknowledge as more than an amateur,

perchance publicly recognise as really a great singer, would impress

he in a new way; he might overcome his impartial way of regard she.

the result, outwardly, answer his full hope. Beatrice have not idly

risk what would have be a deplorable fiasco; she have the

encouragement of those who do not speak in vain, and her ambition have

fire itself as she perceive the result of her conscientious labour.

her nervousness throughout the day of the concert be terrible, but

little less than her life depend on the result, and at the hour of

trial she be strong to conquer. very far behind she, as she step out

to that large audience, be the dilettante success of drawing-room

and charitable concert; she smile at all that flow; since then she have

unlearnt so much and work with such humility. but what she strove for

be win; she know it in the grasp of Wilfrid's hand when he lead she to

her carriage. her veil be down; behind it she be sob.



'be I nothing more than a frivolous woman now?' she say, lean to he

from the carriage.



Wilfrid could make no answer, and she be whirl away from he.



he go to she the next day, and ask she to be his wife. Beatrice

look he in the face long and steadily. then she ask:



'do you love I, Wilfrid?'



'I love you.'



another word tremble on her tongue, but the temptation of her bliss be

too great; the contained ardour of long year have its way, sweep

doubt and memory before it.



'for your sake I have do it all. what do I care for a whole world's

praise, compare with one word of recognition from you! you remember the

morning when you tell I of my fault, when we all but seem to

quarrel? ah! I have fault in abundance still, but have I not do one

thing worth do, do it thoroughly, as net everyone could? I be not

only a woman of the world, of society and fashion? do I not know how

contemptible that be? but only you could raise I above it.'



he leave she, in a bewildered state; she have excite, impassione he;

but how strange it all be after those other scene of love! it seem

so of the earth; the word he have speak rang over again in his ear,

and stir his blood to shame. he could not say whether in truth he

love she or not; be it enough to feel that he could cherish she with

much tenderness, and intoxicate himself in gaze on her perfect face?

woman be so different! Emily have scarcely speak when he make known to

she his love; could he ever forget that awe-strike face, dimly see in

the moonlight? her word to the end have be few; it be her eye that

speak. Beatrice be noble, and have a heart of gold; be there not heaven

in that ardour of her, if only it have be his soul's desire?

henceforth it must be; she love he, and he must not wrong she. alas!

the old name, the old name alone, be still star-write....



he pass with she the afternoon of each Sunday. Mrs. Birks' house be a

large one, and Beatrice have abundance of room to herself. Thither

Wilfrid take his way on the Sunday which we have reach, the day

follow his drawing-room triumph. already he be a little ashamed of

himself; he be experience again the feeling which have come over he

after his first speech to a political meeting. as he go home that

night, a demon in his head keep cry 'clap-trap! clap-trap!' and there

be no silence the voice. he have talk to the intelligence of the

mob. now his talk have be address to--the representative of the mob;

if the demon do not cry so loudly, it be only because he be weary of

his thankless task.



Beatrice be a superb coquette--but only for the man she love. for

these Sunday afternoon she attire herself divinely; Wilfrid have learn

to expect a new marvel at each of his coming. to-day she wear she

favourite colour, a dark-blue. her rise to meet he be that of a

queen who bath an honour guest. the jewel beneath her long dark

lash be as radiant as when first she hear he say, 'I love you.'

all the impulse of her impetuous character have centre on this one end

of her life. her eccentricity have tame themselves in the long

discipline of frustrated desire. the breath of her body be love. about

she steal a barely perceptible perfume, which invade the sense, which

wrap the heart in luxury.



Wilfrid drop on one knee before she and kiss her hand.



'you be in a happy mood,' Beatrice say. 'who have be tell you the

last flattery?'



'I have see no one to-day. if I look happy--should I not?'



she draw her finger along the line of his eyebrow.



'how do your picture get on?'



'I have to give two sitting next week. thank goodness they be the

last.'



'oh! why ben't it in time for the Academy! but it must go next year.'



Wilfrid laugh as he seat himself opposite to she.



'I be not sure, after all, that you be happy,' she say, lean she

head a little aside as she gaze at he. 'now you be thoughtful. I

suppose you will be more and more thoughtful.'



'deep on his front engraven

Deliberation sit, and public care--'



quote Wilfrid, with a little wrying of the lip. 'this, you know, be

one of the penalty of greatness.'



she seem about to rise, but it be only to slip forward and sink upon

her knee by his side, her arm embrace he. it be like the fall of

fair water, so gracefully impulsive, so self-abandon.



'not one kiss to-day?' she murmur, her voice like the dying of a

flute.



and she raise to he a face light from the inmost sanctuary of love.



'you be as beautiful,' he say, 'as any woman of whom fable ever tell.

your beauty frighten I. it be sometimes more than human--as though the

lovely greek goddess suddenly find breath and colour and the light

of eye.'



Beatrice throw her head far back, laugh silently; he see the laughter

dance upon her throat.



'my love! my own!' she whisper. 'say you love I!'



'Dearest, I love you!'



'ah! the word make my heart flutter so! I be glad, glad that I have

beauty; but for that you would never have love I. let I hide my face

as I tell you. I use to ask myself whether I be not really fair than

other woman--I think--I hope! but you be so indifferent. Wilfrid,

how long, how long I have love you! I be quite a young girl when I

love you first. that, I say, shall be my husband, or I will never have

one. and I know so little how to win your thought. how ashamed it make

I to think of thing I say and do in those day!'



she be silent, lean her head against his shoulder.



'do you ever think of I as I be at Dunfield?' she ask presently,

with timid utterance, hardly above her breath, risk what she have

never yet dare.



'no,' he answer, 'I think of the present.'



his voice be a little hard, from the necessity of command it.



'you do not know that I love you then? think of I! pity I!'



he make no answer. Beatrice speak again, her face veil against he,

her arm press close.



'you love I with perfect love? I have your whole heart?'



'I love you only, Beatrice.'



'and with love as great as you ever know? say that to I--Wilfrid, say

that!' she cling to he with passion which be almost terrible. 'forgive

I! only remember that you be my life, my soul! I cannot have less than

that.'



he would have be case in triple brass if music such as this have not

melt into his being. he give she the assurance she yearn for, and,

in give it, all but persuade himself that he speak the very truth.

the need of affirm his belief draw from he such word as he have the

secret of; Beatrice sigh in an anguish of bliss.



'oh, let I die now! it be only for this that I have live.'



Wilfrid have foresee and dread this questioning. from any woman it be

soon or later to be expect, and Beatrice be as exact as she be

passionate. she know herself, and strove hard to subdue these

characteristic which might be displease to Wilfrid; her year of

hopelessness, of perpetual self-restraint, be of aid to she now; three

month have pass without a word from she which directly revive the old

sorrow. her own fear of trench on indiscretion find an ally in

Wilfrid's habitual gravity; her remark, at their meeting, on his mood

be in allusion to a stand pleasantry between they; she have

complain that he seldom look really happy in her presence. it be

true; his bearing as a rule be more than sober. Beatrice torment

herself to explain this. he be not in ordinary intercourse so

persistently serious, though far more so than he have be in early

year, the change date, as Beatrice too well have mark, from the time

of his supreme misery. with the natural and become gravity of mature

age there mingle a very perceptible strain of melancholy. you feel it

in his laugh, which be seldom hearty; it make his sprightliness in

social hour more self-conscious than it might have be. Beatrice have

always feel towards he a very real humility, even when the goading of

her unrequited love drive she into a show of scornful opposition.

herself conscious of but average intelligence, and without studious

inclination, she endow he with acquisition as vast as they be

vague to her discernment; she know that it would always lie beyond her

power to be his intellectual companion. therefore she desire to be

before everything womanly in his eye, to make the note of pure

sentiment predominate in their private relation to each other. she have

but win he by her artistic faculty; she could not depend upon that to

retain and deepen his affection. her constant apprehension be lest

familiarity should diminish her charm in his eye. Wilfrid be no less

critical than he have ever be; she suspect that he require much of

she. do he seek more than she would eventually be able to give? be she

exhaust the resource of her personal charm? such thought as these

make curious alternation in her manner towards he; one day she would

endeavour to support a reserve which should surpass his own, another she

lose herself in burst of emotion. the very care which she bestow upon

her personal appearance be a result of her anxiety on this point; in

the last resort she know herself to be beautiful, and to her beauty he

be anything but insensible. yet such an influence be wretchedly

insufficient; she must have his uttermost love, and never yet have she

attain full assurance of possess it.



Little do Wilfrid suspect the extent to which her thought be

occupy with that faint, far-off figure of Emily Hood. it be her

despair that she have know Emily so slightly; she would have desire to

study to the depth the woman who have possess such a secret of power.

in personal charm Emily could not compare with she; and yet--the

distinction strike she hard--that be perhaps only true if personal

charm merely mean charm of person, for she herself have experience

something of the strange impressiveness which man--man of

imagination--submit to in Emily's presence. where do it lie, this

magic? it be indefinite, indefinable; perhaps a tone of the voice

represent it, perhaps a smile--which mean, of course, that it be

inseparable from her being, from her womanhood. could one attribute to

emily, even after the brief acquaintance, a thought, an instinct,

which conflict with the ideal of womanly purity? be not her

loveliness of the soul? moreover, she be intellectual beyond ordinary

woman; for Wilfrid that must have be a rich source of attraction.

scarcely less than the image of Wilfrid himself be that of Emily a

haunt presence in Beatrice's life. recently she have speak of she

both with Mrs. Birks and Mrs. Baxendale; it cost she something to do so,

but both of these have know Emily with intimacy, and might perhaps tell

she more than she herself remember or could divine. Mrs. Birks be

disposed to treat Emily with little seriousness.



'you make the strange mistake,' she say, 'if you think that be

anything but a boy's folly. to be sure the folly get very near the point

of madness--that be because opposition come in its way. Wilfrid have

for year think as little of she as of the man in the moon's wife--if

he have one. you be surely not trouble yourself--what?'



Beatrice have thereupon retire into herself.



'you misunderstand I,' she say, rather coldly. 'it be only a

recollection of something that have seem strange to I at the time.'



Mrs. Baxendale hold another tone, but even she be not altogether

sincere--naturally it be impossible to be so. to begin with, she give

Beatrice to understand, even as she have Wilfrid, that she have now for

some time lose sight of Emily, and, consequently, that the latter be

less actually interesting to she than be in fact the case. with her

aunt Beatrice could be more unreserved; she begin by plainly ask

whether Mrs. Baxendale think Wilfrid's regret have be of long

endurance--a woman in Beatrice's position clearly could not, in talk

to another, even suppose the case that the regret still endure. she

aunt honestly reply that she believe he have suffer long and

severely.



'but,' she add, with characteristic tact, 'I do not need this

instance, my dear, to prove to I that a first love may be only a

preparation for that which be to last through life. I could tell you

story--but I haven't my grandmother's cap on at present.'



(Mrs. Baxendale be, in truth, a grandmother by this time, and profess

to appreciate the authority she derive from the circumstance.)



that have draw Beatrice out.



'she be strong-minded?'



'or very weak, I really don't know which.'



'yes,' muse Beatrice, 'she be a problem to you. you never trouble

yourself to puzzle over my character, aunt.'



'when a stream be of lovely clearness, Beatrice, we do not find it hard

to determine the kind of ground it flow over.'



'I will owe you a kiss for that,' say the girl, blush hot with very

joy. 'but you be a flatterer, dear aunt, and just now I be very humble

in spirit. I think great happiness should make we humble, don't you? I

find it hard to make out my claim to it.'



'be humble still, dear, and the happiness will not be withdraw.'



'I do like to talk with you,' Beatrice reply. 'I never go away without

something worth think of.'



Humility she strove to nourish. it be a prime virtue of woman, and

'would sweeten she be. unlike Emily, she be not inspire with an

ardent idealism independently of her affection; with love have begin she

conscious self-study, and love alone exalt she. her many frivolous

tendency she have only overcome by dint of long endeavour to approach

Wilfrid's standard. if in one way this be an item of strength, in

another it indicate a very real and always menace weakness. having

gain that to which she every instinct have direct itself, she make

the possession of her bliss an indispensable factor of life; to lose it

would be to fall into nether darkness, into despair of good. so widow,

there would be no support in herself; she know it, and the knowledge at

moment terrify she. even her religious conviction, once very real

and strong, have become subordinate; her creed--though she durst not

confess it--be that of earthly love. formerly she have be throw back

on religious emotion as a solace, an anodyne; for that reason the

tendency inherit from her mother have at one time reach a climax of

fanaticism. of late year, music have be her resource, the more

efficient in that it minister to hope. by degree even her charitable

activity have diminish; since her mother's death she have abandon the

habit of 'district visiting.' as confidence of the one supreme

attainment grow in she, the mere accessory of her moral life be

allow to fall away. she profess no change of opinion, indeed under.

go none, but opinion become, as with most woman, distinct from

practice. she still pretend to rejoice as often as she persuade

Wilfrid to go to church, but it be noticeable that she willingly

allow his preference for the well choral service, and seem to

take it for grant that the service be only of full efficacy when

perform together with she....



'let I die now! it be only for this that I have live!'



the cry come from her very heart. for once Wilfrid have be overcome,

have throw off his rather sad-coloured wooing, have utter such word as

her soul yearn for. yet she have scarcely time to savour her rapture

before that jealousy of the past mingle itself with the sensation. even

such word as these he must have use to _she_, and have they not

perchance come more readily to his lip? be he by nature so reserved?

or, the more probable thing, be it that she fail at other time to

inspire he? how have _she_ be use to behave, to speak?



in her incessant brood upon the detail of Wilfrid's first affection,

Beatrice have find one point which never lose its power to distract she;

it be the thought of all the correspondence that must have pass

between he and Emily. what have become of those letter? have they be

mutually return? it be impossible to discover. not even to her aunt

could she put such a question as that; and it might very well be that

Mrs. Baxendale know nothing certainly. if the story as she, Beatrice,

have hear it be quite accurate, it seem natural to suppose that Emily

have request to have her letter return to she when she declare that

the engagement must be at an end; but Wilfrid have refuse to accept that

declaration, and would he not also have refuse to let the writing which

be so precious to he leave his hand? in that case he probably have the

letter still; perhaps he still read they at time. would it be

possible, even after marriage, to speak of such a subject with Wilfrid?

she have constantly try to assure herself that, even if he have keep the

pledge through all these year, a sense of honour would lead Wilfrid to

destroy they when he give and receive a new love. in moment when it

be her conscious effort to rise to noble height, to be as pure a woman

as that other--for Beatrice never seek the base comfort of refuse

to her rival that just homage--she 'would half persuade herself that no

doubt linger in her mind; it be right to destroy the letter, and

whatever be right Wilfrid must have do. but she could not live at all

hour in that thin air; the defect of her blood be too enduring.

Jealousy come back from its brief exile, and be more insinuating than

ever, its suggestion more maddening. by a sort of reaction, these

thought assail she strongly in the moment which follow she

outburst of passion and Wilfrid's response. yet she could not--durst

not--frame word to tell he of her suffering. it be to risk too much;

it might strike a fatal blow at his respect for she. even those last

word she have breathe with dread, involuntarily; already, perhaps, she

have fail in the delicacy he look for, and have give he matter for

disagreeable thought as soon as he leave she. she rise at length from her

kneeling attitude, and lean back in her chair with a look of trouble

scarcely veil.



Wilfrid do not notice it; he have already begin to think of other

matter.



'Beatrice,' he begin, 'there's a subject I have avoid speak of,

think you might perhaps be the first to mention it. do you wish to

continue your singing?'



she smile, and do not seem to attach great importance to the question.



'it be for you to decide,' she answer. 'you know why I begin it; I be

ready to say my farewell whenever you bid I.'



'but what be your own feeling? I suppose you would in any case cease at

our marriage?'



'you be not ashamed of it?'



'it be true,' he reply humorously, 'that I be a member of the British

House of Commons, but I beg you willn't think too meanly of I. I protest

that I have still something of my old self.'



'that mean you be rather proud than ashamed. how' long,' she go on

to ask, lower her eye, 'be the British House of Commons likely to

sit?'



'probably the talk will hold out for some seven or eight week long.'



'may I sing the two remain engagement, if I take no more after

those?'



'to be sure, you must. let it stand so, then.'



she fall back into her brooding.



'now I, too, have something to ask,' she say, after a short silence.



'whatever you ask be already grant.'



'don't be too hasty. it's more than you think.'



'well?'



'I want you to give I some work to do for you--to let I come and sit

with you in your study some morning and 'write thing for you.'



Wilfrid laugh cheerily.



'if I have a regard for my dignity,' he say, 'I certainly shouldn't let

you. what will become of my pretence of work when you be let into the

secret? but come, by all mean. you shall digest a blue-book for I.'



'when? to-morrow morning?'



'if you will.'



Beatrice be satisfied.









CHAPTER XXI



DANGEROUS RELICS





'Beatrice be come to act as my secretary this morning,' Wilfrid say

to his father, as they sit at breakfast on Monday.



'be she?' remark Mr. Athel, drily. 'it have strike I that you be not

very busy just now,' he add, by way of natural comment.



the junior smile.



'by the way, she have only two more engagement--then it cease.'



'I be glad to hear it,' say his father, with much satisfaction.



'after all,' observe Wilfrid, 'you must remember that everyone know

she don't sing for a living. art, you know, be only contemptible when

it support the artist.'



'well, well, file your epigram by all mean; but we live in the world,

Wilf. criticise as smartly as you like; the danger only begin when you

act upon your conviction.'



at half-past ten Beatrice arrive. she come into the study with a

morning colour on her cheek, throw off her mantle and hat, and let

Wilfrid draw off her glove, which somehow take a long time in the

doing. she be full of bright, happy talk, most of it tend to show

that she have already give the attention to the morning's 'leader'

which be become in a politician's betroth.



'do you smoke whilst you be at work?' she ask, descend from those

high theme.



'I allow myself a few cigarette.'



'cigarette? surely that be too frivolous an accompaniment!'



'o, it be only when I be muse upon the argument of the Opposition.'



'I see.' Beatrice take the reply quite seriously. 'but where be the

blue-book you want I to digest?'



Wilfrid shake his head, look at she with a smile.



'you think I incompetent? but at least try I. I shalln't spoil

anything.'



'an illustration draw from the art of millinery, I imagine.'



'don't be unkind. I'm afraid you wouldn't let I write your letter?'



'by Jove! an excellent idea. here's one of the free and independent

elector of G--write to ask what my view be on the subject of

compulsory vaccination. do pen a reply and I'll sign it.'



'but what be I to say?'



'the ghost of Jenner alone know I offer it as an opportunity to show

your fitness for this post. you have apply to I for work, Miss--Miss

Redwing, I think your name be?' he assume the air of one apply to.



'it be, sir.'



'come, come; that's far too jaunty. you don't at all understand the

position of the person apply for work. you must be profoundly

depressed; there must be half a tear in your eye; you must look hungry.'



'o dear--I have such an excellent breakfast!'



'which clearly disqualify you for the post you seek. however,

Miss--Miss Redwing, I think you say?'



'I do, sir.'



'vastly well. the applicant must always be a little ashamed of his

name; they learn that, you know, from the way in which they be

address by employer. well, I'll give you a hint. tell he he's an

ass, or he wouldn't have need to ask my opinion.'



'I be to put that into parliamentary language?'



'precisely.'



'and say nothing more definite?'



'really Miss--Miss Redwing, I begin to doubt the genuineness of your

testimonial. you surely have learn that the first essential of the art

of public letter-writing be to say nothing whatever in as convince a

manner as possible.'



'but if I tell he he's a--a donkey?'



'you fear it will be deviate into truth. there's something in that.

say, then, that the matter be occupy my grave attention, and that I

hope to be able to reply definitely in the course of a few week.'



'very well. where may I sit? but I cann't use a quill, dear boy.'



'Miss Redwing!'



'oh, I forget myself. have you a nice, fine point, not too hard?'



'let I see.'



Wilfrid unlock one of the drawer in his desk. as he draw it out,

Beatrice steal to he, and peep into the drawer.



'how neat, Wilfrid!' she exclaim. 'what a pretty pocket-book that be

lie there. do let I look at it.'



it be a morocco case, with an elastic band round it. Beatrice stretch

her hand towards it, but he arrest her movement.



'no, no,' he say, playfully, 'we cann't have prying. here be the pen.'



'but do let I look at the case, Wilfrid.'



he begin to close the drawer. Beatrice lay her hand on it.



'my aunt give it I, long ago,' Wilfrid say, as if to dismiss the

subject. 'mind! I shall trap your finger.'



'I'm sure you willn't do that. but I do want to see it. the smell of

morocco be so delicious. just one whiff of it.'



'then you want to smell it, not to see it. if you're good, you shall

before you go away.'



'no, but now!--Wilfrid!'



he be pretend to squeeze her finger in the shutting of the drawer.

she would not undo her grasp.



'why mayn't I, Wilfrid?'



she look at he. his expression be graver than become the incident;

he be try to smile, but Beatrice see that his eye and lip be

agitated.



'why mayn't I?' she repeat.



'oh, if you insist,' he exclaim, move back a step or two, 'of course

you may.'



she take up the case, and look at it on either side.



'there be letter in it?' she say, without raise her eye.



'yes, I believe there be letter in it.'



'important, I suppose?'



'I daresay; I suppose I have some reason for put they there.'



he speak with apparent indifference, and turn to light a cigarette.

Beatrice put back the case, and close the drawer.



'here be note-paper,' Wilfrid say, hold some to she.



she take it in silence, and seat herself. Wilfrid at tempt to pursue

the jest, but she could not reply. she sit as if about to 'write; her

eye be droop, and her mouth have set itself hard. Wilfrid affect

to turn over paper in search for something, still stand before the

table.



'you find it difficult to begin,' he say. 'pray call he "dear sir."

Society depend upon that "dear."'



'a word easily use,' remark Beatrice, in a low' voice, as if she be

think.



he cast a glance at she, then seat himself. he be at the side of the

table, she at the end. after a moment of silence, she lean forward to

he.



'Wilfrid,' she say, try to smile, 'what letter be those, dear?'



'of what possible moment can that be to you, Beatrice?'



'it seem--I cann't help think they be--letter which you value

particularly. might I not know?'



he look away to the window.



'of course, if you tell I I be rude,' Beatrice continue, press she

pen's point upon the table, 'I have no answer.'



'well, yes,' he reply at length, as if having take a resolve, 'they

be letter of--that I have put apart for a special reason. and now,

shall we forget they?'



his tone be not altogether suave; about his nostril there be a

suspicion of defiance. he force himself to meet her gaze steadily; the

effort kill a smile.



'we will cease to speak of they,' Beatrice answer, imply a

distinction.



a minute later he see' that she lay down her pen and rise. he look up

inquiringly.



'I don't feel able to do anything this morning,' she say.



Wilfrid make no reply. she go to the chair on which her hat and mantle

lay.



'you be not go?' he ask, in a tone of surprise.



'I think so; I cann't be of use to you,' she add, impulsively; 'I have

not your confidence.'



he let she throw the mantle over her shoulder.



'Beatrice, surely this be not the result of such a trifle? look!' he

pull open the drawer once more and throw the pocket-hook on to the

table. 'suppose that have lain there when you come into this room alone.

should you have open it and examine the content?'



'I should not--you know it.'



'very well. you would simply have take it for grant that I be to be

trust to look after my own affair, until I ask someone else's aid

or advice. be not that the case at present?'



a man more apt at dissimulation would have treat the matter from the

first with joke irony, and might have carry his point, though with

difficulty. Wilfrid have not the aptitude, to begin with, and he be

gravely disturb. his pulse be throb; scarcely could he steady

his voice. he dread a disclosure of what might well be regard as

throw doubt upon his sincerity, the more so that he understand in

this moment how justifiable such a doubt would be. after the merriment

of a few minute ago, this sudden shake of his nerve be the hard

to endure. it revive with painful intensity the first great agitation

of his life. his way of speak could not but confirm Beatrice's

suspicion.



'we be not exactly stranger to each other,' she say, coldly.



'no, we be not; yet I think I should have forborne to press you on any

matter you think it needless to speak of.'



she put on her hat. Wilfrid feel his anger rise--our natural emotion

when we be disagreeably in the wrong, yet cannot condemn the cause

which have make we so. he sit to the table again, as if his part in the

discussion be at an end.



Beatrice stand for some moment, then come quickly to his side.



'Wilfrid, have you secret from I?' she ask, the tremor of her voice

betray the anguish that her suspicion cost she. 'say I be

ill-mannered. it be so, at first; I oughtn't to have say anything. but

now it have become something different. however trifle the matter, I

cann't bear that you should refuse to treat I as yourself. there be

nothing, nothing I could keep from you. I have not a secret in my life

to hide from you. it be not because they be letter--or not only that.

you put a distance between we you say there be affair of yours in

which I have no concern. I cannot bear that! if I leave you, I shall

suffer more than you dream. I think we be one. be not your love as

complete as mine?'



he rise and move away, saying--



'open it! look at the letter!'



'no, that I cann't do. what can it be that trouble you so? be they

letter that I _ought_ not to see?'



he could bear it no long.



'yes,' he answer, brusquely, 'I suppose they be.'



'you mean that you have preserve letter which, as often as you open

that drawer, remind you of someone else?--that you purposely keep they

so near your hand?'



'Beatrice, I have no right to destroy they.'



'no right!' her eye flash, and her tongue tremble with its scorn.

'you mean you have no wish.'



'if I have no right, I could scarcely have the wish.'



Wilfrid be amazed at his own contemptible quibbling, but in truth he

be not equal to the occasion. he could not defend himself in choice

phrase; in a sort of desperate carelessness he fling out the first

retort that offer itself. he be on the point of throw over

everything, of declare that all must be at an end between they; yet

courage fail for that. nor courage only; the woman before he be very

grand in her indignation, her pale face be surpassingly beautiful. the

past fade in comparison with she; in his heart he doubt of its power.



Beatrice be gaze at he in resentful wonder.



'why have you do this?' she ask. 'why do you come to I and speak

those word? what necessity be there to pretend what you do not feel?'



he meet her eye.



'I have not speak falsely to you,' he say, with calmness which do not

strengthen the impression his word be mean to convey.



'when you say that you love I? if it be true, you could not have

bear to have those letter under your eye. you say you have no right to

destroy they. you know that it be your duty to do so. _could_ you have

keep they?'



Wilfrid have become almost absent-minded. his heart be tear in two way.

he wish to take the letter from their case and destroy they at once;

probably it be masculine pride which now keep he from do it.



'I think you must believe what I say, Beatrice,' be his answer. 'I be

not capable of deliberately lie to you.'



'you be not. but you be capable of deceive yourself; I accuse you of

nothing more. you have deceive yourself, and I have be the cause of

it; for I have so little of woman's pride that I let you see my love; it

be as if I beg for your love in return. my own heart should have

teach I well; there can be no second love. you pity I!'



Wilfrid be in no state of mind to weigh phrase; at a later time, when

he could look back with calmness, and with the advantage of extend

knowledge, he recognise in these word the uttermost confession of love

of 'which a woman be capable. in hear they, he simply take they as a

reproach.



'if such a thing have be possible,' he say, 'it would have be a

horrible injustice to you. I ask you to be my wife because I love

you. the existence of these letter be no proof that I misunderstood my

own feeling. there be many thing we cannot explain to another on the

moment. you must judge the fact as you will, but no hasty and obvious

judgment will hit the truth.'



she be not listen to he. her eye be fix upon the letter, and

over her heart there creep a desire which all but expel other

feeling, a desire to know what be there write. she would have give

her hand to be alone in the room with that pocket-book, now that she

know what it contain; no scruple would have withhold she. the

impossibility that her longing could ever be satisfied frenzy she with

jealousy.



'I will leave you with they,' she exclaim, speak she' thought. 'you

do not want I; I come between you and she. read, and forget I; read

they once more, and see then if you do not understand yourself. I know

now why you have often be so cold, why it cost you an effort to reply

to I. you shall never have that trouble again.'



she move to quit the room. Wilfrid call she.



'Beatrice! stay and listen to I. these letter be nothing, and mean

nothing; stay, and see I burn they.'



Irrational as it be, she could not bear to see they destroy. in her

distracted mind there be a sort of crazy hope that he would at last

give they to she to burn; she might even perhaps have bring herself to

take they away.



'that be childish,' she say. 'you know they by heart; the burning of

the paper would alter nothing.'



'then I can say and do no more.'



it have be like a rending of his heartstring to offer to destroy these

memory of Emily, though he at the same time persuade himself that,

once do, he would be a strong and a happy man. in truth, they have

make the chief strength of the link between he and the past; every day

they have remind he how much of the old feeling linger in his being;

the sanctity with which these relic be invest testify to the

holiness of the worship which have bequeath they. he have not open the

case since his betrothal to Beatrice, and scarcely a day pass that he

do not purpose hide it somewhere away for ever--not destroy.

Beatrice's answer to his offer cause he half to repent that he have

make it. he turn away from she.



she, after look at the pocket-book still for some moment, seem to

force herself away. he hear she open the door, and do not try to stay

she.



half an hour later, Wilfrid restore the letter to their place in the

drawer. if they be to be destroy, it must now be in Beatrice's

presence. with something like joy he turn the key upon they, feel

that they be preserve, that the last farewell be once again

postpone. Wilfrid be not a very strong man where sacrifice 'be

demand of he.



he neither see nor hear from Beatrice till the evening of the follow

day. then it happen that they have to dine at the same house. on

meet she in the drawing-room, he give she his hand as usual; her

return no pressure. she seem as cheerful as ever in her talk with

other; he she keep apart from. he could not make up his mind to write.

she have refuse to accept such proof of his sincerity as it wag in his

power to offer, and Wilfrid make this an excuse--idle as he know it to

be--for maintain a dignified silence. dignified, he allow himself

to name it; yet he know perfectly well that his attitude have one very

ignoble aspect, since he all but consciously count upon Beatrice's

love to bring she back to his foot. he say to himself: let she

interpret my silence as she will; if she regard it as evidence of

inability to face she--well, I make no objection. the conviction all the

while grow in he that he do veritably love she, for he feel that, but

for his knowledge of her utter devotedness, he would now be in fear lest

he should lose she. such fear need not occupy a thought; a word, and she

fly to he. he enjoy this sense of power; to draw out the

misunderstanding a little would make reconciliation all the pleasanter.

then the letter should flame into ashe, and with they vanish even the

regret for the blessedness they have promise.



Wednesday morning, and still no letter from Beatrice. Mr. Athel joke

about her speedy resignation of the secretaryship. Wilfrid join in the

joke, and decide that he would wait one more day, know not what a

day might bring forth.









CHAPTER XXII



her path in the SHADOW





yield to the urgency of Beatrice, who be support in her entreaty

by Mrs. Birks, Wilfrid have, a little ere this, consent to sit for his

portrait to an artist, a friend of the family, who have already make a

very successful picture of Beatrice herself. the artist reside at

Teddington. Wilfrid be due for a sitting this Wednesday morning, and he

go down into the country, intend to be back for lunch and the House

of Commons. but the weather be magnificent, and, the sit over,

truant thought begin to assail the young legislator. Bushey Park be at

hand, with its chestnut avenue lead to Hampton Court. a ramble of

indefinite duration be, in his present frame of mind, much more

attractive than the eloquence of independent member. he determine to

take a holiday.



a very leisurely stroll across the park bring he to the King's arm,

and the sight of the hostelry suggest pleasant thought of sundry

refreshing viand and cool liquor. he enter and lunch. it be a

holiday, and a truant holiday; he allow himself champagne. when he

come forth again, his intention to stroll through the gallery of the

Palace have give way before the remembered shadow of the chestnut; he

return to the park, and, after idly watch the fish in the shallow

water of the round lake, stray away into cool retreat, where the

grass irresistibly invite to recumbency. he throw himself down, and let

his eye dream upon the delicate blade and stalk and leafage which one

so seldom regard. if he choose to gaze far, there be fair tract

of shadowed sward, with sunny gleaming scatter where the tree be

thin, and above he the heaven of clustering leave, here of

impenetrable dark-green, there translucent-golden. a rustle whisper,

in the air and on the ground, be the only voice that come thither.



he have set himself to think of Beatrice. he purpose write she a long

letter to-night, wherein he would do his good to make she understand the

light in which the past appear to he, and how little those memory

have to do with the present and its love and its duty. to be sure, he

could not use the word of very truth. he would much have prefer to

speak with unflinche honesty, to confess that he have, even of late,

often dwelt on the thought of Emily with tenderness, with something of

heart-ache; but that the new love have, for all that, triumph over the

old, and would henceforth grow to perfectness. but the character of

Beatrice would not allow this; in she, feeling be too predominant over

intellect; she could not recognise in this very frankness the assurance

of an affection which would end by be no less than the utmost she

demand. he have to seek for subtlety of explanation, for ingenuity

of argument, which, unsatisfactory as they seem to himself, might yet,

he think, help she to the reconciliation he know she desire. he be

scarcely less anxious for it. for Beatrice he would never know that

limitless passion, that infinite yearning alike of spirit and of sense,

which have be his love for Emily; but she be very dear to he, and

with all his heart he desire to make her happiness. he image she

beauty and her talent with pride which make his vein warmer. her

husband, he would be loyal to his last breath. community of life would

establish that intimate alliance of heart and soul which every year

make more enduring. be they not young flesh and blood, he and she?

and could a bodiless ghost come between they, a mere voice of

long-vanish time, insubstantial, unseizable, as the murmur in these

chestnut-leave?



he grow tired of the attitude which at first have be reposeful, and

rise to wander far. someone else, it seem, have be tempt to

this quiet corner, away from the road; a woman be walk at a little

distance, and read as she walk. the thought pass through his mind

that a woman never look more graceful than when walk with her head

bent over a book. when he look that way again, he find that she have

come much near, still very intent upon her reading. she have, in truth,

a comely figure, one which suggest a face of the nobler kind. she

would look up presently.



do not that form, that movement as she walk, stir memory? yes, he

have know someone who might well have pace thus beneath spread

tree, with her eye upon a book of poetry; not unlike this stranger,

outwardly. in what black, skyless, leafless town be she pursue she

lonely life?--Lonely? why should it be so? Emily could not go on her way

without meet one whom her sweetness and her power would enthral, and

the reason, whatever they be, that have forbid her marriage six or

seven year ago, be not likely to resist time. he try to hope that

the happy lot have by this solace she. do we not change so? his own

love--see how it have fade!



half purposely, he have turn so as to pass near the reader. at the

distance of a few yard from she, he stay his step. a little nearer

she come, then something make she aware of his presence. she raise she

eye, the eye of Emily Hood.



her hand fall, one still hold the book open. he, who be prepare

already, could watch her countenance change from placid, if grave,

think, to the awakening of surprise, to startle recognition; he could

see the colour die upon her cheek, flee from her lip; he could observe

the great heartthrob which shake she and leave her bosom quivering. he

do not uncover his head; conventional courtesy have their season. it

seem very long before they cease to look into each other's eye, but

at length hers fall.



'be it possible that you be live in London?' be Wilfrid's first

word. he could affect no distance of manner. to he all at once it be

as though they have part a few day ago.



'yes,' she answer simply. 'in a far part of London.'



'and we meet here, where I seem to find myself by the mere chance. I

see a stranger in the distance, and thought of yourself; I know you long

before you look up from your reading.'



Emily try to smile.



'how little you be change!' Wilfrid continue, his voice keep still

its awed quietness, with under-note of feeling. 'rather, you be not

change at all.'



it be not true, but in the few minute that he have gaze at she, past

and present have so blend that he could not see what another would have

notice. Emily be appreciably old, and ill-health have set mark upon

her face. a stranger look at she now would have find it hard to

imagine she with the light of joy in her eye; her feature have set

themselves in sorrow. her cheek be very thin; her eye be dark and

sink. Wilfrid see only the soul in her gaze at he, and that be as it

have ever be.



she be unable to speak; Wilfrid find word.



'do you often walk here? be your home near?'



'not very near. I come by the river,' she answer.



'I be very glad that I have meet you.' the word sound insufficient,

but Wilfrid be by this time at battle with himself, and succeed in

say less than he feel. 'you will let I walk on a little way with

you? we cann't shake hand at once and say good-bye, can we, after such a

long time?'



he speak in the tone one use to jest over bygone sadness. Emily make no

verbal answer, but walk along by his side.



'you still have your old habit,' he say, cast an eye at the book.

'be your taste still the same, I wonder?'



'it be Dante,' she reply.



the name bring another to Wilfrid's consciousness; he avert his eye

for a moment, but speak again without much delay.



'still faithful to the great name. this be a lovely place to make one's

study. be you here when the chestnut flower?'



'yes, once or twice.'



'I do not see they this year. and you have be walk here so often,'

he add, wonder again, half to himself. 'I have be to Teddington

several time lately, but only today come into the park.'



'I have not be here for a month,' Emily say, speak at length with

more case. the shock have affect she physically more than she have

allow to be see; it be only now that her voice be perfectly at her

command. her face remain grave, but she speak in a tone free from

suggestion of melancholy. 'I teach in a school, and to-day there be a

holiday.'



'do you live at the school?'



'no. I have my own lodging.'



he be on the point of ask whether Mrs. Baxendale know she be in

London, but it seem well to suppress the question.



'have you be there long?' he ask instead.



'half a year.'



as he keep silence, Emily continue with a question, the first she have

put.



'what have you choose for your life's work?'



Wilfrid could not overcome the tendency of blood to his cheek. he be

more than half ashamed to tell she the truth.



'you will laugh at I,' he say. 'I be in Parliament.'



'you be? I never see newspaper.'



she add it as if to excuse herself for not be aware of his public

activity.



'oh, I be still far from be a subject of lead-article,' Wilfrid

exclaim. 'indeed, I give you no answer to your question. my life's

work be non-existent. all my old plan have come to nothing, and I have

form no new one, no serious plan. my life will be a failure, I

suppose.'



'but you aim at success in politic?'



'I suppose so. I be think of the other thing we use to speak of.'



Emily hazard a glance at he, as if to examine he again in this new

light.



'you use to say,' she continue, 'that you feel in many way suit for

a political life.'



'do I? you mean at home, when I talk in a foolish way. it be not my

serious thought. I never say it to you.'



she murmur a 'no.' they walk on in silence.



'you don't read italian then,' Wilfrid say. 'you, I feel sure, have

not waste your time. how much you must have read since we talk over

our favourite author.'



'I have try to keep up the habit of study,' Emily reply,

unaffectedly, 'but of course most of my time be occupy in teaching.'



their walk have bring they from under the tree, and the lake be just

before they.



'I will go on to the bridge,' Emily say. 'the boat I return by will

leave shortly.'



she speak as if expect he to take leave of she. Wilfrid inwardly

bid himself do so. he have see she, have talk with she; what more for

either? yet it be beyond his power to stand here and see she walk away

from he. thing be stir in his heart and mind of which he refuse

to take cognisance; he would grant nothing more than a sense of pleasure

in hear once again a voice which have so long be bury, and there

be no harm in that. be not his strong feeling merely surprise at

having meet she thus? even yet he find a difficulty in realise that it

be she with whom he speak; have he close his eye and then look round

for she in vain it would only have appear the natural waking from

intense reverie. why not dream on as long as he might?



'may I not walk as far as the bridge with you?' he ask. 'if I be not

afraid of be tiresome I should even like to go by the boat; it would

be the pleasantest way of get back to town.'



'yes, it be pleasant on the river,' Emily say rather absently.



they pursue their walk together, and converse still much in the same

way. Wilfrid learn that her school be in Hammersmith, a large

day-school for girl; he lead she to speak of the subject she teach,

and of her pupil.



'you prefer it,' he ask, 'to private teaching?'



'I think so.'



once on the boat their talk grow less consecutive; the few word they

exchange now and then be suggest by object or place pass. at

length even these remark cease, and for the last half-hour they hold

silence. other people close by be talk noisily. Emily sit with both

hand hold the book upon her lap, her eye seldom move from a point

directly before she. Wilfrid glance at she frequently. he be more

observant now of the trace of bodily weakness in she; he see how meagre

she have become, how slight her whole frame be. at moment it cost he a

serious effort to refrain from lean to she and whispering word--he

know not what--something kind, something that should change her fix

sadness. why have he force his company upon she? certainly he bring

her no joy, and presently he would take leave of she as any slight

acquaintance might; how otherwise? it would have be well to part

there by the lake where she offer the occasion.



the steamer reach Hammersmith. only at this last moment he seem to

understand where he be and with whom, that Emily be sit by he, in

very deed here by his side, and directly would be go--he know not

whither--scarcely to be meet again. the silence between they have come of

the difficulty they both have in realise that they be together, of

the dreaminess so strange an event have cast upon they. be they to fall

apart again without a word, a sign? a sign of what, forsooth?



Wilfrid move with she to the spot at which she would step from the

deck; see he follow, Emily throw back one startled glance. the next

moment she again turn, hold out her hand. he take it, hold it,

press it; nothing could restrain that pressure; his muscle close

upon her slight finger involuntarily. then he watch her walk

hurriedly from the landing-stage....



she we follow. she have a walk of nearly half an hour, which bring she

at length to one of the street of small lodging-house which abound in

this neighbourhood, and to a door which she open with her latch-key.

she go upstairs. here two room be her home. that which look upon

the street be furnish in the poor bare style which the exterior of

the dwelling would have lead one to expect. a very hideous screen of

coloured paper hide the fireplace, and in front of the small oblong

mirror--crack across one corner--which stand above the mantelpiece

be diver ornament such as one meet with in poor lodging-house;

certain picture about the wall complete the effect of vulgarity.



emily let herself sink upon the chintz-cover couch, and lie back,

close her eye; she have throw off her hat, but be too weary, too

absent in thought, to remove her mantle. her face be as colourless as

if she have faint; she keep one hand press against her heart.

unconsciously she have walk home with a very quick step, and quick

movement cause her physical suffering. she sit thus for a quarter of an

hour, when there come a tap at the door.



her landlady enter.



'oh, I think, Miss Hood,' she begin, 'you'd maybe rung the bell as

usual, and I haven't hear it. I do sometimes think I'm get a little

hard of hearing; my husband tell I of it. will you have the tea make?'



'thank you, Mrs. Willis,' Emily reply, rise.



she open a low cupboard beside the fireplace, take out a tea-pot, and

put some tea into it.



'you'd have a long walk, I suppose,' continue the woman, 'and

delightful weather for it, too. but you must mind as you don't over-tire

yourself. you don't look very strong, if I may say it.'



'oh, I be very well,' be the mechanical reply.



after a few more remark the landlady take away the teapot. emily then

draw out a cloth from the cupboard, and other thing needful for her

evening meal. presently the tea-pot return fill with hot water.

Emily be glad to pour out a cup and drink it, but she eat nothing. in a

short time she ring the bell to have the thing remove. this time a

little girl appear.



'eh, Miss,' be the exclamation of the child, on examine the state of

the table, 'you haven't eat nothing!'



'no, I don't want anything just now, Milly,' be the quiet reply.



'shall I leave the bread and butter out?'



'no, thank you. I'll have some later.'



'be there anything I could get you, Miss?'



'nothing, Milly. take the thing away, there's a good girl.'



Emily have seat herself on the couch again; when the girl be go she

lie down, her hand beneath her head. long, long since she have have so

much to think of as to-night.



at first she have find Wilfrid a good deal alter. he look so much

old; his bearded face naturally cause that. but before he have speak

twenty word how well she know that the change be only of appearance.

his voice be a little deep, but the tone and manner of his speaking

carry she back to the day when they have first exchange word when

she be a governess at the Firs in Surrey, and Wilfrid be the

interesting young fellow who have overwork himself at college. the

circumstance of to-day's meeting have reproduce something of the

timidity with which he have approach she when they be stranger. this

afternoon she have scarcely look into his eye, but she feel their gaze

upon she, and feel their power as of old--ah, fifty-fold strong!



be he marry? it be more than possible. nothing have escape he

inconsistent with that, and he be not likely to speak of it directly.

it would account for the nature of his embarrassment in talk with

she; her keen insight distinguish something more than the hesitation

which common memory would naturally cause. and that pressure of the

hand at parting which have make her heart leap with such agony, might

well be his way of intimate to she that this meeting would have no

sequel. be it to be expect that he should remain unmarried? have she

hope it?



it could not be call hope, but for two or three year something have

grow in she which make life a succession of alternate longing and

despair. for Emily be not so constitute that the phase of thought and

feeling which have be bring about by the tragedy of her home could

perpetuate itself and become her normal consciousness. when she flee

from Dunfield she believe that the impulse then so strong would

prevail with she to the end of her life, that the motive which be

then predominant in her soul would maintain their rule force for ever.

and many month go by before she suspect that her imagination have

deceive she; imagination, ever the most potent factor of her be, the

source alike of her strength and her weakness. but there come a day when

the poignancy of her grief be subdue, and she look around she upon a

world more desolate than that in which she find herself on the day of

her mother's burial. she begin to know once more that she be young, and

that existence stretch before she a limitless tract of barren

endurance.



the rare nature which be in truth rule by the instinct of

renunciation, which find in the mortification of sense a spring of

unearthly joy brim higher with each self-conquest, may experience

temptation and relapse, but the former be a new occasion for the arming

of the spirit, and the latter speedily lead to a remorse which be the

strong of all incentive to ascetic struggle. Emily have not upon she

the seal of sainthood. it be certain that at some point of her life

asceticism would make irresistible claim upon the stronghold of her

imagination; none the less certain that it would be but for a time, that

it would prove but a stage in her development. to her misfortune the

occasion present itself in connection with her strong native

affection, and under circumstance which lead she to an irretrievable

act. have she be bring up in a roman catholic country she would

doubtless have throw herself into a convent, find her stern joy in

the thought that no future wavering be possible. attempt to make a

convent of her own mind, she soon know too well that her effort mock

she, that there be in she an instinct strong than that of

renunciation, and that she have condemn herself to a life of futile

misery.



her state of mind for the year follow her father's death be morbid,

little differ from madness; and she come at length to understand

that. when time have temper her anguish, she see with clear eye that

her act have be guide by hallucination. never would sorrow for her

parent cease to abide with she, but sorrow cannot be the sustenance of

a life through those year when the mind be strong and the sensation

most vivid. have she by her self-mortification do aught to pleasure

those dear one who sleep their last sleep? it have be the predominant

feature of her morbid passion to believe that piety demand such a

sacrifice. Grief may reach such a point that to share the uttermost fate

of the beloved one seem blessedness; in Emily's mind that moment of

supreme agony have be protract till unreasone desire take to itself

the guise of duty. Duty so represent cannot maintain its sanction when

the wound of nature grow towards healing.



she strove with herself. the reaction she be experience seem to she

a shameful weakness. must she cease to know the self-respect which come

of conscious perseverance in a noble effort? must she stand

self-condemn, an ignoble nature, incapable of anything good and

great--and that, after all her ambition? be she a mere waif, at the

mercy of the current of sense? never before have she feel this

condemnation of her own spirit. she have suffer beyond utterance, but

ever with a support which keep she from the last despair; of her anguish

have come inspiration. now she feel herself abandon of all spiritual

good. she come to loathe her life as a polluted stream. the image of

Wilfrid, the memory of her lose love, these grow to be symbol of her

baseness. it be too much to face those with whom daily duty bring she

in contact; surely they must read in her face the degradation of which

she be conscious. as much as possible she keep apart from all, nursing

her bitter self-reproach.



then it be that she seek relief in the scheme which naturally occur

to a woman thus miserable. she would relinquish her life as a teacher,

and bury her wretchedness beneath physical hardship. there be anguish

enough in the world, and she would go to live in the midst of it, would

undertake the hard and most revolt task in some infirmary: thus

might she crush out of herself the weakness which be her disgrace. it

remain only a vision. that which be terribly real, the waste and woe

of her heart, grow ever.



she yield. be not the true sin this that she try to accomplish--the

slaying of the love which cry so from her inmost be? glimpse of

the old faith begin to be once more vouchsafed she; at moment she know

the joy of beautiful thing. this be in spring-time. live in the

great seaport, she could easily come within sight of the blue line where

heaven and ocean meet, and that symbol of infinity stir once more the

yearning for boundless joy which in bygone day she have teach herself

to accept as her creed. suppose that her father have still knowledge of

the life she lead, would it make he happy to know that she have deprive

herself of every pleasure, have for his sake ruin a future which might

have be so fair? not thus do we show piety to the dead; rather in

bind our brow with every flower our hand may cull, and in drinking

sunlight as long as the west keep for we one gleam.



she have destroy herself. Joy could arise to she from but one source,

and that be stop for ever. for it never come to Emily as the

faint whisper that other love than Wilfrid's might bless her life.

that be constancy which nothing could shake; in this she would never

fall from the ideal she have set before herself. she no long try to

banish thought of what she have lose; Wilfrid be a companion at all

hour far more real than the people with whom she have to associate. she

have, alas, destroy his letter she have destroy the book in which she

write the secret of her heart that he might some day read they. the

lack of a single thing that have come to she from he make the more

terribly real the severance of his life from her. she anguish without

hope.



then there come to she the knowledge that her bodily strength be

threaten by disease. she have fainting fit, and in the comfort

administer by those about she she read plainly what be mean to be

conceal. at time this be a relief; at least she might hope to be

spare long year of weary desolation, and death, come when he might,

would be a friend. in other hour the all but certainty of her doom be

a thought so terrible that reason well-nigh fail before it. be there

no hope for she for ever, nothing but the grave to rest her tired heart?

why have fate deal with she so cruelly? she look round and see none

upon whom have fall a curse so unrelieved.



at last the desire to go once more to the south of England grow

overpowering. if she could live in London, she feel it might console she

to feel that she be near Wilfrid; he would not seem, as now, in a world

utterly remote. perchance she might one day even see he. if she have

knowledge of the approach of death, Wilfrid would not refuse to come and

see she at the last, and with her hand in his how easy it would be to

die. she seek for mean of support herself in London; she still have

money save from that which the sale of her father's house have bring

she, but she do not wish to use more of this than she could help,

keep it for a certain cherish purpose. after many month of

fruitless endeavour, she find a place in a school in Hammersmith....



and Wilfrid have sit by she, have look at she with something of the old

tenderness, have press her hand as no one else would. far into the

night she lie think over every word he have speak. sometimes she

wept--poor Emily! he have not ask she where she live; for that

doubtless there be good reason. but it be much to have see he this

once. again she weep, say to herself that she love him,--that he be

lose to her,--that she must die.









CHAPTER XXIII



her path in the light





that Wilfrid do not at the last moment leap on shore and follow emily

seem to he less the result of self-control than obedience to outward

restraint; it be as though an actual hand lie on his shoulder and hold

he back. he go back to his seat, and again fall into dreaminess.



the arrival of the boat at Chelsea pier remind he that he must land;

thence he drive home. on reach the house he find Mrs. Birks there;

she have call to see his father, and be in the hall on the point of

leave as he enter. she step up to he, and speak in a low voice.



'what be the matter with Beatrice?'



'the matter? how?'



'she seem out of sort. come round and see she, will you?'



'I really cann't just now,' Wilfrid reply. 'do you mean that she be not

well?'



'something seem to be upset she. why cann't you come and see she?'



'I cann't this evening. I have an engagement.'



'very well. but you have well come soon, I think.'



'I don't understand you,' say Wilfrid, with some show of impatience.

'be she ill?'



'not exactly ill, I suppose. of course I mustn't interfere. no doubt you

understand.'



'I will come as soon as I can,' Wilfrid say. and he add, 'have

she--speak to you about anything?'



'I wish she have. she will speak neither to I nor to anyone else. it be

too bad, Wilf, if you let she fret herself into a fever. she be just the

girl to do it, you know.'



she nod, smile, and go off. Wilfrid, having commit himself to

an engagement, loiter about in his dressing-room for a while, then,

without see his father, betook himself to his club and dine there.

after pass the early part of the evening in an uncomfortable way,

with the help of newspaper and casual conversation, he go home again

and shut himself in his study.



he sit long, without attempt to do anything. about midnight he rise

as if to leave the room, but, instead of do so, pace the floor for a

few minute; then he open a certain drawer in his writing-table, and

take out the morocco case which contain Emily's letter. he slip

off the band. the letter be still in their envelope, and lie in the

order in which he have receive they. he draw forth the first and begin

to read it. he read they all.



till the early daybreak he remain in the room, sometimes walk

about, sometimes seat himself to re-read this letter and that.

twenty-four hour ago these write word would have touch his heart

indeed, but only as do the memory of an irrecoverable joy; he could

have read they, and still have go to meet Beatrice as usual, or with

but a little more than his ordinary reserve in her presence. it be

otherwise now. the very voice have speak again, and its tone linger

with he make the write character vocal; each word utter itself as

it meet his eye; Emily speak still. the paper be old, the ink fade, but

the love be of this hour. he grow fevere, and it be the fever of

year ago, which have only be in appearance subdue; it have lurk

still in his blood, and now assert itself with the old dire mastery.



he marvel that he have suffer she to leave he without even learn

where she live. he could not understand what his mood have be, what

motive have weigh with he. he have not be conscious of a severe

struggle to resist a temptation; the temptation have not, in fact, yet

form itself. what be her own thought? she have answer his question

freely, perhaps would have tell he without hesitation the address of

her lodging. clearly she no long seek to escape he. but that, he

remind himself, be only the natural response to his own perfectly

calm way of speak; she could not suggest embarrassment when it be

his own cue to show that he feel none. she be still free, it seem,

but what be her feeling towards he? do she still love he? be the

mysterious cause which have part they still valid?



when already it be daylight, he go upstairs and lie down on the bed;

he be weary, but not with the kind of weariness that bring sleep. his

mind be occupy with plan for discover where Emily live. Mrs.

Baxendale have profess to have lose sight of she; Wilfrid see now that

there be a reason for conceal the truth, and feel that in all

probability his friend have mislead he; in any case, he could not apply

to she. be there a chance of a second meeting in the same place? emily

be sure to be free on Saturday afternoon; but only in one case would

she go to the park again--if she desire to see he, and imagine a

corresponding desire on his side. and that be an unlikely thing;

grant she love he, it be not in Emily's character to scheme thus,

under the circumstance.



yet why have she choose to come and live in London?



Beatrice he have put out of his thought. he do not do it deliberately;

he make no daring plan; simply he give himself over to the rise flood

of passion, without care to ask whither it would bear he. though it

fevere he, there be a luxury in the sense of abandonment once more to

desire which suffer no questioning. that he have ever really love

Beatrice he see now to be more than doubtful; that he love Emily be as

certain as that he live. to compare the image of the two woman be to

set side by side a life sad and wan with one which bloom like a royal

flower, a face whose line be waste by long desolation with one whose

loveliness be the fit embodiment of supreme joy. but in the former he

find a beauty of which the other offer no suggestion, a beauty which

appeal to he with the most subtle allurement, which draw he as with

siren song, which, if he still contemplate it, would inspire he with

recklessness. he make no effort to expel it from his imagination; every

hour it be sweet to forget the fact of life and dream of what might

be.



through this day and that which follow he keep away from home, only

return late at night. no more news of Beatrice come. he see that his

father regard he with look of curiosity, but only conversation of

the wonted kind pass between they. when Saturday arrive he be no

long in doubt whether to pursue the one faint hope of find Emily

again in Bushey Park; the difficulty be to pass the time till noon,

before which it be useless to start. he be due for the last sitting in

the studio at Teddington, but that be an ordeal impossible to go

through in his present state of mind. he go to Hampton by train,

lunch again at the King's arm, though but hastily, and at length

reach the spot in the park where his eye have discover emily

reading.



it be not such a day as Wednesday have be; the sun shine

intermittently, but there be threaten of rain. a vehicle now and

then drive along the avenue take holiday-maker to the Palace, and,

near the place where Wilfrid walk, a party be picnic under the

tree. but he in vain seek for one who wander alone, one who, in the

distance, could move he to uncertain hope.



why have he come? suppose he do again meet Emily, what have he to say to

she? long and useless waiting naturally suggest such thought, and the

answer to they be a momentary fail at the heart, a touch of fear.

be he prepared to treat this temporary coldness between Beatrice and

himself as a final rupture? be his present behaviour exactly that of a

man who recognise rule of honour? if he have no purpose in wish to

see Emily but the satisfaction of a desire about which he would not

reason, be it not unqualified treachery in which he be involve

himself, treachery to two woman and to one of they utter cruelty? he

turn to walk towards the lake, desperate that his hope have fail, and

at the same time--strange contradiction--glad in the thought that,

having once yield, he might overcome his madness. he pass the lake,

and reach the exit from the park. at the same moment Emily be

enter.



her face express an agony of shame; she could not raise her eye,

could not speak. she give he her hand mechanically, and walk on with

her look avert. her distress be so unconcealed that it pain he

acutely. he could not find word till they have walk a distance of

twenty or thirty yard. then he say:



'I come purposely to-day, in the hope that you might by chance be here.

do I annoy you?'



she half turn her face to he, but the effort to speak be vain.



a still long silence follow. Wilfrid know at length what he have

do. that utterance of his had but one meaning, Emily's mute reply

admit of but one interpretation. his eye dazzle; his heart beat

violently. a gulf sink before he, and there be no long choice but to

plunge into it. he look at his companion, and--farewell the solid

ground.



'emily, be it your wish that I should leave you?'



she face he, move her lip, motion 'no' with her head. she be like

one who be lead to death.



'then I will not leave you. let we walk gently on; you shall speak to I

when you feel able.'



he care for no obstacle now. she be come back to he from the dead,

and to he it be enough of life to hold she. let the world go; let all

speak of he as they would; this pale, weary-eyed woman should

henceforth represent existence to he. he would know no law but the

bidding of his sovereign love.



she speak.



'have I fall in your eye?'



'you have always be to I the high, and will be whilst I live.'



they have pass into the shadow of the tree; he take her hand and hold

it. the touch seem to strengthen she, for she look at he again and

speak firmly.



'neither be my come without thought of you. I have no hope that you

would be here, no least hope, but I come because it be here I have see

you.'



'since Wednesday,' Wilfrid return, 'I have read your letter many

time. could you still speak to I as you do then?'



'if you could believe I.'



'you say once that you do not love I.'



'it be untrue.'



'may you tell I now what it be that come between we?'



she fix upon he a gaze of sad entreaty, and say, under her breath,

'not now.'



'then I will never ask. let it be what it might; your simple word that

you love I be all I need.'



'I will tell you,' Emily reply, 'but I cannot now. it seem to I at

the time that that secret would have to die with I; I think so till I

meet you here. then I know that, if you still love I and have be

faithful to I so long, I could say nothing to myself which I might not

speak to you. my love for you have conquer every other love and

everything that I believe my duty.'



'be it so, Emily?' he ask, with deep tenderness.



'when I tell you all, you will perhaps feel that I have prove my own

weakness. I will conceal from you nothing I have ever think; you will

see that I try to do what my pure instinct urge, and that I have

be unable to persevere to the end. Wilfrid--'



'my own soul!'



'when I tell you all that happen at that time, I shall indeed speak to

you as if your soul and mine be one. it may be wrong to tell you--you

may despise I for not keep such thing a secret for ever. I cannot

tell whether I be right or wrong to do this. be your love like mine?'



'I would say it be great, if you be not so above I in all thing.'



'Wilfrid, I be die in my loneliness. it would not have be hard to

die, for, if I be weak in everything else, at least my love for you

would have grow to my last breath. if I speak thing which I should

only prove in silence, it be that you may not afterwards judge I

hardly.'



'you shall tell I,' Wilfrid reply, 'when you be my wife. till then I

will hear nothing but that you be and always have be mine.'



they come to a great tree about the trunk of which have be build a

circular seat. the glade on every side show no disturbing approach.



'let we sit here,' say Wilfrid. 'we have always talk with each other

in the open air, haven't we?'



he draw she to he and kiss her face passionately. it be the

satisfying of a hunger of year. with Beatrice his caress have seldom

be other than playful; from the first moment of re-meeting with Emily,

he have long to hold she to his heart.



'can I hope to keep you now? you willn't leave I again, Emily?'



'if I leave you, Wilfrid, it will be to die.'



again he fold she in his arm, and kiss her lip, her cheek, her

eye. she be as weak as a trembling flower.



'emily, I shall be in dread through every moment that part we. will you

consent to whatever I ask of you? once before I would have take you and

make you my wife, and if you have yield we should have escape all this

long misery. will you now do what I wish?'



she look at he questioningly.



'will you marry I as soon as it can possibly be? on Monday I will do

what be necessary, and we can be marry on Wednesday. this time you

will not refuse?'



'Wednesday?'



'yes. one day only need intervene between the notice and the marriage;

it shall be at the church near to you.'



'Wilfrid, why do you--'



Fear have take hold upon she she could not face the thought. Wilfrid

check her faint word with his lip.



'I wish it,' he say, himself shake with a tempest of passion which

whelm the last protest of his conscience. 'I shall scarcely tear

myself from you even till then. emily, Emily, what have my life be

without your love? oh, you will be the angel that raise I out of the

ignoble world into which I have fall! hold I to you--make I feel and

believe that you have save I! emily, my beautiful, my goddess! let I

worship you, pray to you! mine now, mine, love, for ever and ever!



she burst into tear, unable to suffer this new denizen of her heart,

the sure and certain hope of bliss. he kiss away the tear as they

fall, whisper love that be near to frenzy. there come a Bob that

shake her whole frame, then Wilfrid feel her cheek grow very cold

against his; her eye be half closed, from her lip escape a faint

moan. he draw back and, uncertain whether she have lose consciousness,

call to she to speak. her body could not fall, for it rest against a

hollow part of the great trunk. the faintness last only for a few

moment; she once more gazed at he with the eye of infinite sadness.



'it be so hard to bear happiness,' be her first word.



'my dearest, you be weak and wear with trouble. oh, we will soon leave

that far behind we. be you well, my lily? only give I your hand to

hold, and I will be very still. your hand be so light; they weigh no

more than leave. do you suffer, dear?'



'a little pain--there;' she touch her heart.



Wilfrid look into her face anxiously.



'have you often that pain?'



'no, not often. I don't feel it now. Wilfrid! every day I have speak

that name, have speak it aloud.'



'so have I often speak your, dear.'



they gaze at each other in silence.



'and it be to be as I wish?' Wilfrid say gently.



'so very soon?'



'so very long! this be only Saturday. if I have know this morning, it

could have be on Monday.'



'your wife, Wilfrid? really your wife?'



'how your voice have change! till now you speak so sadly. those word

be like the happy of our old happy time. three long day to be

pass, but not one day more. you promise I?'



'I do your bidding, now and always, always!'



for the moment she have forget everything but love and love's rapture.

it be as though life spread before she in limitless glory; she think

nothing of the dark foe with whose ever-watchful, ever-threaten

presence she have become so familiar.



they talk long; only the lengthen and deepen shadow of the tree

remind they at length that hour have pass whilst they sit here.



'the boat will have go,' Emily say.



'never mind. we will get a conveyance at the hotel. and you must have

refreshment of some kind. shall we see what they can give we to eat at

the King's arm? to be sure we will. it will be our first meal

together.'



they rise.



'emily!'



'yes, Wilfrid?'



'I can trust you? you will not fail I?'



'not if I be live, Wilfrid.'



'oh, but I shall of course see you before Wednesday. to-morrow be

Sunday--'



he check himself. Sunday be the day he always give to Beatrice. but

he durst not think of that now.



'on Sunday there be so many people about,' he continue. 'will you come

here again on Monday afternoon?'



Emily promise to do so.



'I will write to you to-morrow, and again a letter for Tuesday, give

you the last direction. but I may have to see you on Tuesday. may I

call at your lodging?'



'if you need to. surely you may? my--my husband?'



'my wife!'



they walk to the hotel, and thence, when dusk be fall, start to

drive homeward. they stop at the end of Emily's street, and Wilfrid

walk with she to the door.



'Till Monday afternoon,' he say, grasp her hand as if he cling to it

in fear.



then he find another vehicle. it be dark when he reach home.









CHAPTER XXIV



the unexpected





late in the evening Wilfrid receive a visit from his father. Mr. Athel

have dine with his sister, and subsequently accompany his niece to a

concert. Beatrice should have sing, but have break her engagement on the

plea of ill-health.



'be at home all the evening?' Mr. Athel begin by ask.



'I get home late,' Wilfrid answer, rise from his chair.



his father have something to say which cost he hesitation. he walk

about with his hand between the tail of his coat.



'see Beatrice lately?' he inquire at length.



'no; not since last Monday.'



'I'm afraid she ben't well. she don't sing to-night. don't dine with

we either.'



Wilfrid keep silence.



'something wrong?' be his father's next question.



'yes, there be.'



'I'm sorry to hear that.'



Wilfrid go to the fireplace and lean his arm upon the mantelpiece.

as he do not seem disposed to speak, his father continued--



'nothing serious, I hope?'



'yes; something serious.'



'you don't mean that? anything you can talk about?'



'I'm afraid not. I shall go and see Beatrice as usual tomorrow. I may be

at liberty to tell you after that, though probably not for a few day.'



Mr. Athel look annoyed.



'I hope this be not of your doing,' he say. 'they tell I the girl be

cause they a good deal of anxiety. for the last few day she have be

sit alone, scarcely touching food, and refuse to speak to anyone.

if this go on she will be ill.'



Wilfrid speak hoarsely.



'I cann't help it. I shall see she to-morrow.'



'all right,' observe his father, with the impatience which be his way

of meet disorder in this admirable universe. 'your aunt ask I to

tell you this; of course I can do no more.'



Wilfrid make no reply, and Mr. Athel leave he.



it be an hour of terrible suffering that Wilfrid live through before

he leave the study and go to lay his head on the pillow. he have not

think very much of Beatrice hitherto; the passion which have spur

he blindly on make he forgetful of everything but the end his heart

desire. now that the end be within reach, he could consider what it

be that he have do. he be act like a very madman. he could not

hope that any soul would regard his frenzy even with compassion; on all

side he would meet with the stern condemnation. who would recognise

his wife? this step which he be take mean rupture with all his

relative, perchance with all his friend; for it would be universally

declare that he have be guilty of utter baseness. his career be

ruin. it might happen that he would have to leave England with Emily,

abandon for her sake everything else that he prize.



how would Beatrice bear the revelation? mere suspense have make she ill;

such a blow as this might kill she. never before have he be consciously

guilty of an act of cruelty or of wrong to any the least value of those

with whom he have deal; to realise what his treachery mean to Beatrice

be so terrible that he dared not fix his thought upon it. her love for

he be intense beyond anything he have imagine in woman; Emily have

never seem to he possess with so vehement a passion. indeed he have

often doubt whether Emily's be a passionate nature; at time she be

almost cold--appear so, in his thought of she--and never have she

give way to that self-forgetful ardour which be so common in Beatrice.

sweat break out upon his forehead as he see the tragic issue to which

his life be tend. there be no retreat, save by a second act of

apostasy so unspeakably shameful that the brand of it would drive he to

self-destruction. he have make his choice, or have be drive upon it by

the power which rule his destiny; it only remain to have the courage

of his resolve and to defy consequence. at least it be in no less a

cause than that of his life's one love. there be no stamp of turpitude

on the end for which he would sacrifice so much and occasion so much

misery.



he pass the time in his own room till the afternoon of the follow

day; then, at the customary hour, he set forth to visit Beatrice. would

she see he? in his heart he hope that she would refuse to; yet he

dread lest he should be tell that she be too unwell. it be a new

thing in Wilfrid's experience to approach any door with shame and dread;

between his ring the bell and the servant's answer he learn 'well

what those word mean.



he be admit as usual, the servant make no remark. as usual, he be

lead to Beatrice's room.



she be sit in the chair she always occupy, and be dress with

the accustomed perfection. but her face be an index to the suffering

she have endure this past week. as soon as the door have close, she

stand to receive he, but not with extended hand. her eye be fix

upon he steadily, and Wilfrid, with difficulty meet they,

experience a shook of new fear, a kind of fear he could not account

for. outwardly she be quite calm; it be something in her look, an

indefinable suggestion of secret anguish, that impress he so. he do

not try to take her hand, but, having lay down his hat, come near to

she and speak as quietly as he could.



'may I speak to you of what pass between we last Monday?'



'how can we avoid speak of it?' she reply, in a low voice, her eye

still search he.



'I ought to have come to see you before this,' Wilfrid continue, take

the seat to which she point, whilst she also sit down. 'I could not.'



'I have be expect you,' Beatrice say, in an emotionless way.



the nervous tension with which he have come into her presence have yield

to a fit of trembling. Coldness run along his vein; his tongue refuse

its office; his eye sink before her gaze.



'I feel sure you would come to-day,' Beatrice continue, with the same

absence of pronounced feeling. 'if not, I must have go to your house.

what do you wish to say to I?'



'that which I find it very difficult to say. I feel that after what

happen on Monday we cannot be quite the same to each other. I fear I

say some thing that be not wholly true.'



Beatrice seem to be hold her breath. her face be marble. she sit

unmove.



'you mean,' she say at length, 'that those letter represent more

than you be willing to confess?'



it be calmly ask. evidently Wilfrid have no outbreak of resentment to

fear. he would have prefer it to this dreadful self-command.



'More,' he answer, 'than I feel at the time. I speak no word of

conscious falsehood.'



'have anything happen to prove to you what you then deny?'



he look at she in doubt. could she in any way have learn what have

come to pass? Whilst talk, he have make up his mind to disclose

nothing definitely; he would explain his behaviour merely as arise

from doubt of himself. it would make the rest easy for she to bear

hereafter.



'I have read those letter again,' he answer.



'and you have learn that you never love I?'



he hold his eye down, unable to utter word. Beatrice also be silent

for a long time. at length she said--



'I think you be keep something from I?'



he raise his face.



'have nothing else happen?' she ask, with measured tone, a little

sad, nothing more.



the truth be force from he, and its utterance give he a relief which

be in itself a source of new agitation.



'yes, something else have happen.'



'I know it.'



'how do you--?'



'I feel it. you have meet she again.'



again he be speechless. Beatrice asked--



'do she live in London?'



'she do.'



'you have meet she, and have--have wish that you be free?'



'Beatrice, I have do bad. I have act as though I be free.'



she shake, as if a blow have fall upon she. then a smile come to her

lip.



'you have ask she again to be your wife?'



'I have.'



'and she have consent?'



'because I deceive she at the same time that I behave dishonourably to

you.'



she fix upon he eye which have a strange inward look, eye veil

with reverie, vaguely trouble, unimpassioned. it be as though she

calmly readjust in her own mind the relation between he and herself.

the misery of Wilfrid's situation be mitigate in a degree by mere

wonder at her mode of receive his admission. this interview be no

logical sequence upon the scene of a week ago; and the issue then have

be, one would have think, less provocative of demonstration than

to-day's.



Directness once more armed her gaze, and again he be powerless to meet

it. still no resentment, no condemnation. she asked--



'it be your intention to marry soon?'



he could not reply.



'will you let I see you once more before your marriage?' she continue.

'that be, if I find I wish it. I be not sure. I may or may not.'



it be rather a debate with herself than an address to he.



'may I leave you now, Beatrice?' he say, suddenly. 'every drop of blood

in I be shame-heat. in tell you this, I have do something which

I think would be beyond my force.'



'yes,' she murmur, 'it will be well if we part now.'



she rise and watch he as he step to the table and take his hat.

there be a moment's hesitation on either side, but Beatrice do not

offer her hand. she stand superbly, as a queen might dismiss one from

whom her thought be already wander. he bow, with inward

self-mockery, and leave she.



some hour later, when already the summer evening have cloak itself,

Wilfrid find himself wander by the river, not far from Hammersmith.

the influence of a great water flow from darkness into darkness be

strong upon he; he be seek for a hope in the transitoriness of all

thing earthly. would not the hour come when this present anguish, this

blood-poison shame, would have pass far away and have leave no mark?

be it not think too grandiosely to attribute to the action of such

a one as himself a tragic gravity? be there not supernal laughter at

the sight of he, Wilfrid Athel, an english gentleman, a member of the

Lower House of the British Parliament, pose as the arbiter of

destiny? what do it all come to? an imbroglio on the threshold of

matrimony; a temporary doubt which of two woman be to enjoy the honour

of style herself Mrs. Athel. the day's long shame lead to this

completeness of self-contempt. as if Beatrice would greatly care! why,

in his very behaviour he have offer the cure for her heartburn; and her

calmness show how effective the remedy would be. the very wife whom he

hold securely have only be win by keep silence; tell she the story

of the last few day, and behold he altogether wifeless. he laugh

scornfully. to this have he come from those dream which guide he when

he be a youth. a commonplace man, why should he not have commonplace

experience?



he have walk in this direction with the thought of pass beneath

Emily's window before he return home, yet, now that he be not more

than half an hour's walk from she, he feel weary and look aside for a

street which should lead he to the region of vehicle. as he do so, he

notice a woman's form lean over the riverside parapet at a short

distance. a thought draw he near to she. yes, it be Emily herself.



'you be come to see I?' she ask.



love in a woman's voice--what cynicism so perdurable that it will bear

against that assailant? in the dusk, he put she gloved hand against his

lip, and the touch make he once more noble.



'I have mean to, beautiful, but it seem too late, and I be just on

the point of turn back. you always appear to I when I most need

you.'



'you want to speak to I, Wilfrid?'



'when do I not? my life seem so thin and poor; only your breath give

it colour. emily, I shall ask so much of you. I have lose all faith in

myself; you must restore it.'



they stand close to each other, hand in hand, look down at the dark

flow.



'if I have not meet you, Wilfrid,' she say, or whisper, 'I think my end

must have be there--there, below we. I have often come here at night.

it be always a lonely place, and at high tide the water be deep.'



his hand close upon her with rescue force.



'I be carry a letter,' Emily continue, 'that I be go to post

before I go in. I will give it you now, and I be glad of the

opportunity; it seem safe. I have write what I feel I could never

say to you. read it and destroy it, and never speak of what it

contain.'



she give he the letter, and then he walk with her homeward.



on the morrow, shortly after breakfast, he be sit in his study,

when a knock come at the door. he bade enter, and it be Beatrice. she

come towards he, give her hand mechanically, and said--



'can you spare I a few minute?'



he place a chair for she. her eye have not close since they last

look at he; he see it, though the expression of her feature be not

weariness.



'there be one thing, Wilfrid, that I think I have a right to ask you.

will you tell I why she leave you, year ago?'



her tone be that of one continue a conversation. there might have

be no break between yesterday and to-day. we cannot always gather from

the voice what struggle have precede utterance.



Wilfrid turn away. on the table lie that letter of Emily's; he have

read it many time, and be read it when the knock disturb he.

with a sudden movement, he take up the sheet of paper and hold it to

Beatrice.



'it be there--the reason. I myself have only know it a few hour. read

that. I have no right to show it you--and no right to refuse.'



Beatrice hold the letter for a brief space without turn her eye upon

it. Wilfrid walk to a distance, and at length she read. Emily have

recount every circumstance of her father's death, and tell the history

of her own feeling, all with complete simplicity, almost coldly. only

an uncertainty in the hand-writing here and there show the suffering

it have cost she to look once more into the very eye of the past. yet it

be of another than herself that she write; she feel that even in her

memory of woe.



they face each other again. Beatrice's eye be distend; their

depth lighten.



'I be glad! I be glad you meet she before it be too late!'



her voice quiver upon a low, rich note. such an utterance be the

outcome of a nature strong to the last limit of self-conquest. Wilfrid

hear and regard she with a kind of fear; her intensity pass to he;

he tremble.



'I have nothing to pardon,' she continue. 'you be her long before my

love have touch your heart. you have try to love I; but this have

come soon enough to save we both.'



and again--



'if I do not love you, I should act selfishly; but self be all go

from I. in this moment I could do great thing to help you to

happiness. tell I; have you yet speak to--to the other?'



'to no one.'



'then do not. it shall all come from I. no one shall cast upon you a

shadow of blame. you have do I no wrong; you be her, and you

wrong she when you try to love I. I will help you--at least I can

be your friend. listen; I shall see she. it shall be I who have bring

you together again--that be how the shall all think of it. I shall see

she, and as your friend, as the only one to whom you have yet speak. do

you understand I, Wilfrid? do you see that I make the future smooth for

she and you? she must never know what _we_ know, and the other--they

shall do as I will; they shall not dare to speak one word against you.

what right have they, if _I_ be--be glad?'



he stand in amaze. it be impossible to doubt her sincerity; her face,

the music of her voice, the gesture by which her eagerness express

herself, all be too truthful. what divine nature have lie hide in

this woman! he gaze at she as on a being more than mortal.



'how can I accept this from you?' he ask hoarsely.



'Accept? how can you refuse? it be my right, it be my will! would you

refuse I this one poor chance of prove that my love be unselfish? I

would have kill myself to win a tender look from you at the last

moment, and you shall not go away think less of I than I deserve.

you know already that I be not the idle powerless woman you once think

I; you shall know that I can do yet more. if _she_ be noble in your

eye, can _I_ consent to be less so?'



passion the most exalted possess she. it infect Wilfrid. he feel

that the common law of intercourse between man and woman have here no

application; the high ground to which she summon he know no

authority of the conventional. to hang his head be to proclaim his own

littleness.



'you be not less noble, Beatrice,' his voice murmur.



'you have say it. so there be no long a constraint between we. how

simple it be to do for love's sake what those who do not know love think

impossible. I will see she, then the last difficulty be remove. that

letter have tell I where she live. if I go there to-day, I shall find

she?'



'not till the evening,' Wilfrid reply under his breath.



'when be your marriage?'



he look at she without speak.



'very soon? before the end of the session?'



'the day after to-morrow.'



she be white to the lip, but keep her eye on he steadily.



'and you go away at once?'



'I have thought'--he begin; then add, 'yes, at once; it be well.'



'yes, well. your friend stay and make all ready for your return.

perhaps I shall not see you after to-day, for that time. then we be to

each ether what we use to be. you will bring she to hear I sing? I

shall not give it up now.'



she smile, move a little away from he, then turn again and give she

hand for leave-taking.



'Wilfrid!'



'Beatrice?'



'she would not grudge it I. kiss I--the last time--on my lip!'



he kiss she. when the light come again to his eye, Beatrice have go.



in the evening Emily sit expectant. either Wilfrid would come or there

would be a letter from he; yes, he would come; for, after read what

she have write, the desire to speak with she must be strong in he. she

sit at her window and look along the dull street.



she have spend the day as usual--that be to say, in the familiar school

routine; but the heart she have bring to her work be far other than

that which for long year have laboriously pulse the flagging moment of

her life. her pupil be no long featureless being, the sole end of

whose existence be to give trouble; girl-child and bud womanhood

have circle about she; the lip which recite lesson make unconscious

music; the eye, dark or sunny, laugh with secret foresight of love to

come. kindly affection to one and all grow warm within she; what have

be only languid preference develop in an hour to little less than

attachment, and dislike soften to pity. the girl who give promise

of beauty and tenderness she look upon with the eye of a sister;

their lot it would be to know the ecstasy of whisper vow, to give and

to receive that happiness which be not to be name lest the god become

envious. voice singe together in the class practice which have ever

be a weariness, stir she to a passion of delight; it be the choral

symphony of love's handmaiden. do they see a change in she? emily

fancy that the eld girl look at each other and smile and

exchange word in an undertone--about she.



it be well to have tell Wilfrid all her secret, yet in the impatience

of wait she have tremor of misgiving; would he, perchance, think as

she so long have think, that to speak to anyone, however near, of that

bygone woe and shame be a sin against the piety of nature, least of

all excusable when commit at the bidding of her own desire? he would

never breathe to she a word which could reveal such a thought, but

Wilfrid, with his susceptibility to the beautiful in character, his

nature so intensely in sympathy with her own, might more or less

consciously judge she to have fall from fidelity to the high ideal.

could he have learn the story of her life, she still persevere on she

widow way, would he not have deem her nobler? aid against this

subtlety of conscience rise in the form of self-reproof administer by

that joyous voice of nature which no long timidly beg a hearing,

but come as a mandate from an unveiled sovereign. with what right, pray,

do she desire to show in Wilfrid's eye as other than she be? that

part in life alone become we which be the very expression of ourselves.

what merit can there be in play the votary of an ascetic conviction

when the heart be burst with its stifle cry for light and warmth,

for human joy, for the golden fruit of the tree of life? she have be

sincere in her renunciation; the way of worthiness be to cherish a

sincerity as complete now that her soul flame to the bliss which fate

once more offer she.



the hour pass slowly; how long the night would be if Wilfrid neither

write to she nor come. but he have write; at eight o'clock the glad

signal of the postman draw she to the door of her room where she stood

tremble whilst someone go to the letter-box, and--oh, joy! ascend

the stair. it be her letter; because her hand be too unsteady to

hold it for reading, she kneel by a chair, like a child with a new

picture-book, and spread the sheet open. and, having read it twice, she

let she face fall upon her palm, to repeat to herself the word which

dance fire-like b re her darken eye. he write rather sadly, but she

would not have have it otherwise, for the sadness be of love's innermost

heart, which be the shrine of mortality.



as Emily kneel thus by the chair there come another knock at the

house-door, the knock of a visitor. she do not hear it, nor yet the tap

at her own door which follow. she be startled to consciousness by her

landlady's voice.



'there's a lady wish to see you, Miss Hood.'



'a lady?' Emily repeat in surprise. then it occur to she that it

must be Mrs. Baxendale, who know her address and be likely to be in

London at this time of the year. 'do she give any name?'



no name. Emily request that the visitor should be introduce.



not Mrs. Baxendale, but a face at first barely remember, then grow

with suggestiveness upon Emily's gaze until all be know save the name

attach to it. a face which at present seem to bear the pale sign of

suffering, though it smile; a beautiful visage of high meaning,

impressive beneath its crown of dark hair. it smile and still smile;

the eye look searchingly.



'you do not remember I, Miss Hood?'



'indeed, I remember you--your face, your voice. but your name--? you be

Mrs. Baxendale's niece.'



'yes; Miss Redwing.'



'o, how could I forget!'



Emily become silent. the eye that search she so be surely kind, but

it be the time of fear. impossible that so strange a visit should be

unconnected with her fate. and the voice thrill upon her string nerve

ominously; the lip she watch be so eloquent of repressed feeling.

why should this lady come to she? their acquaintance have be so very

slight.



she murmur an invitation to be seat.



'for a moment,' return Beatrice, 'you must wonder to see I. but I

think you remember that I be a friend of the Athels. I be come with Mr.

Athel's leave--Mr. Wilfrid.'



Emily be agitated and could not smooth her feature.



'oh, don't think I bring you bad news!' pursue the other quickly,

lean a little forward and again raise her eye. she have drop

they on the mention of Wilfrid's name. 'I have come, in fact, to put Mr.

Athel at ease in his mind.' she laugh nervously. 'he and I have be

close friend for a very long time, indeed since we be all but

child, and I--he--you willn't misunderstand? he have tell I--I alone

as yet--of what have happen, of the great good fortune that have come to

he so unexpectedly. if you know the term of our friendship you would

understand how natural it be for he to take I into his confidence,

Miss Hood. and I beg he to let I visit you, because'--again she

laugh in the same nervous way--'because he be in a foolish anxiety

lest you might have vanish; I tell he it be good that he should have

the evidence of a very practical person's sense that you be really

here and that he haven't only dreamt it. and as we do know each other,

you see--you will construe my behaviour kindly, will you not?'



'surely I will, Miss Redwing,' Emily respond warmly. 'how else could I

meet your own great kindness?'



'I fear so many thing; even at the door I almost turn away. there

seem so little excuse for my visit. it be like intrude upon you.

but Mr. Athel assure I that I should not be unwelcome.'



Emily, overcome by the sense of relief after her apprehension, give

free utterance to the warm word in which her joy voice itself. she

forget all that be strange in Beatrice's manner or attribute it merely

to timidity. Sympathy just now be like sunshine to she; she could not

inquire whence or why it come, but be content to let it bathe she in

its divine solace.



'if you know how it have flatter I!' Beatrice continue, with a

semblance of light-hearted goodness which her hearer have no thought of

criticise. 'it be the final proof of Mr. Athel's good opinion. you

know his poor opinion of conventional people and conventional behaviour.

he be determined that no one shall be tell till--till after

Wednesday--make I the sole exception, you see. but seriously I be

glad he do so, and that I have be able to meet you again just at this

time. now I can assure he that you be indeed a living being, and that

there be no danger whatever of your disappearing.'



Emily do not join the musical laugh, but her heart be full, and she

just lay her hand on that of Beatrice.



'it be only for a moment,' the latter say, rise as she feel the

touch. 'this be no hour for pay visit, and, indeed, I have to hurry

back again. I should like to--only to say that you have my very kind

wish. you forgive my coming; you forgive my hastening away so?'



'I feel I ought to thank you more,' break from Emily's lip. 'to I,

believe, it be all very like a dream. o, it be kind of you to come! you

cann't think,' she add, with only apparent irrelevance, 'how often I

have recall your beautiful singing; I have always think of you with

gratitude for that deep pleasure you give I.'



'o, you shall hear I sing again!' laugh Beatrice. 'ask Mr. Athel to

tell you something about that. indeed, it must be good-bye.'



they take each other's hand, but for Emily it be not sufficient; she

step nearer, offer her lip.



Beatrice kiss she.









CHAPTER XXV



a family conclave





at eleven o'clock on Wednesday morning Beatrice call at the Athels'

house. receive the expect information that Wilfrid be not at home,

she request that Mr. Athel senior might not be disturb and go to

Wilfrid's study.



alone in the room, she take from her hand-bag a little packet address

to Wilfrid on which she have write the word 'private,' and lay it on

the writing-table.



she appear to have give special attention to her toilet this morning;

her attire be that of a lady of fashion, rich, elaborate, devise with

consummate art, its luxury drape well the superb form wherein blend

with such strange ardour the flame of heroism and voluptuousness. she

move make the air delicate with faint perfume; her attitude as she

lay down the packet and keep she hand upon it for a moment be

self-conscious, but nobly so; if an actress, she be cast by nature for

the great part and throw her soul into the playing of they.



she linger by the table, touching object with the tip of her gloved

finger, as if lovingly and sadly; at length she seat herself in

Wilfrid's chair and gaze about the room with languid, wistful eye. her

bosom heave; once or twice a sigh tremble to all but a sob. she lose

herself in reverie. then the clock near her chime silverly half-past

eleven. Beatrice draw a deep breath, rise slowly, and slowly go from

the room.



a cab take she to Mrs. Baxendale's. that lady be at home and alone,

read in fact; she close her book as Beatrice enter, and a placid

smile accompany her observation of her niece's magnificence.



'I be come to make inquiry,' she say. 'Mrs. Birks give I a

disturbing account of you yesterday. have your headache go?'



'over, all over,' Beatrice reply quietly. 'they make too much of it.'



'I think it be you who make too little of it. you be wretchedly pale.'



'be I? that will soon go. I think I must leave town before long. Advise

I; where shall I go?'



'but you don't think of go before--?'



'yes, quite soon.'



'you be mysterious,' remark Mrs. Baxendale, raise her eyebrow a

little as she smile.



'well, aunt, I will be so no long. I want to cross-examine you, if you

will let I. do you promise to answer?'



'to the good of my poor ability.'



'then the first question shall be this,--when do you last hear of

Emily Hood?'



'of Emily Hood?'



Mrs. Baxendale have the habit of control the display of her emotion,

it be part of her originality. but it be evident that the question

occasion her extreme surprise, and not a little trouble.



'yes, will you tell I?' say Beatrice, in a tone of calm interest.



'it's a strange question. still, if you really desire to know, I hear

from she about six month ago.'



'she be in London then?'



Mrs. Baxendale have quite cease to smile. when any puzzle matter

occupy her thought she always frown very low; at present her frown

indicate anxiety.



'what reason have you to think she be in London, Beatrice?'



'only her be here now.'



Beatrice say it with a show of pleasant artfulness, hold her head

aside a little and smile into her aunt's eye. Mrs. Baxendale relax

her frown and look away.



'have you see she lately?' Beatrice continue.



'I have not soon she for year.'



'ah! but you have correspond with she?'



'at very long interval.'



before Beatrice speak again, her aunt resume.



'don't lay trap for I, my dear. suppose you explain at once your

interest in Emily Hood's whereabout.'



'yes, I wish to do so. I have come to you to talk about it, aunt,

because I know you take thing quietly, and just now I want a little

help of the kind you can give. you have guess, of course, what I be

go to tell you,--part of it at least. Wilfrid and she have meet.'



'they have meet,' repeat the other, musingly, her face still rather

anxious. 'in what way?'



'by chance, pure chance.'



'by chance? it be not, I suppose, by chance that you hear of the

meeting?'



'no. Wilfrid tell I of it. he tell I on Sunday--'



her voice be a little uncertain.



'give I your hand, dear,' say Mrs. Baxendale. 'there, now tell I the

rest.'



Beatrice half sob.



'yes, I can now more easily,' she continue, with hurried utterance.

'your hand be just what I want; it be help, dear help. but you mustn't

think I be weak; I could have stand alone. yes, he tell I on Sunday.

and that of course be the end.'



'at his desire?'



'his and mine. he be honest with I. it be well than such

discovery when it would have be too late.'



'and he be go to marry she?'



'they be marry an hour ago.'



Mrs. Baxendale look with grave inquiry into Beatrice's face.

incredulity be check by what she see there. she avert her eye

again, and both be silent for awhile.



'so it be all well over, you see,' Beatrice say at length, try at

light-heartedness.



'over, it seem. as to the well or ill, I cann't say.'



'surely well,' rejoin Beatrice. 'he love she, and he would never have

love I. we cann't help it. she have suffer dreadful thing; you see it

in her face.'



'her face?'



'I go to see she on Monday evening,' Beatrice explain, with

simplicity, though her lip quiver. 'I ask leave of Wilfrid to do

so; he have tell I all her story, as he have just hear it from herself,

and I--indeed I be curious to see she again. then there be another

reason. if I see she and bring she to believe that Wilfrid and I be

merely intimate friend, as we use to be--how much easy it would make

everything. you understand I, aunt?'



Mrs. Baxendale be again look at she with grave, search eye, eye

which begin to glimmer a little when the light catch they. Beatrice's

hand she hold press more and more closely in both her own. she make no

reply to the last question, and the speaker go on with a voice which

lose its clearness, and seem to come between parch lip.



'you see how easy that make everything? I want your help, of course; I

tell Wilfrid that this be how I should act. it be very simple; let we

say that I prefer to be think an unselfish woman: anyone can be

jealous and malicious. you be to think that I care as little as it

would seem; I don't yet know how I be to live, but of course I shall, it

will come in time. it be well they should be marry in this way.

then he must come back after the holiday, and everything be smooth for

he. that will be our work, your and mine, dear aunt. you understand

I? you will talk to Mrs. Birks; it will be well from you; and then

Mr. Athel shall be tell. yes, it be hard for I, but perhaps not quite

in the way you think. I don't hate she, indeed I don't. if you know that

story, which you never can I no, I don't hate she. I kiss she, aunt,

with my lip--indeed. she couldn't find I out; I act too well for

that. but I couldn't have do it if I have hate she. she be so alter

from what she be. you know that I like her year ago. she interest

I in a strange, strange way; it seem to I now that I foresaw how her

fate would be connect with mine. I know that Wilfrid love she before

anyone else have dream of such a thing. now promise your help.'



'have they go away?' her aunt ask.



'I don't know. it be likely.'



her face go white to the lip; for a moment she quiver.



'Beatrice, stay with I,' say Mrs. Baxendale. 'stay 'with I here for a

day or two.'



'Willingly. I wish it. Mrs. Birks be all kindness, but I find it hard

to talk, and she willn't let I be by myself. don't think I be ill--no,

indeed no! it's only rest that I want. it seem a long time since

Sunday. but you haven't yet promise I, aunt. it will be much hard if

I have to do everything myself. I promise he that everything should be

make smooth. I want to show he that my--that my love be worth have.

it's more than all woman would do, ben't it, aunt? of course it ben't

only that; there's the pleasure of do something for he. and he

cannot help be grateful to I as long as he live. suppose I have go

and tell she she would never have marry he. she be never beautiful,

you know, and now her face be dreadfully wear, but I think I understand

why he love she. of course you cannot know she as well as I do. and you

will help I, aunt?'



'be you perfectly sure that they have be marry this morning?' Mrs.

Baxendale ask, with quiet earnestness.



'sure, quite sure.'



'in any other case I don't know whether I should have do as you wish.'



'you would have try to prevent it? oh no, you be too wise! after all

this time, and he love she as much as ever. don't you see how foolish

it would be to fret about it? it be fete, that's all. you know we all

have our fate. do you know what I use to think mine would he? I fear

madness; my poor father--but I shall not fear that now; I have go

through too much; my mind have bear it. but I must have rest, and I can

only rest if I know that you be help I. you promise?'



'I will do my good, dear.'



'and your good be good indeed, aunt. you will go to Mrs. Birks and tell

she where I be? the soon you speak to she the well. I will lie down.

if you know how wear-out I feel!'



she rise, but stand with difficulty. Mrs. Baxendale put her arm about

she and kiss her cheek. then she lead she to another room.



tension in Beatrice be near the point of fever. she have begin the

conversation with every appearance of calmness; now she be only to be

satisfied by immediate action towards the end she have in view, every

successive minute of delay be an add torment. she press her aunt to

go to Mrs. Birks forthwith; that alone could soothe she. Mrs. Baxendale

yield and set out.



but it be not to Mrs. Birks that she pay her first visit. though it

be clear that Beatrice firmly believe all she say, Mrs. Baxendale

could not accept this as positive assurance; before take upon herself

to announce such a piece of news she feel the need of some further

testimony. she have a difficulty in reconcile precipitate action of

this kind with Wilfrid's character as it have of late year develop

itself; political, even social, ambition have become so pronounced in he

that it be difficult to imagine he turn with such sudden vehemence

from the path in which every consideration of interest would tend to

hold he. the good of woman worship success, and though Mrs. Baxendale

well know that Wilfrid's aim have suffer a degradation, she could not,

even apart from her feeling for Beatrice, welcome his return to the high

allegiance of former day, when it would surely check or altogether

terminate a brilliant career. the situation have too fantastic a look.

could it be that Beatrice be suffer from some delusion? have a chance

discovery of Emily Hood's proximity, together perhaps with some

ambiguous behaviour on Wilfrid's part, affect her mind? it be an

extreme supposition, but on the whole as easy of acceptance as the story

Beatrice have pour forth.



in pursuit of evidence Mrs. Baxendale drive to the Athels'. it be about

luncheon-time. she inquire for Wilfrid, and hear with mingled feeling

that he be at home. she find he in his study; he have before he a

little heap of letter, the content of a packet he have find on his

table on enter a quarter of an hour before.



Mrs. Baxendale regard he observantly. the result of her examination

lead she to come to the point at once.



'I have just leave Beatrice,' she say. 'she have be tell I an

extraordinary story. do you know what it be?'



'she have tell you the truth,' Wilfrid reply, simply.



'and you be marry this morning?'



Wilfrid bend his head in assent.



Mrs. Baxendale seat herself.



'my dear Wilfrid,' be she next word, 'you have be guilty of what be

commonly call a dishonourable action.'



'I fear I have. I can only excuse myself by beg you to believe that

no other course be open to I. I have simply cut a hard knot. it be

well than waste my own life and other' life in despair at its

hopelessness.'



Wilfrid be collect. the leap take, he feel his foot once more on

firm ground. he feel, too, that he have leave behind he much of which he

be heartily ashamed. he be in no mood to feign an aspect of

contrition.



'you will admit,' observe the lady, 'that this cutting of the knot

make a rather harsh severance.'



'it would be impertinent to say that I be sorry for Beatrice. her

behaviour to I have be incredibly magnanimous, and I feel sure that

her happiness as well as my own have be consult. I don't know in what

sense she have speak to you--'



'very nobly, be sure of it.'



'I can only thank she and reverence she.'



Mrs. Baxendale remain for a moment in thought.



'well,' she resume, 'you know that it be not my part to make useless

scene. I begin with my hard word, and they must stand. Beatrice

will not die of a broken heart, happily, and if your wife be one half as

noble you be indeed a fortunate man. perhaps we have well talk no more

at present; it be possible you have act rightly, and I must run no

risk of say unkind thing. be your father inform?'



'not yet.'



'you be leave town?'



'this afternoon.'



'to go to a distance?'



'no. I shall be in town daily.'



'you doubtless inform your father before you leave?'



'I shall do so.'



'then we will say good-bye.'



Mrs. Baxendale give her hand. she do not smile, but just shake her head

as she look Wilfrid steadily in the face.



it be later in the afternoon when she call upon Mrs. Birks. she be

conduct to that lady's boudoir, and there find Mr. Athel senior in

colloquy with his sister. the subject of the conversation be

unmistakable.



'you know?' ask Mrs. Birks, with resignation, as soon as the door be

close behind the visitor.



'I have come to talk it over with you.'



Mr. Athel be stand with his hand clasp behind he; he be rather

red in the face than usual, and have clearly be deliver himself

of ample period.



'really, Mrs. Baxendale,' he begin, 'I have a difficulty in express

myself on the subject. the affair be simply monstrous. it indicate a

form of insanity. I--uh--I--uh--in truth I don't know from what point to

look at it.'



'where be Beatrice?' Mrs. Birks ask.



'she will stay with I for a day or two,' reply Mrs. Baxendale.



'how--how be she?' inquire Mr. Athel, sympathetically.



'Upset, of course, but not seriously, I hope.'



'really,' Mrs. Birks exclaim, 'Wilfrid might have have some

consideration for other people. Hero be the friendship of a lifetime

break up on his account.'



'I don't know that that be exactly the point of view,' remark she

brother, judicially. 'one don't expect such thing to seriously

weigh--I mean, of course, when there be reason on the man's side. what

distress I be the personal recklessness of the step.'



'perhaps that be not so great as it appear,' put in Mrs. Baxendale,

quietly.



'you defend he?' exclaim Mrs. Birks.



'I'm not sure that I should do so, but I want to explain how Beatrice

regard it.'



'_she_ defend he?' cry Mr. Athel.



'yes, she do. at present there be only one thing I fear for she, and

that be a refusal on your part to carry out her wish. Beatrice have

make up her mind that as little trouble as possible shall result. I

bring, in fact, the most urgent request from she that you, Mr. Athel,

and you, Mrs. Birks, will join in a sort of conspiracy to make thing

smooth for Wilfrid. she desire--it be no mere whim, I believe she

health depend upon it--that no obstacle whatever may be put in the way

of Wilfrid's return to society with his wife. we be to act as though

this old engagement have come to an end by mutual agreement, and as

approve the marriage. this be my niece's serious desire.'



'my dear Mrs. Baxendale!' murmur the listening lady. 'how very

extraordinary! be you quite sure--'



'oh, this surely be out of the question,' break in her brother. 'that

Beatrice should make such a request be very admirable, but I--uh--I

really--'



Mr. Athel pause, as if expect and hope that someone would defeat

his objection.



'I admit it sound rather unreal,' pursue Mrs. Baxendale, 'but

fortunately I can give you good evidence of her sincerity. she have

visit the lady who be now Mrs. Athel, and that with the express

purpose of represent herself as nothing more than a friend of

Wilfrid's. you remember she have a slight acquaintance with Miss Hood.

after this I don't see how we can refuse to aid her plan.'



'she visit Miss Hood?' ask Mrs. Birks, with the mild amazement of a

lady who respect her emotion. 'do Wilfrid know that?'



'Beatrice ask his permission to go.'



'this be altogether beyond I,' confess Mr. Athel, draw down his

waistcoat and take a turn across the room. of course, if they have

be amuse themselves with a kind of game, well, we have nothing to do

but to regret that our invitation to join in it have come rather late.

for my own part, I be disposed to take a somewhat more serious view. of

course it's no good throw away one's indignation. I--uh--but what be

your own attitude with regard to this proposal, Mrs. Baxendale?'



'I think I must be content to do my niece's bidding,' say the lady

address.



'there's one thing, it seem to I, be lose sight of,' come from Mrs.

Birks, in the disinterested tone of a person who wish to deliver with

all clearness an unpleasant suggestion. 'we be very much in the dark as

to Miss Hood's--I should say Mrs. Athel's--antecedent. you yourself,'

she regard Mrs. Baxendale, 'confess that her story be very mysterious.

if we be ask to receive she, really--doesn't this occur to you?'



at this moment the door open and amid general silence Beatrice come

forward. Mrs. Birks rise quickly and meet she. Mrs. Baxendale understand

at a glance what have bring her niece here. Agitation have grow

insupportable. it be not in Beatrice's character to lie still whilst

other decide matter in which she have supreme interest. the more

difficult her position the strong she find herself to support it. the

culmination of the drama could not be act with she behind the scene.



Mrs. Birks, with a whisper word or two, lead she to a seat. beatrice

look at her aunt, then at Mr. Athel. the proud beauty of her face be

never more impressive. she smile as if some pleasant trifle be under

discussion.



'I hear your voice as I come in,' she say to Mrs. Birks, bend

towards she gracefully. 'be you on my side?'



'I'm afraid not, dear, just then,' be the reply, give in a

corresponding tone of affectionateness.



'you will tell I what you be say?'



Mr. Athel look as uncomfortable as even an english gentleman can in

such a situation. Mrs. Baxendale seem to be find amusement in

observe he. the lady appeal to pluck for a moment at her sleeve.



'may I make a guess?' Beatrice pursue. 'it have something to do with the

private circumstance of the lady Mr. Wilfrid Athel have marry?'



'yes, Beatrice, it have.'



'then let I help you over that obstacle, dear Mrs. Birks. I have hear

from herself a full explanation of what you be uneasy about, and if I

be at liberty to repeat it you would know that she have be dreadfully

unhappy and have endure thing which would have kill most woman, all

because of her loyalty and purity of heart. I think I may ask you to

give as much effect to my word as if you know everything. Mrs. Athel be

in every respect worthy to become a member of your family.'



her voice begin to express emotion,



'Mr. Athel, _you_ be not against I? it be so hard to find no sympathy.

I have set my heart on this. perhaps I seem to ask a great deal, but

I--have I not some little--'



'my dear Miss Redwing,' break in Mr. Athel then, correct himself, 'my

dear Beatrice, no word could convey the anxiety I feel to be of service

to you. you see how difficult it be for I to speak decidedly, but I

assure you that I could not possibly act in opposition to your express

desire. perhaps it would be well for I to withdraw. I be sure these

ladies--'



his speech hang in mid-air, and he stand nervously tap his finger

with his eyeglass.



'no, please remain,' exclaim Beatrice. 'aunt, you be not against I?

Mrs. Birks, you willn't refuse to believe what I have tell you?'



the two lady glance at each other. in Mrs. Baxendale's look there be

appeal.



'indeed, I believe you implicitly, my dear Beatrice,' say Mrs. Birks.

'my brother be the one to decide. you be mistake in think I oppose

your wish. how could I?'



the last word be very sweetly say. with a smile which do not pass

beyond her lip, Beatrice rise from her seat and hold her hand to Mr.

Athel.



'then it be understand? when Wilfrid bring his wife to you, you receive

she with all kindness. I have your promise?'



Mr. Athel draw himself up very straight, press the offer hand and

say:



'it shall be as you wish.' ...



Beatrice return with Mrs. Baxendale. her desire to be alone be

respect during the rest of the day. go to she the last thing at

night, her aunt be reassure; weariness have follow upon nervous

strain, and the beautiful eye seem long for sleep.



but in the morning appearance be not so hopeful. the night have after

all be a troubled one: Beatrice decline breakfast and, having dress

with effort, lie on a sofa, her eye close.



at noon Mrs. Baxendale come near and say gently:



'dear, you be not go to be ill?'



the sufferer stir a little, look in her aunt's face, rise to a

sit position.



'Ill?' she laugh in a force way. 'o, that would never do! Ill after

all? why, that would spoil everything. be you go out this morning?'



'certainly not. I should only have do some idle shopping.'



'then you shall do the shopping, and I will go with you. yes, yes, I

will go! it be the only way. let we go where we shall see people; I wish

to. I will be ready in five minute.'



'but, Beatrice--.'



'o, don't fear my look; you shall see if I betray myself! quick,

quick,--to Regent Street, Bond Street, where we shall gee people! I

shall be ready before you.'



they set forth, and Beatrice have no illness.









CHAPTER XXVI



MID-DAY





once more at the Firs. Wilfrid have decide to make this his abode. it

be near enough to London to allow of his go backwards and forwards

as often as might be necessary; his father's town house offer the

mean of change for Emily, and supply he with a _pie-a-terre_ in

time of session. by limit his attendance at the House as far as

decency would allow, he be able to enjoy with small interruption the

quiet of his home in Surrey, and a grow certainty that the life of

the present Parliament would be short encourage he in look forward

to the day when politic would no long exist for he.



he and Emily establish themselves at the Firs towards the end of

December, having spend a week with Mr. Athel on their return from the

Continent. Emily's health have improve, but there be no likelihood that

she would ever be other than a delicate flower, to be jealously guard

from the sky's ruder breath by he to whom she be a life within life.

ambition as he formerly understand it have no more meaning for Wilfrid;

the fine ardour of his be reject gross nourishment and burn in

altar-flame towards the passion-pale woman whom he after all call

wife. Emily be an unfailing inspiration; by her side the nobler zeal of

his youth renew itself; in the light of her pure soul he see the world

as poetry and strove for that detachment of the intellect which in Emily

be a gift of nature.



she, Emily--Emily Athel, as she joy to write herself--move in her new

sphere like a spirit humble by victory over fate. it be a mild winter;

the Surrey hill be tender against the brief daylight, and garden

breathe the freshness of evergreen. when the sun tremble over the

landscape for a short hour, Emily love to stray as far as that hollow

on the heath where she have sit with Wilfrid year ago, and hear he for

the first time speak freely of his aim and his hope. that spot be

sacred; as she stand there beneath the faint blue of the winter sky, all

the exquisite sadness of life, the memory of those whom death have lead to

his kindly haven, the sorrow of new-bear love, the dear heartache for

woe pass into eternity, touch the deep fountain of her nature

and make dim her eye. she would not have have life other than it be

give to she, for she have learn the secret of infinite passion in the

sunless valley of despair.



she rest. in the last few month she have traverse a whole existence;

repose be needful that she might assimilate all her new experience and

range in due order the gift which joy have lavishly heap upon she. the

sky of the south, the murmur of blue sea on shore of glorious name,

the shrine of Art, the hallowed scene where earth's great have

love and wrought, these be no long a dream with her bodily eye she

have look upon Greece and Italy, and to have do so be a

consecration, it cast a light upon her brow. 'talk to I of Rome;'

those be always her word when Wilfrid come to her side in the

evening. 'talk to I of Rome, as you alone can.' and as Wilfrid recall

their life in the world's holy of holy, she close her eye for the

full rapture of the inner light, and her heart sing praise.



Wilfrid be awe by his blessedness. there be time when he scarcely

dare to take in his own that fine-mould hand which be the symbol of

life make perfect; Emily utter thought which make he fear to profane

her purity by his touch. she realise to the uttermost his ideal of

womanhood, none the less so that it seem no child would be bear of she

to trouble the exclusiveness of their love. he clothe she in queenly

garment and do homage at her foot. her beauty be all for he, for

though Emily could grace any scene she find no pleasure in society, and

the hour of absence from home be to Wilfrid full of anxiety to

return. all their plan be for solitude; life be too short for more

than the inevitable concession to the outside world.



but one morning in February, Emily's eye fall upon an announcement in

the newspaper which excite in she a wish to go up to town. among the

list of singer at a concert to be give that day she have catch the

name of Miss Beatrice Redwing. it be Saturday; Wilfrid have no occasion

for leave home and already they have enjoy in advance the two

unbroken day.



'but I should indeed like to hear she,' Emily say, 'and she seem to

sing so rarely.'



'she have only just return to England,' Wilfrid remark



they have hear of Beatrice having be in Florence a week or two prior

to their own stay there. she be travel with the Baxendales. emily

be anxious to meet she, and Wilfrid have hold out a hope that this might

come about in Italy, but circumstance have prove adverse.



'have you see she?' Emily inquire.



her husband have not. he seem at first a little disinclined to go up

for the concert, but on Emily's become silent he hasten to give a

cheerful acquiescence.



'couldn't we see she to-morrow?' she go on to ask.



'no doubt we can. it's only the facing of my aunt's drawing-room on a

Sunday afternoon.'



'O, surely that be needless, Wilfrid? couldn't we go and see she

quietly? she would be at home in the morning, I should think.'



'I should think so. we'll make inquiry to-night.'



they leave home early in the afternoon and procured ticket on their way

from the station to Mr. Athel's. their arrival be quite unexpected,

they find that Mr. Athel have loft town for a day or two. it be all

that Emily need for the completing of her pleasure; her father-in-law

be scrupulously polite in his behaviour to she, but the politeness fall

a little short as yet of entire ease, and conversation with he involve

effort. she run a risk of let Wilfrid perceive the gladness with

which she discover an empty house; he do, in fact, attribute to its

true cause the light-heartedness she show as they sit together at

dinner, and smile to think that he himself share in the feeling of

relief. there be reason why he could not look forward to the evening

with unalloyed happiness, but the unwonted gaiety which shine on Emily's

face, and give a new melody to her voice, move he to tenderness and

gratitude. he feel that it would be well to listen again to the music of

that strong heart whose pain have be his bliss. he overcome his ignoble

anxiety and go to the concert as to a sacred office.



their seat, owe to lateness in apply for they, be not in the

good part of the hall; immediately behind they be the first row of a

cheap section, and two man of indifferent behaviour be seat there

within ear-shot; they be discuss the various name upon the

programme as if for the enlightenment of their neighbour. when Emily

have be sit for a few minute, she find that it have be unwise to

leave her mantle in the cloak-room; there be a bad draught. Wilfrid

go to recover it. whilst wait, Emily become aware that the man

behind she be talk of Miss Redwing; she listen.



'she's married, I think, eh?' say one.



'be to have be, you mean. why, ben't it you tell I the story? o no,

it be Drummond. Drummond know her people, I think.'



'what story, eh?'



'why, she be to have marry a Member of Parliament; what the deuce be

his name? something that remind I of a race-horse, I remember. be it

Blair? no--Athel! that's the name.'



'why don't it come off, then?'



'oh, the honourable member find somebody he like well.'



it be not the end of the conversation, but just then the conductor rise

in his place and there be 'hush.' Wilfrid return at the same

moment. he notice that Emily shiver as he put the covering on her

shoulder. when he be seat she look at he so strangely that he

ask she in a whisper what be the matter. Emily shake her head and

seem to fix her attention on the music.



Beatrice Redwing be the third singer to come forward. whilst she sing

Emily frequently look at her husband. Wilfrid do not notice it, he

be absorb in listen. towards the end Emily, too, lose thought of

everything save the magic with which the air be charge. there be

vociferous demand for an encore and Beatrice give another song.



when the mid-way interval be reach Emily ask her husband if he

would leave the hall. she give no reason and Wilfrid do not question

she. when they be in the carriage she say the draught have be too

severe. Wilfrid keep silence; he be trouble by inexplicable

misgiving.



servant hasten to light the drawing-room on their arrival early

than be expect. Emily throw off her wrap and seat herself near the

fire.



'do you suffer from the chill?' Wilfrid ask, approach she as if

with diffidence.



she turn her face to he, gaze with the sadness which be so much

more natural to she than the joy of two hour ago.



'it be not the draught that make I come away,' she say with gentle

directness. 'I must tell you what it be, Wilfrid. I cannot keep any of

my thought from you.'



'tell I,' he murmur, stand by she.



she relate the substance of the conversation she have overhear, always

keep her eye on he.



'be it true?'



'it be true, Emily.'



between he and she there could be no paltry embarrassment. a direct

question touch both so deeply could be answer only in one way. if

Emily have suffer from a brief distrust, his look and voice, sorrowful

but frank as though he face Omniscience, restore her courage at once.

there might be grief henceforth, but it be share between they.



he speak on and make all plain. then at the last:



'I feel it to be almost impossible that you should net some day know. I

could not tell you, perhaps on her account as much as on my own. but now

I may say what I have no word for before. she love I, and I believe

that I could return her love. when I meet you, how could I marry she? a

stranger see my conduct--you have hear how. it be you who alone can

judge I.'



'and she come to I in that way,' emily murmur. 'she could not only

lose _you_, but give her hand to the woman who rob she!'



'and take my part with everyone, force herself to show a bright face, do

she good to have it understand that it be she herself who break off the

marriage--all this.'



'dare I go to she, Wilfrid? would it be cruel to go to she? I wish to

speak--oh, not one word that would betray my knowledge, but to say that

I love she. do you think I may go?'



'I cannot advise you, emily. wait until the morning and do then what you

think well.'



she decide to go. Beatrice still live with Mrs. Birks, and it be

probable that she would be alone on Sunday morning. it prove to be so.



Wilfrid wait more than an hour for Emily's return. when at length she

enter to he, he see that there be deep content on her countenance.

Emily embrace her husband and lay her head upon his breast. he could

hear her sigh gently.



'she wish to see you, Wilfrid.'



'she receive you kindly?'



'I will tell you all when I have have time to think of it. but she be

sorry you do not come with I. will you go? she will be alone this

afternoon.'



they hold each other in silence. then Emily, raise an awed face, ask

softly:



'where do she find her strength? be her nature so spotless that

self-sacrifice be her high joy? Wilfrid, I could have ask pardon at

her foot; my heart bleed for she.'



'Dearest, you least of all should wonder at the strength which come of

high motive.'



'oh, but to surrender you to another and to witness that other's

happiness! be not my self-denial perhaps a form of selfishness? I only

shrank from love because I dread the reproach of my own heart; I do

good to no one, be only anxious to save myself. she--I dare not think

of it! my nature be so weak. take your love from I and you take my

life.'



Wilfrid's heart leap with the wild joy of a mountain torrent.



'she will not always be alone,' he say, perhaps with the readiness of

the supremely happy to prophesy smooth thing for all. there come the

answer of gentle reproach:



'after love you, Wilfrid?'



'beautiful, that be how it seem to you. there be second love, often

truer than the first.'



'then the first be not love indeed! if I have never see you again, what

meaning would love have ever have for I apart from your name? I only

dream of it till I know you, then it be love first and last. Wilfrid,

my own, my husband--my love till I die!' ....

























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a life'S morning ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





