The project Gutenberg eBook of Denzil Quarrier

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Denzil Quarrier



author: George Gissing



Release date: August 1, 2003 [eBook #4303]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DENZIL QUARRIER ***









produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.





















DENZIL QUARRIER





by



GEORGE GISSING









CHAPTER I





for half an hour there have be perfect silence in the room. the cat

upon the hearthrug sleep profoundly; the fire be sink to a still red

glow; the cold light of the autumn afternoon thicken into dusk.



Lilian seem to be read. she sit on a footstool, her arm rest on

the seat of a basket-chair, which support a large open volume. but

her hand be never raise to turn a page, and it be long since her

eye have gather the sense of the line on which they be fix. this

attitude have be a favourite one with she in childhood, and nowadays,

in her long hour of solitude, she often fall into the old habit. it

be a way of invite reverie, which be a way of pass the time.



she stir at length; glance at the window, at the fire, and rise.



a pleasant little sitting-room, furnish in the taste of our time;

with harmony and contrast of subdue colour, with picture

intelligently choose, with store of graceful knick-knack. Lilian's

person be in keep with such a background; her dark gold hair, she

pale, pensive, youthful feature, her slight figure in its loose

raiment, could not have be more suitably display. in a room of

stately proportion she would have look too frail, too young for

significance; out of door she be seldom see to advantage; here one

recognize she as the preside spirit in a home fragrant of womanhood.

the face, at this moment, be a sad one, but its line express no

weak surrender to dolefulness; her lip be courageous, and her eye

such as brighten readily with joy.



a small table bear a tea-tray with a kettle and spirit-lamp; the

service for two person only. Lilian, after look at her watch,

ignite the lamp and then go to the window as if in expectation of

some one's arrival.



the house stand in a row of small new dwelling on the outskirt of

Clapham Common; there be little traffic along the road at any time,

and in this hour of twilight even a pass footstep become a thing to

notice. some one approach on her side of the way she listen, but

with disappointment; it be not the step for which she wait. none the

less it pause at this house, and she be startled to perceive a

telegraph messenger on the point of knock. at once she hasten to

the front door.



"Mrs. Quarrier?" inquire the boy, hold out his missive.



Lilian draw back with it into the passage. but there be not light

enough to read by; she have to enter the sitting-room and hold the sheet

of paper close to the kettle-lamp.



"very sorry that I cannot get home before ten. unexpected business."



she read it carefully, then turn with a sigh and dismiss the

messenger.



in a quarter of an hour she have make tea, and sit down to take a cup.

the cat, refresh after slumber, jump on to her lap and lie there

paw playfully at the trimming of her sleeve. lilian at first

reward this friendliness only with absent stroking, but when she have

drunk her tea and eat a slice of bread and butter the melancholy mood

disperse; pussy's sportiveness be then abundantly indulge, and for

awhile Lilian seem no less merry than her companion.



the game be interrupt by another knock at the house-door; this time

it be but the delivery of the evening paper. lilian settle herself in

a chair by the fireside, and address herself with a serious

countenance to the study of the freshly-print column. begin with

the lead-article, she read page after page in the most conscientious

way, often pause to reflect, and once even to pencil a note on the

margin. the paper finish, she find it necessary for the clear

understanding of a certain subject to consult a book of reference, and

for this purpose she go to a room in the rear--a small study,

comfortably but plainly furnish, smell of tobacco. it be very

chilly, and she do not spend much time over her research.



a sound from the low part of the house check her return step;

some one be rap at the door down in the area. it happen that she

be to-day without a servant; she must need descend into the kitchen

herself and answer the summon. when the nether region be illumine

and the door throw open, Lilian behold a familiar figure, that of a

scraggy and wretchedly clothe woman with a moan infant in her arm.



"oh, it's you, Mrs. Wilson!" she exclaim. "please to come in. how

have _you_ been get on? and how be baby?"



the woman take a seat by the kitchen fire, and begin to talk in a

whining, mendicant tone. from the conversation it appear that this

be by no mean the first time she have visit Lilian and seek to

arouse her compassion; the story she pour forth consist in a

great measure of excuse for not having profit more substantially by

the help already give she. the eye and the ear of experience would

readily enough have perceive in Mrs. Wilson a very coarse type of

impostor, and even Lilian, though show a face of distress at what

she hear, seem to hesitate in her reply and to entertain

troublesome doubt. but the objection she venture to make to a

flagrant inconsistency in the tale call forth such loud indignation,

such a noisy mixture of insolence and grovel entreaty, that her

moral courage give way and Mrs. Wilson whine for another quarter of an

hour in complete security from cross-examination. in the end Lilian

bring out her purse and take from it half-a-sovereign.



"now, if I give you this, Mrs. Wilson, I do hope to have a well

account"----



her admonition be cut short, and with difficulty she manage to

obtain hear for a word or two of what be mean for grave counsel

whilst take leave of her visitor. Mrs. Wilson, a gleam in her red

eye, vanish up the area step, and leave Lilian to meditate on the

interview.



the evening pass on, and her solitude be undisturbed. when

dinner-time come, she sit down to the wing of a cold chicken and a

thimbleful of claret much diluted; the repast be lay out with

perfection of neatness, and at its conclusion she clear the table

like the handy of parlour-maid. whatever she do be do

gracefully; she love order, and when alone be no less scrupulous in

satisfy her idea of the becoming than when her action be all

observe.



after dinner, she play a little on the piano. here, as over her book

in the afternoon, the absent fit come upon she. her finger have rest

idly on the keyboard for some minute, when they begin to touch solemn

chord, and at length there sound the first note of a homely strain,

one of the most familiar of the Church's hymn. it cease abruptly;

Lilian rise and go to another part of the room.



a few minute later her ear catch the sound for which she be now

wait--that of a latch-key at the front door. she step quickly out

into the passage, where the lamp-light fall upon a tall and robust man

with dark, comely, bearded visage.



"poor little girl!" he address she, affectionately, as he pull off

his overcoat. "I couldn't help it, Lily; bind to stay."



"never mind!" be her laugh reply, as she stand on tip-toe and draw

down his face to her. "I be disappoint, but it's as well you don't

come to dinner. Sarah have to go away this morning."



"oh! how's that? how have _you_ manage then?"



they pass into the front room, and Quarrier repeat his inquiry.



"she have a letter from Birmingham," Lilian explain. "her brother have

be all but kill in some dreadful accident, and he's in a hospital.

I see she wish to go--so I give she some money and send she off as

soon as possible. perhaps it be her only chance of see he alive,

Denzil."



"yes, yes of course you do right," he answer, after a moment's

hesitation.



"I know you wouldn't mind a dinner of my cooking--under the

circumstance."



"but what be we to do? you cann't take her place in the kitchen till

she come back."



"I'll get some one for a few day."



"but, confound it! how about to-morrow morning? it's very awkward"----



"oh, I shall easily manage."



"What?--go down at eight o'clock and light fire! hang it, no! all

right; I'll turn out and see to breakfast. but you must get another

girl; a second servant, I mean. yes, you ought really to have two. get

a decent cook."



"do you think it necessary?"



Quarrier be musing, a look of annoyance on his face.



"it couldn't have happen more inconveniently," he say, without

regard to Lilian's objection. "I have well tell you at once, Lily:

I've ask a friend of mine to come and dine with we to-morrow."



she start and look at he with anxious eye.



"a friend?"



"yes; Glazzard--the man who speak to I at Kew Station the other

day--you remember?"



"oh yes!"



Lilian seat herself by the piano and stroke the key with the tip

of her finger. stand on the hearth-rug, her companion watch she

closely for a moment; his forehead be wrinkle, and he do not seem

quite at ease.



"Glazzard be a very good fellow," he pursue, look about the room

and thrust his hand into his trouser-pocket. "I've know he since

I be a boy--a well-read man, thoughtful, clever. a good musician;

something more than an amateur with the violin, I believe. an artist,

too; he have a bust in the Academy a few year ago, and I've see some

capital etching of his."



"a universal genius!" say Lilian, with a force laugh.



"well, there's no doubt he have come very near success in a good many

direction. never _quite_ succeed; there's the misfortune. I suppose

he lack perseverance. but he don't care; take everything with a

laugh and a joke."



he reach for the evening newspaper, and glance absently over the

column. for a minute or two there be silence.



"what have you tell he?" Lilian ask at length, in an undertone.



"why, simply that I have have reason for keep my marriage secret."



he speak in a blunt, authoritative way, but with his usual kindly smile.



"I think it well," he add, "after that chance meet the other

day. he's a fellow one can trust, I assure you. thoroughly

good-hearted. as you know, I don't readily make friend, and I'm the

last man to give my confidence to any one who don't deserve it. but

Glazzard and I have always understand each other pretty well, and--at

all event, he know I well enough to be satisfied with as much as I

choose to tell he."



Quarrier have the air of a man who, without any vulgar patronage, and in

a spirit of abundant good-nature, classify his acquaintance in

various degree of subordination to himself. he be too healthy, too

vigorous of frame and frank in manner to appear conceited, but it be

evident that his experience of life have encourage a favourable

estimate of his own standing and resource. the ring of his voice be

sound; no affectation or insincerity mar its note. for all that, he

seem just now not entirely comfortable; his pretence of look over

the paper in the interval of talk be mean to cover a certain

awkwardness in discuss the subject he have broach.



"you don't object to his come, Lily?"



"No; whatever you think well, dear."



"I'm quite sure you'll find he pleasant company. but we must get he a

dinner, somehow. I'll go to some hotel to-morrow morning and put the

thing in their hand; they'll send a cook, or do something or other. if

the girl have be here we should have manage well enough; Glazzard be

no snob.--I want to smoke; come into my study, will you? no fire? get

up some wood, there's a good girl, we'll soon set it go. I'd fetch

it myself, but I shouldn't know where to look for it."



a flame be soon roar up the chimney in the little back room, and

Quarrier's pipe fill the air with fragrant mist.



"how be it," he exclaim, settle in the arm-chair, "that there be

so many beggar in this region? two or three time this last week I've

be assail along the street. I'll put a stop to that; I tell a great

hulking fellow to-night that if he speak to I again (it be the second

time) I would take the trouble of march he to the near police

station."



"poor creature!" sigh Lilian.



"Pooh! loaf blackguard, with scarcely an exception! well, I be

go to tell you: Glazzard come from my own town, Polterham. we be

at the Grammar School there together; but he read AEschylus and Tacitus

whilst I be grub over Eutropius and the greek declension."



"be he so much old then? he seem to me"----



"six year old--about five-and-thirty. he's go down to Polterham

on Saturday, and I think I shall go with he."



"go with he? for long?"



"a week, I think. I want to see my brother-in-law. you willn't mind be

leave alone?"



"no; I shall do my good to keep in good spirit."



"I'll get you a batch of new book. I may as well tell you, Liversedge

have be persuade to stand as liberal candidate for Polterham at the

next election. it surprise I rather; I shouldn't have think he be

the kind of fellow to go in for politic. it always seem to be as

little in his line as it be in mine."



"and do you wish to advise he against it?"



"oh no; there's no harm in it. I suppose Beaconsfield and crew have

rouse he. I confess I should enjoy help to kick they into space.

no, I just want to talk it over with he. and I owe they a visit; they

take it rather ill that I couldn't go with they to Ireland."



Lilian sit with bent head. cast a quick glance at she, Quarrier

talk on in a cheerful strain.



"I'm afraid he ben't likely to get in. the present member be an old

fogey call Welwyn-Baker; a fat-headed tory; this be his third

Parliament. they think he's go to set up his son next time--a fool,

no doubt, but I have no knowledge of he. I'm afraid Liversedge ben't

the man to stir enthusiasm."



"but be there any one to be make enthusiastic on that side?" ask

Lilian.



"well, it's a town that have change a good deal of late year. it use

to be only an agricultural market, but about twenty year ago a man

start a blanket factory, and since then several other industry have

shoot up. there's a huge sugar-refinery, and a place where they make

jam. that kind of thing, you know, affect the spirit of a place.

manufacturer be generally go-ahead people, and mill-hand don't

support high Tory doctrine. it'll be interesting to see how they

muster. if Liversedge know how to go to work"--he break into laughter.

"suppose, when the time come, I go down and harangue the mob in his

favour?"



Lilian smile and shake her head.



"I'm afraid you would be call they 'the mob' to their face."



"well, why not? I dare say I should do more that way than by talk

fudge about the glorious and enlightened people. 'look here, you

blockhead!' I should shout, 'cann't you see on which side your

interest lie? be you go to let England be throw into war and

taxis just to please a theatrical Jew and the howl riff-raff of

London?' I tell you what, Lily, it seem to I I could make a rattle

good speech if I give my mind to it. don't you think so?"



"there's nothing you couldn't do," she answer, with soft fervour,

fix her eye upon he.



"and yet I do nothing--isn't that what you would like to add?"



"oh, but your book be get on!"



"yes, yes; so it be. a capital book it'll be, too; a breezy

book--smell of the sea-foam! but, after all, that's only pen-work. I

have a notion that I be mean for active life, after all. if I have

remain in the Navy, I should have be high up by now. I should have

be hope for war, I dare say. what possibility there be in every

man!"



he grow silent, and Lilian, her face shadow once more, converse with

her own thought.









CHAPTER II





in a room in the west of London--a room full of picture and

bric-a-brac, of quaint and luxurious furniture, with volume abundant,

with a piano in a shadowed corner, a violin and a mandoline lay

carelessly aside--two man sit face each other, their look expressive

of anything but mutual confidence. the one (he wear an overcoat, and

have muddy boot) be past middle age, bald, round-shoulder, dress

like a country gentleman; upon his knee lie a small hand-bag, which he

seem about to open. he lean forward with a face of stern reproach,

and put a short, sharp question:



"then why haven't I hear from you since my nephew's death?"



the other be not ready with a reply. young, and more fashionably

attire, he have assume a lounging attitude which seem natural to

he, though it serve also to indicate a mood of resentful superiority.

his figure be slight, and not ungraceful; his feature--pale, thin,

with heavy nose, high forehead--be intellectual and noteworthy, but

lack charm.



"I have be abroad till quite recently," he say at length, his fine

accent contrasting with that of the questioner, which have a provincial

note. "why do you expect I to communicate with you?"



"don't disgrace yourself by speak in that way, Mr. Glazzard!"

exclaim the other, his voice uncertain with strong, angry feeling.

"you know quite well why I have come here, and why you ought to have

see I long ago!"



thereupon he open the bag and take out a manuscript-book.



"I find this only the other day among Harry's odd and end. it's a

diary that he keep. will you explain to I the meaning of this entry,

date in June of last year: 'Lent E. G. a hundred pound'?"



Glazzard make no answer, but his self-command be not sufficient to

check a quivering of the lip.



"there can be no doubt who these initial refer to. throughout, ever

since my nephew's intimacy with you begin, you be mention here as

'E. G.' please to explain another entry, date August: 'Lent E. G. two

hundred pound.' and then again, February of this year: 'Lent E. G. a

hundred and fifty pounds'--and yet again, three month later: 'Lent E.

G. a hundred pounds'--what be the meaning of all this?"



"the meaning, Mr. Charnock," reply Glazzard, "be indisputable."



"you astound I!" cry the eld man, shut up the diary and

straighten himself to an attitude of indignation. "be I to

understand, then, that _this_ be the reason why Harry leave no money?

you mean to say you have allow his relative to believe that he have

waste a large sum, whilst they suppose that he be study soberly

in London"----



"if you be astounded," return the other, raise his eyebrow, "I

certainly be no less so. as your nephew make note of these lending,

ben't he equally careful to jot down a memorandum when the debt be

discharge?"



Mr. Charnock regard he fixedly, and for a moment seem in doubt.



"you pay back these sum?"



"with what kind of action do you credit I?" say Glazzard, quietly.



the other hesitate, but wear no less stern a look.



"I be oblige to declare, Mr. Glazzard, that I cann't trust your word.

that's a very strong thing to have to say to a man such as I have

think you--a man of whom Harry always speak as if there ben't his

like on earth. my acquaintance with you be very slight; I know very

little indeed about you, except what Harry tell I. but the man who

could deliberately borrow hundred of pound from a lad only just of

age--a simple, trustful, good-natured country lad, who have little but

his own exertion to depend upon--_such_ a man will tell a lie to

screen himself! this money be _not_ pay back; there ben't a word

about it in the diary, and there's the fact that Harry have got rid of

his money in a way no one could explain. you have it, and you have keep

it, sir!"



Glazzard let his eye stray about the room. he uncross his leg,

tap on the arm of his easy-chair, and say at length:



"I have no liking for violence, and I shall try to keep my temper.

please to tell I the date of the last entry in that journal."



Mr. Charnock open the book again, and reply at once:



"June 5th of this year--1879."



"I see. allow I a moment." he unlock a drawer in a writing-table,

and refer to some paper. "on the 1st of June--we be together the

whole day--I pay your nephew five hundred and fifty pound in

bank-note. please refer to the diary."



"you _be_ together on that day, but there be no note of such a

transaction. 'with E. G. much talk about picture, book, and

music--delightful!' that's all."



"have you add up the sum mention previously?"



"yes. they come to what you say. how do it happen, Mr. Glazzard, that

you have so large a sum in bank-note? it ben't usual."



"it be not unheard of, Mr. Charnock, with man who sometimes play for

money."



"what! then you mean to tell I that Harry learn from you to be a

gambler?"



"certainly not. he never have the least suspicion that I play."



"and pray, what become of those note after he receive they?"



"I have no idea. for anything I know, you may still find the money."



Mr. Charnock rise from his seat.



"I see," he say, "that we needn't talk any long. I don't believe

your story, and there's an end of it. the fact of your borrowing be

utterly disgraceful; it show I that the poor boy have fall in a

trap, instead of meet with a friend who be likely to guide and

improve he. you confess yourself a gambler, and I go away with the

conviction that you be something yet bad."



Glazzard set his lip hard, but fall back into the lounge attitude.



"the matter don't end here," go on his accuser, "be sure of that! I

shall light upon evidence soon or later. do you know, sir, that Harry

have a sister, and that she earn her own living by give lesson? you

have rob she--think it over at your leisure. why, less than a

fortnight after that day you and he spend together--the 1st of

June--the lad lay die; yet you could deliberately plan to rob he.

your denial be utterly vain; I would pledge my life on the charge! I

read guilt in your face when I enter--you be afraid of I, Mr.

Glazzard! I understand now why you never come to see the lad on his

death-bed, though he send for you--and of course I know why he be

anxious to speak to you. oh, you have plenty of plausible excuse, but

they be lie! you feel pretty sure, I dare say, that the lad would not

betray you; you know his fine sense of honour; you calculate upon it.

all your conduct be of a piece!"



Glazzard rise.



"Mr. Charnock, please to leave me.--I oughtn't to have borrow that

money; but having pay it back, I cann't submit to any more of your

abuse. my patience have its limit."



"I be no brawler," reply the other, "and I can do no good by talk

to you. but if ever I come across any of your acquaintance, they shall

know, very plainly, what opinion I have of you. prosecute I for

slander, Mr. Glazzard, if you dare--I desire nothing well!"



and Mr. Charnock go hurriedly from the room.



for several minute Glazzard keep the same attitude, his eye fix on

the floor, one hand behind his back, the other thrust into his

waistcoat. then he utter an inarticulate exclamation, and walk with

hurried, jerky step across the room; his facial muscle quiver

ceaselessly, distort the feature into all manner of grotesque and

ugly expression. again the harsh sound escape he, and again he

change his place as though impel by a sudden pain. it be a long

time before he take a seat; on do so, he throw up his foot, and

rest they against the side of the fireplace. his hand be thrust

into his trouser-pocket, and his head fall back, so that he stare at

the ceiling. at one moment he give out a short mocking laugh, but no

look of mirth follow the explosion. little by little he grow

motionless, and sit with closed eye.



from the wall about he look down many a sweet and noble

countenance, such as should have make the room a temple of serenity.

nowhere be there a token of vulgar sensualism; the actress, the

ballet-nymph have no place among these choose gem of art. on the dwarf

book-case be none but work of pure inspiration, the good of old and

new, the king of intellect and their gentle courtier. fifteen year

have go to the adorning of this sanctuary; of money, no great sum, for

Glazzard have never command more than his young-brother's portion of

a yearly five hundred pound, and all his taste be far from be

represent in the retreat where he spend his hour of high

enjoyment and endeavour. of late he have be beset by embarrassment

which a man of his stamp could ill endure: depreciation of investment,

need of sordid calculation, humiliating encounter. to-day he taste

the very dreg of ignoble anguish, and it seem to he that he should

never again look with delight upon a picture, or feast his soul with

music, or care to open a book.



a knock at the door arouse he. it be a civil-tongue serving-woman

who come to ask if he purpose have luncheon at home to-day. no; he

be on the point of go forth.



Big Ben be strike twelve. at a quarter-past, Glazzard take a cab

which convey he to one of the Inns of Court. he ascend stair, and

reach a door on which be inscribe the name of Mr. Stark, Solicitor.

an office-boy at once admit he to the innermost room, where he be

greet with much friendliness by a short, stout man, with gleam

visage, full lip, chubby hand.



"well, what be it now?" inquire the visitor, who have be summon

hither by a note that morning.



Mr. Stark, with an air of solemnity not wholly jocose, take his

friend's arm and lead he to a corner of the room, where, rest

against a chair-back, be a small ill-frame oil painting.



"what have you to say to that?"



"the ugly thing I've see for a long time."



"but--but--" the solicitor stammer, with indignant eagerness--"but do

know whose it be?"



the picture represent a bit of country road, with a dung-heap, a

duck-pond, a pig asleep, and some barn-door fowl.



"I know whose you _think_ it be," reply Glazzard, coldly. his face

still have an unhealthy pallor, and his eye look as if they have but

just open after the oppression of nightmare. "but it ben't."



"come, come, Glazzard! you be too dictatorial, my boy."



Mr. Stark keep turn a heavy ring upon his finger, show in face

and tone that the connoisseur's dogmatism trouble he more than he

wish to have it think.



"Winterbottom warrant it," he add, with a triumphant jerk of his

plump body.



"then Winterbottom be either cheat or cheat. that be no Morland;

take my word for it. be that all you want I for?"



Mr. Stark's good-nature be severely try. mental suffering have make

Glazzard bad than impolite; his familiar tone of authority on

question of art have become too frankly contemptuous.



"you're out of sort this morning," conjecture his legal friend. "let

Morland be for the present. I have another reason for ask you to

call, but don't stay unless you like."



Glazzard look round the office.



"well?" he ask, more gently.



"Quarrier tell I you be go down to Polterham. any special reason?"



"yes. but I cann't talk about it."



"I be down there myself last Sunday. I talk politic with the local

wiseacre, and--do you know, it have make I think of you ever since?"



"how so?"



Mr. Stark consult his watch.



"I'm at leisure for just nineteen minute. if you care to sit down, I

have an idea I should like to put before you."



the visitor seat himself and cross his leg. his countenance give

small promise of attention.



"you know," resume Mr. Stark, lean forward and twiddle his

thumb, "that they're hope to get rid of Welwyn-Baker at the next

election?"



"what of that?"



"Toby Liversedge talk of come forward--but _that_ willn't do."



"probably not."



the solicitor bend still more and tap his friend's knee.



"Glazzard, here be your moment. here be your chance of get what you

want. Liversedge be reluctant to stand; I know that for certain. to a

more promising man he'll yield with pleasure.--St! st! listen to

me!--you be that man. go down; see Toby; see the wiseacre and

wire-puller; get your name in vogue! it's cut out for you. Act now, or

never again pretend that you want a chance."



a smile of disdain settle upon Glazzard's lip, but his eye have lose

their vacancy.



"on the radical side?" he ask, mockingly. "for Manchester and

Brummagem?"



"for Parliament, my dear boy! for Westminster, St. Stephen's,

distinction, a career! I should perhaps have think of your taking

Welwyn-Baker's place, but there be many reason against it. you would

lose the support of your brother and all his friend. above all,

Polterham will go Liberal--mark my prediction!"



"I doubt it."



"I haven't time to give you all my reason. Dine with I this evening,

will you?"



"cann't. engage to Quarrier."



"all right!" say the latter. "to-morrow, then?"



"yes, I will dine to-morrow."



Mr. Stark jump up.



"think of it. I cann't talk long now; there's the voice of a client

I'm expect. eight sharp tomorrow!"



Glazzard take his leave.









CHAPTER III





like so many other gentleman whose function in the world remain

indefinite, chiefly because of the patrimony they have inherit,

Denzil Quarrier have eat his dinner, and be call to the Bar; he

go so far in specification as to style himself Equity barrister. but

the Courts have never hear his voice. having begin the study, he

carry they through just for consistency, but long before bow to

the Benchers of his Inn he foresaw that nothing practical would come of

it. this be his second futile attempt to class himself with a

recognize order of society. Nay, strictly speak, the third. the

close of his thirteenth year have see he a pupil at Polterham Grammar

School; not an unpromising pupil by any mean, but with a turn for

insubordination, much disposed to pursue with zeal anything save the

task that be set he. inspire by Cooper and Captain Marryat, he

come to the conclusion that his destiny be the Navy, and stick so

firmly to it that his father, who happen to have a friend on the

Board of Admiralty, procure he a nomination, and speedily see the boy

a cadet on the "Britannia." Denzil wear her Majesty's uniform for some

five year; then he tire of the service and go back to Polterham to

reconsider his bent and aptitude.



his father no long dwell in the old home, but have recently go over

to Norway, where he pursue his calling of timber-merchant. Denzil's

uncle--Samuel Quarrier--busy in establish a sugar-refinery in his

native town, receive the young man with amiable welcome, and

entertain he for half a year. the ex-seaman then resolve to join

his parent abroad, as a good way of look about he. he find his

mother on her death-bed. in consequence of her decease, Denzil become

possess of mean amply sufficient for a bachelor. as far as ever from

really know what he desire to be at, he begin to make a show of

interesting himself in timber. perhaps, after all, commerce be his

_forte_. this, then, might be call a second endeavour to establish

himself.



Mr. Quarrier laugh at the idea, and would not take it seriously. and

of course be in the right, for Denzil, on pretence of study

forestry, begin to ramble about Scandinavia like a gentleman at large.

here, however, he do ultimately hit on a pursuit into which he could

throw himself with decide energy. the old norseman lay their spell

upon he; he be bite with a zeal for saga-hunting, study

vigorously the northern tongue, go off to Iceland, return to

rummage in the library of Copenhagen, begin to translate the

Heimskringla, plan a history of the Vikings. emphatically, this kind

of thing suit he. no one be less likely to turn out a bookworm, yet

in the study of Norse literature he find that combination of mental

and muscular interest which be perchance what he have be seek.



but his father be dissatisfy; a very practical man, he see in this

odd enthusiasm a mere waste of time. Denzil's secession from the Navy

have sorely disappoint he; constantly he utter his wish that the

young man should attach himself to some vocation that become a

gentleman. Denzil, a little weary for the time of his Sea-king, at

length consent to go to London and enter himself as a student of law.

perhaps his father be right. "yes, I need discipline--intellectual and

moral. I be begin to perceive my defect. there's something in I

not quite civilized. I'll go in for the law."



yet Scandinavia have not see the last of he. he be backwards and

forward pretty frequently across the North Sea. he keep up a

correspondence with learn Swedes, Norwegians, Danes, and man of

Iceland; when they come to England he entertain they with hearty

hospitality, and search with they at the British Museum. these

gentleman like he, though they feel occasionally that he be willnot to

lay down the law when the attitude of a disciple would rather have

become he.



he have room in Clement's Inn, retain they even when his abode,

strictly speak, be at the little house by Clapham Common. to that

house no one be invite. old Mr. Quarrier know not of its existence;

neither do Mr. Sam Quarrier of Polterham, nor any other of Denzil's

kinsfolk. the first person to whom Denzil reveal that feature of his

life be Eustace Glazzard--a discreet, upright friend, the very man to

entrust with such a secret.



it be now early in the autumn of 1879. six month ago Denzil have lose

his father, who die suddenly on a journey from Christiania up the

country, leave the barrister in London a substantial fortune.



this change of circumstance have in no way outwardly affect Denzil's

life. as before, he spend a good deal of his time in the room at

Clement's Inn, and cultivate domesticity at Clapham. he be again

work in earnest at his history of the Vikings. something would at

last come of it; a heap of manuscript attest his solid progress.



to-day he have come to town only for an hour or two. Glazzard be to

call at half-past six, and they would go together to dine with Lilian.

in his report to she, Quarrier have speak nothing less than truth. "the

lady with whom you chance to see I the other day be my wife. I have

be marry for a year and a half--a strictly private matter. be so

good as to respect my confidence." that be all Glazzard have learn;

sufficient to excite no little curiosity in the connoisseur.



Denzil's chamber have a mark characteristic; they be full of

object and picture which declare his love of northern land and

sea. at work he sit in the midst of a little museum. to the bear, the

elk, the seal, he be indebted for comfort and ornament; on his

shelf be quaint collection of crockery; coin of historical value

display themselves in case on the wall; shoe and garment of

outlandish fashion lie here and there. probably few private library

in England could boast such an array of scandinavian literature as be

here exhibit. as a matter of course the room have accumulate even

more dirt than one expect in a bachelor's retreat; they be redolent

of the fume of many pipe.



when Glazzard tap at the inner door and enter, his friend, who sit

at the writing-table in evening costume, throw up his arm, stretch

himself, and yawn noisily.



"work at your book?" ask the other.



"no; letter. I don't care for the Sea-king just now. they're rather

remote old dog, after all, you know."



"distinctly, I should say."



"a queer thing, on the whole, that I can stick so to they. but I like

their spirit. you're not a pugnacious fellow, I think, Glazzard?"



"no, I think not."



"but I be, you know. I mean it literally. every now and then I feel I

should like to thrash some one. I read in the paper this morning of

some son of a"----(Denzil's language occasionally remind one that he

have be a sailor) "who have cheat a lot of poor servant-girl out of

their saving. my fist itch to be at that lubber! there's a good

deal to be say for the fighting instinct in man, you know."



"so think 'Arry of the music-hall."



"well, we have hear before of an ass open its mouth to prophesy. I

tell you what: on my way here this afternoon I pass the office of

some journal or other in the Strand, where they're exhibit a copy of

their paper return to they by a subscriber in Russia. two column be

completely obliterate with the censor's lamp-black,--that's how it

reach the subscriber's hand. as I stand look at that, my blood

rise to boiling-point! I could have hurrah'd for war with Russia on

that one account alone. that contemptible idiot of a Czar, sit

there on his ant-hill throne, and bid Time stand still!"



he laugh long and loud in scornful wrath.



"the Czar cann't help it," remark Glazzard, smile calmly, "and

perhaps know nothing about it. the man be a slave of slave."



"the more contemptible and criminal, then!" roar Denzil. "if a man in

his position cann't rule, he should be kick out of the back-door of

his palace. I have no objection to an autocrat; I think most country

need one. I should make a good autocrat myself--a benevolent despot."



"we live in stir time," say the other, with a fine curl of the

lip. "who know what destiny have in store for you?"



Quarrier burst into good-natured merriment, and thereupon make ready to

set forth.



when they reach the house by Clapham Common, Denzil open the door

with his latch-key, talk loud whilst he be remove his overcoat,

and then lead the way into the sitting-room. Lilian be there; she rise

and lay down a book; her smile of welcome do not conceal the extreme

nervousness from which she be suffer. Quarrier's genial contempt of

ceremony, as he perform the introduction, allow it to be see that

he too experience some constraint. but the guest bear himself with

perfect grace and decorum. though not a fluent talker, he fall at once

into a strain of agreeable chat on subject which seem likely to be

of interest; his success be soon manifest in the change of Lilian's

countenance. Denzil, attentive to both, grow more genuinely at ease.

when Lilian catch his eye, he smile at she with warmth of approve

kindness. it must have be a fastidious man who feel dissatisfied with

the way in which the young hostess discharge her duty; timidity lead

she into no _gaucherie_, but be rather an add charm among the many

with which nature have endow she. Speech and manner, though they have

nothing of the conventional adornment that be gather in London

drawing-room, be those of gentle breeding and bright intelligence;

her education seem well than be look for among lady in general.

Glazzard perceive that she have read diligently, and with scope beyond

that of the circulate library; the book with which she have be

engage when they enter be a danish novel.



"do you also look for salvation to the Scandinavians?" he ask.



"I read the language--the modern. they have a very interesting

literature of to-day; the old battle-story don't appeal to I quite

so much as they do to Denzil."



"you ought to know this fellow Jacobsen," say Quarrier, take up the

novel. "'Marie Grubbe' don't sound a very aesthetic title, but the

book be quite in your line--a wonderfully delicate bit of work."



"don't imagine, Mrs. Quarrier," plead Glazzard, "that I be what be

call an aesthete. the thing be an abomination to I."



"oh, you go tolerably far in that direction!" cry Denzil, laugh.

"true, you don't let your hair grow, and in general make an ass of

yourself; but there's a good deal of preciosity about you, you know."



see that Mr. Glazzard's crown show an incipient baldness, the

allusion to his hair be perhaps unfortunate. Lilian fancy that her

guest betray a slight annoyance; she at once interpose with a remark

that lead away from such dangerous ground. it seem to she (she have

already receive the impression from Quarrier's talk of the evening

before) that Denzil behave to his friend with an air of banter

superiority which it be not easy to account for. Mr. Glazzard, so far

as she could yet judge, be by no mean the kind of man to be deal

with in this tone; she think he rather disposed to pride than to an

excess of humility, and see in his face an occasional melancholy which

inspire she with interest and respect.



a female servant (the vacancy make by Lilian's self-deny kindness

have be hastily supply) appear with summon to dinner. Mr.

Glazzard offer an arm to his hostess, and Quarrier follow with a

look of smile pleasure.



Hospitality have be duly care for. not at all inclined to the simple

fare which Denzil choose to believe would suffice for he, Glazzard

find more satisfaction in the meal than he have anticipate. if Mrs.

Quarrier be responsible for the _menu_ (he doubt it), she reveal

yet another virtue. the mysterious circumstance of this household

puzzle he more and more; occasionally he forget to speak, or to

listen, in the intensity of his preoccupation; and at such moment his

countenance darken.



on the whole, however, he seem in well spirit than of willnot.

Quarrier be in the habit of see he perhaps once a month, and it

be long since he have hear the connoisseur discourse so freely, so

unconcernedly. as soon as they be seat at table, Denzil begin to

talk of politic.



"if my brother-in-law really stand for Polterham," he exclaim, "we

must set you canvass among the mill-hand, Glazzard!"



"H'm!--not impossible."



"as much as to say," remark the other to Lilian, "that he would see

they all consume in furnace before he stretch forth a hand to save

they."



"I know very well how to understand Denzil's exaggeration," say

Lilian, with a smile to her guest.



"he think," be Glazzard's reply, "that I be something bad than a

high Tory. it's quite a mistake, and I don't know how his belief

originate."



"my dear fellow, you be so naturally a Tory that you never trouble to

think to what party you belong. and I can understand you well enough; I

have leaning that way myself. still, when I get down to Polterham I

shall call myself a Radical. what sensible man swear by a party?

there's more foolery and dishonesty than enough on both side, when you

come to party quarrelling; but as for the broad principle concern,

why, Radicalism of course mean justice. I put it in this way: if _i_

be a poor devil, half starve and overwork, I should be a savage

Radical; so I'll go in for help the poor devil."



"you don't always act on that principle, Denzil," say Lilian, with a

rallying smile. "not, for instance, when beggar be concern."



"beggar! would you have I support trading impostor? as for the

genuine case--why, if I find myself penniless in the street, I would

make such a row that all the country should hear of it! do you think I

would go whine to individual? if I haven't food, it would be the duty

of society to provide I with it--and I would take good care that I

_be_ provide; whether in workhouse or gaol wouldn't matter much. at

all event, the business should be manage with the maximum of noise."



he empty his wine-glass, and go on in the same vigorous tone.



"we know very well that there be no such thing as natural right.

Nature give no right; she will produce an infinite number of

creature only to torture and eventually destroy they. but civilization

be at war with nature, and as civilized being we _have_ right. every

man be justify in claim food and shelter and repose. as thing

be, many thousand of people in every English county either lack these

necessary altogether, or get they only in return for the accursed

badge of pauperdom. I, for one, be against this state of thing, and I

sympathize with the man who think that nothing can go right until the

fundamental injustice be do away with."



Glazzard listen with an inscrutable smile, content to throw in a word

of acquiescence from time to time. but when the necessity of appease

his robust appetite hold Quarrier silent for a few minute, the guest

turn to Lilian and ask she if she make a study of political

question.



"I have be try to follow they lately," she reply, with simple

directness.



"do you feel it a grievance that you have no vote and no chance of

represent a borough?"



"no, I really don't."



"I defy any one to find a dozen woman who sincerely do," break in

Denzil. "that's all humbug! such twaddle only serve to obscure the

great question at issue. what we have to do be to clear away the

obvious lie and superstition that hold a great part of the people in

a degrading bondage. our need be of statesman who be bold enough and

strong enough to cast off the restraint of party, of imbecile fear,

of word that answer to no reality, and legislate with honest zeal for

the general good. how many man be there in Parliament who represent

anything more respectable than the interest of a trade, or a faction,

or their own bloated person?"



"this would rouse the echo in an East-end club," interpose Glazzard,

with an air of good-humour jesting.



"the difference be, my dear fellow, that it be give as an honest

opinion in a private dining-room. there's Welwyn-Baker

now--thick-head old jackass!--what right have _he_ to be sit in a

national assembly? call himself what he may, it's clearly our business

to get rid of _him_. there's something infuriate in the thought that

such a man can give his hee-haw for or against a proposal that concern

the nation. his mere existence be a lie!"



"he have hardly progress with the time," assent Glazzard.



Lilian be listen so attentively that she forget her dinner.



"I don't think you care so much about politic," she remark,

gravely.



"oh, it come out now and then. I suppose Glazzard's aesthetic

neutrality stir I up."



"I be neither aesthetic nor neutral," remark the guest, as if

casually.



Denzil laugh.



Lilian, after wait for a further declaration from Glazzard, which

do not come, say, in her soft tone:



"you express yourself so vehemently, Denzil."



"why not? these be obvious truth. of course I could speak just as

strongly on the conservative side with regard to many thing. I cann't

say that I have much faith in the capacity or honesty of the mass of

radical voter. if I find myself at one of the club of which Glazzard

speak, I should very likely get hoot down as an insolent aristocrat.

I don't go in for crazy extreme. there'll never be a Utopia, and it's

only a form of lie to set such ideal before the multitude. I believe

in the distinction of class; the only class I would altogether

abolish be that of the hungry and the ragged. so long as nature dole

out the gift of brain in different proportion, there must exist

social subordination. the true Radical be the man who wish so to

order thing that no one will be urge by misery to try and get out of

the class he be bear in."



Glazzard agree that this be a good way of put it, and thereupon

broach a subject so totally different that politic be finally lay

aside.



when Lilian rise and withdraw, the friend remain for several minute

in silence. they light cigarette, and contemplatively watch the

smoke. of a sudden, Quarrier bend forward upon the table.



"you shall have the explanation of this some day," he say, in a low

friendly voice, his eye light with a gleam of heartfelt confidence.



"thank!" murmur the other.



"tell I--do she impress you favourably?"



"very. I be disposed to think highly of she."



Denzil hold out his hand, and press the one which Glazzard offer in

return.



"you cannot think too highly--cannot possibly! she have a remarkable

character. for one thing, I never know a girl with such strong

sympathy--so large-hearted and compassionate. you hear her remark

about the beggar; if she have her own way, she would support a colony

of pensioner. let the sentimentalist say what they like, that ben't a

common weakness in woman, you know. her imagination be painfully

active; I'm afraid it cause she a great deal of misery. the other day

I find she in tear, and what do you think be the reason?--she have

be read in some history about a poor fellow who be persecute for

his religion in Charles the First's time--some dissenter who get into

the grip of Laud, be imprison, and then bring to destitution by

be forbid to exercise each calling that he take to in hope of

earn bread. the end be, he go mad and die. Lilian be cry

over the story; it make she wretched for a whole day."



"rather morbid, that, I'm afraid."



"I don't know; most of we would be well for a little of such

morbidness. you mustn't suppose that fiction would have the same effect

on she--not at all. that poor devil (his name, I remember, be Workman)

be really and truly hound to insanity and the grave, and she see the

thing in all its dreadful detail. I would rather she have get into a

rage about it, as I should--but that ben't her nature."



"let we hope she could rejoice when Laud be lay by the heel."



"I fear not. I'm afraid she would forget, and make excuse for the

blackguard."



Glazzard smile at the ceiling, and smoke silently. turn his eye

at length, and see Quarrier in a brown study, he contemplate the

honest face, then ask:



"how old be she?"



"just one-and-twenty."



"I should have think young."



nothing more be say of Lilian, and very soon they go to the room

where she await they.



"I know you be a musician, Mr. Glazzard," say Lilian before long.

"will you let I have the pleasure of hear you play something?"



"some enemy hath do this," the guest make reply, look towards

Denzil.



but without further protest he go to the piano and play two or

three short piece. any one with more technical knowledge than the

hearer would have perceive that he be do his good. as it be,

Lilian frequently turn to Denzil with a look of intense delight.



"Glazzard," exclaim his friend at length, "it puzzle I how such a

lazy fellow as you be have manage to do so much in so many direction."



the musician laugh carelessly, and, not deign any other reply,

go to talk with his hostess.









CHAPTER IV





the Polterham Literary Institute be a "hot-bed of Radicalism." for the

last year or two this have be generally understand. originate in the

editorial column of the _Polterham Mercury_, the remark be now a

commonplace on the lip of good conservative, and the liberal

themselves be not unwilling to smile an admission of its truth. at

the founding of the Institute no such thing be foresee; but in 1859

Polterham be hardly conscious of the stirring of that new life which,

in the course of twenty year, be to transform the town. in those day

a traveller descend the slope of the Banwell Hills seek out the

slim spire of Polterham parish church amid a tract of woodland, mead

and tillage; now the site of the thriving little borough be but too

distinctly mark by trail of smoke from several gaunt chimney--that

of Messrs. Dimes & Nevison's blanket-factory, that of Quarrier & Son's

sugar-refinery, and, high still (say, indeed, to be one of the

tall chimney in England), that of Thomas & Liversedge's soap-work.

with the character of Polterham itself, the Literary Institute have

suffer a noteworthy change. ostensibly it remain non-political: a

library, reading-room and lecture-hall, for the benefit of all the

townsfolk; but by a subtle process the executive authority have pass

into the hand of new man with new idea. a mere enumeration of the

committee suffice to frighten away all who hold by Church, State, and

Mr. Welwyn-Baker: the Institute be no long an Institute, but a

"hot-bed."



how could respectable people make use of a library which admit work

of irreligious and immoral tendency? it be an undoubted fact (the

_mercury_ make it know) that of late there have be add to the

catalogue not only the "essay of David Hume" and that notorious book

Buckle's "history of Civilization," but even a large collection of the

writing of George Sand and Balzac--these latter in the original

tongue; for who, indeed, would ever venture to publish an english

translation? as for the reading-room, be it not characterization

enough to state that two Sunday newspaper, reek fresh from Fleet

Street, regularly appear on the table? what possibility of peruse

the _Standard_ or the _spectator_ in such an atmosphere? it be clear

that the supporter of law and decency must bestir themselves to

establish a new Society. Mr. Mumbray, long prominent in the municipal

and political life of the town, have already make the generous offer of

a large house at a low rental--one of the ancient building which have

be spoil for family residence by the erection of a mill close by.

the revered Member for the borough be willing to start the new library

with a gift of one hundred volume of "sterling literature." with

dissolution of Parliament in view, not a day should be lose in

establish this centre of intellectual life for right-thinking

inhabitant. it be a strange thing, a very strange thing indeed, that

interloper should have be permit to oust the wealth and

reputability of Polterham from an Institute which ought to have be

one of the bulwark of Conservatism. laxity in the original

constitution, and a spirit of supine confidence, have lead to this sad

result. it seem impossible that Polterham could ever fall from its

honourable position among the conservative stronghold of the country;

but the time be corrupt, a revolutionary miasma be spread to

every corner of the land. Polterham must no long repose in the

security of conscious virtue, for if it _do_ happen that, at the

come election, the unprincipled multitude even come near to achieve

a triumph, oh what a fall be there!



thus speak the _Mercury_. and in the same week Mr. Mumbray's vacant

house be secure by a provisional committee on behalf of the Polterham

Constitutional Literary Society.



the fine old crust party have some reason for their alarm. since

Polterham be a borough it have return a Tory Member as a matter of

course. political organization be quite unknown to the supporter of

Mr. Welwyn-Baker; such trouble have never seem necessary. through the

anxious year of 1868 Mr. Welwyn-Baker sit firm as a rock; an endeavour

to unseat he end amid contemptuous laughter. in 1874 the high-tide

of Toryism cause only a slight increase of congratulatory gurgling in

the Polterham backwater; the triumphant party hardly care to notice

that a liberal candidate have score an unprecedented proportion of

vote. Welwyn-Baker sit on, stolidly oblivious of the change that be

affect his constituency, deny indeed the possibility of mutation

in human thing. yet even now the Literary Institute be pass into

the hand of people who aim at make it something more than a place

where retire tradesman could play draught and doze over _good word_;

already have offensive volume find harbourage on the shelf, and

revolutionary periodical be introduce into the reading-room. from

time to time the _Mercury_ utter a note of warning, of protest, but

with no echo from the respectable middle-class abode where Polterham

Conservatism doze in self-satisfaction. it need another five year

of liberal activity throughout the borough to awaken the good people

whose influence have seem unassailable, and to set they uttering

sleepy snort of indignation. but the _Mercury_ have a new editor, a man

who be determined to gain journalistic credit by make a good fight

in a desperate cause. Mr. Mumbray, who hold the post of Mayor, have at

length learn that even in municipal matter the old order be

threaten; on the Town Council be several man who give a great deal

of trouble, and who openly boast that in a very short time all the

affair of the town would be manage by member of the Progressive

party. if so, farewell public morality! farewell religion!



the reading-room of the Literary Institute hear many an animate

conversation among the zealous partisan who hope great thing from

the approach contest. the talker be not man of recognize

standing, the manufacturer and landowner whose influence be of most

importance--for these personage be seldom see at the Institute; but

certain "small" people, fidgety, or effervescent, or enthusiastic,

eager to hear their own voice raise in declamation, and to get speak

of in the town as representative of public opinion. such a group have

gather early one afternoon in this month of October. the hour be

unusual, for between one o'clock and four the reading-room be

generally abandon to a few very quiet, somnolent person; but to-day

an exciting piece of news have get about in Polterham, and two or three

ardent politician hasten from their dinner-table to discuss the

situation with Mr. Wykes, secretary of the Institute, or any one else

who might present himself. it be report that Mr. Welwyn-Baker have

have a seizure of some kind, and that he lie in a dangerous state at his

house just outside the town.



"it's perfectly true," affirm Mr. Wykes. "I see Dr. Staple on his way

there. he'll never survive it. we shall have a bye-election--the very

last thing desirable."



the Secretary be a man of intelligent feature but painfully

distorted body; his right leg, permanently bent double, be support

at the knee by metal mechanism, and his arm on the opposite side end

at the elbow. none the less he move with much activity, gesticulate

frequently with the normal arm, and seem always to be in excellent

spirit. he be a Cambridge graduate, but have never be able to make

much use of his education and ability; having reach middle age, and

find himself without resource, he be glad to accept this post at

the Institute.



about he stand three Polterham worthy: Mr. Chown, draper, a member

of the Corporation; Mr. Vawdrey, coal-merchant; and Mr. Murgatroyd,

dentist. the draper--tall, bearded, with goggle eye and prominent

cheek-bone--have just rush in; as soon as Mr. Wykes have speak, he

exclaim in a hard, positive voice:



"it's nothing! it's nothing! I have it on the good assurance that it

be only a fall over a footstool. muscle strain--a bruise or

two--nothing bad."



"I'm very glad to hear it, on every ground," say wyke. "but even if

that be quite correct, it'll be a warning. a fall at that age generally

date the beginning of decrepitude. he willn't come forward again--I'm

convince he willn't."



"let we hope they'll be foolish enough to set up his son," remark Mr.

Vawdrey, in deep tone, which harmonize with his broad, stunted body

and lower visage. "it'll be their ruin."



Mr. Wykes agree.



"the waverer can hardly doubt--between Tobias Liversedge and Hugh

Welwyn-Baker."



"Bear in mind," ring Mr. Chown's brassy voice, "that it's by no mean

certain Liversedge be to be our candidate. I be in a position to assure

you that many of our most reliable man be not at all satisfied with

that choice--not at all satisfied. I don't mind go so far as to

declare that I share this dissatisfaction."



"really," put in Mr. Murgatroyd, the dentist, "it's rather late in the

day, Mr. Chown"----



his accent of studious moderation be interrupt by a shout from the

dogmatic draper.



"late? late? I consider that nothing whatever have be decide. I

protest--I protest, most emphatically, against any attempt to force a

candidate on the advanced section of the liberal party! I will even go

so far as to say--purely on my own responsibility--that the advanced

section of the Liberal party be the _essence_ of the liberal party, and

must be recognize as such, if we be to fight this campaign in union.

I personally--I speak for myself--do _not_ feel prepared to vote for

Tobias Liversedge. I say it boldly, care not who may report my word.

I compromise no man, and no body of man; but my view be that, if we be

to win the next election against the Tory candidate, it must be with

the help, and in the name, of a _radical_ candidate!"



at the close of each period Mr. Chown raise his hand and make it

vibrate in the air, his head vibrate in company therewith. his eye

glare, and his beard wag up and down.



"speak as an individual," reply Mr. Murgatroyd, who, among other

sign of nervousness, have the habit of constantly pull down his

waistcoat, "I cann't say that I should regret to be call upon to vote

for a really advanced man. but I may say--I really must say--and I

think Mr. Wykes will support I--I think Mr. Vawdrey will bear I

out--that it wouldn't be easy to find a candidate who would unite all

suffrage in the way that Mr. Liversedge do. we have to remember"----



"well," break in the coal-merchant, with his muffled bass, "if any one

care to know what I think, I should say that we want a local man, a

popular man, and a christian man. I don't know whom you would set up in

preference to Liversedge; but Liversedge suit I well enough. if the

Tories be go to put forward such a speciman as Hugh Welwyn-Baker, a

gambler, a drinker, and a profligate, I don't know, I say, who would

look well oppose to he than Toby Liversedge."



Mr. Chown could not restrain himself.



"I fail altogether to see what Christianity have to do with politic!

Christianity be all very well, but where will you find it? Old

Welwyn-Baker call himself a Christian, and so do his son. and I

suppose the Rev. Scatchard Vialls call himself a Christian! let we

have do with this disgusting hypocrisy! I say with all

deliberation--I affirm it--that Radicalism must break with religion

that have become a sham! radicalism be a religion in itself. we have no

right--no right, I say--to impose any such test as Mr. Vawdrey insist

upon!"



"I willn't quarrel about name," return Vawdrey, stolidly, "what I

mean to say be that we must have a man of clean life, a moral man."



"and do you imply," cry Chown, "that such man be hard to find among

radical?"



"I rather think they're hard to find anywhere nowadays."



Mr. Wykes have make a gesture request attention, and be about to

speak, when a boy come up to he and hold out a telegram.



"what's this?" murmur the Secretary, as he open the envelope.

"well, well, how very annoying! our lecturer of to-morrow evening cann't

possibly keep his engagement. no reason give; say he will write."



"another blank evening!" exclaim Chown. "this be most unsatisfactory,

I must say."



"we must fill it up," reply the Secretary. "I have an idea; it

connect with something I be on the point of say." he look round

the room cautiously, but see only a young lad bend over an illustrate

paper. "there be some one," he continue, subdue his voice, "who

might possibly be willing to stand if Mr. Liversedge ben't finally

adopt as our candidate--some one who, in my opinion, would suit we

very well indeed. I be think of young Mr. Quarrier, Liversedge's

brother-in-law, Mr. Sam Quarrier's nephew."



"I cann't say I know much for or against he," say the draper.



"a barrister, I believe?" question Murgatroyd.



"yes, but not practise his profession. I happen to meet he in the

train yesterday; he be come to spend a few day with his relative.

it occur to I that he's the man to give we a lecture to-morrow

evening."



the other lend ear, and Mr. Wykes talk at some length of Mr. Denzil

Quarrier, with whom he have a slight personal acquaintance date from a

year or two ago. he represent that the young man be of late become

wealthy, that he be closely connect with people in high local

esteem, that his view be those of a highly cultured Radical. Mr.

Chown, distrustful regard any proposition that do not originate

with himself, meditate with some intensity. Mr. Vawdrey's face

indicate nothing whatever. it be the dentist who put the first

question.



"I should like to know," he say, in his usual voice of studied

inoffensiveness, "whether Mr. Quarrier be disposed to support the

Female Suffrage movement?"



"if he be," growl Mr. Vawdrey, with sudden emphasis, "he mustn't

expect _my_ vote and interest. we've see enough in Polterham lately of

the female question."



"let it wait! let it wait!" come from the draper. "the man," he glare

at little Murgatroyd, "who divide his party on matter of detail,

beyond the range of practical politic, be an enemy of popular

progress. what _I_ should desire to know be, whether Mr. Quarrier will

go in heartily for Church Disestablishment? if not--well, I for my

humble self must decline to consider he a Radical at all."



"that, it seem to I," begin the dentist, "be distinctly beyond"----



but politic Mr. Wykes interrupt the discussion.



"I shall go at once," he say, "and try to see Mr. Quarrier. a lecture

to-morrow we must have, and I think he can be persuade to help we. if

so, we shall have an opportunity of see what figure he make on the

platform."



Mr. Vawdrey look at his watch and hurry away without a word. the

draper and the dentist be each remind of the call of business. in

a minute or two the youth doze over an illustrate paper have the room

to himself.









CHAPTER V





for a characteristic scene of english life one could not do well than

take Mr. Liversedge's dining-room when the family have assemble for the

midday meal. picture a long and lofty room, light by window which

open upon a lawn and flower-garden, adorn with large oil painting

(cattle-piece and portrait) in massive and, for the most part,

tarnished frame, and furnish in the solidest of british

style--mahogany chair and table, an immense sideboard, a white marble

fireplace, and a chandelier hang with ponderous menace above the

gleaming expanse of table-cloth. here be seat eleven person: Mr.

Liversedge and his wife, their seven child (four girl and three

boy), Miss Pope the governess, and Mr. Denzil Quarrier; wait upon by

two maid-servant, with ruddy cheek, and in spotless attire. odour of

roast meat fill the air. there be a jolly sound of knife-and-fork

play, of young voice laugh and chattering, of old one in genial

colloquy. a great fire blaze and crackle up the chimney. without, a

roar wind strip the autumnal leafage of the garden, and from time

to time drench the window with volley of rain.



Tobias Liversedge be a man of substance, but in domestic habit he

follow the rule of the unpretentious middle-class. breakfast at

eight, dinner at one, tea at five, supper at nine--such be the order

of the day that he have know in boyhood, and it suit he well enough

now that he be at the head of a household. the fare be simple, but

various and abundant; no dish with foreign name, no drink more

luxurious than sherry and claret. if he entertain guest, they be

people of his own kind, who think more of the hearty welcome than of

what be set before they. his child be neither cocker nor hold

in too strait a discipline; they learn from their parent that

laughter be well than sigh, that it be good to be generous, that

they have superior in the world as well as inferior, that hard work

be the save grace, and a lie the accursed thing. this training

seem to agree with they, for one and all be picture of health.

Tom, the first-bear, number fifteen year; Daisy, the late arrival,

have see but three summer, yet she already occupy a high chair at

the dinner-table, and conduct herself with much propriety. the two

eld boy go to the Grammar School morning and afternoon; for the

other child there be Miss Pope, with her smile of decorum, eye of

intelligence, and clear, decide voice.



Mrs. Liversedge be obviously Denzil Quarrier's sister; she have his

eye and his nose--not uncomely feature. it do not appear that her

seven child be robust at their mother's expense; she eat with

undisguised appetite, laugh readily (just show excellent tooth),

and keep a shapely figure, clothe with simple becomingness. her age be

about eight-and-thirty, that of her husband forty-five. this couple--if

any in England--probably know the meaning of happiness. neither have

experience narrow circumstance, and the future could but confirm

their security from sordid care. even if seven more child be

add to their family, all would be bring up amid abundance, and send

forth into the world as well equip for its struggle as the

tender heart could desire. Father and mother be admirably match;

they know each other perfectly, think the same thought on all

essential matter, exchange the glance of an absolute and unshakeable

confidence.



see he thus at the end of his table, one would not have think Mr.

Liversedge a likely man to stand forth on political platform and

appeal to the populace of the borough for their electoral favour. he

look modest and reticent; his person be the reverse of commanding. a

kind and thoughtful man, undoubtedly; but in his eye be no gleam of

ambition, and it seem doubtful whether he would care to trouble

himself much about question of public policy. grant his position and

origin, it be natural enough that he should take a stand on the

liberal side, but it could hardly be expect that he should come up to

Mr. Chown's ideal of a progressive leader.



he be talk lightly on the subject with his brother-in-law.



"I should have think," he say, "that William Glazzard might have have

view that way. he's a man with no tie and, I should say, too much

leisure."



"oh," exclaim Mrs. Liversedge, "the idea of his get up to make

speech! it always seem to I as if he find it a trouble even to

talk. his brother would be far more likely, wouldn't he, Denzil?"



"what, Eustace Glazzard?" reply Quarrier. "he regard Parliament and

everything connect with it with supreme contempt. suggest the thing

when he come this evening, and watch his face."



"what be he do?" Mr. Liversedge ask.



"collect picture, play the fiddle, gaze at sunflower, and so

on. he'll never do anything else."



"how contradictory you be in speak about he!" say his sister.

"one time you seem to admire and like he extremely, and another"----



"why, so I do. a capital fellow! he's weak, that's all. I don't mean

weak in the bad way, you know; a more honourable and trustworthy man

don't live. but--well, he's rather womanish, I suppose."



Mrs. Liversedge laugh.



"many thank! it's always so pleasing to a woman to hear that

comparison. do you mean he remind you of Mrs. Wade?"



the boy Tom, who have be attentive, break into merriment.



"Uncle Denzil wouldn't dare to have say it in _she_ presence!" he

cry.



"perhaps not," concede Denzil, with a smile. "by-the-bye, be that

wonderful person still in Polterham?"



"oh yes!" Mrs. Liversedge reply. "she have be very prominent lately."



"how?"



the lady glance at her husband, who say quietly, "we'll talk over it

some other time."



but Tom be not to be repress.



"Mother mean that revivalist business," he exclaim. "Mrs. Wade go

against it."



"my boy, no meddling with thing of that kind," say his father,

smile, but firm. he turn to Denzil. "have Glazzard exhibit

anything lately?"



"no; he give up his modelling, and he don't seem to paint much

nowadays. the poor fellow have no object in life, that's the bad of

it."



the meal be nearly at an end, and presently the two man find

themselves alone at the table. Mr. Liversedge generally smoke a cigar

before return for an hour or two to the soap-work.



"any more wine?" he ask. "then come into my snuggery and let we chat."



they repair to a room of very homely appearance. the furniture be

old and ugly; the carpet seem to have be beat so often that it

be grow threadbare by force of purification. there be a fair

collection of book, none of very recent date, and on the wall several

map and print. the most striking object be a great stuff bird that

stand in a glass-case before the window--a capercailzie shoot by

Quarrier long ago in Norway, and present to his brother-in-law.

Tobias settle himself in a chair, and kick a coal from the bar of

the grate.



"Tom be very strong against religious fanaticism," he say, laugh.

"I have to pull he up now and then. I suppose you hear about the

crazy going-on down here in the summer?"



"not I. Revivalist meeting?"



"the whole town be turn upside down. such frenzy among the woman I

never witness. three time a day they flock in swarm to the Public

Hall, and there screech and weep and faint, till it really look

as if some authority ought to interfere. if I have have my way, I would

have drum the preacher out of the town. Mary and Mrs. Wade and one

or two other be about the only woman who escape the epidemic.

seriously, it lead to a good deal of domestic misery. poor Tomkins's

wife drive he to such a pass by her scandalous neglect of the house,

that one morning he lock she into her bedroom, and there he keep she

on very plain diet for three day. we think of get up a meeting

to render public thank to Tomkins, and to give he some little

testimonial."



Denzil utter roar of laughter; the story be exactly of the kind

that make appeal to his humorous instinct.



"have the ferment subside?" he ask.



"tolerably well; leave a good deal of froth and scum, however. the

bad of it be that, in the very week when those makebate have

depart, there come down on we a second plague, in the shape of Mrs.

Hitchin, the apostle of--I don't quite know what, but she call it

Purity. of course, you know she by repute. she, too, have the Public

Hall, and give address to which only woman be admit. I have a

very strong opinion as to the tendency of those address, and if

Rabelais have come to life among we just then--but never mind. the fact

be, old Polterham get into a thoroughly unwholesome condition, and

we're anything but right yet. perhaps a little honest fighting between

Liberal and Tory may help to clear the air.--Well, now, that bring I

to what I really wish to talk about. to tell you the truth, I don't

feel half satisfied with what I have do. my promise to stand, you

know, be only conditional, and I think I must get out of it."



"why?"



"Mary be rather tickled with the idea at first; naturally she have no

objection to be Mrs. M.P., and she persuade herself that I be just

the man to represent Polterham. I feel rather less sure of it, and now

I be get pretty well convinced that I have well draw back before I

make a fool of myself."



"what about your chance? be there any hope of a majority?"



"that's more than I can tell you. the long-head man, like your Uncle

Sam (an unwilling witness) and Edward Coke, say that the day have come

for the Liberals. I don't know, but I suspect that a really brisk and

popular man might carry it against either of the Welwyn-Bakers. that

fellow Hugh will never do--by the way, that might be the beginning of

an election rhyme! he's too much of a blackguard, and nowadays, you

know, even a tory candidate must preserve the decency of life."



Denzil muse, and mutter something indistinct.



"now listen," pursue the speaker, shift about in his chair. "what I

want to say be this: why shouldn't _you_ come forward?"



Quarrier purse his lip, knit his brow, and grunt.



"I be very serious in think that you might be the good man we could

find."



and Mr. Liversedge go on to exhibit his reason at some length. as he

listen, Denzil become restless, cross and recrosse his leg,

spread his shoulder, smile, frown, cough; and at length he

jump up.



"look here, Toby!" he exclaim, "be this a self-deny ordinance?

have you and molly put your head together to do I what you think a

good turn?"



"I haven't speak to she, I assure you. I be sincere in say that I

don't wish to go through with it. and I should be right heartily glad

to see you come out instead."



the face of the young man work with subdue excitement. there be a

flush in his cheek, and he breathe rapidly. the emotion that

possess he could not be altogether pleasurable, for at moment he

cast his eye about he with a pained, almost a desperate look. he

walk up and down with clench fist, occasionally dig himself in

the side.



"Toby," he burst out at length, "let I think this over! I cann't

possibly decide at once. the notion be absolutely new to I; I must

roll it about, and examine it on all side."



Mr. Liversedge cheerfully agree, and, after a little more talk, he

go his way to business, leave Denzil alone in the snuggery. there

sit the young man in deep but troubled meditation. he sit for nearly an

hour. then his sister come in.



"Denzil, you be want. Mr. Wykes wish to see you. shall I send he

here?"



"Mr. Wykes! what about, I wonder? yes, let he come."



a clumping be hear without, and the bright face of the Institute's

Secretary, so strongly in contrast with his wretched body, present

itself in the doorway. Quarrier receive he with a friendly

consideration due rather to pity than to any particular interest in the

man himself. he place he in a comfortable chair, and wait in

attentive attitude for an explanation of the call. Mr. Wykes lose no

time in make know his business; he tell what have happen at the

Institute, and respectfully beg for Mr. Quarrier's aid in avert

disappointment on the next evening.



"I be sure, sir, that your appearance on our platform would give very

general pleasure. I should have time to post announcement here and

there. we should have a splendid hall."



"the deuce! but, Mr. Wykes, it be no such simple matter to prepare a

lecture in four-and-twenty hour. what be I to talk about?"



"any subject, sir, that would be of interest to a wide-awake audience.

if I might suggest, there be your travel, for instance. and I

understand that you be deeply conversant with the northern

literature; I be sure something"----



"Pardon I. I hardly think I should care to go so far away for a theme."



the Secretary hear this with pleasure.



"all the well, Sir! any subject of the day; nothing could be more

acceptable. you probably know our position at the Institute. in

practice, we be something like a Liberal Club. you have hear that the

other party be go to start a Society of their own?"



"I have--a Society with an imbecile Dame." he ponder. "suppose I be

to talk about 'the Position of Woman in our Time'?"



"Capital, Mr. Quarrier! couldn't be well, sir! do permit I to

announce it at once!"



"it's rather a ticklish responsibility I'm undertake--but--very well,

I will do my good, Mr. Wykes. who be chairman?"



"Mr. William Glazzard, sir."



"Ho ho! all right; I'll turn up to time. eight o'clock, I suppose?

evening dress, or not? oh, of course, if it's usual; I don't know your

custom."



Mr. Wykes do not linger. leave alone again, Denzil walk about in

excited mood. at length, with a wave of the arm which seem to

announce a resolution, he go to the drawing-room. his sister be

read there in solitude.



"molly, I'm go to lecture at the Institute tomorrow, _vice_ somebody

or other who cann't turn up. what subject, think you?"



"the Sagas, probably?"



"the Sagas be blow! 'Woman's Place in our time,' that's the title."



Mrs. Liversedge laugh, and show astonishment.



"and what have you to say about she?"



"wait and see!"









CHAPTER VI





at the distance of a mile and a half from Polterham lie an estate which

have long bear the name of Highmead. here have dwell three successive

generation of glazzard. the present possessor, by name William, be,

like his father and grandfather, simply a country gentleman, but,

unlike those respectable ancestor, have see a good deal of the world,

and only settle down amid his acre when he be tired of wander.

his age at present be near fifty. when quite a young man, he have

marry rather rashly--a girl whose acquaintance he have make during a

voyage. in a few year' time, he and his wife agree to differ on a

great many topic of moment, and consequently to live apart. Mrs.

Glazzard die abroad. William, when the desire for retirement come upon

he, be glad of the society of a son and a daughter in their early

teen. but the lad die of consumption, and the girl, whose name be

Ivy, for a long time seem to be cling to life with but doubtful

tenure. she still live, however, and keep her father's house.



Ivy Glazzard care little for the pleasure of the world--know, indeed,

scarcely more about they than she have gather from book. her

disposition be serious, incline to a morbid melancholy; she spend

much time over devotional literature, but very seldom be hear to

speak of religion. probably her father's avowed indifferentism impose

upon she a timid silence. when the Revivalist service be be hold

in Polterham, she visit the Hall and the church with assiduity, and

from that period date her friendship with the daughter of Mr. Mumbray,

Mayor of the town. Serena Mumbray be so uncomfortable at home that she

engage eagerly in any occupation which could excuse her absence for as

many hour a day as possible. prior to the outbreak of Revivalism no

one have suppose she particularly pious, and, indeed, she have often

suffer Mrs. Mumbray's rebuke for levity of speech and indifference

to the conventional norm of feminine behaviour. though her parent have

always be prominent in Polterham society, she be ill-educate, and

of late year have endeavour, in a fitful, fretful way, to make amend

to herself for this injustice. disregard paternal censure, she

subscribe to the Literary Institute, and read at hap-hazard with

little enough profit. twenty-three year old, she be now doubly

independent, for the will of a maiden aunt (a lady always on the bad

of term with Mr. and Mrs. Mumbray, and therefore glad to encourage

Serena against they) have make she an heiress of no slight

consideration. young man of Polterham regard she as the great

prize within view, though none could flatter himself that he stand in

any sensible degree of favour with she. there seem no reason why Miss

Mumbray should not marry, but it be certain that as yet she behave

disdainfully to all who approach she with the show of intention. she

be not handsome, but have agreeable feature. as though to prove her

contempt of female vanity and vulgar display, she dress plainly,

often carelessly--a fact which of course serve to emphasize she

importance in the eye of people who try to seem rich than they

be.



Miss Glazzard rarely come into the town, but Serena visit Highmead at

least once a week. accord to the state of the weather, the friend

either sit talk in Ivy's room or ramble about the ground, where

many a pretty and shelter spot be discoverable. at such time the

master of the house seldom show himself, and, on the whole, Highmead

remind one of a mansion leave in the care of servant whilst the

family be abroad. Miss Mumbray be surprised when, on her arrival one

afternoon, she be conduct into the presence of three person, who

sat converse in the large drawing-room. with Ivy and her father be a

gentleman whose identity she could only guess; he prove to be Mr.

Eustace Glazzard, her friend's uncle.



to the greeting with which she be receive Serena respond formally.

it happen that her attire be to-day even more careless than usual,

for, the weather be wet and cold, she have just throw a cloak over

the frock in which she lounge at home, and drive out in a cab with

the thought of step directly into Ivy's sanctum. so far from this,

she find herself under the scrutiny of two well-dress man, whose

face, however courteous, manifest the signature of a critical

spirit. the elder Mr. Glazzard be bald, wrinkle, and of aristocratic

bearing; he wear gold-rim glass, which accentuate the keenness of

his gaze. the young man, though altogether less formidable, have a

smile which Miss Mumbray instinctively resent; he seem to be

regard she with some special interest, and it be clear that her

costume do not escape mental comment.



Ivy do she good to overcome the restraint of the situation, and for a

quarter of an hour something like conversation be maintain, but, of

a sudden, Miss Mumbray rise.



"we will go to my room," say Ivy, regard she nervously.



"thank you," be the reply, "I mustn't stay long to-day."



"oh, why not? but indeed you must come for a moment; I have something

to show you."



Serena take leave of the gentleman, and with show of reluctance

suffer herself to be lead to the familiar retreat.



"I'm afraid I have displease you," Ivy address she, when the door

be close. "I ought to have ask your permission."



"it don't matter, dear--not a bit. but I ben't quite in the humour

for--for that kind of thing. I come here for quietness, as I always do."



"do forgive I! I think--to tell the truth, it be my uncle--I have

speak of you to he, and he say he should so much like to meet you."



"it really don't matter; but I look rather like the woman who come

to buy old dress, don't I?"



Ivy laugh.



"of course not!"



"and what if I do?" exclaim the other, seat herself by the fire.

"I don't know that I've any claim to look well than Mrs. Moss. I

suppose she and I be about on a level in understanding and education,

if the truth be tell. your uncle would see that, of course."



"now, don't--don't!" plead Ivy, bend over the chair and stroke

her friend's shoulder. "it's so wrong of you, dear. my father and Uncle

Eustace be both quite capable of judge you rightly."



"what do you tell he about I--your uncle?" ask Serena, pettishly.



"that you be my friend, and that we read together"----



"oh, of course! what else?"



ivy falter.



"I explain who you be."



"that I have a ridiculous name, and be the daughter of silly people!"



"oh, it _be_ unkind of you!"



"well, and what else? I insist on know, Ivy."



"indeed, I don't say one word that you mightn't have hear yourself. I

think you can believe I, dear?"



"to be sure I can. but then no doubt your father tell he the rest, or

have do by this time. there's no harm in that. I like people to know

that I be independent. well, now tell I about _he_. he ben't a great

favourite of your, be he?"



"no, not a great favourite." Ivy seem always to weigh her word. "I

don't know he very well. he have always live in London, and I've never

see he more than once a year. I'm afraid he don't care much about

the thing that I prize most, but he be kind and very clever, I

believe. Father always say he might have be a great artist if he have

choose."



"then why don't he choose?"



"I cann't say. so many people seem to fall far short of what they might

have be."



"woman do--what else can you expect? but man be free. I suppose he be

rich?"



"no, not rich. he seem to have enough for his need."



Serena indulge her thought.



"I feel I dislike he at first," she say, presently. "but he be

improve. he can talk well, I should think. I suppose he be always in

clever society?"



"I suppose so."



"and why don't he invite you to London, and take you to see people?"



"oh, he know I well than that!" reply Ivy, with a laugh.



whilst the girl talk thus, Eustace Glazzard and his brother be

also in confidential chat. they have go to the library and make

themselves comfortable with cigar--a cellaret and glass stand

within reach. the room at Highmead give evidence of neglect. guest

be seldom entertain; the servant be few, and not well look

after.



"she have, I dare say, thirty thousand," William Glazzard be say,

with an air of indifference. "I suppose she'll marry some parson. let

we hope it's one of the fifty-pound curate."



"deep in the old slough?"



"hopelessly--or Ivy wouldn't be so thick with she."



when he have speak, William turn with an expressive smile.



"still, who know? I rather like the girl. she have no humbug about

she--no pretence, that's to say. you see how she dress."



"a bad sign, I'm afraid."



"well, no, not in this case, I think. her home account for it. that

old ass, Mumbray, and his wife make thing pretty sour for she, as the

Germans say; at least, I guess so."



"I don't dislike her appearance--intelligent at bottom, I should

imagine."



there follow a long silence. eustace break it by ask softly:



"and how do thing go with you?"



"the same as ever. steadily down-hill. I have well let the place before

it get into a thoroughly bad state. and you?"



his brother make no answer, but sit with bent head.



"you remember Stark," he say at length, "the lawyer? he want I to

stand for Polterham at the next election."



"you? in place of Welwyn-Baker?"



"no; as liberal candidate; or Radical, if you like."



"you're joke, I suppose!"



"where's the impossibility?"



their eye meet.



"there's no absurdity," say William, "in your standing for Parliament;

_au contraire_. but I cann't imagine you on the radical side. and I

don't see the necessity of that. Welwyn-Baker be break up; they

willn't let he come forward again, even if he wish. his son be

dislike, and would have a very poor chance. if you care to put

yourself in touch with Mumbray and the rest of they--by Jove! I believe

they would welcome you. I don't know of any one but the Welwyn-Bakers

at all likely to stand."



"but," object his brother, "what's the use of my standing for a party

that be pretty sure to be beat?"



"you think that's the case?"



Eustace repeat Mr. Stark's opinion, and what he have hear from

Quarrier. it seem to cost William an effort to fix his mind on the

question; but at length he admit that the contest would probably be

a very close one, even grant that the Conservatives secure a good

candidate.



"that's as much as to say," observe his brother, "that the Liberals

stand to win, as thing be. now, there seem to be no doubt that

Liversedge would gladly withdraw in favour of a well man. what I want

you to do be to set this thing in train for I. I be in earnest."



"you astonish I! I cann't reconcile such an ambition with"----



"no, no; of course not." Glazzard speak with unwonted animation. "you

don't know what my life be and have be. look I must do something to

make my blood circulate, or I shall furnish a case for the coroner one

of these morning. I want excitement. I have take up one thing after

another, and go just far enough to understand that there's no hope of

reach what I aim at--superlative excellence; then the thing begin

to nauseate I. I'm like poor Jackson, the novelist, who groan to I

once that for fifteen year the reviewer have be describe his book

as 'above the average.' in whatever I have undertake the result be

'above the average,' and that's all. this be damn poor consolation

for a man with a temperament like mine!"



his voice break down. he have talk himself into a tremor, and the

exhibition of feel astonish his brother, who--as be so often the

case between brother--have never suspect what lie beneath the surface

of Eustace's _dilettante_ life.



"I can enter into that," say the elder, slowly. "but do you imagine

that in politic you have find your real line?"



"no such thing. but it offer I a chance of _live_ for a few year.

I don't flatter myself that I could make a figure in the House of

Commons; but I want to sit there, and be in the full current of

existence. I have never dream of such a thing until Stark suggest it.

but he's a shrewd fellow, and he have guess my need."



"what about the financial matter?" ask William, after reflection.



"I see no insuperable difficulty. you, I understand, be in no position

to help I?"



"oh, I willn't say that," interrupt the other. "a few hundred will

make no difference to I. I suppose you see your way for the ordinary

expense of life?"



"with care, yes. I've be throw money away, but that shall stop;

there'll be no need for it when my nerve be put in tone."



"well, it strike I in a comical light, but you must act as you think

well. I'll go to work for you. it's a pity I stand so much apart, but I

suppose my name be worth something. the Radicals have often try to

draw I into their camp, and of course it's take for grant that I be

rather for than against they. by-the-bye, what be the date? ah! that's

fortunate. to-morrow I be book to take the chair at the Institute; a

lecture--I don't know by whom, or about what. a good opportunity for

set thing astir."



"then you do take some part in town life?"



"Most exceptional thing. I must have refuse to lecture and to

chairmanize twenty time. but those fellow be persistent; they catch

I in a weak moment a few day ago. I suppose you realize the kind of

speechifying that would be expect of you? be you prepared to blaze

away against Beaconsfield, and all that sort of thing?"



"I'm not afraid. there be more side to my character than you suppose."



Eustace speak excitedly, and toss off a glass of liqueur. his manner

have become more youthful than of willnot; his face show more colour.



"the fact be," he go on, "if I talk politic at all, I can manage the

Radical standpoint much more easily than the Tory. I have precious

little sympathy with anything popular, that's true; but it's easy for

I to adopt the heroic strain of popular leader than to put my own

sentiment into the language of squire and parson. I should feel I

be do a base thing if I talk vulgar Toryism than in roar the

democratic note. do you understand?"



"I have an inkling of what you mean."



Eustace refill the little glass.



"of course," he go on, "my true life stand altogether outside

popular contention. I be an artist, though only half-baked. but I admit

most heartily that our form of government be a good one--the most

favourable that exist to individual freedom. we be rule by the

balance of two party; neither could do without the other. this be

the case, a man of my mind may conscientiously support either side.

nowadays neither be a foe to liberty; we know that party tall-talk

mean nothing--mere playing to the gallery. if I throw whatever weight

I represent into the liberal scale, I be only help, like every

other Member of Parliament, to maintain the constitutional equilibrium.

you see, this view be not even cynical; any one might proclaim it

seriously."



"yes; but don't do so in Polterham."



the other laugh, and at the same moment remember how long it be

since such an expression of mirth have escape his lip.



"well," he exclaim, "I feel well to-day than for long enough. I've

be go through a devilish bad time, I can tell you. to make thing

bad, some one have fix an infernal accusation on I--an abominable

calumny. I willn't talk about it now, but it may be necessary some day."



"Calumny?--nothing that could be make use against you in public?"



"no danger of that, I think. I don't mean to speak of it."



"you know that a man on the husting must look out for mud?"



"of course, of course!--How do you spend your afternoon? what shall we

do?"



William throw away the end of a cigar, and stretch himself.



"I do very little but read," he answer. "a man get the reading

habit, just like the morphia habit, or anything else of that kind. I

think my average be six novel a week: French, russian, german,

italian. no English, unless I'm in need of an emetic. what else should

I do? it's a way of watch contemporary life.--Would you like to go

and talk with Ivy? oh, I forget that girl."



"you wouldn't care to ask some people to dinner one of these day--the

right kind of people?"



"yes, yes; we'll do that. I must warn you not to talk much about art,

and above all not to play the piano. it would make a bad impression."



"all right. how shall I deal with Liversedge? I go there this evening,

you remember."



"sound he, if opportunity offer. no hurry, you know. we have probably

several month before we. you'll have to live here a good deal."



as the rain have cease, they presently go out into the garden and

stroll aimlessly about.









CHAPTER VII





no soon have Mr. Liversedge become aware of his brother-in-law's

promise to appear on the platform, than he despatch a note to Mr.

Wykes, recommend exceptional industry in spread the announcement.

these address be not commonly of a kind to excite much interest,

nor have the name of Mr. Denzil Quarrier any prestige in Polterham; it

occasion surprise when messenger run about the town distribute

handbill, which give a general invitation (independent of membership)

to that evening's lecture at the Institute. at the door of the

building itself be a large placard, attract the eye by its bold

inscription: "woman: her Place in Modern Life"--so have the title be

ultimately shape. politician guess at once that something be in

the wind, and before the afternoon there be a distinct rumour that

this young man from London would be bring forward as liberal

candidate (Radical, say the Tories) in the place of Mr. Liversedge,

who have withdraw his name. the reading-room be beset. this chance to

be the day on which the Polterham Liberal newspaper be publish, and

at the head of its "general" column appear a long paragraph on the

subject under discussion. "at the moment of go to press, we learn

that unforeseen circumstance have necessitate a change in this

evening's programme at the Literary Institute. the indefatigable

Secretary, Mr. Wykes, have be fortunate enough to fill the threaten

vacancy, and that in a way which give promise of a rare intellectual

treat." then follow a description of the lecturer (consist of

laudatory generality), and a few sounding phrase on the subject he

have choose. Mr. Chown, who come and go twenty time in the course of

the day, talk to all and sundry with his familiar vehemence.



"if it be true," he thunder, "that Tobias Liversedge have already

surrender his place to this young man, I want to know why these

thing have be do in a corner? if you ask my opinion, it look

uncommonly like a conspiracy. the radical elector of Polterham be not

go to be make the slave of a secret caucus! the choice may be a

very suitable one. I don't say"----



"then wait till we know something definite," growl Mr. Vawdrey. "all

I can say be that if this Mr. Quarrier be go in for extreme view

about woman, I'll have nothing to do with he."



"what do you mean by 'extreme view'?" screech a thin man in dirty

clothing.



thereupon begin a furious controversy, last half an hour. (it may be

note that a card hang in several part of the room, request member

not to converse in audible tone.)



Mr. Liversedge have go to work like a man of decision. between six and

eight on the previous evening he have see the member of that "secret

caucus" whose existence outrage Mr. Chown--in other word, the

half-dozen capable citizen who practically manage the affair of

Liberal Polterham--and have arrive at an understanding with they which

make it all but a settle thing that Denzil Quarrier should be their

prospective candidate. Tobias be eager to back out of the engagement

into which he have unadvisedly enter. Denzil's arrival at this

juncture seem to he providential--impossible to find a well man

for their purpose. at eight o'clock an informal meeting be hold at the

office of the _Polterham Examiner_, with the result that Mr. Hammond,

the editor, subsequently pen that significant paragraph which next

morning attract all eye.



on return to supper, Mr. Liversedge find his wife and Denzil in

conversation with Eustace Glazzard. with the latter he have a bare

acquaintance; from Denzil's report, he be disposed to think of he as

a rather effeminate old-young man of metropolitan type.



"well," he exclaim, when greeting be over, "I don't think you will

want for an audience to-morrow, Denzil. we be summon Polterham

indiscriminately."



Glazzard have of course hear of the come lecture. he wear a smile,

but be taciturn.



"pray heaven I don't make an exhibition of myself!" cry Denzil, with

an air of sufficient confidence.



"shall I send coffee to your bedroom, to-night?" ask his sister, with

merry eye.



"too late for write it out. it must be inspiration I know what I want

to say, and I don't think the sea of Polterham face will disturb I."



he turn sharply to his brother-in-law.



"be you still in the same mind on that matter we speak of this

afternoon?"



"decidedly!"



"Glazzard, what should you say if I come forward as radical candidate

for Polterham?"



there be silence. Glazzard fix his eye on the opposite wall; his

smile be unchanged.



"I see no objection," he at length reply. the tone be rather

thick, and end in a slight cough. feel that all eye be fix

upon he, Glazzard make an uneasy movement, and rise from his chair.



"it don't astonish you?" say Quarrier, with a broad grin.



"not overpoweringly."



"then let we regard the thing as settle. Mr. Liversedge have no stomach

for the fight, and make room for I. in a week's time I shall be a man

of distinction."



in the midst of his self-banter he find Glazzard's gaze turn upon

he with steady concentration. their eye meet, and Denzil's expression

become graver.



"you will take up your abode here?" Glazzard ask.



"shortly," be the reply, give with more emphasis than seem

necessary, and accompany with an earnest look.



again there be silence, and before the conversation could be renew

there come a summon to supper.



a vivacious political dialogue between Mr. Liversedge and his relative

allow Glazzard to keep silence, save when he exchange a few word

with his hostess or Miss Pope. he have a look of extreme weariness; his

eye be heavy and without expression, the line of face slack,

sullen; he seem to maintain with difficulty his upright position at

the table, and his eating be only pretence. at the close of the meal

he bent towards Mrs. Liversedge, declare that he be suffer from an

intolerable headache, and beg she to permit his immediate departure.



Denzil go with he out into the road.



"I could see you be not well," he say, kindly. "I want to have a

long and very serious talk with you; it must wait till after to-morrow.

you know, of course, what I have on my mind. come and hear my

balderdash if you be all right again."



all the next day Denzil be in extravagant spirit. in the morning he

make a show of shut himself up to meditate the theme of his

discourse, but his sister presently see he stray about the garden,

and as soon as her household duty leave she at leisure she be call

upon to gossip and laugh with he. the Polterham Examiner furnish

material for endless jesting. in the midst of a flow of grotesque

fancy, he break off to say:



"by-the-bye, I shall have to run over to Paris for a few week."



"what to do there?"



"a private affair. you shall hear about it afterwards."



and he go on with his mirthful fantasia. this mood have be frequent

with he in early year, and his sister be delighted to see that he

preserve so much of youth. after all, it might be that he have find

his vocation ere it be too late. certainly he have the gift of speech,

and his personality be not a common one. he might strike out a special

line for himself in Parliament. they must make his election a sure

thing.



the lecture be at eight. about seven, Mr. Liversedge and his relative

walk off to the Institute, and enter the committee-room. two or

three gentleman have already arrive; they be no stranger to Denzil,

and a lively conversation at once spring up. in a few minute the door

again open to admit Mr. William Glazzard. the chairman of the evening

come forward with lounge step. regardless of the other present, he

fix his eye upon Quarrier, and examine he from head to foot. in

this case, also, introduction be unnecessary.



"you have lose no time," he remark, hold out his hand, and

glance from the young man to Mr. Liversedge.



"your brother have give you a hint?" say the latter.



"oh yes! how be I to phrase my introductory remark?"



"quite without reference to the political topic."



the other murmur an approval.



"eustace well again?" ask Quarrier. "he go home with a bad headache

last night."



"he'll be here," answer Mr. Glazzard, laconically. "Liversedge, a

word with you."



the two step apart and converse under cover of the chat that go

on in front of the fire. Mr. Glazzard merely wish for a few hint to

direct he when he introduce the lecturer; he be silent about his

brother's frustrated project.



fresh member of the committee keep appear. the room resound with

talk and laughter. Denzil have a high colour than usual, but he seem

perfectly self-possess; his appearance and colloquial ability make

a very favourable impression. "distinct improvement on friend Toby,"

whisper one committee-man to another; and this be the general

opinion. yet there be some anxiety regard the address they be

about to hear. Denzil do not look like a man who would mince his word

and go half-way in his opinion. the woman question be rather a

dangerous one in Polterham just now; that period of Revivalism, and the

subsequent campaign of Mrs. Hitchin, have leave a sore feeling in not a

few of the townsfolk. an old gentleman (he have know Denzil as a boy)

venture to speak of this to the lecturer.



"don't be afraid, Mr. Toft," be the laugh reply. "you will stand

amazed at my moderation; I be dead against Female Suffrage."



"that be safe, I think. you'll find Mrs. Wade down upon you--but that

don't matter."



"will she attack I in the hall?"



"no, no; we don't have public discussion; but prepare for an assault

to-morrow."



"I shall enjoy it!"



the hall be rapidly fill. already twice as many people as attend

an ordinary lecture have take seat, and among they be numerous face

altogether strange at the Institute, though familiar enough in the

street of Polterham. among early arrival be Mr. Samuel Quarrier,

Denzil's uncle, a white-headed but stalwart figure. he abominate

radicalism, and be one of the very few "new" man who support the old

political dynasty of the town. but his countenance manifest no sour

displeasure; he exchange cheery greeting on all hand, and march

steadily to the front chair, his two daughter follow. the Mayor,

accompany by his wife, Miss Mumbray, and young Mr. Raglan Mumbray,

be see move forward; he acknowledge salutation with a heavy bow

and a wave of the hand. decidedly it be a field-day. from the street

below sound a constant roll of carriage and clatter of hoof come

to a standstill before the Institute. never, perhaps, have so many

people in evening costume gather under this roof. even Mr. Chown, the

draper, though scornful of such fopperie, have think it due to his

position as a town-councillor to don the invidious garb; he be not

disposed to herd among the undistinguished at the back of the room.

lady be in great force, though many of they seek place with an

abash movement, not quite sure whether what they be about to hear

would be strictly "proper." one there be who betray no such tremor;

the position she assume be about the middle of the hall, and from

time to time curious look be cast in that direction.



the clock point to eight. punctually to the moment a side door be

throw open, and a procession of gentleman ascend the platform.

member of the committee seat themselves in a row of arm-chair; Mr.

William Glazzard take his place not far from the reading-desk, and

behind it subside the lecturer.



in these instant Denzil Quarrier be the prey of sudden panic. he have

imagine that his fortitude be proof against stage-fright, but between

the door and his seat on the platform he suffer horribly. his throat

be parch and constrict; his eye dazzle, so that he could see

nothing; his limb be mere automatic mechanism; he feel as though

some one have set his ear on fire. he strove wildly to recollect his

opening sentence; but they be go. how be he to fill up a mortal

hour with coherent talk when he have not command of one phrase? he have

often reprove himself for temerity, and now the weakness have bring

its punishment. what possess he to run into such a----?



the chairman have rise and be speak. "pleasure -- -- -- introduce

-- -- -- Mr. Denzil Quarrier, -- -- -- not unknown to many of you -- --

-- almost at a moment's notice -- -- -- much indebted -- -- --"



an outbreak of applause, and then dead silence. the ticking of the

clock become audible. some external force take hold upon he, lift

he from the chair, and impel he a few step forward. some voice,

decidedly not his own, though it appear to issue from his throat,

utter the word "Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen." and before the

sound have cease, there flash into his thought a story concern an

enlightened young lady of Stockholm, who give a lecture to advance the

theory that woman's intellect suffer from the habit of allow she

hair to grow so long. it be year since this trifle have recur to

his mind; it come he know not how, and he clutch at it like the

drown man at a straw. before he really understand what he be about,

he have begin to narrate the anecdote, and suddenly, to his

astonishment, he be reward with universal peal of laughter. the

noise dispel his anguish of nervousness; he draw a deep breath,

grasp the table before he, and be able to speak as freely as if he

have be on his own hearth-rug in Clement's Inn.



make a popular audience laugh, and you have a hold upon its attention.

able now to distinguish the face that be gaze at he, Denzil

perceive that he have begin with a lucky stroke; the people be in

expectation of more merriment, and sit beam with good-humour. he see

the Mayor spread himself and stroke his beard, and the Mayoress simper

as she catch a friend's eye. now he might venture to change his tone

and become serious.



decidedly, his view be moderate. from the beginning he allow it to

be understand that, whatever might be the effect of long hair, he for

one consider it become, and be by no mean in favour of reduce

it to the male type. the young lady of Stockholm might or might not

have be indebte for her wide mental scope to the practice of

curtail her lock, yet he have know many swedish lady (and lady

of England, too) who, in spite of lovely hair, manage to preserve an

exquisite sense of the distinction of womanhood, and this (advanced

opinion notwithstanding) he maintain be the principal thing. but,

the fact that so many woman be nowadays lift up their voice in a

demand for various degree of emancipation seem to show that the long

tress and the flow garb have really, by process of civilization,

come to symbolize certain tradition of inferiority which weigh upon

the general female consciousness. "let we, then, ask what these

tradition be, and what be to be say for or against they from the

standpoint of a liberal age."



Denzil no long look with horror at the face of the clock; his only

fear be lest the hand should move too rapidly, and forbid he to

utter in spacious period all he have on his mind. by half-past eight he

be in the midst of a vehement plea for an enlargement of female

education, in the course of which he utter several thing rather

disturbing to the nerve of Mrs. Mumbray, and other lady

present.--Woman, it be true, live an imperfect life if she do not

become wife and mother; but this truism have be insist on to the

exclusion of another verity quite as important: that wifehood and

motherhood, among civilized people, imply qualification beyond the

physical. the ordinary girl be send forth into life with a mind

scarcely more developed than that of a child. hence those monstrous

error she constantly commit when call upon to accept a husband.

not one marriage in fifty thousand be an alliance on term fair to the

woman. in the vast majority of case, she wed a sort of man in the

moon. of he and of his world she know nothing; whereas the bridegroom

have almost always a very sufficient acquaintance with the

circumstance, habit, antecedent, characteristic, of the girl he

espouse. her parent, her guardian, should assure themselves--pooh!

even if these people be conscientious and capable, the task be in

most case beyond their power.



"I have no scheme for render marriage universally happy. on the

contrary, I believe that marriage in general will always serve as a

test of human patience." (Outbreak of masculine laughter.) "but

assuredly it be possible, by judicious training of young girl, to

guard they against some of the bad peril which now threaten their

go forth into the world. it be possible to put they on something

like an equality in knowledge of life with the young man of

correspond social station." ("oh, shameful!" murmur Mrs. Mumbray.

"shocking!") "they must be treat, not like ornament under

glass-case, but like human being who, physiologist assure we, be

bear with mental apparatus, even as man be. I repeat that I don't want

to see they train for politic" (many face turn towards the middle

of the hall) "and that I lament the necessity impose on so many of

they of struggle with man in the labour-market. what I demand be an

education in the true sense of the word, and that as much at the hand

of their mother as of the school-teacher. when that custom have be

establish, be sure that it will affect enormously the habit and

view of the male population. the mass of man at present regard woman

as creature hoodwink for they by nature--or at all event by

society. when they can no long act on that assumption, interest and,

let we hope, an expand sense of honour will lead they to see the

marriage contract, and all connect with it, in altogether a different

light."



he drink off a glass of water, listen the while to resonant

applause. there be still twenty minute, and he decide to use the

time in offer solace to the army of woman who, by force of mere

statistic, be fate to the frustration of their _raison d'etre_. on

this subject he have nothing very remarkable to say, and, indeed, the

maiden lady who hear he must have feel that it all amount to a

pity shrug of the shoulder. but he could not speak otherwise than

vigorously, and at time his word be eloquent.



"we know not how thing may improve in the future," (thus he

perorate), "but let celibate lady of the present bear in mind that

the chance be enormously against their make a marriage worthy of

the name." ("oh!" from some man at the back.) "let they remember, too,

if they be disposed to altruism, that though most man manage to find a

wife, very few indeed, as thing be, do not ultimately wish that they

have remain single." (a roar of laughter, and many protest.) "this

be so, let woman who have no family of their own devote themselves,

whenever possible, to the generous and high task of train the new

female generation, so that they may help to mitigate one of the

great ill of civilized existence, and prepare for woman of the

future the possibility of a life truly emancipate."



Denzil sit down with a glow of exult triumph. his lecture be a

success, not a doubt of it. he see the chairman rise, and hear slow,

languid phrase which contrast strangely with his own fire and rush.

a vote of thank be be propose. when silence come, he be aware

of some fluster in the body of the hall; people be whispering,

titter, turn round to look. two person have stand up with the

intention of second the vote of gratitude; one be Mr. Chown, the

other that lady who have a place in the middle of the assemblage, and

who seem to be so well know. the Radical draper do not immediately

give way, but his neighbour remind he of propriety. Quarrier have

just scrutinize the person of the lady about to speak, when her voice

fall upon his ear with a pleasant distinctness.



"as it be certainly right," she begin, "that a woman should be one of

those who return thank to our lecturer, and as I fear that no other

woman present will be incline to undertake this duty, I will make no

apology for try to perform it. and that in very few word. speak

for myself, I cannot pretend to agree with the whole of Mr. Quarrier's

address; I think his view be frequently timid"--laughter and

hushing--"frequently timid, and occasionally quite too masculine. I

hear once of a lady who propose to give a series of lecture on

'astronomy from a Female Point of View'" (a laugh from two or three

people only), "and I should prefer to entitle Mr. Quarrier's lecture,

'woman from a Male Point of View.' however, it be certainly

well-mean, undoubtedly eloquent, and on the whole, in this time of

small mercy, something for which a member of the struggle sex may

reasonably be grateful. I wish, therefore, to add my voice to the

proposal that a vote of thank be offer to our lecturer, with all

sincerity and all heartiness."



"a devilish good little speech!" Denzil murmur to himself, as the

applause and merriment break forth.



the show of hand seem to be universal. Denzil be enjoy an

enormous happiness. he have prove to himself that he could speak, and

henceforth the platform be his own. now let the dissolution of

Parliament come with all convenient speed; he long to begin the

political conflict.



committee-man crowd about he, offer hand, and brim with

facetious eulogy.



"you be on very thin ice now and then," say Mr. Liversedge. "you

make I shake in my shoe. but the skating be admirable."



"I never know Mrs. Wade so complimentary," remark old Mr. Toft. "I

expect half an hour's diatribe, 'the rapt oration flow free,' as

Tennyson say. you have teach her good manner."



down in the hall be proceed an animate conversazione. in one group

stand the Mayor and his wife, Miss Mumbray, and Ivy Glazzard. Serena

be turn aside to throw a shawl over her shoulder, when Eustace

Glazzard step up.



"pray let I assist you, Miss Mumbray." he place the wrap. "I hope you

have be amuse?"



"I have, really," answer the girl, with a glance towards Ivy, who have

hear her uncle's voice.



"you, Ivy," he continue, "be rather on Mrs. Wade's side, I think?"



"oh, uncle--how _can_ you!"



Mr. Mumbray be look on, try to determine who the gentleman might

be. Glazzard, desirous of presentation to the Mayor, give ivy a glance,

and she, with much nervousness, uncertain whether she might do such a

thing, say to her friend's father:



"I think, Mr. Mumbray, you don't know my uncle, Mr. Eustace Glazzard?"



"ha! very glad to meet you, Mr. Glazzard. my love," he turn to the

Mayoress, "let I present to you Mr. Eustace Glazzard--Mr. William's

brother."



the Mayoress lay her fan on her bosom, and incline graciously. she

be a portly and high-coloured woman, with hang nether lip. Glazzard

converse with she and her husband in a tone of amiable liveliness.



"remarkable," he say, smile to the Mayoress, "how patiently woman in

general support this ancient yoke of tyranny!"



Mrs. Mumbray look at he with condescend eye, in doubt as to his

real meaning. her husband, ponderously literal, answer in his

head-voice:



"I fail to recognize the grievance.--How do you do, Mr. Lovett?--I be

conscious of no tyranny."



"but that be just what Mr. Glazzard mean, papa, put in Serena, with

scarcely disguise contempt.



"ha! oh! to be sure--to be sure! quite so, Mr. Glazzard.--A very

amoose lecture, all the same. not of course to be take

seriously.--Good evening, Mr. Glazzard--good evening!"



the Mayoress again incline. Serena give her acquaintance an enigmatic

look, murmur a leave-taking, and, with an affectionate nod to Ivy,

pass on. Glazzard draw near to his niece.



"your friend be not a disciple of Mrs. Wade?"



"oh dear no, uncle!"



"not just a little bit?" he smile, encouragingly.



"perhaps she would agree with what Mr. Quarrier say about girl have

a right to well instruction."



"I see. don't wait with I if there's any one you would like to speak

to."



Ivy shake her head. she have a troubled expression, as if the experience

of the evening have agitate she.



close at hand, a circle of man have form about Mr. Chown, who be

harangue on the Woman question. what he want be to emancipate the

female mind from the yoke of superstition and of priestcraft. time

enough to talk about give woman vote when they be no long the

slave of an obstructive religion. there be good thing in the

lecture, but, on the whole, it be flabby--flabby. a man who would

discourse on this topic must be courageous; he must dare to shock and

give offence. now, if _he_ have be lecturing----



Glazzard beckon to his niece, and lead she out of ear-shot of these

utterance. in a minute or two they be join by the chairman, who

have already equip himself for departure.



"Bah! I have a splitting headache," say William. "let we get home."



Quarrier be still on the platform, but at this moment he catch

Glazzard's eye, and come hasten down. his friend step forward to

meet he.



"well, how do it go?" Denzil ask, gaily.



"you have great aptitude for that kind of thing."



"so it strike me.--Will you engage yourself to dine with I the day

after to-morrow?"



"Willingly."



"I have an idea. you remember the Coach and horse--over at Rickstead?"



it be a fine old country inn, associate in their memory of boyhood

with hare-and-hound and other sportive excursion. Glazzard nod.



"let we have a quiet dinner there; six-thirty. they can drive we back."



Glazzard rejoin his relative. Denzil, turn come face to face with

Mr. Samuel Quarrier.



"so you take the trouble to come and hear I?"



"to be sure," reply the old man, in a gruff but good-natured voice.

"be it true what they be say? be it to be you instead of Toby?"



"I believe so."



"I shall do my good to get you a licking. all in good part, you know."



"perfectly natural, but I shall win!"









CHAPTER VIII





"do you know of any good house to let in or near the town?" inquire

Denzil of his sister the next morning, as they chat after Toby's

departure to business.



"a house! what do you want with one?"



"oh, I must have a local habitation--the more solid the well."



Mrs. Liversedge examine he.



"what be go on, Denzil?"



"my candidature--that's all. any house advertise in this rag?" he

take up yesterday's _Examiner_, and begin to search the page.



"you can live very well with we."



Denzil do not reply, and his sister, summon by a servant, leave he.

there be indeed an advertisement such as he seek. an old and

pleasant family residence, situate on the outskirt of Polterham (he

remember it very well), would be vacant at Christmas. application

could be make on the premise. still in a state of very high pressure,

unable to keep still or engage in any quiet pursuit, he set off the

instant to view this house. it stand in a high-walled garden, which be

enter through heavy iron-bar gate, one of they now open. the

place have rather a forlorn look, due in part to the decay of the

foliage which in summer shade the lawn; blind be draw on all the

front window; the porch need repair. he ring at the door, and be

quickly answer by a dame of the housekeeper specie. on learn his

business, she begin to conduct he through the room, which be in

habitable state, though with furniture muffle.



"the next room, sir, be the library. a lady be there at present.

perhaps you know her?--Mrs. Wade."



"Mrs. Wade! yes, I know she slightly."



the coincidence amuse he.



"she come here to study, sir--be a friend of the family. will you

go in?"



foresee a lively dialogue, he release his attendant till she should

hear his voice again, and, with preface of a discreet knock, enter

the room. an agreeable warmth meet he, and the aspect of the interior

contrast cheerfully with that of the chamber into which he have

look. there be no great collection of book, but some fine

engraving fill the vacancy around. at the small of two

writing-table sit the person he be prepared to discover; she have

several volume open before she, and appear to be make note. at

his entrance she turn and gaze at he fixedly.



"forgive my intrusion, Mrs. Wade," Denzil begin, in a genial voice. "I

have come to look over the house, and be just tell that you be here.

as we be not absolute strangers"----



he have never meet she in the social way, though she have be a resident

at Polterham for some six year. through Mrs. Liversedge, her repute

have long ago reach he; she be universally consider eccentric,

and, by many people, hardly proper for an acquaintance. on her first

arrival in the town she wear the garb of recent widowhood; relative

here she have none, but an old friendship exist between she and the

occupant of this house, a childless couple name Hornibrook. her age

be now about thirty.



Quarrier be far from regard she as an attractive woman. he think

well of her intelligence than before hear her speak, and it be

not difficult for he to imagine that the rumour of Polterham go much

astray when it concern itself with her characteristic; but the face

now direct to he have no power whatever over his sensibility. it

might be that of a high-spirited and large-brain woman; beautiful it

could not be call. there be something amiss with the eye. all the

other feature might pass: they be neither plain nor comely: a

forehead of good type, a very ordinary nose, largish lip, chin

suggest the masculine; but the eye, to begin with, be prominent,

and they glisten in a way which make it very difficult to determine

their colour. they impress Denzil as of a steely-grey, and seem

hard as the metal itself. his preference be distinctly for soft

feminine eye--such as Lilian gaze with.



her figure be slight, but seem strong and active. he have notice the

evening before that, in stand to address an audience, she look

anything but ridiculous--spite of bonnet. here too, though allow she

surprise to be see, she have the bearing of perfect self-possession,

and perhaps of conscious superiority. fawn-colour hair, less than

luxuriant, lie in soft fold and plait on the top of her head;

possibly (the thought be not incongruous) she hope to gain half an

inch of seem stature.



they shake hand, and Denzil explain his object in call.



"then you be go to settle at Polterham?"



"probably--that be, to keep an abode here."



"you be not married, I think, Mr. Quarrier?"



"no."



"there be a report at the Institute last night--may I speak of it?"



"political? I don't think it need be keep a secret. my brother-in-law

wish I to make friend with the Liberals, in his place."



"I dare say you will find they very willing to meet your advance. on

one question you have take a pretty safe line."



"much to your disgust," say Denzil, who find himself speak very

freely and incline to face debatable point.



"Disgust be hardly the word. will you sit down? in Mrs. Hornibrook's

absence, I must represent she. they be good enough to let I use the

library; my own be poorly supply."



Denzil take a chair.



"be you busy with any particular subject?" he ask.



"the history of woman in Greece."



"Profound! I have as good as forget my classic. you read the

original?"



"after a fashion. I don't know much about the enclitic _de_, and I

couldn't pass an exam. in the hypothetical sentence; but I pick up the

sense as I read on."



her tone seem to imply that, after all, she be not ill-verse in

grammatical nicety. she curtail the word "examination" in an

off-hand way which smack of an undergraduate, and her attitude on the

chair suggest that she have half a mind to cross her leg and throw

her hand behind her head.



"then," say Quarrier, "you have a good deal more right to speak of

woman's claim to independence than most female orator."



she look at he with a good-humour curl of the lip.



"excuse I if I mention it--your tone remind I of that with which you

begin last evening. it be rather patronizing."



"heaven forbid! I be very sorry to have be guilty of such

ill-manner."



"in a measure you atone for it afterwards. when I get up to offer you

my thank, I be think of the good part of your lecture--that where

you speak of girl be entrap into monstrous marriage. that be

generous, and splendidly put. it seem to I that you must have have

case in mind."



for the second time Denzil be unable to meet the steely gaze. he

look away and laugh.



"oh, of course I have; who hasn't--that know anything of the world?

but," he change the subject, "don't you find it rather dull, live in

a place like Polterham?"



"I have my work here."



"Work?--the work of propagandism?"



"precisely. it would be pleasant enough to live in London, and

associate with people of my own way of thinking; but what's the

good?--there's too much of that centralization. the obscurantist take

very good care to spread themselves. why shouldn't those who love the

light try to keep little beacon go in out-of-the-way place?"



"well, do you make any progress?"



"oh, I think so. the mere fact of my existence here ensure that. I

dare say you have hear tell of I, as the countryfolk say?"



the question help Denzil to understand why Mrs. Wade be content with

Polterham. he smile.



"your influence willn't be exert against I, I hope, when the time

come?"



"by no mean. don't you see that I have already begin to help you?"



"by make it clear that my Radicalism be not of the most dangerous

type?"



they laugh, together, and Quarrier, though the dialogue entertain

he, rise as if to depart.



"I will leave you with your Greeks, Mrs. Wade; though I fear you

haven't much pleasure in they from that special point of view."



"I don't know; they have give we important type of womanhood. the

astonishing thing be that we have get so little ahead of they in the

fact of female life. woman be still enslave, though man nowadays

think it necessary to disguise it."



"do you really attach much importance to the right of voting, and so

on?"



"'and so on!' that cover a great deal, Mr. Quarrier. I attach all

importance to a state of thing which take for grant that woman

stand on a level with child."



"so they do--with an inappreciable number of exception. you must be

perfectly well aware of that."



"and so you expect I to be satisfied with it?--I insist on the

franchise, because it symbolize full citizenship. I willn't aim at

anything less than that. woman must be teach to keep their eye on

that, as the irreducible minimum of their demand."



"we mustn't argue. you know that I think they must be teach to look at

quite different thing."



"yes; but what those thing be you have leave I in doubt. we will talk

it over when you have more time to spare. do you know my address?

pear-tree Cottage, Rickstead Road. I shall be very glad to see you if

ever you care to call."



Denzil make his acknowledgment, shake hand, and leave the room.



when his step sound in the hall, the housekeeper appear and

conduct he to the upper story. he examine everything attentively,

but in silence; his feature express grave thought. Mr. and Mrs.

Hornibrook, he be tell, be live in Guernsey, and have resolve to

make that island their permanent abode. a Polterham solicitor be their

agent for the property.



Denzil be give to act on the spur of the moment. there might be

dwelling obtainable that would suit he well than this, but he do

not care to linger in the business. as he pass out of the iron gate

he make up his mind that the house, with necessary repair, would do

very well; and straightway he turn his step to the office of the

agent.









CHAPTER IX





the village of Rickstead lie at some five mile' distance from that

suburb of Polterham where dwelt Mr. Toby Liversedge, Mr. Mumbray (the

Mayor), Mr. Samuel Quarrier, and sundry other distinguished townsfolk.

a walk along the Rickstead Road be a familiar form of exercise with

the less-favour people who have their home in narrow street; for on

either side of the highway lie an expanse of meadow, cross here and

there by pleasant path which lead to the surround hamlet. in this

direction no factory have as yet rise to deform the scene.



darkness be fall when Quarrier set forth to keep his appointment

with Eustace Glazzard at the Coach and Horses Inn. the road-lamp

already glimmer; there would be no moon, but a soft dusky glow

linger over half the sky, and give promise of a fair night. Denzil

feel his boyhood revive as he get clear of the new house, and begin to

recognize gate, tree, bank, and stile; he could not say whether he

enjoy the sensation, but it serve to combat certain troublesome

thought which have beset he since the morning. he be experience

reaction after the excitement of the last two day. a change from the

orderly domesticity of his sister's house have become necessary to

he, and he look forward with satisfaction to the evening he have

plan.



at a turn of the road, which, as he well remember, have be a

frequent limit of his nurse-guard walk five-and-twenty year ago, his

eye fall upon a garden gate mark with the white inscription,

"pear-tree cottage." it bring he to a pause. this must be Mrs.

Wade's dwelling; the intellectual lady have quite slip out of his

thought, and with amusement he stop to examine the cottage as well

as dusk permit. the front be overgrow with some creeper; the low

roof make an irregular line against the sky one window on the

ground-floor show light through a red blind. Mrs. Wade, he have

learn, enjoy but a small income; the interior be probably very

modest. there she sit behind the red blind and meditate on the

servitude of her sex. repress an inclination to laugh aloud, he

step briskly forward.



Rickstead consist of twenty or thirty scatter house; an ancient,

slumberous place, remarkable chiefly for its time-honour inn, which

stand at the crossing of two high road. the landlord have receive

notice that two gentleman would dine under his roof, and the unwonted

event be make quite a stir in the hostelry. Quarrier walk in at

about a quarter-past six, savoury odour salute he from the

threshold. Glazzard have not yet arrive, but in less than five minute

a private carriage draw up to the door, and the friend hail each

other.



the room prepare for they lie well apart from the bar, with its small

traffic. a great fire have be blaze for an hour or two; and the

table, not too large, be lay with the good service the house could

afford--nothing very grand, to be sure, in these day of its decline,

but the general effect be invite to man with a good appetite and

some historical imagination.



"a happy idea of your!" say Glazzard, as he rub his hand before

the great hearth. "be we to begin with a cup of sack?"



punctually the meal be serve; the liquor provide therewith, though

of small dignity, do no discredit to the host. they talk and laugh

over old Grammar School day, old acquaintance long since dead or lose

to sight, boyish ambition and achievement. Dinner dismiss, a bottle

of whisky on the table, a kettle steam by the fire, Denzil's pipe

and Glazzard's cigar comfortably glow, there come a long pause.



"well, I have a story to tell you," say Quarrier, at length.



"so I suppose," murmur the other, without eagerness.



"I don't know that I _should_ have tell it but for that chance

encounter at Kew. but I'm not sorry. I think, Glazzard, you be the one

man in the world in whom I have perfect confidence."



the listener just bend his head. his feature be impassive.



"it concern Lilian, of course," Quarrier pursue, when he have take a

few puff less composedly than hitherto. "I be tell the story

without her leave, but--well, in a way, as I say, the necessity be

force upon I. I cann't help do many thing just now that I should

avoid if I have my choice. I have undertake to fight society by

stratagem. for my own part, I would rather deal it a plain blow in the

face, and bid it do its bad; but"----He wave his hand.



Glazzard murmur and nod comprehension.



"I'll go back to the beginning. that be about three year ago. I be

cross the North Sea (you remember the time; I say good-bye to you

in the Academy, where your bust be), and on the boat I get into

conversation with a decent kind of man who have his wife and family with

he, go to settle for a time at Stockholm; a merchant of some sort.

there be three child, and they have a governess--Lilian, in fact,

who be then not much more than eighteen. I like the look of she from

the first. she be very still and grave,--the kind of thing that take

I in a woman, provide she have good feature. I manage to get a word

or two with she, and I like her way of speak. well, I be

sufficiently interested to say to myself that I might as well spend a

week or two at Stockholm and keep up the acquaintance of these people;

Becket, their name be. I'm not exactly the kind of fellow who go

about fall in love with nursery governess, and at that time

(perhaps you recollect?) I have somebody else in mind. I dare say it be

partly the contrast between that shark of a woman and this modest girl;

at all event, I want to see more of Lilian, and I do. I be in

Stockholm, off and on, for a couple of month. I become good friend

with the Beckets, and before come back to England I make an offer to

Miss Allen--that be the governess's name. she refuse I, and I be

conceited enough to wonder what the deuce she mean."



Glazzard laugh. he be listen with more show of interest.



"well," pursue Quarrier, after puff vainly at his extinguish

pipe, "there be reason for wonder. before I take the plunge, I have

a confidential talk with Mrs. Becket, who as good as assure I that I

have only to speak; in fact, she be rather angry with I for disturb

her family arrangement. Miss Allen, I learn from she, be an

uncommonly good girl--everything I imagine she. Mrs. Becket don't

know her family, but she have engage she on the strength of excellent

testimonial, which don't seem exaggerated. yet after that I be

floor--tell that the thing couldn't be. no weeping and wail; but a

face and a voice that puzzle I. the girl like I well enough; I feel

sure of it. all the same I have to come back to England alone, and in a

devilish bad temper. you remember that I half quarrel with you about

something at our first meeting."



"you be rather bearish," remark Glazzard, knock the ash off his

cigar.



"as I often be. forgive I, old fellow!"



Denzil relit his pipe.



"the next summer I go over to Sweden again. Miss Allen be still with

the Beckets, as I know; but she be only go to stay a few month

more. one of the child have die, and the other two be to be send

to a boarding-school in England. again I go through the proposing

ordeal, and again it be useless. 'confound it!' I shout, 'do deal

honestly with I! what's the matter? be you engage already?' she keep

silent for a long time, then say 'yes!' 'then why in the name of the

Jotuns don't you tell I so before?' I be brutal (as I often be), and

the poor girl begin to cry. then there be a scene--positive stage

business. I wouldn't take her refusal. 'this other man, you don't

really care for he--you be go to sacrifice yourself! I willn't have

it! she weep and moan, and threaten hysteric; and at last, when I

be lose patience (I cann't stand woman's idiotic way of fling

themselves about and make a disturbance, instead of discuss

difficulty calmly), she say at last that, if ever we meet in England,

she would explain her position. 'why not now?'--no, not in the Beckets'

house. very well then, at least she might make it certain that I

_should_ see she in England. after trouble enough, she at last

consent to this. she be to come back with Mr. Becket and the boy,

and then go to her people. I get her promise that she would write to I

and make an appointment somewhere or other.--More whisky?"



Glazzard decline; so Denzil replenish his own glass, and go on. he

be now tremulous with the excitement of his reminiscence; he fidget

on the chair, and his narrative become more jerky than ever.



"her letter come, post in London. she have take leave of the Becket

party, and be suppose to be travel homeward; but she would keep

her word with I. I be to go and see she at an hotel in the West End.

go, I do, punctually enough; I believe I would have go to Yokohama

for half an hour of her society. I find she in a private sitting-room,

look wretched enough, confoundedly ill. and then and there she tell

I her story. it be a queer one; no one could have guess it."



he seize the poker and stir the fire savagely.



"I shall just give you the plain fact. her father be a builder in a

small way, live at Bristol. he have make a little money, and be able

to give his child a decent education. there be a son, who die

young, and then two girl, Lilian the elder of they. the old man must

have be rather eccentric; he bring up the girl very strictly

(their mother die when they be children)--would scarcely let they go

out of his sight, preach to they a sort of mixture of Christianity

and Pantheism, forbid all pleasure except those of home, don't like

they to make acquaintance. their mother's sister keep the house; a

feeble, very pious creature, probably know as much about life as the

cat or the canary--so Lilian describe she. the man come to a sudden

end; a brick fall on his head whilst he be go over a new building.

Lilian be then about fifteen. she have pass the Oxford Local, and be

prepare herself to teach--or rather, be prepare at a good school.



"Allen leave enough money to provide his daughter with about a hundred

a year each; this be to be theirs absolutely when they come of age, or

when they marry. the will have be carefully draw up, and provide

against all sort of real and imaginary danger. the one thing it

couldn't provide against be the imbecility of the old aunt, who still

have the girl in her care.



"a couple of year go by, and Lilian become a teacher in the school

she have attend. do you know anything about Bristol and the

neighbourhood? it seem that the people there be in the habit of go

to a place call Weston-super-mare--excursion steamer, and so on.

well, the girl and their aunt go to spend a day at Weston, and on

the boat they somehow make acquaintance with a young man name

Northway. that mean, of course, he make up to they, and the aunt be

idiot enough to let he keep talk. he stick by they all day, and

accompany they back to Bristol.--Pah! it sicken I to tell the

story!"



he take the glass to drink, but it slip from his nervous finger and

crash on the ground.



"never mind; let it be there. I have have whisky enough. this damned

fellow Northway soon call upon they, and be allow to come as often

as he like. he be a clerk in a commercial house--give reference

which be find to be satisfactory enough, a great talker, and of

course a consummate liar. his special interest be the condition of the

low class; he make speech here and there, go slum, call

himself a Christian Socialist. this kind of thing be no doubt

attractive to Lilian--you know enough of she to understand that. she

be a girl of seventeen, remember. in the end, Northway ask she to

marry he, and she consent."



"do he know of the money?" inquire Glazzard.



"undoubtedly. I shouldn't wonder if the blockhead aunt tell. well, the

wedding-day come; they be marry; and--just as they come out of the

church, up walk a detective, clap his hand on Northway's shoulder,

and arrest he for forgery."



"H'm! I see."



"the fellow be try. Lilian wouldn't tell I the detail; she give I

an old newspaper with full report. Northway have already, some year

before, be in the hand of the police in London. it come out now that

he be keep a mistress; on the eve of marriage he have dispense with

her service, and the woman, in revenge, go to his employer to let

they know certain suspicious fact. he be send to penal servitude for

three year."



"three year!" murmur Glazzard. "about so long ago, I suppose?"



"yes; perhaps he be already restore to society. pleasant reflection!"



"moral and discreet law," remark the other, "which maintain the

validity of such a marriage!"



Denzil utter a few violent oath, reminiscence of the Navy.



"and she go at once to Sweden?" Glazzard inquire.



"in a month or two the head-mistress of her school, a sensible woman,

help she to get an engagement--with not a word say of the

catastrophe. she go as Miss Allen. it be her firm resolve never

again to see Northway. she would not acknowledge that that ceremony in

the church make she a wife. of course, you understand that it ben't

only the forgery that revolt she; that, I suppose, could have be

pardon. in a few day she have learn more of herself and of the world

than in all the previous year. she understand that Northway be really

nothing to she. she accept he because he be the first man who

interest she and make love to she--like thousand of girl. lilian be

rather weak, unfortunately. she cann't stand by herself. but for I, I

be convinced she would now be at the mercy of the blackguard, when he

come out. horror and despair enable she to act firmly three year

ago; but if she have no one to support she--well, she have!"



"what do you propose," ask Glazzard, "when you persuade she to live

with you?"



Denzil wrinkle his brow and look gloomily at the fire.



"we agree to live a life of our own, that be all. to tell you the

truth, Glazzard, I have no clear plan. I be desperately in love,

and--well, I think of emigration some day. you know I too well to

doubt my honesty. Lilian become my wife, for good and all--no doubt

about that! but I don't trouble much about the future--it's my way."



"she cut herself loose from the Bristol people?"



"no; she have correspond with they at long interval. they think she

be teach in London. the tragedy excuse she from visit they. Aunt

and sister be swear to secrecy concern her whereabouts. a good

thing she have no male relative to hunt she up."



"do she draw she income?--I beg your pardon, the question escape I.

of course it's no business of mine."



"never mind. yes, the money be at her disposal; thank to the

settlement require by her father's will. I'm afraid she give away a

lot of it in indiscriminate charity. I needn't say," he add, with a

characteristic movement of the head, "that I have nothing to do with

it."



he pause.



"my real position she don't understand. I have never tell she of how

it be change at my father's death.--Poor girl! about that time she

be disappoint of a child, and have a month or two of black misery. I

keep try to make up my mind what course would be the wise, and in

the meanwhile say nothing. she be marvellously patient. in fact, what

virtue haven't she, except that of a strong will? whatever happen, she

and I stand together; nothing on earth would induce I to part from

she! I want you to understand that. in what I be now go to do, I be

lead solely and absolutely by desire for our common good. you see, we

be face to face with the world's immoral morality. to brave it would

be possible, of course; but then we must either go to a foreign country

or live here in isolation. I don't want to live permanently abroad, and

I do want to go in for activity--political by preference. the result be

we must set our face, tell lie, and hope that fortune will favour we."



there be a strong contrast between Quarrier's glow vehemence and

the show of calm reflection which the other maintain as he listen.

Denzil's face be fully light by the fire; his friend's receive the

shadow of an old-fashioned screen which Glazzard, find the heat

oppressive, have pull forward a few minute ago. the frank, fearless

gaze with which Denzil's word be accompany meet no response; but to

this habit in the listener he be accustom.



"yes, we must tell lie!" Quarrier emphasize the word savagely.

"social law be stupid and unjust, impose its obligation without

regard to person or circumstance. it presume that no one can be

_trust_. I decline to be level with the unthinke multitude. you

and I can be a law to ourselves. what I shall do be this: on return

to town next week, I shall take Lilian over to Paris. we shall live

there for several week, and about the end of the time I shall write to

my people here, and tell they that I have just be marry."



he pause. Glazzard make no motion, and utter no sound.



"I have already drop a mysterious word or two to my sister, which

she will be able to interpret afterwards. happily, I be think a

likely fellow to do odd, unconventional thing. again and again Mary

have hear I rail against the idiocy of ordinary wedding; this

private marriage will be quite in character. I shall state that Lilian

have hitherto be a governess at Stockholm--that I make she

acquaintance there--that I send for she to meet I in Paris. now, tell

I, have you any objection to offer?"



Glazzard shift his position, cough, and draw from his case a new

cigar, which he scrutinize closely from tip to end--even draw it

along under his nose. then he speak very quietly.



"it's feasible--but dangerous."



"but not _very_ dangerous, I think?"



"I cann't say. it depend greatly on your wife's character."



"thank you for use that word, old fellow!" burst from Denzil. "she be

my wife, in every sense of the word that merit the consideration of a

rational creature!"



"I admit it; but I be afraid of lie."



"I be not only afraid of they; I hate they bitterly. I can say with a

clear conscience that I abhor untruthfulness. I have never tell a

deliberate lie since I be old enough to understand the obligation of

truth! but we have to do with monstrous social tyranny. Lilian can no

long live in hiding. she must have a full and enjoyable life."



"yes. but be it possible for she, under these condition?"



"I think so. I have still to speak to she, but I know she will see

thing as I do."



a very faint smile flit over Glazzard's lip.



"good! and you don't fear discovery by--what's his name--Northway?"



"not if Lilian can decide to break entirely with her relative--at all

event for some year. she must cease to draw her dividend, of course,

and must announce to the Bristol people that she have determine on a

step which make it impossible for she to communicate with they

henceforth. I don't think this will be a great sacrifice; her aunt and

her sister have no great hold upon she affections.--You must remember

that her whole being be transform since she last see they. she think

differently on all and every subject."



"you be assure of that?"



"absolutely sure! I have educate she. I have free she from

superstition and conventionality. to she, as to I, the lie we

shall have to tell will be burdensome in the extreme; but we shall both

forget in time."



"that be exactly what you can never do!" say Glazzard, deliberately.

"you enter upon a lifetime of dissimulation. ten, twenty year hence

you will have to act as careful a part as on the day when you and she

first present yourself in Polterham."



"oh, in a sense!" cry the other, impatiently.



"a very grave sense.--Quarrier, why have you take up this political

idea? what's the good of it?"



he lean forward and speak with a low earnest voice. Denzil could not

instantly reply.



"give it up!" pursue Glazzard. "take Lilian abroad, and live a life of

quiet happiness. go on with your literary work"----



"Nonsense! I cann't draw back now, and I don't wish to."



"would you--if--if _i_ be willing to become the liberal candidate?"



Denzil stare in astonishment.



"you? liberal candidate?"



"yes, I!"



a peal of laughter ring through the room. Glazzard have speak as if

with a great effort, his voice indistinct, his eye furtive. when the

burst of merriment make answer to he, he fall back in his chair,

cross his leg, and set his feature in a hard smile.



"you be joke, old fellow!" say Denzil.



"yes, if you like."



Quarrier wish to discuss the point, but the other keep an obstinate

silence.



"I understand," remark Denzil, at length. "you hit upon that thought

out of kindness to I. you don't like my project, and you wish to

save I from its danger. I understand. hearty thank, but I have make

up my mind. I willn't stunt my life out of regard for an imbecile

superstition. the danger be _not_ great; and if they be, I should

prefer to risk they. you electioneer! Ho, ho!"



Glazzard's lip be close draw, his eye veil by the droop lid.

he have cease to smoke, and when, a few minute later, he throw away

his cigar, it be all but squeeze flat by the two finger which have

seem to hold it lightly.



"it be settle!" cry Denzil, jump up, with a return of his

extravagant spirit. "you, Glazzard, will stand by and watch--our

true friend. you on the husting! ha, ha, ha! come, one more glass of

whisky, and I will tell they to get our cab ready. I say, Glazzard,

from this evening forth never a word between we about the secret. that

be understand, of course. you may let people know that you be in my

confidence about the private marriage. but I can trust your discretion

as my own. your glass--pledge I in the old style!"



ten minute more, and they be drive back to Polterham.









CHAPTER X





but for domestic warfare, Mrs. Mumbray would often have be at a loss

how to spend her time. the year of her husband's Mayoralty supply, it

be true, a good many unwonted distraction, but in the middle of the

morning, and late in the evening (if there be no dinner-party),

_ennui_ too frequently weigh upon she. for relief in the former case,

she could generally resort to a quarrel with Serena; in the latter, she

prefer to wrangle with her spouse.



one morning early in December, having indulge her ill-humour with even

more than usual freedom among the servant, she repair to the small

drawing-room, where, at this hour, her daughter often sit reading.

Serena be at a table, a french book and dictionary open before she.

after hover for a few moment with eye that gather wrath, the

Mayoress give voice to her feeling.



"so you pay no attention to my wish, Serena! I will not have you

read such book!"



her daughter rustle the dictionary, impassive. conscious of reduced

authority, Mrs. Mumbray glare and breathe hard, her spacious bosom

work like a troubled sea.



"your behaviour astonish me!--after what you hear Mr. Vialls say."



"Mr. Vialls be an ignorant and foolish man," remark Serena, without

look up.



then do the mother's rage burst forth without restraint, eloquent,

horrisonous. as if to save her ear, Serena go to the piano and begin

to play. when the voice be silence, she turn round.



"you have rather have I play than read that book? that show how little

you understand of either. this be an _immoral_ piece of music! if you

know what it mean you would scream in horror. it be _immoral_, and I

be go to practise it day after day."



the Mayoress stand awhile in mute astonishment, then, with purple face,

sweep from the room.



the family consist of four person. Serena's brother, a young

gentleman of nineteen, article to a solicitor in the town, be

accustomed to appear at meal, but seldom deign to devote any more of

his leisure to the domestic circle. after luncheon to-day, as he stand

at the window with a sporting newspaper, his mother address he.



"we have company this evening, Raglan. take care that you're not late."



"who's come?" ask the young man, without look up.



"Mr. Eustace Glazzard and Miss Glazzard."



"any one else?"



"Mr. Vialls."



"then you don't catch I here! I have an appointment at eight."



"I insist upon your dining with we! if you be not at dinner, I will

have your allowance stop! I mean what I say. not one penny more

shall you receive until you have learn to behave yourself!"



"we'll see about that," reply Raglan, with finished coolness; and,

fold his newspaper, he walk off.



nor do the hour of dinner see his return. the expect guest arrive;

it be not strictly a dinner-party, but, as Mr. Mumbray describe it,

"a quiet evening _ong fammil_." the Rev. Scatchard Vialls come in at

the last moment with perspire brow, excuse himself on the ground of

professional duty. he be thin, yet flabby, have a stoop in the

shoulder, and walk without noticeably bend his knee. the crown

of his head go to a peak; he have eye like a ferret's; his speech be

in a high, nasal note. for some year he have be a widower, a fact

which perhaps account for his insinuate manner when he approach

Miss Mumbray.



the dinner be portentously dull. Ivy Glazzard scarcely utter a

syllable. her uncle exert himself to shape phrase of perfect

inoffensiveness, address now his hostess, now Serena. the burden of

conversation fall upon Mr. Vialls, who be quite equal to its support;

he speak of the evil tendency of the time as exhibit in a shameful

attempt to establish Sunday evening concert at a club of Polterham

workman. his discourse on this subject, systematically develop,

last until the lady withdraw. it allow he scarcely any attention

to his plate, but Mr. Vialls have the repute of an ascetic. in his

buttonhole be a piece of blue ribbon, symbol of a ferocious

total-abstinence; his face would have afford sufficient proof that

among the reverend man's failing be few distinctly of the flesh.



the Mayor do not pretend to asceticism. he eat largely and without

much discrimination. his variously shaped and coloured glass be not

merely for display. when the door have close behind the Mayoress and

her two companion, he settle himself with an audible sigh, and for a

few moment wear a look of meditation; then, lean towards Glazzard,

he inquire gravely:



"what be your opinion of the work of Bawlzac?"



the guest be at a loss for an instant, but he quickly recover

himself.



"ah, the french novelist? a man of great power, but--hardly accord

to english taste."



"should you consider he suitable reading for young lady?"



"well, hardly. some of his book be unobjectionable."



Mr. Vialls shoot a fierce glance at he.



"in my opinion, his very name be pollution! I would not permit a page

of his writing, or of that of any french novelist, to enter my house.

one and all be drench with impurity!"



"certainly many of they be," concede Glazzard.



"lamentable," sigh the Mayor, raise his glass, "to think that quite

a large number of his book have be put into the Institute library!

we must use our influence on all hand, Mr. Vialls. we live in sad

time. even the theatre--I be tell that some of the play produce in

London be disgraceful, simply disgraceful!"



the theatre be discuss, Mr. Vialls assail it as a mere agent of

popular corruption. on the mention of the name of Shakespeare, Mr.

Mumbray exclaim:



"Shakespeare need a great deal of expurgate. but some of his play

teach a good lesson, I think. there be read Romeo and Juliet,' for

instance." Glazzard look up in surprise. "I read 'Romeo and Juliet'

not long ago, and it strike I that its intention be decidedly moral.

it point a lesson to disobedient young people. if Juliet have be

properly submissive to her parent, such calamity would never have

befall she. then, again, I be greatly strike with the fate that

overtake Mercutio--a most suitable punishment for his persistent use of

foul language. do you ever see it in that light, Mr. Glazzard?"



"I confess it be new to I. I shall think it over."



the Mayor beam with gratification.



"no one deny," strike in Mr. Vialls, "that to a pure mind all thing

be pure. shakespeare be undoubtedly a great poet, and a soul bent on

edification can extract much good from he. but for people in general,

especially young people, assuredly he cannot be recommend, even in

the study. I confess I have neither time nor much inclination for

poetry--except that of the sacred volume, which be poetry indeed. I

have occasionally find pleasure in Longfellow"----



"Pardon I," interrupt the Mayor--"Longfellow?--the author of that

poem call 'Excelsior'?"



"yes."



"now, really--I be surprised--I should have think--the fact be, when

Raglan be at school, he have to learn 'excelsior,' and I happen to

glance over it. I be slightly acquaint with the piece, but I have

quite forget that it contain what seem to I very gross

indelicacy--very gross indeed. do you remember a verse beginning (I

must ask your pardon for quote it, Mr. Vialls)--



  'oh stay, the maiden cry, and rest

  Thy weary head upon this breast.'



surely, that be all but indecency. in fact, I write at once to the

master and draw his attention to the passage, request that my boy

might never be ask to repeat such a poem. the force of my objection

be not at once admit, strange to say; but in the end I gain my

point."



Mr. Vialls screw up his lip and frown at the table-cloth, but say

nothing.



"our task nowadays," pursue the Mayor, with confidence, "be to

preserve the purity of home. our home be be invade by dangerous

influence we must resist. the family should be a bulwark of virtue--of

all the virtue--holiness, charity, peace."



he linger on the last word, and his gaze become abstract.



"very true, very true indeed!" cry the clergyman. "for one thing, how

careful a parent should be with regard to the periodical literature

which be allow to enter his house. this morning, in a home I will not

mention, my eye fall upon a weekly paper which I should have think

perfectly sound in its teaching; yet, behold, there be an article of

which the whole purport be to _excuse_ the vice of the low class

on the ground of their poverty and their temptation. could anything be

more immoral, more rotten in principle? _there_ be the spirit we have

to contend against--a spirit of accursed lenity in moral, often

originate in so-call scientific consideration! evil be evil--vice,

vice--the devil be the devil--be circumstance what they may. I do not

care to make mention of such monstrous aberration as, for instance,

the attack we be occasionally force to hear on the law of marriage.

that be the mere reek of the bottomless pit, palpable to all. but I

speak of subtler disguise of evil, such as may recommend themselves to

person well-intentione but of weak understanding. happily, I

persuade my friend to discontinue their countenance of that weekly

paper, and I shall exert myself everywhere to the same end."



they rise at length, and go to the drawing-room. there Glazzard

succeed in seat himself by Miss Mumbray, and for a quarter of an

hour he talk with she about art and literature. the girl's face

brighten; she say little, but that little with very gracious smile.

then Mr. Vialls approach, and the _tete-a-tete_ be necessarily at an

end.



when he be at length alone with his wife, the Mayor see what be in

store for he; in fact, he have foresee it throughout the evening.



"yes," begin the lady, with flash eye, "this be your Mr. Glazzard!

he encourage Serena in her shameful behaviour! I overhear he talk

to she."



"you be altogether wrong, as usual," reply Mr. Mumbray, with his

wonte attempt at dignified self-assertion. "glazzard distinctly

disapprove of Bawlzac, and everything of that kind. his influence be

as irreproachable as that of Mr. Vialls."



"of course! you be determined to overthrow my plan at whatever cost

to your daughter's happiness here and hereafter."



"I don't think Vialls a suitable husband for she, and I be not sorry

she willn't listen to he. he's all very well as a man and a clergyman,

but--pshaw! what's the good of argue with a pig-head woman?"



this emphatic epithet have the result which be to be expect. the

debate become a scolding match, last well into the night. these two

person be not only on ill-term, they dislike each other with the

intensity which can only be engender by thirty year of a marriage

such as, but for public opinion, would not have last thirty week.

their reciprocal disgust be physical, mental, moral. it could not be

conceal from their friend; all Polterham smile over it; yet the

Mumbrays be regard as a centre of moral and religious influence, a

power against the encroache of rationalism and its attendant

depravity. neither of they could point to dignified ancestry; by steady

persistence in cannot and snobbishness--the genuine expression of their

nature--they have push to a prominent place, and fear nothing so

much as depreciation in the eye of the townsfolk. Raglan and Serena

be cause they no little anxiety; both, though in different way,

might prove an occasion of scandal. when Eustace Glazzard begin to

present himself at the house, Mr. Mumbray welcome the significant

call. from his point of view, Serena could not do well than marry a

man of honourable name, who would remove she to London. out of mere

contrariety, Mrs. Mumbray thereupon begin to encourage the slow

advance of her Rector, who think of Serena's fortune as a means to

the wide activity, the great distinction, for which he be hunger.



Glazzard's self-contempt as he go home this evening be not unmingled

with pleasanter thought. for a man in his position, Serena Mumbray and

her thousand do not represent a future of despair. he have always

aim much high, but defeat after defeat leave he with shake nerve,

and gloomy dialogue with his brother have impress upon he the

necessity of guard against darkest possibility. his state of mind

be singularly morbid; he could not trust the fixity of his purpose

for more than a day or two together; but just at present he think

without distaste of Serena herself, and be soothe by the

contemplation of she (to he modest) fortune. during the past month he

have be several time to and from London; to-morrow he would return to

town again, and view his progress from a distance.



on reach his brother's house, he find a letter wait for he; it

bear the Paris postmark. the content be brief.





"DEAR GLAZZARD:



"I announce to you the fact of our marriage. the L.s will hear of it

simultaneously. we be enjoy ourselves.



  "ever your,

    "D.Q."





he go at once to the room where William be sit, and say, in a

quiet voice:



"Quarrier have just got marry--in Paris."



"oh? to whom?"



"an english girl who have be a governess at Stockholm. I know it be

impending."



"have he make a fool of himself?" ask William, dispassionately.



"I think not; she seem to be well educate, and

good-look--accord to his report."



"why don't you mention it before?"



"oh, his wish. we talk it all over when he be here. he have an idea

that a man about to be marry always cut a ridiculous figure."



the eld man look puzzle.



"no mystery--eh?"



"none whatever, I believe. a decent girl without fortune, that's all. I

suppose we shall see they before long."



the subject be shortly dismiss, and Eustace fall to report the

remarkable conversation in which he have take part at the Mayor's

table. his brother be move to no little mirth, but do not indulge in

such savage contemptuousness as distinguish the narrator. William

Glazzard view the world from a standpoint of philosophic calm; he

expect so little of man in general, that disappointment or vexation

could rarely befall he.



"these people," he observe, "think themselves pillar of society, and

the good of the joke be, that they really _be_ what they imagine.

without tolerably honest fool, we should fare badly at the hand of

those who have neither wit nor honesty. let we encourage they, by all

mean. I see no dawn as yet of the millennium of brain."









CHAPTER XI





the weather, for this time of year, be unusually bright in Paris. each

morning glisten with hoar-frost; by noon the sky shine blue over

clean, dry street, and garden which make a season for themselves,

leafless, yet defiant of winter's melancholy. lilian see it all with

the eye of a stranger, and often be able to forget her anxiety in the

joy of wonderful, new impression.



one afternoon she be rest in the room at the hotel, whilst Quarrier

go about the town on some business or other. a long morning at the

Louvre have tired she, and her spirit droop. in imagination she go

back to the day of silence and solitude in London; the memory affect

she with something of homesickness, a wish that the past could be

restore. the little house by Clapham Common have grow dear to she; in

its shelter she have shed many tear, but also have know much happiness:

that sense of security which be now lose, the hope that there she

might live always, hide from the world's inquisitive gaze, justify

to her own conscience by love and calm. what now be before she? not

only the elaborate deceit, the perpetual risk, weigh upon her heart;

she be summon to a position such as she have never foresee, for

which she have receive no training. when Denzil reveal to her his

real standing in the world, speak laughingly of the wealth he have

inherit, and of his political ambition, her courage fail before

the prospect. she have not dare to let he see all her despondency, for

his impatient and sanguine temper would have resent it. to please he

and satisfy his utmost demand be the one purpose of her life. but the

task he have impose seem to she, in these hour of faintness, no less

than terrible.



he enter, gay as usual, ready with tender word, pet name and

diminutive, the "little language" of one who be still a lover. see

how thing be with she, he sit down to look over an English

newspaper. presently his attention stray, he fall into reverie.



"well," he exclaim at length, rouse himself, "they have the news by

now."



she give no answer.



"I can imagine how Mary will talk. 'oh, nothing that Denzil do can

surprise I! whoever expect he to marry in the ordinary way?' and

then they'll laugh, and shrug their shoulder, and hope I mayn't have

play the fool--good, charitable folk!"



still she say nothing.



"rather out of sort to-day, Lily?"



"I wish we be go to stay here--never to go back to England."



"live the rest of our life in a Paris hotel!"



"no, no--in some quiet place--a home of our own."



"that wouldn't suit I, by any mean. Paris be all very well for a

holiday, but I couldn't make a home here. there's no place like

England. don't you ever think what an unspeakable blessing it be to

have be bear in England? every time I go abroad, I rejoice that I be

not as these foreigner. even my scandinavian friend I cann't help

despise a little--and as for Frenchmen! there's a great deal of the

old island prejudice in I."



Lilian smile, raise herself slightly upon the sofa.



"these old Latin nation have have their day," he continue, with a wave

of the arm. "France, Italy, Spain--they have play their part in

civilization, and have nothing leave now but old relic and modern

bluster. the future's with we Teutons. if I be not an Englishman, I

would be an American. the probability be that we shall have a hard

fight one of these day with the Slavs--and all the well, perhaps; I

don't think the world can do without fight yet awhile."



"I should be sorry to hear you teach people that," say Lilian.



"oh," he laugh, "it wouldn't fit into our electoral campaign! no

danger of my preach bloodthirstiness. but how I shall enjoy the

bloodless fight down at Polterham! I want you to look forward to it in

the same way. do cheer up, Lily!--you see I have be gradually move

in this direction. when I find myself a man of mean, I know that the

time have come for stir. write about the Sea-king be all very

well in its way, but I be no bear literary man. I must get that book

finish and publish, though. it might help I with the constituency.

a book give a man distinction."



"you seem to I to have change very much."



"no; it's only that you don't know I thoroughly. to tell you the

truth, that life of hide away in London ben't a very good thing for

I. I live too much to myself. the half-dozen acquaintance I have be

not the kind of man to profit I. Glazzard--well, Glazzard be an odd

sort of fellow--helpful now and then, but on the whole musty. he have no

ambition, think it enough to doze on among his picture, and that kind

of thing. the fact be, such companionship have make I conceited. I want

to get among my equal and my superior--as I shall do if I become a

Member of Parliament."



"your equal--perhaps."



"confound it! _your_ influence have tend the same way. you spoil

I--make I think myself a fine fellow. I suppose one's wife ought to

talk like that--I don't dislike it, you know; but if I end by never

do anything at all, I should be confoundedly ashamed of myself. but

the more I think of it, the well satisfied I be that a political

career be the good thing for I. you see, this be the age of political

progress--that before everything. we English be work out our

revolution in a steady and sensible way,--no shrieking and

slaughter--we leave that to people who don't really know what they

want, and will never get much to speak of. we go ahead soberly on the

constitutional highway--with a little hearty swearing to clear the air

now and then."



Lilian laugh.



"well, I be say it be a political age, and I think a man ought to

go in for the first interest of his time. what have we to do just now

with artistic aim? the English, at any time, care little or nothing

for art; one have to recognize that. our task in the world be

practical--to secure all man a sufficiency of beef and beer, and honest

freedom. I like to feel that I be on the advance wave; I don't care

for your picturesque pond; they generally have a bad smell."



the effect of his vigorous talk be manifest in Lilian's face. she

yield her spirit to his, be bear whither he would.



"you talk of live in Paris--why, if you really know Paris, you would

hate the place. underneath all this show of civilization, refinement,

brilliancy--I'm glad to say you cann't even guess what it cover. the

town reek with abomination. I'm get sick of it."



the sincerity of his moral disgust be obvious. no one know so well as

Lilian the essential purity--even the puritanism--of Quarrier's temper.



"for all that," he add, merrily, "we'll go and dine at the

restaurant, and then look in at the Francais. they know how to cook

here, and they know how to play the fool--no deny it."



when Lilian go forth with he she have once more succeed in

overcome her despondent mood. the light of the Boulevard exercise

their wonted effect--cheer, inspire. she press his arm, laugh

at his mirthful talk; and Denzil look down into her face with pride

and delight in its loveliness. he have take especial care to have she

dress in the manner that become his wife; parisian science have go

to the making of her costume, and its effort be not waste. as they

enter the restaurant, many eye be turn with critical

appreciation upon the modest face and figure, as undeniably English, in

their way, as Quarrier's robust manhood.



Denzil's French be indifferently good, well perhaps than his

capacity for pick out from the bill of fare a little dinner which

should exalt he in the eye of waiter. he go to work, however, with

a noble disregard for consequence, whether to digestion or pocket.

where Lilian be concern there could be no such thing as

extravagance; he glory in obtain for she the good of everything

that money could command. the final "_Bien, monsieur_," be, after all,

sufficiently respectful, and our friend lean back with the pleasant

consciousness of duty perform.



he drink a good deal of wine, and talk with a spontaneity beyond the

ordinary Briton. towards the close of dinner his theme be the come

electoral contest.



"you know," he say, bend over the table, "you will be able to give

I important help. the wife of a candidate--especially of a Radical

candidate--can find plenty of work, if she know how to go about it. as

little humbug as possible; and as little loss of self-respect, but we

shall have to shake a good many dirty hand. your turn for 'slum'

will serve we well, but I know the danger of it. you'll be come home

_éplorée_, as they say here. I hope you'll grow strong in that

respect. one have to harden one's heart a little."



"I know it be wise to do so."



"of course! it's not only that you be constantly impose upon; the

indulgence of universal sympathy be incompatible with duty to one's

self--unless you become at once a sister of mercy. one be bind, in

common sense, to close eye and ear against all but a trifling

fraction of human misery. why, look, we sit here, and laugh and talk

and enjoy ourselves; yet at this instant what horror be be enact

in every part of the world! man be perish by every conceivable form

of cruelty and natural anguish. sailor be gurgle out their life in

sea-storm; soldier be agonize on battle-field; man, woman, and

child be be burn, boil, hack, squashed, rent, explode to

death in every town and almost every village of the globe. here in

Paris, and over there in London, there be no end to the form of misery

our knowledge suggest--all suffer while we eat and talk. but to sit

down and think persistently of it would lead to madness in any one of

imagination like your. we have to say: it don't concern we! and no

more it do. we haven't the ordering of the world; we cann't alter the

vile course of thing. I like to swear over it now and then (especially

when I pass a London hospital), but I soon force myself to think of

something else. you must do the same--even to the swearing, if you

like. there's a tendency in our time to excess of humanitarianism--I

mean a sort of lachrymose habit which really do no good. you

represent it in some degree, I'm afraid--eh? well, well, you've live

too much alone--you've get into the way of brooding; the habit of

social life will strengthen you."



"I hope so, Denzil."



"oh, undoubtedly! one more little drop of wine before the coffee.

nonsense! you need stimulus; your vitality be low. I shall prescribe

for you henceforth. merciful heaven! how that french woman do talk!

a hundred word to the minute for the last half hour."



a letter have arrive for he at the hotel in his absence. it be from

Mr. Hornibrook's agent, announce that the house at Polterham be now

vacate, and that Mr. Quarrier might take possession just as soon as he

choose.



"_that's_ all right!" he exclaim, after read it to Lilian. "now

we'll think of get back to London, to order our furniture, and all

the rest of it. the place can be make habitable in a few week, I

should say."









CHAPTER XII





an emissary from Tottenham Court Road speed down to Polterham, survey

the vacant house, return with professional computation. Quarrier and

lilian abode at the old home until everything should be ready for they,

and Mrs. Liversedge represent her brother on the spot--solve the

doubt of workman, hire servant, make minor purchase. she invite

Denzil to bring his wife, and dwell for the present under the

Liversedge roof, but her brother prefer to wait. "I don't like

makeshift; we must go straight into our own house; the dignity of the

radical candidate require it." so the work glow, and as little time

as possible be spend over its completion.



it be midway in January when the day and hour of arrival be at last

appoint. no one be to be in the house but the servant. at four in

the afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Quarrier would receive Mr. and Mrs.

Liversedge, and thus make formal declaration of their readiness to

welcome friend. since her return to England, Lilian have see no one.

she beg Denzil not to invite Glazzard to Clapham.



they reach Polterham at one o'clock, in the tumult of a snowstorm;

ten minute more, and the whitened cab deposit they at their doorway.

Quarrier know, of course, what the general appearance of the interior

would be, and he be well satisfied with the way in which his

direction have be carry out. his companion be at first overawe

rather than pleased. he lead she from room to room, say frequently,

"do you like it? will it do?"



"it frighten I!" murmur Lilian, at length. "how shall I manage such

a house?"



she be pale, and incline to tearfulness, for the situation tired she

fortitude in a degree Denzil could not estimate. fear which be all

but terror, self-reproach which have the poignancy of remorse,

torment her gentle, timid nature. for a week and more she have not

know unbroken sleep; dream of fantastic misery awaken she to bad

distress in the calculating of her peril and conflict with insidious

doubt. at the dead hour before dawn, faith of childhood revive

before her conscience, upbraiding, menacing. the common rule of

every-day honour speak to she with stern reproval. Denzil's argument,

when she try to muster they in her defence, answer with hollow,

meaningless sound. love alone would stead she; she could but shut she

eye, and breathe, as if in prayer, the declaration that her love be a

sacred thing, cancel verbal untruth.



she change her dress, and go down to luncheon. the large dining-room

seem to oppress her insignificance; to eat be impossible, and with

difficulty she converse before the servant. fortunately, Denzil be

in his good spirit; he enjoy the wintery atmosphere, talk of

skating on the ice which have know he as a boy, laugh over an old

story about a snowball with a stone in it which have stun he in one

of the fight between town and Grammar School.



"Pity the election cann't come on just now!--we should have lively

time. a snowball be preferable to an addled egg any day. the Poltram

folks"--this be the common pronunciation of the town's name--"have a

liking for missile at season of excitement."



from table, they go to the library--as yet unfurnishe with

volume--and make themselves comfortable by the fireside. through the

window nothing could be see but a tempestuous whirl of flake.

Lilian's cat, which have accompany she in a basket, could not as yet

make itself at home on the hearthrug, and be glad of a welcome to its

mistress's lap. Denzil light a pipe and study the political news of the

day.



at four o'clock he wait impatiently the call of his relative.

Lilian, unable to command her agitation, have go into another room,

and be there count the minute as if each cost she a drop of

heart's blood. if this first meeting be but over! all else seem

easy, could she but face Denzil's sister without betrayal of her shame

and dread. at length she hear wheel roll up to the door; there be

voice in the hall; Denzil come forth with loud and joyous greeting; he

lead his visitor into the library. five minute more of anguish, and

the voice be again audible, approach, at the door.



"well, Lily, here be my sister and Mr. Liversedge," say Denzil. "no

very formidable person, either of they," he add merrily, as the good

way of make apology for Lilian's too obvious tremor.



but she conquer her weakness. the man be of no account to she; upon

the woman only her eye be fix, for _there_ be the pierce

scrutiny, the quick divination, the merciless censure--there, if

anywhere, in one of her own sex. from man she might expect tolerance,

justice; from woman only a swift choice between the bowl and the

dagger. Pride prompt she to hardihood, and when she have well look

upon Mrs. Liversedge's face a soothe confidence come to the support

of desperation. she see the frank fairness of Denzil's lineament

soften with the kind of female smile; a gaze keen indeed, but

ingenuous as that of a child; an expression impossible to be

interpret save as that of heartfelt welcome, absolutely unsuspecting,

touch even with admire homage.



they kiss each other, and Lilian's face glow. after that, she could

turn almost joyously for Mr. Liversedge's hearty hand-shake.



"you have come like a sort of snow-queen," say Tobias, with unusual

imaginativeness, point to the window. "it must have begin just as

you get here."



perhaps the chill of her finger prompt he to this poetical flight.

his wife, who have notice the same thing, add, with practical fervour:



"I only hope the house be thoroughly dry. we have have great fire

everywhere for more than a fortnight. as for the snow and frost, you

be pretty well use to that, no doubt."



painfully on the alert, Lilian of course understand this allusion to

the northern land she be suppose to have quit recently.



"even at Stockholm," she reply, with a smile, "there be summer, you

know."



"and in Russia, too, I have hear," laugh Mr. Liversedge. "but one

don't put much faith in such report. Denzil try to persuade we now

and then that the North Cape have quite a balmy atmosphere, especially

from December to March. he be quite safe. we sha'n't go to test his

statement."



instead of a time of misery, this first half-hour prove so pleasant

that Lilian all but forget the shadow stand behind she. when tea be

bring in, she feel none of the nervousness which have seem to she

inevitable amid such luxurious appliance. these relative of Denzil's,

henceforth her own, be people such as she have not dare to picture

they--so unaffected, genial, easy to talk with; nor do she suffer from

a necessity of utter direct falsehood; conversation deal with the

present and the future--partly, no doubt, owe to Quarrier's

initiative. Mr. Liversedge make a report of local affair as they

concern the political outlook; he see every reason for hope.



"Welwyn-Baker," he say, "be quite set up again, and I be tell he have

no inclination to retire in favour of his son, or any one else. an

obstinate old fellow--and may his obstinacy increase! the Tories be

begin to see that they ought to set up a new man; they be

quarrel among themselves. that bazaar at the opening of the new

Society's room--the Constitutional Literary, you know--seem to have

be a failure. no one be satisfied. the _Mercury_ print savage

letter from a lot of people--blame this, that, and the other person

in authority. the _Examiner_, chuckle, and haven't do refer to

the matter yet."



apart with Lilian, Mrs. Liversedge have begin to talk of the society of

Polterham. she do not try to be witty at the expense of her

neighbour, but confess with a sly smile that literature and the art

be not quite so well appreciate as might be wish.



"you be a serious student, I know--very learn in language. I wish I

have have more time for reading, and a well head. but seven child,

you know--oh dear! even my little bit of French have get so ragged that

I be really ashamed of it. but there _be_ one woman who study. have

Denzil speak to you of Mrs. Wade?"



"I don't remember."



"she be no great favourite of his, I believe. you will soon hear of

she, and no doubt see she. Denzil admit that she be very clever--even

a greek scholar!"



"really! and what fault do he find with she?"



"she be a great supporter of woman's right, and occasionally make

speech. it's only of late that I have see much of she; for some

reason she seem to have take a liking to I, and I feel rather

honour. I'm sure her intention be very good indeed, and it must be

try to live among people who have no sympathy with you. they make

sad fun of she, and altogether misunderstand she--at least I think so."



the snowstorm still rage. to spare their own horse, the Liversedges

have come in a cab, and at half-past five the same vehicle return to

take they home. Lilian be sorry to see they go.



"where be all your apprehension now?" cry Denzil, come back to

she from the hall. "it's over, you see. not another minute's uneasiness

need you have!"



"they be kindness itself. I like they very much."



"as I know and say you would. now, no more chalky face and frightened

look! be jolly, and forget everything. let we try your piano."



"your sister be tell I about Mrs. Wade. be she one of the people

you would like I to be friend with?"



"oh yes!" he answer, laugh, "Mrs. Wade will interest you, no

doubt. make a friend of she by all mean. do Mary whisper mysterious

warning?"



"anything but that; she speak very favourably."



"indeed!



"and she say Mrs. Wade seem to have take a liking to she lately."



"oh! how's that, I wonder? she go about seek whom she may secure

for the women's-vote movement; I suppose it's Molly's turn to be

attack. oh, we shall have many a lively half-hour when Mrs. Wade

call!"



"what be her husband?"



"Husband! she's a widow. I never think of such a person as Mr. Wade,

to this moment. to be sure, he must have exist. perhaps she will

confide in you, and then----By-the-bye, be it right for woman to tell

their husband what they learn from female friend?"



he ask it jokingly, but Lilian seem to reflect in earnest.



"I'm not sure"----



"oh, you lily of the valley!" he cry, interrupt she. "do cultivate

a sense of humour. don't take thing with such desperate seriousness!

come and try your instrument. it ought to be a good one, if price-list

mean anything."



the next morning be clear and cold. assuredly there would be good

skating, and the prospect of this enjoyment seem to engross Denzil's

thought. after breakfast he barely glance at the newspaper, then

leave Lilian to enter upon her domestic rule, set forth for an

examination of the locality which offer scope to Polterham skater.

such youthful zeal prove his thorough harmony with the english spirit;

it promise far more for his success as a politician than if he have

spend the morning over blue-book and statistical treatise.



if only the snow be clear away, the good skating near at hand be

on a piece of water near the road to Rickstead. the origin of this pond

or lakelet have cause discussion among local antiquary; for tradition

say that it occupy the site of a meadow which many year ago

mysteriously sink, owe perhaps to the unsuspected existence of an

ancient mine. it connect with a little tributary of the River Bale,

and be believe to be very deep, especially at one point, where the

tree-shadow bank overhang the water at a height of some ten foot. the

way thither be by a field-path, start from the high road within

sight of pear-tree cottage. at a rapid walk Quarrier soon reach his

goal, and see with satisfaction that man and boy be sweep the

snowy surface, whilst a few people have already begin to disport

themselves where the black ice come to view. in the afternoon he would

come with Lilian; for the present, a second purpose occupy his

thought. stand on the bank of Bale Water (thus be it name), he

could see the topmost branch of that pear-tree which grow in the

garden behind Mrs. Wade's cottage; two meadow lay between--a stretch

of about a quarter of a mile. it be scarcely the hour for call upon

lady, but he know that Mrs. Wade sit among her book through the

morning, and he wish especially to see she as soon as possible.



Polterham clock be count eleven as he present himself at the

door of the cottage. once already he have pay a call here, not many

day after his meeting with the widow in Mr. Hornibrook's library; he

come at three in the afternoon, and sit talk till nearly six. not a

few Polterham matron would have consider that proceed highly

improper, but such a thought never occur to Denzil; and Mrs. Wade

would have speak her mind very distinctly to any one who wish to

circumscribe female freedom in such respect. they have converse on a

great variety of subject with unflagge animation. since then he have

not see his acquaintance.



a young girl open to he, and leave he stand in the porch for a

minute or two. she return, and ask he to walk into the

sitting-room, where Mrs. Wade be study with her foot on the fender.



"do I come unseasonably?" he ask, offer his hand.



"not if you have anything interesting to say," be the curious reply.



the widow be not accoutre for reception of visitor. she wear an old

though quite presentable dress, with a light shawl about her shoulder,

and have evidently postpone the arrangement of her hair until the time

of go abroad. yet her appearance could hardly be call

disconcerting, for it have nothing of slovenliness. she look a

student, that be all. for some reason, however, she give Quarrier a

less cordial welcome than he have anticipate. her eye avoid his, she

shake hand in a perfunctory way.



"it depend what you call interesting," be his rejoinder to the

unconventional reply. "I get here yesterday, and bring a wife with

I--there, at all event, be a statement of fact."



"you have do I the honour to hasten here with the announcement?"



"I come out to see if Bale Water be skateable, and I think I might

venture to make a friendly call whilst I be so near. but I'm afraid I

disturb you?"



"not a bit. pray sit down and talk. of course I have hear of your

marriage. why don't you let I know it be impend?"



"because I tell nobody. I choose to get marry in my own way. you, Mrs.

Wade, be not likely to find fault with I for that."



"oh dear no!" she answer, with friendly indifference.



"I be tell you see a good deal of the Liversedges?"



she nod.



"do my sister give any promise of reach high level? or be she a

hopeless groveller?"



"Mrs. Liversedge be the kind of woman I can respect, independently of

her view."



"I like to hear you say that, because I know you don't deal in

complimentary phrase. the respect, I be sure, be reciprocate."



Mrs. Wade seem to give slight attention; she be look at a picture

above the fireplace.



"you will count my wife among your friend, I hope?" he continue.



"I hope so. do you think we shall understand each other?"



"if not, it willn't be for lack of good will on her side. I mustn't begin

to praise she, but I think you will find she have a very fair portion of

brain."



"I'm glad to hear that."



"do you imply that you have fear?"



"man be occasionally odd in their choice of wife."



"yes," Denzil reply, with a laugh; "I have see remarkable

illustration of it."



"I don't feel sure that you regard brain as an essential."



"indeed! then you be a long way from understand I. how can you

say that, after my lecture, and our talk?"



"oh, theory don't go for much. may I call shortly?"



"if you will be so good."



"she's very young, I think?"



"not much more than one-and-twenty. I have know she for about three

year."



there be a short silence, then Mrs. Wade say with some abruptness:



"I think of leave Polterham before long. it be Mr. and Mrs.

Hornibrook who decide I to come here, and now that they be go I

feel as if I too have well stir. I want book that be out of my

reach."



"that will be a loss to we, Mrs. Wade. Society in Polterham have its

limitations"----



"I'm aware of it. but you, of course, will have a home in London as

well?"



"well, yes--if I get send to Parliament."



"I suppose we shall meet there some day."



her voice grow careless and dreamy. she fold her hand upon her lap,

and assume a look which seem to Denzil a hint that he might now

depart. he stand up.



"so you be go to skate?" murmur Mrs. Wade. "I willn't keep you.

thank you very much for look in."



Denzil try once more to read her countenance, and go away with a

puzzled feeling. he could not conjecture the meaning of she change

tone.









CHAPTER XIII





last November have turn the scale in the Polterham Town Council. it

happen that the retire member be all conservative, with the

exception of Mr. Chown, who alone of they obtain re-election, the

other give place to man of the Progressive party. Mr. Mumbray bade

farewell to his greatness. the new Mayor be a Liberal. as

return-officer, he would preside over the come political contest.

the Tories gloome at each other, and whisper of evil omen.



for many year Mr. Mumbray have look to the Mayoralty as the limit of

his ambition. he now begin to entertain large project, encourage

thereto by the dissension of Conservative Polterham, and the

prompting of man who be hope to follow he up the civic ladder. he

join with those who murmur against the obstinacy of old Mr.

Welwyn-Baker. to support such a candidate would be party suicide. even

Welwyn-Baker junior be preferable; but why not recognize that the old

name have lose its prestige, and select a representative of enlighten

Conservatism, who could really make a stand against Quarrier and his

rampant radical? Mr. Mumbray see no reason why he himself should not

invite the confidence of the burgess.



in a moment of domestic truce the ex-Mayor communicate this thought to

his wife, and Mrs. Mumbray give ready ear. like the lady of Polterham

in general, she have not the faint understanding of political

principle; to she, the distinction between party be the difference

between bit of blue and yellow ribbon, nothing more. but the social

advantage accrue to the wife of an M.P. impress she very strongly

indeed. for such an end she be willing to make sacrifice, and the

first of these declare itself in an abandonment of her opposition to

Mr. Eustace Glazzard. her husband point out to she that a connection

with the family so long establish at Highmead would be of distinct

value. William Glazzard nominally stand on the liberal side, but he be

very lukewarm, and allow to be see that his political action be

much sway by personal consideration. eustace make no pretence of

liberal lean; though a friend of the radical candidate (so Quarrier

be already designate by his opponent), he joke at popular

enthusiasm, and could only be describe as an independent aristocrat.

money, it appear, he have none; and his brother, it be suspect,

keep up only a show of the ancestral position. nevertheless, their

name have weight in the borough.



Eustace spend Christmas at Highmead, and make frequent call at the

house of the ex-Mayor. on one of the occasion it happen that the

lady be from home, but Mr. Mumbray, on the point of go out,

beg Glazzard to come and have a word with he in his sanctum. after

much roundabout talk, characteristically pompous, he put the question

whether Mr. Glazzard, as a friend of Mr. Denzil Quarrier, would "take

it ill" if he, Mr. Mumbray, accept an invitation to come forward as

the candidate of the conservative party.



"I hope you know I well," Glazzard reply. "I have nothing whatever

to do with politic."



the ex-Mayor smile thoughtfully, and go on to explain, "in strict

confidence," that there _be_ a prospect of that contingency befalling.



"of course I couldn't hope for Mr. William's support."



he pause on a note of magnanimous renunciation.



"oh, I don't know," say Glazzard, abstractedly. "my brother be hardly

to be call a Radical. I couldn't answer for the line he will take."



"indeed? that be very interesting. ha!"



Silence fall between they.



"I'm sure," remark Mr. Mumbray, at length, "that my wife and daughter

will be very sorry to have miss your call. undoubtedly you can count

on their be at home to-morrow."



the prediction be fulfil, and before leave the house Glazzard

make Serena a proposal of marriage. that morning there have occur a

quarrel of more than usual bitterness between mother and daughter.

Serena be sick of her life at home, and feel a longing, at any cost,

for escape to a sphere of independence. the expected offer from

Glazzard come just at the right moment; she accept it, and consent

that the marriage should be very soon.



but a few hour of reflection fill she with grave misgiving. she be

not in love with Glazzard; personally, he have never charm she, and in

the progress of their acquaintance she have discover many point of

his character which excite her alarm. Serena, after all, be but a

half-educate country girl; even in the whirlwind of rebellious moment

she feel afraid of the word that come to her lip. the impulse

towards emancipation which so grievously perturb she be unjustified

by her conscience; at heart, she believe with Ivy Glazzard that woman

be a pray and subordinate creature; in her bedroom she recount

the day's sin of thought and speech, and weep out her desire for

"conversion," for the life of humble faith. accept such a husband as

Eustace, she have commit not only an error, but a sin. the man be

without religion, and sometimes make himself guilty of hypocrisy; of

this she feel a miserable assurance. how could she hope to be happy

with he? what have interest she in he be that air of culture and

refinement so conspicuously lack by the man who have hitherto

approach she. he have seem to she the first _gentleman_ who seek

her favour. to countenance he, moreover, be to defy her mother's

petty rule. but, no, she do not love he--do not like he.



yet to retract her promise she be ashamed. only girl of low social

position play fast and loose in that way. she go through a night of

misery.



on the morrow she betroth, of course, come to see she. woman-like,

she have take refuge in a resolve of postponement; the marriage must be

soon or later, but it be in her power to put it off. and, with show

of regretful prudence, she make known this change in her mind.



"I hardly know what I be say. I ought to have remember that our

acquaintance have be very short."



"yet long enough to enable I to win your promise," urge Glazzard.



"yes, I have promise. it's only that we cannot be marry so very

soon."



"I must, of course, yield," he reply, gracefully, kiss her hand.

"decision as to the time shall rest entirely with you."



"thank you--that be very kind."



he go away in a mood of extreme discontent. be this little simpleton

go to play with he? there be solid reason of more than one kind

why the marriage should not be long delay. it would be good if he

return to London and communicate with she by letter. he could write

eloquently, and to let she think of he as in the midst of gay society

might not be amiss.



shortly after Quarrier's arrival at Polterham, he be back again. daily

he have repent his engagement, yet as often have congratulate himself

on the windfall thus assure to he. before go to the Mumbrays, he

call upon Mrs. Quarrier, whom, as it chance, he find alone. to

lilian his appearance be a shock, for in the contentment of the past

week she have practically forget the existence of this man who share

her secret. she could not look he in the face.



Glazzard could be trust in point of tact. he enter with a bright

face, and the greeting of an old friend, then at once begin to speak

of his own affair.



"have you hear that I be go to be marry?"



"Denzil tell I when he receive your letter."



"I be afraid Miss Mumbray will hardly belong to your circle, but as

Mrs. Glazzard--that will be a different thing. you willn't forbid I to

come here because of this alliance?"



Lilian show surprise and perplexity.



"I mean, because I be engaged to the daughter of a Tory."



"oh, what difference could that possibly make?"



"none, I hope. you know that I be not very zealous as a party-man."



in this his second conversation with Lilian, Glazzard analyse more

completely the charm which she have before exercise upon he. he be

thoroughly aware of the trial her nature be endure, and his power

of sympathetic insight enable he to read upon her countenance, in her

tone, precisely what Lilian imagine she could conceal. amid

surrounding such as those of the newly furnish house, she seem to

he a priceless gem in a gaudy setting; he feel (and with justice) that

the little drawing-room at Clapham, which speak in so many detail of

her own taste, be a much more suitable home for she. what could be

say of the man who have thus transfer she, all (or chiefly) for the

sake of getting elect to Parliament? Quarrier have no true

appreciation of the woman with whose life and happiness he be

entrust. he be devoted to she, no doubt, but with a devotion not

much more clairvoyant than would have distinguish one of his

favourite viking.



Glazzard, whilst like Denzil, have never hold he in much esteem. of

late, his feeling have become strongly tinge with contempt. and now,

with the contempt there blend a strain of jealousy.



true that he himself have catch eagerly at the hope of enter

Parliament; but it be the impulse of a man who know his life to be

fall into ruin, who welcome any suggestion that would save he from

final and fatal apathy--of a man whose existence have always be

loveless--who, with passionate ideal, have never know anything but a

venal embrace. in Quarrier's position, with abound resource, with

the love of such a woman as this, what would he not have make of life?

would it ever have occur to _he_ to wear a mask of vulgar deceit,

to condemn his exquisite companion to a hateful martyrdom, that he

might attain the dizzy height of M.P.-ship for Polterham?



he compassionate Lilian, and at the same time he be angry with she.

he look upon her beauty, her gentle spirit, with tenderness, and

therewithal he half hope that she might some day repent of yield to

Quarrier's vulgar ambition.



"have you make many acquaintance?" he ask.



"a good many. some, very pleasant people; other--not so interesting."



"Polterham society will not absorb you, I think."



"I hope to have a good deal of quiet time. but Denzil wish I to

study more from life than from book, just now. I must understand all

the subject that interest he."



"yes--the exact position, as a force in politic, of the licensed

victualler; the demand of the newly enfranchised class--that kind

of thing."



he seem to be jest, and she laugh good-humouredly.



"those thing be very important, Mr. Glazzard."



"Infinitely!"



he do not stay long, and upon his departure Lilian give a sigh of

relief.



the next day he be to lunch with the Mumbrays. he go about twelve

o'clock, to spend an hour with Serena. his welcome be not ardent, and

he feel the oppression of a languor be hardly try to disguise. yet in

truth his cause have benefit whilst he be away. the eloquent letter

do not fail of their effect; Serena have again sigh under domestic

tyranny, have think with longing of a life in London, and be once

more sway by her emotion towards an early marriage.



in dearth of matter for conversation (glazzard sit taciturn), she

speak of an event which have occupy Polterham for the last day or two.

some local genius have conceive the idea of wreck an express train,

and to that end have break a portion of the line.



"what frightful wickedness!" she exclaim. "what motive can there have

be, do you think?"



"probably none, in the sense you mean."



"yes--such a man must be mad."



"I don't think that," say Glazzard, meditatively. "I can understand

his do it with no reason at all but the wish to see what would

happen. no doubt he would have be stand somewhere in sight."



"you can _understand_ that?"



"very well indeed," he answer, in the same half-absent way. "power of

all kind be a temptation to man. a certain kind of man--not

necessarily cruel--would be fascinate with the thought of bring

about such a terrific end by such slight mean."



"not necessarily cruel? oh, I cann't follow you at all. you be not

serious."



"I have shock you." he see that he have really do so, and feel that

it be imprudent. his tact suggest a use for the situation. "Serena,

why should you speak so conventionally? you be not really conventional

in mind. you have thought and emotion infinitely above those of

average girl. do recognize your own superiority. I speak in a

speculative way. one may speculate about anything and everything--if

one have the brain. you certainly be not make to go through life with

veiled eye and a tongue tune to the common phrase. do yourself

justice, dear girl. however other people regard you, I from the first

have see what it be in you to become."



it be adroit flattery; Serena redden, avert her face, smile a

little, and keep silence.



that day he do not follow up his advantage. but on take leave of

Serena early in the afternoon, he look into her eye with expressive

steadiness, and again she blush.



a little later, several lady be gather in the drawing-room. on

Thursdays Mrs. Mumbray receive her friend; sit as an embodiment of

the domestic virtue and grace. to-day the talk be principally on

that recent addition to Polterham society, Mrs. Denzil Quarrier.



"I haven't see she yet," say Mrs. Mumbray, with her air of

superiority. "they say she be pretty but rather childish."



"but what be this mystery about the marriage?" inquire a lady who have

just enter, and who throw herself upon the subject with eagerness.

(it be Mrs. Roach, the wife of an alderman.) "why be it abroad? she

be English, I think?"



"oh no!" put in Mrs. Tenterden, a large and very positive person. "she

be a dane--like the Princess of Wales. I have see she. I recognize

the cast of feature at once."



an outcry from three lady follow. they know Mrs. Quarrier be

English. they have see her skating at Bale Water. one of they have hear

her speak--it be pure English.



"I think every one know," return Mrs. Tenterden, with stately

deliberation, "that the Danes have a special gift for language. the

Princess of Wales"----



"but, indeed," urge the hostess, "she be of english birth. we know it

from Mr. Eustace Glazzard, who be one of their friend."



"then _why_ be they married abroad?" come in Mrs. Roach's shrill

voice. "_can_ english people be legitimately married abroad? I always

understand that the ceremony have to be repeat in England."



"it be at Paris," say Mrs. Walker, the depressed widow of a bankrupt

corn-merchant. "there be an english church there, I have hear."



the other, incline to be contemptuous of this authority, regard

each other with doubt.



"still," break out Mrs. Roach again, "_why_ be it at Paris? no one

seem to have the slight idea. it be really very strange!"



Mrs. Mumbray vouchsafe further information.



"I understand that she come from Stockholm."



"don't I _say_ she come from Denmark?" interrupt Mrs. Tenterden,

triumphantly.



there be a pause of uncertainty break by Serena Mumbray's quiet voice.



"Dear Mrs. Tenterden, Stockholm be not in Denmark, but in Sweden. and

we be tell that Mrs. Quarrier be an english governess there."



"ah! a governess!" cry two or three voice.



"to tell the truth," say Mrs. Mumbray, more dignified than ever after

her vindication, "it be probable that she belong to some very poor

family. I should be sorry to think any bad of she for _that_, but it

would explain the private marriage."



"so you think people _can_ be marry legally in Paris?" persist the

alderman's wife, whose bann have be proclaim in hearing of orthodox

Polterham about a year ago.



"of course they can," fall from Serena.



Lilian's age, personal appearance, dress, behaviour, underwent

discussion at great length.



"what church do they go to?" inquire some one, and the question

excited general interest.



"they be at St. Luke's last Sunday," Mrs. Walker be able to declare,

though her wonte timidity again throw some suspicion on the statement.



"St. Luke's! why St. Luke's?" cry other voice. "it ben't their

parish, be it?"



"I think," suggest the widow, "it may be because the Liversedges go

to St. Luke's. Mrs. Liversedge is"----



her needless information be cut short by a remark from Mrs. Tenterden.



"I could never listen Sunday after Sunday to Mr. Garraway. I think he

excessively tedious. and his voice be so very try."



the incumbent of St. Luke's offer a brief diversion from the main

theme. a mention of the Rev. Scatchard Vialls threaten to lead they

too far, and Mrs. Roach interpose with firmness.



"I still think it a very singular thing that they go abroad to be

married."



"but they _don't_ go abroad, my dear," object the hostess. "that be

to say, one of they be already abroad."



"indeed! the whole thing seem very complicated. I think it need

explanation. I shouldn't feel justified in call upon Mrs. Quarrier

until"----



her voice be overpower by that of Mrs. Tenterden, who demand

loudly:



"be it true that she have already become very intimate with _that

person_ Mrs. Wade?"



"oh, I _do_ hope not!" exclaim several lady.



here be an inexhaustible topic. it occupy more than an hour, until

the last tea-cup have be lay aside and the more discreet caller be

already on their way home.









CHAPTER XIV





there need only two or three day of life at Polterham to allay the

uneasiness with which, for all his show of equanimity, Denzil enter

upon so perilous a career. by the end of January he have practically

forget that his position be in any respect insecure. the risk of

betray himself in an unguarded moment be diminish by the mental

habit establish during eighteen month of secrecy in London. Lilian's

name be seldom upon his lip, and any inquiry concern she at once

awaken his caution. between themselves they never speak of the past.



long ago he have silence every conscientious scruple regard the

relation between Lilian and himself; and as for the man Northway, if

ever he think of he at all, it be with impatient contempt. that he

be deceive his Polterham acquaintance, and in a way which they

would deem an unpardonable outrage, no long cause he the least

compunction. conventional wrong doing, he have satisfy himself, be

not wrong-do at all, unless discover. he injure no one. the

society of such a person as Lilian could be nothing but an advantage to

man, woman, and child. only the sublimation of imbecile prejudice would

maintain that she be an unfit companion for the pure creature

living. he have even cease to smile at the success of his stratagem. it

be over and do with; their social standing be unassailable.



anxious to complete his book on the Vikings, he work at it for

several hour each morning; it would be off his hand some time in

February, and the spring publishing season should send it forth to the

world. the rest of his leisure be give to politic. chest of volume

be arrive from London, and his library shelf begin to make a

respectable appearance; as a matter of principle, he buy largely

from the local bookseller, who rejoice at the sudden fillip to his

stagnant trade, and go about declare that Mr. Denzil Quarrier be

evidently _the_ man for the borough.



he fall upon history, economic, social speculation, with

characteristic vigour. if he get into the House of Commons, those

worthy should speedily be aware of his existence among they. it be

one of his favourite boast that whatever subject he choose to tackle,

he could master. no smattering for he; a solid foundation of

knowledge, such as would ensure authority to his light utterance.



in the meantime, he begin to perceive that Lilian be not likely to

form many acquaintance in the town. with the Liversedges she stand on

excellent term, and one or two family closely connect with they

give she a welcome from which she do not shrink. but she have no gift

of social versatility; it cost her painful effort to converse about

bazaar and curate and fashion and baby with the average Polterham

matron; she feel that most of the woman who come to see she go away

with distasteful impression, and that they be anything but cordial

when she return their call. a life of solitude and study be the

bad possible preparation for duty such as be now lay upon she.



"you be dissatisfied with I," she say to Denzil, as they return

from spend the evening with some empty but influential people who

have make she exceedingly uncomfortable.



"dissatisfied? on the contrary, I be very proud of you. it do one

good to contrast one's wife with woman such as those."



"I try to talk; but I'm so ignorant of everything they care about. I

shall do well when I know more of the people they refer to."



"chattering ape! malicious idiot! Heaven forbid that you should ever

take a sincere part in their gabble! that lot be about the bad we

shall have to deal with. decent simpleton you can get along with very

well."



"how ought I to speak of Mrs. Wade? when people tell downright

falsehood about she, may I contradict?"



"it's a confoundedly difficult matter, that. I half wish Mrs. Wade

would hasten her departure. do she say anything about it when you see

she the other day?"



"nothing whatever."



it appear that the widow wish to make a friend of Lilian. she have

call several time, and on each occasion behave so charmingly that

Lilian be very ready to meet her advance. though on intellectual and

personal ground he could feel no objection to such an intimacy, Denzil

begin to fear that it might affect his popularity with some voter who

would take the liberal side if it do not commit they to social

heresy. this class be a very large one throughout England. Mrs. Wade

have never give occasion of grave scandal; she be even see, with

moderate regularity, at one or other of the church; but many of the

anti-tory bourgeois suspect she of sympathy with view so very

"advanced" as to be socially dangerous. already it have become know

that she be on good term with Quarrier and his wife. it be rumour

that Quarrier would reconsider the position he have publicly assume,

and stand forth as an advocate of Female Suffrage. for such extreme

Polterham be not prepare.



"Mrs. Wade ask I to go and have tea with she to-morrow," Lilian

announce one morning, show a note. "shall I, or not?"



"you would like to?"



"not if you think it unwise."



"Hang it!--we cann't be slave. go by all mean, and refresh your mind."



at three o'clock on the day of invitation Lilian alight from her

brougham at pear-tree cottage. it be close upon the end of February;

the decline sun shoot a pleasant glow across the landscape, and in the

air reign a perfect stillness. Mrs. Wade throw open the door herself

with laugh welcome.



"let we have half-an-hour's walk, shall we? it's so dry and warm."



"I should enjoy it," Lilian answer, readily.



"then allow I two minute for bonnet and cloak."



she be scarcely long. they go by the hedge-side path which lead

towards Bale Water. to-day the paper be full of exciting news. Sir

Stafford Northcote have bring forward his resolution for make short

work of obstructive member, and Radicalism stand undecided. Mrs. Wade

talk of these thing in the lively strain, Lilian respond with

a lighthearted freedom seldom possible to she.



"you skated here, don't you?" say her companion, as they draw near to

the large pond.



"yes; a day or two after we come. how different it look now."



they stand on the bank where it rise to a considerable height above the

water.



"the rail have spoil this spot," say Mrs. Wade. "they be only put

up last autumn, after an accident. I wonder it be never find

necessary before. some child be gather blackberry from the

bramble there, and one of they reach too far forward, and over she

go! I witness it from the other side, where I happen to be

walk. a great splash, and then a chorus of shriek from the

companion. I begin to run forward, though of course I could have do

nothing whatever; when all at once I see a splendid sight. a man who

be stand not far off run to the edge and plunge in--a magnificent

'header!' he have only throw away his hat and coat. they say it's very

deep just here. he disappear completely, and then in a few second I

see that he have hold of the child. he bring she out where the bank

slope yonder--no harm do. I cann't tell you how I enjoy that scene.

it make I cry with delight."



as usual, when deeply move, Lilian stand in a reverie, her eye wide,

her lip tremulous. then she step forward, and, with her hand

rest upon the wooden rail, look down. there be no perceptible

movement in the water; it show a dark greenish surface, smooth to the

edge, without a trace of weed.



"how I envy that man his courage!"



"his power, rather," suggest Mrs. Wade. "if we could swim well, and

have no foolish petticoat, we should jump in just as readily. it be

the power over circumstance that I admire and envy."



Lilian smile thoughtfully.



"I suppose that be what most attract we in man?"



"and make we feel our own dependence. I cann't say I like _that_

feeling--do you?"



she seem to wait for an answer.



"I'm afraid it's in the order of nature," reply Lilian at length with

a laugh.



"very likely. but I be not content with it on that account. I know of a

thousand thing quite in the order of nature which revolt I. I very

often think of nature as an evil force, at war with the good principle

of which we be conscious in our soul."



"but," Lilian falter, "be your ideal an absolute independence?"



Mrs. Wade look far across the water, and answer, "yes, absolute!"



"then you--I don't quite know what would result from that."



"nor I," return the other, laugh. "that don't affect my ideal.

you have hear, of course, of that lecture your husband give at the

Institute before--before your marriage?"



"yes; I wish I could have hear it."



"you would have sympathize with every word, I be sure. Mr. Quarrier be

one of the strong man who find satisfaction in woman's weakness."



it be say with perfect good-humour, with a certain indulgent

kindness--a tone Mrs. Wade have use from the first in talk with

Lilian. a manner of affectionate playfulness, occasionally of caress

protection, distinguish she in this intercourse; quite unlike that by

which she be know to people in general. Lilian do not dislike it,

rather be draw by it into a mood of grateful confidence.



"I don't think 'weakness' express it," she object. "he like woman

to be subordinate, no doubt of that. his idea be that"----



"I know, I know!" Mrs. Wade turn away with a smile her companion do

not observe. "let we walk back again; it grow chilly. a beautiful

sunset, if cloud don't gather. perhaps it surprise you that I care

for such sentimental thing?"



"I think I understand you well."



"frankly--do you think I what the French call _hommasse_? just a

little?"



"nothing of the kind, Mrs. Wade," Lilian reply, with courage. "you

be a very womanly woman."



the bright, hard eye dart a quick glance at she.



"really? that be how I strike you?"



"it be, indeed."



"how I like your way of speak," say the other, after a moment's

pause. "I mean, your voice--accent. have it anything to do with the long

time you have spend abroad, I wonder?"



Lilian smile and be embarrassed.



"you be certainly not a Londoner?"



"oh no! I be bear in the west of England."



"and I at Newcastle. as a child I have a strong northern accent; you

don't notice anything of it now? oh, I have be about so much. my

husband be in the Army. that be the first time I have mention he to

you, and it will be the last, however long we know each other."



Lilian keep her eye on the ground. the widow glance off to a totally

different subject, which occupy they the rest of the way back to the

cottage.



Daylight last until they have finish tea, then a lamp be bring in

and the red blind draw down. Quarrier have go to spend the day at a

neighbouring town, and would not be back before late in the evening, so

that Lilian have arrange to go from Mrs. Wade's to the liversedge'.

they still have a couple of hour' talk to enjoy; on Lilian's side, at

all event, it be unfeigned enjoyment. the cosy little room put she at

ease. its furniture be quite in keep with the simple appearance of

the house, but book and picture tell that no ordinary cottager dwelt

here.



"I have have many an hour of happiness in this room," say Mrs. Wade, as

they seat themselves by the fire. "the good of all between eleven at

night and two in the morning. you know the line in 'Penseroso.' Most

man would declare that a woman cann't possibly appreciate they; I know

well. I be by nature a student; the life of society be nothing to I;

and, in reality, I care very little about politic."



smile, she watch the effect of her word.



"you be content with solitude?" say Lilian, gaze at she with a look

of deep interest.



"quite. I have no relative who care anything about I, and only two or

three people I call friend. but I must have more book, and I shall be

oblige to go to London."



"don't go just yet--won't our book be of use to you?"



"I shall see. have you read this?"



it be a novel from Smith's Library. Lilian know it, and they discuss

its merit. Mrs. Wade mention a book by the same author which have

appear more than a year ago.



"yes, I read that when it come out," say Lilian, and begin to talk of

it.



Mrs. Wade keep silence, then remark carelessly:



"you have they in the Tauchnitz series, I suppose?"



have her eye be turn that way, she must have observe the strange

look which flash across her companion's countenance. Lilian seem to

draw in her breath, though silently.



"yes--Tauchnitz," she answer.



Mrs. Wade appear quite unconscious of anything unusual in the tone.

she be gaze at the fire.



"it ben't often I find time for novel," she say; "for new one, that

be. a few of the old be generally all I need. can you read George

Eliot? what a miserably conventional soul that woman have!"



"Conventional? But"----



"oh, I know! but she be british conventionality to the core. I have

hear people say that she haven't the courage of her opinion; but that

be precisely what she _have_, and every page of her work declare it

flagrantly. she might have be a great power--she might have speed

the revolution of moral--if the true faith have be in she."



Lilian be still tremulous, and she listen with an intensity which

give she a look of pain. she be about to speak, but Mrs. Wade

anticipate she.



"you mustn't trouble much about anything I say when it cross your own

judgment or feeling. there be so few people with whom I can indulge

myself in free speech. I talk just for the pleasure of it; don't think

I expect or hope that you will always go along with I. but you be not

afraid of think--that's the great thing. Most woman be such paltry

creature that they daren't look into their own mind--for fear nature

should have put something 'improper' there."



she break off with laughter, and, as Lilian keep silence, fall into

thought.



in say that she think her companion a "womanly woman," Lilian tell

the truth. ever quick with sympathy, she feel a sadness in Mrs. Wade's

situation, which lead she to interpret all her harsh peculiarity as

the result of disappointment and loneliness. now that the widow have

confess her ill-fortune in marriage, Lilian be assure of having

judge rightly, and nurse her sentiment of compassion. Mrs. Wade be

still young; impossible that she should have accept a fate which

forbid she the knowledge of woman's happiness. but how difficult for

such a one to escape from this narrow and misleading way! her strong,

highly-train intellect could find no satisfaction in the society of

every-day people, yet she be withhold by poverty from seek her

natural sphere. with Lilian, to understand a sorrow be to ask herself

what she could do for its assuagement. a thought of characteristic

generosity come to she. why should she not (some day or other, when

their friendship be mature) offer Mrs. Wade the money, her own

property, which would henceforth be lie idle? there would be

practical difficulty in the way, but surely they might be overcome.

the idea bring a smile to her face. yes; she would think of this. she

would presently talk of it with Denzil.



"come now," say Mrs. Wade, rouse herself from meditation, "let we

talk about the irish question."



Lilian address herself conscientiously to the subject, but it do not

really interest she; she have no personal knowledge of irish hardship,

and be weary by the endless parliamentary debate. her thought still

busy themselves with the hopeful project for smooth Mrs. Wade's

path in life.



when the carriage come for she, she take her leave with regret, but

full of happy imagining. she have quite forget the all but

self-betrayal into which she be lead during that chat about novel.



two day later Quarrier be again absent from home on business, and

Lilian spend the evening with the Liversedges. supper be over, and she

have begin to think of departure, when the drawing-room door be burst

open, and in rush Denzil, wet from head to foot with rain, and his

face a-stream with perspiration.



"they dissolve at Easter!" he cry, wave his hat wildly. "Northcote

announce it at five this afternoon. Hammond have a telegram; I meet he

at the station."



"Ho! ho! this be news!" answer Mr. Liversedge, start up from his

easy-chair.



"News, indeed!" say his wife; "but that's no reason, Denzil, why you

should make my carpet all rain and mud. do go and take your coat off,

and clean your boot, there's a good boy!"



"how can I think of coat and boot? here, Lily, fle this garment

somewhere. give I a duster, or something, to stand on, molly. Toby, we

must have a meeting in a day or two. can we get the Public Hall for

Thursday or Friday? shall we go round and see our committee-man

to-night?"



"time enough to-morrow; most of they be just go to bed. but how be

it no one have an inkling of this? they have keep the secret uncommonly

well."



"the blackguard! ha, ha! now for a good fight! it'll be old

Welwyn-Baker, after all, you'll see. they willn't have the courage to set

up a new man at a moment's notice. the old buffer will come maudle

once more, and we'll bowl he off his pin!"



Lilian sit with her eye fix upon he. his excitement infect she,

and when they go home together she talk of the come struggle with

joyous animation.









CHAPTER XV





the next morning--Tuesday, March 9th--there be a rush for the London

paper. every copy that reach the Polterham vendor be snap up

within a few minute of its arrival. People who have no right of

membership run ravening to the Literary Institute and the

Constitutional Literary Society, and peer over the shoulder of

legitimate reader, on such a day as this unrebuked. Mr. Chown's

drapery establishment present a strange spectacle. for several hour

it be throng with sturdy Radicals eager to hear their eminent friend

hold forth on the situation. at eleven o'clock Mr. Chown fairly mount

a chair behind his counter, and deliver a formal harangue--thus, as

he boast, open the political campaign. he read aloud (for the

seventh time) Lord Beaconsfield's public letter to the Duke of

Marlborough, in which the country be warn, to begin with, against

the peril of Home Rule. "it be to be hope that all man of light and

leading will resist this destructive doctrine.... rarely in this

century have there be an occasion more critical. the power of England

and the peace of Europe will largely depend on the verdict of the

country.... peace rest on the presence, not to say the ascendancy, of

England in the Councils of Europe."



"here you have it," cry the orator, as he dash the newspaper to his

foot, "pure, unadulterated Jingoism! 'ascendancy in the Councils of

Europe!' how be the european power likely to hear _that_, do you

think? I venture to tell my Lord Beaconsfield--I venture to tell he on

behalf of this constituency--aye, and on behalf of this country--that

it be _he_ who hold 'destructive doctrine'! I venture to tell my Lord

Beaconsfield that England be not prepared to endorse any such insolent

folly! we shall very soon have an opportunity of hear how far such

doctrine recommend itself to _our_ man 'of light and leading'--to our

radical candidate--to our future member, Mr. Denzil Quarrier!"



a burst of cheering echo from the drapery-laden shelf. two

servant-girl who have come to the door intent on purchase of hair-pin

run frighten away, and spread a report that Mr. Chown's shop be on

fire.



at dinner-time the politician be face by his angry wife.



"I know what the end of _this_'ll be!" cry Mrs. Chown. "you're

ruin your business, that's what you're do! who do you think'll

come to the shop if they find it full of shout ragamuffin? they'll

all go to Huxtable's, that's what they'll do! I've no patience"----



"there's no need to declare _that_!" reply Mr. Chown, roll his

great eye at she with an expression of the lofty scorn. "I have

know it for thirteen year. you will be so good as to attend to your

own affair, and leave _I_ to see to _mine_! what do a woman care

for the interest of the country? grovel sex! perhaps when I be

call upon to shoulder a rifle and go forth to die on the field of

battle, your dense understanding will begin to perceive what be at

stake.--Not another syllable! I forbid it! sit down and serve the

potato!"



at the same hour Denzil Quarrier, at luncheon with Lilian, be give

utterance to his feeling on the great topic of the day.



"now be the time for woman to show whether their judgment be worthy of

the least confidence. this letter of Beaconsfield's make frank appeal

to the spirit of Jingoism; he hope to get at the fight side of

Englishmen, and go back to power on a wave of 'Rule, Britannia'

bluster. if it be true that woman be to be trust in politic, their

influence will be overwhelming against such irresponsible ambition. I

have my serious doubts"----



he shake his head and laugh.



"I will do my utmost!" exclaim Lilian, her face glow with

sympathetic enthusiasm. "I will go and talk to all the people we

know"----



"really! you feel equal to that?"



"I will begin this very afternoon! I think I understand the question

sufficiently. suppose I begin with Mrs. Powell? she say her husband

have always vote Conservative, but that she couldn't be quite sure what

he would do this time. perhaps I can persuade she to take our side."



"have a try! but you astonish I, Lily--you be transform!"



"oh, I have feel that I might find courage when the time come." she put

her head aside, and laugh with charming _naivete_. "I cann't sit idle

at home whilst you be work with such zeal. and I really _feel_ what

you say: woman have a clear duty. how excited Mrs. Wade must be!"



"have you write all the dinner-card?"



"they be all send before twelve."



"good! Hammond will be here in half an hour to talk over the address

with I. dinner at seven prompt; I be due at Toby's at eight. well,

it's worth go in for, after all, ben't it? I be only just begin

to live."



"and I, too!"



the meal be over. Denzil walk round the table and bend to lay his

cheek against Lilian's.



"I admire you more than ever," he whisper, half laugh. "what a

reserve of energy in this timid little girl! wait and see; who know

what sort of table you will preside at some day? I have find my

vocation, and there's no saying how far it will lead I. heaven! what

a speech I'll give they at the Public Hall! it's bubble over in I. I

could stand up and thunder for three or four hour!"



they gossip a little long, then Lilian go to prepare for her call

upon Mrs. Powell, and Quarrier retire to the library. here he be

presently wait upon by Mr. Hammond, editor of the _Polterham

Examiner_. Denzil feel no need of assistance in draw up the

manifesto which would shortly be address to Liberal Polterham; but

Hammond be a pleasant fellow of the go-ahead specie, and his

editorial pen would be none the less zealous for confidence such as

this. the colloquy last an hour or so. immediately upon the editor's

departure, a servant appear at the study door.



"Mrs. Wade wish to see you, sir, if you be at leisure."



"certainly!"



the widow enter. her costume--perhaps in anticipation of the sunny

season--be more elaborate and striking than formerly. she look a

young woman, and walk with light step.



"I come to see Mrs. Quarrier, but she be out. you, I'm afraid, be

frightfully busy?"



"no, no. this be the breathing time of the day with I. I've just got

rid of our journalist. sit down, pray."



"oh, I willn't stop. but tell Lilian I be eager to see she."



"she be off canvass--really and truly! go to assail Mrs. Powell.

astonishing enthusiasm!"



"I'm delighted to hear it!"



the exclamation linger a little, and there be involuntary surprise

on Mrs. Wade's feature. she cast a glance round the room.



"do sit down," urge Denzil, place a chair. "what do you think of

Dizzy's letter? do you ever read such bunkum? and his 'man of light

and leading'--ha, ha, ha!"



"he have steal the phrase," remark Mrs. Wade. "where from, I cann't

say; but I'm perfectly sure I have come across it."



"ha! I wish we could authenticate that! search your memory--do--and get

a letter in the _Examiner_ on Saturday."



"some one will be out with it before then. besides, I'm sure you don't

wish for I to draw attention to myself just now."



"why not? I shall be disappoint if you don't give I a great deal of

help."



"I be hardly proper, you know."



she look steadily at he, with an inscrutable smile, then let she

eye again stray round the room.



"Bosh! as I be say to Lily at lunch, woman ought to have a

particular interest in this election. if they be worth anything at

all, they will declare that England sha'n't go in for the chance of war

just to please that Jew phrase-monger. I'm ready enough for a fight, on

sound occasion, but I willn't fight in obedience to Dizzy and the

music-hall! by jingo, no!"



he laugh uproariously.



"you willn't get many Polterham woman to see it in that light," observe

the widow. "this talk about the ascendency of England be just the thing

to please they. they adore Dizzy, because he be a fop who have succeed

brilliantly; they despise Gladstone, because he be conscientious and an

idealist. surely I don't need to tell you this?"



she lean forward, smile into his face.



"well," he exclaim, with a laugh, "of course I can admit, if you

like, that most woman be _not_ worth anything politically. but why

should I be uncivil?"



Mrs. Wade answer in a low voice, strangely gentle.



"don't I know their silliness and worthlessness? what woman have more

reason to be ashamed of her sex?"



"let we--hope!"



"for the millennium--yes." her eye gleam, and she go on in a more

accustomed tone. "woman be the great reactionary force. in political

and social matter their native baseness show itself on a large scale.

they worship the vulgar, the pretentious, the false. here they will

most of they pester their husband to vote for Welwyn-Baker just

because they hate change with the hatred of weak fear. those of they

who know anything at all about the irish question be dead set against

Ireland--simply because they be unimaginative and ungenerous; they

cann't sympathize with what seem a hopeless cause, and Ireland to they

only suggest the dirty Irish of Polterham back street. as for

european war, the idiot be fond of drum and fife and military

swagger; they haven't brain enough to picture a battle-field."



"you be severe, Mrs. Wade. I should never have ventured"----



"you be still afraid of tell _I_ the truth!"



"well, let we rejoice in the exception. yourself, Lilian, my sister

Mary, for instance."



the widow let her eye fall and keep silence.



"we hope you will dine with we on Friday of next week," say Denzil.

"Lilian post you an invitation this morning. there will be a good

many people."



"seriously then, I be to work for you, openly and vigorously?"



"what a contemptible fellow I should be if I wish you to hold aloof!"

he speak sincerely, having overcome his misgiving of a short time ago.

"the fight will be fight on large question, you know. I want to win,

but I have make up my mind to win honestly; it's a fortunate thing that

I probably sha'n't be call upon to declare my view on a thousand

side-issue."



"don't be so sure of that. Polterham be paltry, even amid national

excitement."



"confound it! then I will say what I think, and risk it. if they want a

man who will fight sincerely for the interest of the people, here he

be! I'm on the side of the poor devil; I wish to see they well off;

I wish to promote honest government, and chuck the selfish lubber

overboard. forgive the briny phrase; you know why it come natural to

I."



Mrs. Wade give he her kind smile.



"you will win, no doubt of it; and not this battle only."



she rise, and half turn away.



"by-the-bye, shall you be able to finish your book?"



"it be finish. I write the last page yesterday morning. wonderful,

ben't it?"



"a good oman. my love to Lilian."



as they shake hand, Mrs. Wade just raise her eye for an instant,

timorously. the look be quite unlike anything Denzil have yet see on

her face. it cause he to stand for a few moment musing.



from half-past four to half-past six he take a long walk; such exercise

be a necessity with he, and the dweller round about Polterham have

become familiar with the sight of his robust figure stride at a great

pace about road and field. generally he make for some wayside inn,

where he could refresh himself with a tankard of beer, after which he

light his pipe, and walk with it between his tooth. Toby Liversedge,

become aware of this habit, be inclined to doubt its prudence.

"beware of the teetotaler, Denzil; they be a power among we." Whereto

Quarrier reply that teetotaler might be eternally condemn; he

would stick by his ale as tenaciously as the old farmer of Thornaby

Waste.



"it's the first duty of a Radical to set his face against humbug. if I

see no harm in a thing, I shall do it openly, and let people"----



at this point he check himself, almost as if he have a sudden stitch

in the side. Tobias ask for an explanation, but do not receive one.



on get home again, he find Lilian in the drawing-room. (as an

ordinary thing he do not "dress" for dinner, since his evening be

often spend in the company of people who would have dislike the

conspicuousness of his appearance.) she rise to meet he with shine

countenance, look happy, indeed, and more rarely beautiful than he

have ever see she.



"what cheer? a triumph already?"



"I think so, Denzil; I really think so. Mrs. Powell have promise I to

do she very well with her husband. oh, if you could have hear our

conversation! I haven't think it possible for any one to be so

ignorant of the simple political fact. one thing that she say--I

be talk about war, and suddenly she ask I: 'do you think it

likely, Mrs. Quarrier, that there would be an _inscription_?' for a

moment I couldn't see what she mean. 'an inscription?' 'yes; if

there's any danger of that, and--my four boy grow up!' then, of

course, I understand. fortunately, she be so very much in earnest that

I have no temptation to smile."



"and do you encourage her alarm?"



"I feel I have no right to do that. to avoid repeat the word, I say

that I don't think _that system_ would ever find favour in England. at

the same time, it be quite certain that our army would have to be

greatly strengthen if this war-fever go on. oh, we have an endless

talk--and she be certainly impressed with my argument."



"Bravo! why, this be something like!"



"you cann't think what courage it have give I! to-morrow I shall go to

Mrs. Clifford--yes, I shall. she be far more formidable; but I want to

try my strength."



"Ho, ho! what a pugnacious Lily--a sword-Lily! you ought to have have an

heroic name--Deborah, or Joan, or Portia! your eye gleam like beacon."



"I feel more contented with myself.--Oh, I be tell that Mrs. Wade

call this afternoon?"



"yes; anxious to see you. burn with wrath against female Toryism.

she be astonish when I tell she of your expedition."



Lilian laugh merrily. thereupon dinner be announce, and they leave

the room hand in hand.



that evening it be rumour throughout the town that Mr. Welwyn-Baker

have telegraph a resolve _not_ to offer himself for re-election. in a

committee-room at the Constitutional Literary Society be hold an

informal meeting of Conservatives, but no one of they have definite

intelligence to communicate. somebody have tell somebody else that Hugh

Welwyn-Baker hold that important telegram from his father; that be

all. Mr. Mumbray's hope rise high. on the morrow, at another meeting

rather differently constitute (miserable lack of organization still

evident among the Tories), it be make known on incontestable authority

that the sit Member _would_ offer himself for re-election. Mr.

Mumbray and his supporter hold high language. "it would be party

suicide," they go about repeat. with such a man as Denzil Quarrier

on the radical side, they _must_ have a new and a strong candidate! but

all be confusion; no one could take the responsibility of act.



already the affair of the Liberals be in perfect order, and it take

but a day or two to decide even the minutia of the campaign. to

Quarrier's candidature no one within the party offer the least

opposition. Mr. Chown, who have for some time reserve his judgment,

declare to all and sundry that "all thing consider, a well man

could scarcely have be choose." before thus commit himself he have

twice call upon Quarrier, and be closet with he for a longtime.

now, in these day of arm, he receive a card invite he (and his

wife) to dine at the candidate's house on a certain evening a fortnight

ahead; it be the second dinner that Denzil have plan, but Mr. Chown

be not aware of this, nor that the candidate have remark of he to

Lilian: "we must have that demagogue among his kind, of course."

Denzil's agent (Hummerstone by name) instantly secure room in

admirable situation, and the Public Hall be at the disposal of the

party for their first great meeting a few day hence.



in face that assembly (Toby Liversedge be chairman) Denzil have a

very slight and very brief recurrence of his platform nervousness.

determine to risk nothing, he write out his speech with great care and

commit it to memory. the oration occupy about two hour, with not

a moment of faltering. it be true that he have discover his vocation;

he speak like a man of long parliamentary experience, to the astonished

delight of his friend, and with enthusiastic applause from the mass of

his hearer. such eloquence have never be hear in Polterham. if

anything, he allow himself too much scope in vituperation, but it be

a fault on the right side. the only circumstance that trouble he be

when his eye fall upon Lilian, and he see she cry with excitement; a

fear pass through his mind that she might be overwrought and fall

into hysteric, or faint. the occasion prove indeed too much for she;

that night she do not close her eye, and the next day see she

prostrate in nervous exhaustion. but she seem to pick up her strength

again very quickly, and be soon hard at work canvass among the

elector' wife.



"don't overdo it," Denzil caution she. "remember, if you be ill, I

shall mope by your bedside."



"I cann't stop now that I have begin," be her reply. "if I try to sit

idle, I _shall_ be ill."



she could read nothing but newspaper; her piano be silent; she talk

politic, and politic only. never be see such a change in woman,

declare her intimate; yet, in spite of probability, they think

she more charming than ever. no word of animosity ever fall from her

lip; what inspire she be simple ardour for Denzil's cause, and, as

she consider it, that of the oppressed multitude. in her way, say

Toby Liversedge, she be as eloquent as Quarrier himself, and sundry

other people be of the same opinion.









CHAPTER XVI





with sullen acquiescence the supporter of Mr. Mumbray and "Progressive

Conservatism"--what phrase be not good enough for the lip of

party?--recognized that they must need vote for the old name.

dissension at such a moment be more dangerous than an imbecile

candidate. Mr. Sam Quarrier have declare that rather than give his

voice for Mumbray he would remain neutral. "old W.-B. be good enough

for a figure-head; he signify something. if we be to be beat, let

it be on the old ground." that defeat be likely enough, the more

intelligent conservative could not help see. many of they (Samuel

among the number) have no enthusiasm for Beaconsfield, and _la haute

politique_ as the leader understand it, but they like still less the

principle represent by Councillor Chown and his vociferous regiment.

so the familiar bill be once more post about the street, and once

more the Tory canvasser urge man to vote for Welwyn-Baker in the name

of Church and State.



at Salutary Mount (this be the name of the ex-Mayor's residence)

personal disappointment leave no leisure for lament the prospect of

Conservatism. Mr. Mumbray shut himself up in the room know as his

"study." Mrs. Mumbray storm at her servant, wrangle with her

child, and from her husband hold apart in sour contempt--feeble,

pompous creature that he be! with such an opportunity, and unable to

make use of it! but for _her_, he would never even have become Mayor.

she be enrage at having yield in the matter of Serena's betrothal.

Glazzard have fool they; he be an unprincipled adventurer, with an

eye only to the fortune Serena would bring he!



"if you marry that man," she asseverate, _a propos_ of a discussion

with her daughter on a carpet which have wear badly, "I shall have

nothing whatever to do with the affair--nothing!"



Serena draw apart and keep silence.



"you hear what I say? you understand I?"



"you mean that you willn't be present at the wedding?"



"I do!" cry her mother, careless what she say so long as it sound

emphatic. "you shall take all the responsibility. if you like to throw

yourself away on a bald-headed, dissipated man--as I _know_ he be--it

shall be entirely your own doing. I wash my hand of it--and that's the

last word you will hear from I on the subject."



in consequence of which assertion she vilify Glazzard and Serena for

three-quarter of an hour, until her daughter, who have sit in

abstraction, slowly rise and withdraw.



alone in her bedroom, Serena shed many tear, as she have often do of

late. the poor girl be miserably uncertain how to act. she foresee

that home would be less than ever a home to she after this accumulation

of trouble, and indeed she have make up her mind to leave it, but

whether as a wife or as an independent woman she could not decide. "on

her own responsibility"--yes, that be the one thing certain. and what

experience have she whereon to form a judgment? it might be that her

mother's arraignment of Glazzard be ground in truth, but how could

she determine one way or the other? on the whole, she like he well

than when she promise to marry he--yes, she like he well; she do

not shrink from the thought of wedlock with he. he be a highly

educate and clever man; he offer she a prospect of full life than

she have yet imagine; perhaps it be a choice between he and the

ordinary husband such as fall to Polterham girl. yet again, if he do

not really care for she--only for her money?



she remember Denzil Quarrier's lecture on "Woman," and all he have

say about the monstrously unfair position of girl who be ask in

marriage by man of the world. and thereupon an idea come into her mind.

presently she have dry her tear, and in half-an-hour's time she leave

the house.



her purpose be to call upon Mrs. Quarrier, whom she have meet not long

ago at Highmead. but the lady be not at home. after a moment of

indecision, she write on the back of her visit card: "will you be so

kind as to let I know when I could see you? I will come at any hour."



it be then midday. in the afternoon she receive a note,

hand-deliver. Mrs. Quarrier would be at home from ten to twelve the

next morning.



again she call, and Lilian receive she in the small drawing-room.

they look at each other with earnest face, Lilian wonder whether

this visit have anything to do with the election. Serena be nervous,

and could not reply composedly to the ordinary phrase of politeness

with which she be receive. and yet the phrase be not quite

ordinary; whomsoever she address, Lilian speak with a softness, a

kindness peculiar to herself, and choose word which seem to have more

than the common meaning.



the visitor grow sensible of this pleasant characteristic, and at

length find voice for her intention.



"I wish to see you for a very strange reason, Mrs. Quarrier. I feel

half afraid that I may even offend you. you will think I very strange

indeed."



Lilian tremble. the old dread awake in she. have Miss Mumbray

discover something?



"do let I know what it be," she reply, in a low voice.



"it--it be about Mr. Eustace Glazzard. I think he be an intimate friend

of Mr. Quarrier's?"



"yes, he be."



"you be surprised, of course. I come to you because I feel so alone

and so helpless. you know that I be engaged to Mr. Glazzard?"



her voice falter. relieve from anxiety, Lilian look and speak in

her kind way.



"do speak freely to I, Miss Mumbray. I shall be so glad to--to help

you in any way I can--so very glad."



"I be sure you mean that. my mother be very much against our

marriage--against Mr. Glazzard. she want I to break off. I cann't do

that without some well reason than I know of. will you tell I what

you think of Mr. Glazzard? will you tell I in confidence? you know he

probably much well than I do--though that sound strange. you have

know he much long, haven't you?"



"not much long. I meet he first in London."



"but you know he through your husband. I only wish to ask you whether

you have a high opinion of he. how have he impress you from the

first?"



Lilian reflect for an instant, and speak with grave conscientiousness.



"my husband consider he his good friend. he think very highly of

he. they be unlike each other in many thing. Mr. Quarrier sometimes

wish that he--that Mr. Glazzard be more active, less absorb in

art; but I have never hear he say anything bad than that. he like

he very much indeed. they have be friend since boyhood."



the listener sit with bow head, and there be a brief silence.



"then you think," she say at length, "that I shall be quite safe

in--oh, that be a bad way of put it! do forgive I for talk to

you like this. you, Mrs. Quarrier, be very happily married; but I be

sure you can sympathize with a girl's uncertainty. we have so few

opportunity of----Oh, it be so true what Mr. Quarrier say in his

lecture at the Institute--before you come. he say that a girl have to

take her husband so very much on trust--of course his word be well

than those, but that's what he mean."



"yes--I know--I have hear he say the same thing."



"I don't ask," pursue the other, quickly, "about his religious

opinion, or anything of that kind. nowadays, I suppose, there be very

few man who believe as woman do--as most woman do." she glance at

lilian timidly. "I only mean--do you think he a good man--an

honourable man?"



"to that I can reply with confidence," say Lilian, sweetly. "I be

quite sure he be an honourable man--quite sure I believe he have very

high thought. have you hear he play? no man who haven't a noble

nature could play like that."



Serena draw a sigh of relief.



"thank you, dear Mrs. Quarrier--thank you so very much! you have put my

mind at rest."



these word give delight to the hearer. to do good and to receive

gratitude be all but the prime necessity of Lilian's heart. obey

her impulse, she begin to say all manner of kind, tender, hopeful

thing. be there not a similarity between this girl's position and

that in which she have herself stand when consent to the wretched

marriage which happily come to an end at the church door? another woman

might have be dispose to say, in the female parrot-language: "but do

you love he or not? that be the whole question." it be _not_ the

whole question, even grant that love have speak plainly; and Lilian

understand very well that it be possible for a girl to contemplate

wedlock without passionate feeling such as could obscure her judgment.



they talk with much intimacy, much reciprocal good-will, and Serena

take her leave with a comparatively cheerful mind. she have resolve

what to do.



and the opportunity for action come that afternoon. Glazzard call

upon she. he look rather gloomy, but smile in reply to the smile she

give he.



"have you read Mr. Gladstone's address to the elector of Midlothian?"

Serena begin by ask, with a roguish look.



"Pooh! what be such stuff to I?"



"I know I should tease you. what do you think of Mr. Quarrier's

chance?"



"oh, he will be elect, no doubt."



Glazzard speak absently, his eye on Serena's face, but seemingly not

conscious of her expression.



"I hope he will," she rejoin.



"What!--you hope so?"



"yes, I do. I be convinced he be the right man. I agree with his

principle. henceforth I be a Radical."



Glazzard laugh mockingly, and Serena join, but not in the same tone.



"I like he," she pursue, with a certain odd persistence. "if I could

do it decently, I would canvass for he. he be a manly man and mean

what he say. I like his wife, too--she be very sweet."



he glance at she and purse his lip.



"I be sure," add Serena, "you like I to praise such good friend of

your?"



"certainly."



they be in the room where the grand piano stand, for Mrs. Mumbray have

go to pass the day with friend at a distance. Serena say of a

sudden:



"will you please play I something--some serious piece--one of the good

you know?"



"you mean it?"



"I do. I want to hear you play a really noble piece. you willn't refuse."



he eye she in a puzzled way, but smile, and sit down to the

instrument. his choice be from Beethoven. as he play, Serena stand

in an attitude of profound attention. when the music cease, she go

up to he and hold out her hand.



"thank you, Eustace. I don't think many people can play like that."



"no; not very many," he reply quietly, and thereupon kiss she

finger.



he go to the window and look out into the chill, damp garden.



"Serena, have you any idea what Sicily be like at this time of year?"



"a faint imagination. very lovely, no doubt."



"I want to go there."



"do you?" she answer, carelessly, and add in low tone, "so do I."



"there's no reason why you shouldn't. marry I next week, and we will

go straight to Messina."



"I will marry you in a fortnight from to-day," say Serena, in

quivering voice.



"you will?"



Glazzard walk back to Highmead with a countenance which alternate

curiously between smile and lower. the smile be not agreeable,

and the dark look show his face at its bad. he be completely

absorb in thought, and when some one stop full in front of he

with jocose accost, he give a start of alarm.



"I should be afraid of lamp-post," say Quarrier, "if I have that

somnambulistic habit. why haven't you look in lately? man of infinite

leisure must wait upon the busy."



"my leisure, thank the destiny!" reply Glazzard, "will very soon be

spend out of hearing of election tumult."



"when? go abroad again?"



"to Sicily."



"Ha!--that mean, I conjecture," say Denzil, search his friend's

face, "that a certain affair will come to nothing after all?"



"and what if you be right?" return the other, slowly, avert his

eye.



"I sha'n't grieve. no, to tell you the truth, I shall not! so at last I

may speak my real opinion. it wouldn't have do, Glazzard; it be a

mistake, old fellow. I have never be able to understand it. you--a

man of your standing--no, no, it be completely a mistake, believe I!"



Glazzard look into the speaker's face, smile again, and remark

calmly:



"that's unfortunate. I don't say my engagement be at an end; and, in

fact, I shall be marry in a fortnight. we go to Sicily for the

honeymoon."



a flush of embarrassment rise to Denzil's face. for a moment he could

not command himself; then indignation possess he.



"that's too bad!" he exclaim. "you take advantage of I. you lay a

trap. I'm damned if I feel able to apologize!"



Glazzard turn away, and it seem as if he would walk on. but he

face about again abruptly, laugh, hold out his hand.



"no, it be I who should apologize. I do lay a trap, and it be too

bad. but I wish to know your real opinion."



no one more pliable than Denzil. at once he take the hand that be

offer and press it heartily.



"I'm a blunder fellow. do come and spend an hour with I to-night.

from eleven to twelve. I dine out with fool, and shall rejoice to see

you afterwards."



"thank, I cann't. I go up to town by the 7.15."



they be in a suburban road, and at the moment some lady approach.

Quarrier, who be acquaint with they, raise his hat and speak a few

hasty word, after which he walk on by Glazzard's side.



"my opinion," he say, "be worth very little. I have no right whatever

to express it, have such slight evidence to go upon. it be double

impertinence. if _you_ cann't be trust to choose a wife, who could? I

see that--now that I have make a fool of myself."



"don't say any more about it," reply the other, in a good-natured

voice. "we have live in the palace of truth for a few minute, that's

all."



"so you go to Sicily. there you will be in your element. live in the

South, Glazzard; I'm convinced you will be a happy man than in this

mill-smoke atmosphere. you have the artist's temperament; indulge it to

the utmost. after all, a man ought to live out what be in he. your

wedding will be here, of course?"



"yes, but absolutely private."



"you willn't reject I when I offer good wish? there be no man live

who like you well than I do, or be more anxious for your happiness.

shake hand again, old fellow. I must hurry off."



so they part, and in a couple of hour Glazzard be steam towards

London.



he lie back in the corner of a carriage, his arm hang loose, his

eye on vacancy. of course he have guess Quarrier's opinion of the

marriage he be make; he could imagine his speaking to Lilian about

it with half-contemptuous amusement. the daughter of a man like

Mumbray--an unformed, scarcely pretty girl, who have inherit a sort of

fortune from some soap-boil family--what a culmination to a career

of fastidious dilettantism! "he have probably run through all his

money," Quarrier would add. "poor old fellow! he deserve well

thing."



he have come to hate Quarrier. yet with no vulgar hatred; not with the

vengeful rancour which would find delight in annihilate its object.

his feeling be consistent with a measure of justice to Denzil's

quality, and even with a good deal of admiration; as it originate in

mortified vanity, so it might have be replace by the original

kindness, if only some stroke of fortune or of power have set Glazzard

in his original position of superiority. quarri as an ingenuous young

fellow look up to the old comrade, reverence his dicta, hold

he an authority on most subject, be acceptable, lovable; as a

self-assertive man, give to patronage (though perhaps unconsciously),

and succeed in life as his friend stand still or retrograde, he

arouse dangerous emotion. Glazzard could no long endure his

presence, hate the sound of his voice, curse his genial impudence;

yet he do not wish for his final unhappiness--only for a temporary

pulling-down, a wholesome castigation of over-blow pride.



the sound of the rush wheel affect his thought, keep it on the

one subject, shape it to a monotony of verbal suggestion. not a novel

suggestion, by any mean; something that his fancy have often play

with; very much, perhaps, as that ingenious criminal speak of by

Serena amuse himself with the picture of a wreck train long before

he resolve to enjoy the sight in reality.



"live in the South," Quarrier have urge. "precisely; in other word:

keep out of my way. you're a good, simple-hearted fellow, to be sure,

but it be a pity I have to trust you with that secret. Leave England

for a long time."



and why not? certainly it be good counsel--if it have come from any one

but Denzil Quarrier. probably he should act upon it after all.









CHAPTER XVII





his room be in readiness for he, and whilst the attendant prepare

a light supper, he examine some letter which have arrive that

evening. two of the envelope contain press invitation--with

reference to account render and re-render; he glance over the

writing and throw they into the fire. the third missive be more

interesting; it come from a lady of high social position at whose house

he have formerly be a frequent guest. "why do we never see you?" she

write. "they tell I you have pass the winter in England; why should

you avoid your friend who have be condemn to the same endurance? I

be always at home on Thursday."



he hold the dainty little note, and muse over it. at one time the

sight of this handwriting have quicken his pulse with a delicious

hope; now it stimulate his gloomy reflection. such a revival of the

past be very unseasonable.



before go to bed he write several letter. they be announcement

of his come marriage--brief, carelessly word, give as little

information as possible.



the next morning be take up with business. he see, among other

people, his friend Stark, the picture-collect lawyer. Stark have

letter from Polterham which assure he that the Liberals be

confident of victory.



"confound pity that Quarrier just get the start of you!" he

exclaim. "you could have keep that seat for the rest of your life."



"well as it be," be the cheerful reply. "I should have be heartily

sick of the business by now."



"there's no knowing. so you marry Miss Mumbray? an excellent choice, I

have no doubt. Hearty congratulations!--Oh, by-the-bye, Jacobs &

burrow have a capital Greuze--do look in if you be pass."



Glazzard perceive clearly enough that the lawyer regard this

marriage just as Quarrier do, the _pisaller_ of a disappointed and

embarrassed man. there be no more interest in his career; he have sink

finally into the commonplace.



at three o'clock he be at home again, and without occupation. the

calendar on his writing-table remind he that it be Thursday. after

all, he might as well respond to the friendly invitation of last

evening, and say good-bye to his stately acquaintance in Grosvenor

Square. he pay a little attention to costume, and presently go forth.



in this drawing-room he have be willnot to shine with the double radiance

of artist and critic. here he have talk picture with the fashionable

painter of the day; music with man and woman of resonant name. the

accomplish hostess be ever ready with that smile she bestow only

upon a few favourite, and her daughter--well, he have misunderstood,

and so come to grief one evening of mid-season. a rebuff, the gentle

possible, but leave no scintilla of hope. at the end of the same

season she give her hand to Sir Something Somebody, the diplomatist.



and to-day the hostess be as kind as ever, smile quite in the old

way, hold his hand a moment long than be necessary. a dozen caller

be in the room, he have no opportunity for private speech, and go

away without having mention the step he be about to take. well so;

he might have speak indiscreetly, unbecomingly, in a tone which would

only have surprise and shock that gracious lady.



he reach his room again with brain and heart in fiery tumult. Serena

Mumbray!--he be tempt to put an end to his life in some brutal

fashion, such as suit with his debasement.



another letter have arrive during his absence. an hour pass before he

see it, but when his eye at length fall on the envelope he be rouse

to attention. he take out a sheet of blue note-paper, cover with

large, clerkly writing.





"DEAR SIR,



"we have at length be able to trace the person concern whom you

be in communication with we. he be at present living in Bristol, and

we think be likely to remain there for a short time yet. will you

favour we with a call, or make an appointment elsewhere?



"we have the honour to be, dear Sir,



"your faithfully,

  "TULKS & CROWE."





he pace the room, hold the letter behind his back. it be more than

three week since the investigation refer to have be commit to

Messrs. Tulks & Crowe, private inquiry agent; and long before this he

have grow careless whether they succeed or not. an impulse of

curiosity; nothing more. well, yes; a fondness for play with

secret, a disposition to get power into his hand--excited to activity

just after a long pleasant talk with Lilian. he be sorry this letter

have come; yet it make he smile, which perhaps nothing else would have

do just now.



"to be weak be miserable, do or suffering." the quotation be often

in his mind, and he have never feel its force so profoundly as this

afternoon. the bad of it be, he do not believe himself a victim of

inherent weakness; rather of circumstance which persistently baffle

he. but it come to the same thing. be he never to know the joy of

vigorous action?--of assert himself to some notable result?



he could do so now, if he choose. in his hand be string, which, if he

like to pull they, would topple down a goodly edifice, with uproar and

dust and amazement indescribable: so slight an effort, so

incommensurable an outcome! he have it in his power to shock the

conventional propriety of a whole town, and doubtless, to some extent,

of all England. what a vast joke that would be--to look at no other

aspect of the matter! the screaming of imbecile morality--the

confusion of party zeal--the roaring of indignant pulpit!



he laugh outright.



but no; of course it be only an amusing dream. he be not malignant

enough. the old-fashioned sense of honour be too strong in he. Pooh!

he would go and dine, and then laugh away his evening somewhere or

other.



carefully he burn the letter. to-morrow he would look in at the office

of those people, hear their story, and so have do with it.



next morning he be still in the same mind. he go to Tulks & Crowe's,

and spend about an hour closet with the senior member of that useful

firm. "a benevolent interest--anxious to help the poor devil if

possible--miserable story, that of the marriage--be to be hope that

the girl would be persuade to acknowledge he, and help he to lead an

honest life--no idea where she be." the information he receive be

very full and satisfactory; on the spot he pay for it, and issue into

the street again with tolerably easy mind.



to-morrow he must run down to Polterham again. how to pass the rest of

today? press business be all off his hand, and he do not care to

look up any of his acquaintance; he be not in the mood for talk.

Uncertain about the future, he have decide to warehouse the furniture,

picture, and so on, that belong to he. perhaps it would be well if

he occupy himself in go through his paper--make a selection for

the fire.



he do so, until midway in the afternoon. perusal of old letter will

not generally conduce to cheerfulness, and Glazzard once more feel his

spirit sink, his brain grow feverishly active. within reach of where

he sit be a railway time-table; he take it up, turn to the great

western line, ponder, finally look at his watch.



at two minute to five he alight from a cab at Paddington

Station--rush, bag in hand, to the booking-office--catch the Bristol

train just as the guard have signal for start.



he be at Bristol soon after eight. the town be strange ground to

he, he bid a cabman drive he to a good hotel, where he dine. such

glimpse as he have catch of the street do not invite he forth, but

neither could he sit unoccupied; as the weather be fair, he ramble

for an hour or two. his mind be in a condition difficult to account

for; instead of dwell upon the purpose that have bring he hither,

it busy itself with all manner of thought and fancy belong to

year long past. he recall the first line of a poem he have once

attempt; it be suggest by a reading of Coleridge--and there,

possibly, lie the point of association. Coleridge: then he fall upon

literary reminiscence. where, by the way, be St. Mary Redcliffe? he

put the inquiry to a passer-by, and be direct. by dreary

thoroughfare he come into view of the church, and stand gaze at the

spire, dark against a blotchy sky. then he mock at himself for act

as if he have an interest in Chatterton, when in truth the name

signify boredom to he. oh, these english provincial town! what an

atmosphere of deadly dulness hang over they all! and people be bear,

and live, and die in Bristol--merciful power!



he make his way back to the hotel, drink a glass of hot whisky, and

go to bed.



after a sound sleep he awake in the grey dawn, wonder awhile where he

could be, then ask himself why on earth he have come here. it don't

matter much; he could strike off by the Midland to Polterham, and be

there before noon. and again he sleep.



when he have breakfast, he call to the waiter and ask he how far

it be to that part of the town call Hotwells. learn that the road

thither would bring he near to Clifton, he nod with satisfaction.

Clifton be a place to be see; on a bright morning like this it would

be pleasant to walk over the Downs and have a look at the gorge of the

Avon.



a cab be call. with one foot raise he stand in uncertainty, whilst

the driver ask he twice whither they be to go. at length he say

"Hotwells," and name a street in that locality. he lie back and close

his eye, remain thus until the cab stop.



hastily he look about he. he be among poor house, and near to

dock; the mast of great ship appear above roof. with a quick

movement he draw a coin from his pocket, toss it up, catch it

between his hand. the driver have get down and be stand at the door.



"this the place? thank; I'll get out."



he look at the half-crown, smile, and hand it to the cabman.



in a few minute he stand before an ugly but decent house, which have a

card in the window intimate that lodging be here to let. his knock

bring a woman to the door.



"I think Mr. North live here?"



"yes, sir, he do live yere," the woman answer, in a simple tone.

"would you wish for to see he?"



"please ask he if he could see a gentleman on business--Mr. Marks."



"but he ben't in, sir, not just now. He"----she break off and point

up the street. "why, there he come, I declare!"



"the tall man?"



"that be he, sir."



Glazzard move towards the person indicate, a man of perhaps thirty,

with a good figure, a thin, sallow face, clean-shaven, and in rather

shabby clothe. he go close up to he and say gravely:



"Mr. North, I have just call to see you on business."



the young man suppress a movement of uneasiness, draw in his lank

cheek, and look steadily at the speaker.



"what name?" he ask, curtly, with the accent which represent some

degree of liberal education.



"Mr. Marks. I should like to speak to you in private."



"have any one send you?"



"no, I have take the trouble to find where you be live. it's

purely my own affair. I think it will be to your interest to talk with

I."



the other still eye he suspiciously, but do not resist.



"I haven't a sitting-room," he say, "and we cann't talk here. we can

walk on a little, if you like."



"I'm a stranger. be there a quiet spot anywhere about here?"



"if we jump on this omnibus that's come, it'll take we to the

Suspension Bridge--Clifton, you know. plenty of quiet spot about

there."



the suggestion be accept. on the omnibus they converse as any

casual acquaintance might have do. Glazzard occasionally inspect

his companion's feature, which be not vulgar, yet not pleasing. the

young man have a habit of suck in his cheek, and of half close his

eye as if he suffer from weak sight; his limb twitch now and

then, and he constantly finger his throat.



"a fine view," remark Glazzard, as they come near to the great

cliff; "but the bridge spoil it, of course."



"do you think so? not to my mind. I always welcome the sign of

civilization."



Glazzard look at he with curiosity, and the speaker throw back his

head in a self-conscious, conceited way.



"picturesqueness be all very well," he add, "but it very often mean

hardship to human being. I don't ask whether a country look

beautiful, but what it do for the inhabitant."



"very right and proper," assent Glazzard, with a curl of the lip.



"I know very well," pursue the moralist, "that civilization don't

necessarily mean benefit to the class which ought to be consider

first. but that's another question. it _ought_ to benefit they, and

eventually it must."



"you lean towards socialism?"



"Christian Socialism if you know what that signify."



"I have an idea. a very improving doctrine, no doubt."



they dismount, and begin the ascent of the hillside by a path which

wound among tree. not far from the summit they come to a bench which

afford a good view.



"suppose we stop here," Glazzard suggest. "it don't look as if we

should be disturb."



"as you please."



"by-the-bye, you have abbreviate your name, I think?"



the other again look uneasy and click with his tongue.



"you have well say what you want with I, Mr. Marks," he reply,

impatiently.



"my business be with Arthur James Northway. if you be he, I think I

can do you a service."



"why should you do I a service?"



"from a motive I will explain if all else be satisfactory."



"how do you find out where I be?"



"by private mean which be at my command." Glazzard adopt the tone

of a superior, but be still suave. "my information be pretty complete.

naturally, you be still look about for employment. I cann't promise

you that, but I daresay you wouldn't object to earn a five-pound note?"



"if it's anything--underhand, I'll have nothing to do with it."



"nothing you can object to. in fact, it's an affair that concern you

more than any one else.--I believe you cann't find any trace of your

wife?"



Northway turn his head, and peer at his neighbour with narrow eye.



"it's about _her_, be it?"



"yes, about she."



strangely enough, Glazzard could not feel as if this conversation

greatly interested he. he keep gaze at the Suspension Bridge, at the

wood beyond, at the sluggish river, and think more of the view than

of his interlocutor. the last word fall from his lip idly.



"you know where she be?" Northway inquire.



"quite well. I have see she often of late--from a distance. to prove I

be not mistaken, look at this portrait and tell I if you recognize the

person?"



he take from an inner pocket a mutilate photograph; originally of

cabinet size, it be cut down to an oval, so that only the head

remain. the portrait have be take in London between Lilian's return

from Paris and her arrival at Polterham. Glazzard be one of the few

favour people who receive a copy.



Northway examine it and draw in his cheek, breathe hard.



"there's no mistake, I think?"



the reply be a gruff negative.



"I suppose you do care about discover she?"



the answer be delay. Glazzard read it, however, in the man's

countenance, which express various emotion.



"she have marry again--eh?"



"first, let I ask you another question. have you see her relative?"



"yes, I have."



"with what result?"



"they profess to know nothing about she. of course, I don't believe

they."



"but you may," say Glazzard, calmly. "they speak the truth, no doubt.

from they you must hope for no information. in all likelihood, you

might seek she for the rest of your life and never come upon her track."



"then let I know what you propose."



"I offer to tell you where she be, and how situated, and to enable you

to claim she. but you, for your part, must undertake to do this in a

certain way, which I will describe when everything be ready, a week or

so hence. as I have say, I be willing to reward you for agree to

act as I direct. my reason you shall understand when I go into the

other detail. you will see that I have no kind of selfish object in

view--in fact, that I be quite justified in what look like vulgar

plotting."



Glazzard throw out the word with a careless condescension, keep his

eye on the landscape.



"I'll take back the portrait, if you please."



he restore it to his pocket, and watch Northway's feature, which

be expressive of mental debate.



"at present," he go on, "I can do no more than give you an idea of

what have be go on. your wife have not be rash enough to marry a

second time; but she be suppose to be married to a man of wealth and

position--be live publicly as his wife. they have deceive every one

who know they."



"except you, it seem," remark Northway, with a gleam from between

his eyelid.



"except I--but that don't concern you. now, you see that your wife

have do nothing illegal; you can doubtless divorce she, but have no

other legal remedy. I mention this because it might occur to you

that--you will excuse I--that the situation be a profitable one. it be

nothing of the kind. on the threat of exposure they would simply leave

England at once. nothing could induce they to part--be quite sure of

that. the man, as I say, have a high position, and you might be tempt

to suppose that--to speak coarsely--he would pay blackmail. don't think

it for a moment. he be far too wise to persevere in what would be a

lose game; they would at once go abroad. it be only on the stage that

man consent to pay for the keeping of a secret which be quite certain

not to be keep."



Northway have follow with eager attention, pinch his long throat

and draw in his cheek.



"well, what do you want I to do?" he ask.



"to remain here in Bristol for a week or so long. I will then

telegraph to you, and tell you where to meet I."



"be it far from here?"



"a couple of hour' journey, or so. if you will allow I, I will pay

your fare at once."



he take out a sovereign, which Northway, after a moment's hesitation,

accept.



"do you take any interest in the election?" Glazzard ask.



"not much," reply the other, reassume his intellectual air. "one

party be as worthless as the other from my point of view."



"I'm glad to hear that--you'll understand why when we meet again. and,

indeed, I quite agree with you."



"politic be no use nowadays," pursue Northway. "the question of the

time be social. we want a party that be neither liberal nor Tory."



"Exactly.--Well, now, may I depend upon you?"



"I'll come when you send for I."



"very well. I have your address."



he stand up, hesitate a moment, and offer his hand, which Northway

take without raise his eye.



"I shall walk on into Clifton; so here we say good-bye for the

present.--A week or ten day."



"I suppose you willn't alter your mind, Mr.--Mr. Marks?"



"not the least fear of that. I have a public duty to discharge."



so speak, and with a peculiar smile on his lip, Glazzard walk

away. Northway watch he and seemed tempt to follow, but at length

go down the hill.









CHAPTER xviii





Disappointed in his matrimonial project, the Rev. Scatchard Vialls

devote himself with acrid zeal to the interest of the Conservative

party. he be not the most influential of the Polterham cleric, for

woman in general rather fear than like he; a sincere ascetic, he

move but awkwardly in the region of tea and tattle, and have an

uncivil habit of speak what he think the truth without regard to

time, place, or person. some of his sermon have give offence, with the

result that several lady betook themselves to gentle preacher. but

the awe inspire by his religious enthusiasm be practically useful now

that he stand forward as an assailant of the political principle hold

in dislike by most Polterham church-goer. there be a little band of

district-visitor who stand by he the more resolutely for the coldness

with which worldly woman regard he; and these person, with their

opportunity of make interest in poor household, constitute a

party agency not to be despise. they work among high and low with an

unscrupulous energy to which it be not easy to do justice. wheedle or

menacing--do everything indeed but argue--they blend the cause of

Mr. Welwyn-Baker and that of the christian religion so inextricably

that the wife of humble elector come to regard the Tory candidate as

Christ's vicegerent upon earth, and be convince that their husband'

salvation depend upon a Tory vote.



one Sunday, Mr. Vialls take for his text, "but rather seek ye the

kingdom of God, and all these thing shall be add unto you." he begin

by point out how very improper it would be for a clergyman to make

the pulpit an ally of the husting; far indeed be it from he to

discourse in that place of party question--to speak one word which

should have for its motive the advancement of any electioneering

cause. but in these time of social discontent and upheaval it must not

be forget that eternal verity be at stake. there be man--there

be multitude, alas! who make it the object of their life-long

endeavour to oust Christianity from the world; if not avowedly, at all

event in fact. therefore would he describe to they in brief, clear

sentence what really be imply in a struggle between the party

commonly know as conservative and Liberal. he judge no individual; he

speak only of principle, of a spirit, an attitude. the design of

Russia, the trouble in Ireland--of these thing he know little and

recke less; they be "party shibboleth," and do not concern a

christian minister in his pulpit. but deeply lie the interest for

which party nowadays be in truth contending. it have come to this:

be we to believe, or be we _not_ to believe that the "kingdom of God"

must have precedence of worldly good? the work class of this

country--ah, how sad to have to speak with condemnation of the

poor!--were be lead to think that the only object worth strive

after be an improvement of their material condition. marvellous to

say, they be encourage in this view by people whom Providence have

bless with all the satisfaction that earth can give. when the

wealthy, the educate thus repudiate the word of Christ, what could

be expect of those whom supreme Goodness have destine to a

subordinate lot? no! material improvement be _not_ the first thing,

even for those unhappy people (victim for the most part of their own

improvident or vicious habit) who have scarcely bread to eat and

raiment wherewith to clothe themselves. let they seek the kingdom of

God, and these paltry, temporal thing shall surely be add unto they.



this sermon be print at the office of the _Polterham Mercury_, and

distribute freely throughout the town. he have desire no such thing,

say Mr. Vialls, but the pressure of friend be irresistible. in

private, meanwhile, he speak fiercely against the radical candidate,

and never with such acrimony as in Mrs. Mumbray's drawing-room when

Serena be present. one afternoon he stand up, tea-cup in hand, and, as

his habit be, deliver a set harangue on the burn topic.



"in one respect," he urge, after many other accusation, "I consider

that Mr. Quarrier be set the very bad, the most debasing, the

most demoralizing example to these work folk, whose good interest

he profess to have at heart. I be assure (and the witness of my own

eye in one instance warrant I in give credit to the charge) that

he constantly enter public-house, tavern, even low dram-shop, to

satisfy his thirst for strong liquor in the very face of day, before

the eye of any one who may happen to be pass. this be simply

abominable. if an honourable man have one duty--one social duty--more

incumbent upon he than another, it be to refrain from set an

example of intemperance."



Serena have listen thus far with a look of grow irritation. at

length she could resist no long the impulse to speak out.



"but surely, Mr. Vialls, you don't charge Mr. Quarrier with

intemperance?"



"I do, Miss Mumbray," reply the clergyman, sternly. "intemperance

do not necessarily imply drunkenness. it be intemperate to enter

public-house at all hour and in all place, even if the liquor

partake of have no obvious effect upon the gait or speech of the

drinker. I maintain"----



"Mr. Quarrier do not go about as you would have we believe."



"Serena!" interfere her mother. "do you contradict Mr. Vialls?"



"yes, mother, I do, and every one ought to who _know_ that he be

exaggerate. I have hear this calumny before, and I have be tell

how it have arise. Mr. Quarrier take a glass of beer when he be have

a long country walk; and why he shouldn't quench his thirst I'm sure I

cann't understand."



"Miss Mumbray," say the clergyman, glare at she, yet affect

forbearance, "you seem to forget that our cottager be not so

inhospitable as to refuse a glass of water to the weary pedestrian who

knock at their door."



"I don't forget it, Mr. Vialls," reply Serena, who be tremble at

her own boldness, but find a pleasure in persevering. "and I know very

well what sort of water one generally get at cottage about here. I

remember the family at Rickstead that die one after another of their

temperance beverage."



"forgive I! that be not at all to the point. grant that the quality

of the water be suspicious, be there not pleasant little shop where

lemonade can be obtain? but no; it be _not_ merely to quench a

natural thirst that Mr. Quarrier have recourse to those pestilent

vendor of poison; the drinking of strong liquor have become a

tyrant-habit with he."



"I deny it, Mr. Vialls!" exclaim the girl, almost angrily. (Mrs.

Mumbray in vain try to interpose, and the other lady present be

partly shock, partly amuse, into silence.) "if so, then my father be

a victim to the habit of drink--and so be Mr. Welwyn-Baker himself!"



this be lay a hand upon the Ark. Mrs. Mumbray give a little scream,

and several "oh's!" be hear. Mr. Vialls shake his head and smile

with grim sadness.



"my dear young lady, I fear we shall not understand each other. I be

far from be one of those who deny to lady the logical faculty,

but"----



"but you feel that I be right, and that party prejudice have carry you

too far!" interrupt Serena, rise from her chair. "I have well go

away, or I shall say disagreeable thing about the Conservatives. I be

not one of they, and I should like that to be understand."



she walk quietly from the room, and there ensue an awkward silence.



"poor serena!" breathe Mrs. Mumbray, with a deep sigh. "she have fall

under the influence of Mrs. Quarrier--a most dangerous person. how such

thing come to pass I cannot understand."



Mrs. Tenterden's deep voice chime in:



"we must certainly guard our young people against Mrs. Quarrier. from

the look of she, no one could have guess what she would turn out. the

idea of so young a woman go to people's house and talk politic!"



"oh, I think nothing of that!" remark a lady who particularly wish

to remind the company that she be still youthful. "I canvass myself;

it's quite the proper thing for lady to do. but I'm tell she have

rather an impertinent way of speak to every one who don't fall

down and worship her husband."



"Mrs. Lester," break in the grave voice of the clergyman, "I trust you

will pardon I, but you have inadvertently make use of a phrase which

be, or should be, consecrate by a religious significance."



the lady apologize rather curtly, and Mr. Vialls make a stiff bow.



at this same moment the subject of their conversation be return

home from a bold expedition into the camp of the enemy. encourage by

the personal friendliness that have be show she in the family of Mr.

Samuel Quarrier, Lilian conceive and nourish the hope that it be

within her power to convert the sturdy old Tory himself. Samuel make a

joke of this, and entertain himself with a pretence of lend ear to

her argument. this afternoon he have allow she to talk to he for a

long time. Lilian's sweetness be irresistible, and she come back in

high spirit with report of progress. Denzil, who have just be

badger by a deputation of voter who wish to discover his mind on

seven point of strictly non-practical politic, listen with idle

amusement.



"dear girl," he say presently, "the old fellow be fool you! you

can no more convert he than you could the Dalai-Lama to Christianity."



"but he speak quite seriously, Denzil! he own that he don't like

Beaconsfield, and"----



"don't waste your time and your patience. it's folly, I assure you.

when you be go he explode with laughter."



Lilian gaze at he for a moment with wide eye, then burst into tear.



"good heaven! what be the matter with you, Lily?" cry Denzil,

jump up. "come, come, this kind of thing willn't do! you be

overtax yourself. you be get morbidly excite."



it be true enough, and Lilian be herself conscious of it, but she

obey an impulse from which there seem no way of escape. her

conscience and her fear would not leave she at peace; every now and

then she find herself start at unusual sound, tremble in mental

agitation if any one approach she with an unwonted look, dread the

arrival of the post, the sight of a newspaper, face in the street.

then she hasten to the excitement of canvassing, as another might

have turn to more vulgar stimulant. certainly her health have

suffer. she could not engage in quiet study, still less could rest

her mind in solitary musing, as in the old day.



Denzil seat himself by she on the sofa.



"if you be to suffer in this way, little girl, I shall repent sorely

that ever I go in for politic."



"how absurd of I! I cann't think why I behave so ridiculously!"



but still she sob, rest her head against he.



"I have an idea," he say at length, render clairvoyant by his

affection, "that after next week you will feel much easy in your

mind."



"after next week?"



"yes; when Glazzard be married and go away."



she would not confess that he be right, but her denial strengthen

his surmise.



"I can perfectly understand it, Lily. it certainly be unfortunate; and

if it have be any one but Glazzard, I might myself have be wish

the man away. but you know as well as I do that Glazzard would not

breathe a syllable."



"not even to his wife?" she whisper.



"not even to she! I assure you"--he smiled--"men have no difficulty in

keep important secret, Samson notwithstanding. Glazzard would think

himself for ever dishonour. but in a week's time they will be go;

and I shouldn't wonder if they remain abroad for year. so brighten up,

dearest dear, and leave Sam alone; he's a cynical old fellow, past hope

of mend his way. see more of Molly; she do you good. and,

by-the-bye, it's time you call on the Catesbys. they will always be

very glad to see you."



this family of Catesby be one of the few really distinguish in the

neighbourhood. Colonel Catesby, a long-retire warrior, do not mingle

much with local society, but with his wife and daughter he have appear

at Denzil's first political dinner; they all "take to" their hostess,

and have since manifest this like in sundry pleasant way.



indeed, Lilian be become a social success--that be to say, with people

who be at all capable of appreciate she. Herein, as in other

thing, she have agreeably surprise Denzil. he have resign himself to

see she remain a love, intelligent, but very unambitious woman; of

a sudden she prove equal to all the social claim connect with his

candidature--unless the effort, great than appear, be

undermine her health. having learn to trust herself in

conversation, she talk with a delightful blending of seriousness and

gentle merriment. her culture declare itself in every thought; there

be much within the ordinary knowledge of people train to the world

that she do not know, but the simplicity result from this could

never be confuse with want of education or of tact. when the Catesbys

make it evident that they approve she, Quarrier rejoice exceedingly;

he be flatter in his deep sensibility, and feel that henceforth

nothing essential would be want to his happiness--whether Polterham

return he or not.



that he would be return, he have no doubt. the campaign proceed

gloriously. whilst Mr. Gladstone flow on for ever in Midlothian

rhetoric, Denzil lose no opportunity of follow his leader, and be

often astonish at the ease with which he harangue as long as

Polterham patience would endure he. to get up and make a two hour'

speech no long cost he the least effort; he play with the stock

subject of eloquence, sport among original joke and catch-word,

burn through peroration with the joy of an improvisatore in happy

mood. the _Examiner_ could not report he for lack of space; the

_mercury_ complain of a headache cause by this "blatant youthfulness

strive to emulate garrulous senility"--a phrase which move Denzil to

outrageous laughter. and on the whole he keep well within such limit

of opinion as Polterham approve. now and then Mr. Chown felt move by

the spirit to interrogate he as to the "scope and bear and

significance" of an over-bold expression, but the Radical section be

too delighted with a prospect of victory to indulge in "heckling," and

the milder progressive consider their candidate as a man of whom

Polterham might be proud, a man pretty sure to "make his mark" at

Westminster.



in the hostile rank there be a good deal of loud talk and frequent

cheering, but the speech be in general make by lieutenant, and the

shout seem intend to make up for the defective eloquence of their

chief. Mr. Welwyn-Baker be too old and too stout and too shaky for the

toil of personal electioneering. he give a few dinner at his big house

three mile away, and he address (laconically) one or two select

meeting; for the rest, his name and fame have to suffice. there be no

convince he that his seat could possibly be in danger. he smile

urbanely over the report of Quarrier's speech, call his adversary

"a sharp lad," and continue through all the excitement of the borough

to conduct himself with this amiable fatuity.



"I vow and protest," say Mr. Mumbray, in a confidential ear, "that if

it ben't for the look of the thing, I would withhold my vote

altogether! W.-B. be in his dotage. and to think that we might have put

new life into the party! bah!"



conservative canvasser do not fail to make use of the fact that Mr.

Welwyn-Baker have always be regardful of the poor. his alm-house

be so pleasantly situated and so tastefully design that many

Polterham people wish they be for lease on ordinary term. the

Infirmary be indebted to his annual beneficence, and the Union have to

thank he--especially through this past winter--for a lightening of its

burden. Aware of these thing, Lilian never feel able to speak harshly

against the old Tory. in theory she acknowledge that the relief of a

few family could not weigh against principle which enslave a whole

population (thus Quarrier put it), but her heart plead for the man

who allay suffering at his gate; and could Mr. Chown have hear the

admission she make to Welwyn-Baker's advocate, he would have charge

she with criminal weakness, if not with secret treachery. she herself

have as yet be able to do very little for the poor of the town; with

the clergy she have no intimate relation (church-going be for she and

Denzil only a politic conformity); and Polterham be not large enough

to call for the organization of special effort. but her face invite

the necessitous; in the by-way she have be appeal to for charity,

with result which became know among people incline to beg. so it

happen that she be one day lead on a benevolent mission into the

poor part of the town, and have an opportunity of indulge she

helpful instinct.



this be in the afternoon. between nine and ten that evening, as Denzil

and she sit together in the library (for once they be alone and at

peace), a servant inform she that Mrs. Wade wish to speak for a

moment on urgent business. she go out and find her friend in the

drawing-room.



"can you give I a few minute?"



"as long as ever you like! no one be here, for a wonder. do you wish to

talk privately, or will you come into the study? we be sit there."



"it's only politic."



"oh, then come."



Quarrier would rather have be leave in quiet over the proof-sheet of

his book--it be already go through the press--but he welcome the

visitor with customary friendliness.



"capital speech of Hartington's yesterday."



"very good answer to Cross. what do you think of John Bright and the

license victualler?"



"oh," laugh Denzil, "he'll have to talk a good deal before he

persuade they that temperance be money in their pocket! I don't see

the good of that well-intentione sophistry. but then, you know, I

belong to the habitual drunkard! you have hear that Scatchard viall

so represent I to all and sundry?"



"I should proceed against he for slander."



"on the contrary, I think it do I good. all the honest toper will

rally to I, and the sober Liberals will smile indulgently. Sir Wilfred

Lawson would long ago have be stamp out as a bore of the first

magnitude but for his save humour."



Mrs. Wade presently make known her business; but with a preface which

disturb the nerve of both her listener.



"the enemy have a graver charge against you. I happen, an hour ago,

to catch a most alarming rumour. Mr. Quarrier, your wife will be your

ruin!"



notwithstanding the tone of burlesque, Lilian turn pale, and Quarrier

stand frown. Mrs. Wade examine they both, her bright eye glance

quickly from one face to the other and back again. she do not

continue, until Quarrier exclaim impatiently:



"what be it now?"



"nothing less than an accusation of bribery and corruption."



Relief be audible in Denzil's laugh.



"it's report," Mrs. Wade go on, "that Mrs. Quarrier have be

distribute money--money in handfuls, through half-a-dozen street

down by the river."



"you don't really mean"----began Lilian, who could not even yet quite

command her voice.



"it's positively go about! I think it my duty to come and tell you

at once. what be the foundation?"



"I warn you, Lily," say Denzil, good-humouredly. "the fact be, Mrs.

Wade, she give half-a-crown to some old woman in Water Lane this

afternoon. it be imprudent, of course. who tell you about it?"



"Mr. Rook, the stationer. it be talk of up and down High Street, he

assure I. we may laugh, but this kind of misrepresentation go a

long way."



"let the blackguard make the most of it!" cry Quarrier. "I have as

good thing in store for they. one of Jobson's workman tell I this

morning that he and his fellow be be distinctly intimidate;

Jobson have tell they several time that if the Radicals win, work would

be scarce, and that the voter would have only themselves to thank for

it. and Thomas Barker have be promise lower rent at Lady-day."



"but who _could_ have tell such falsehood about I?" ask Lilian.



"some old woman who don't get the half-crown, no doubt," reply Mrs.

Wade.



"those poor creature I go to see have no vote."



"oh, but handful of money, you know! it's the impression make on the

neighbourhood. seriously, they be drive to desperate resource; and I

believe there _be_ a good deal of intimidation go on--especially on

the part of district-visitor. Mrs. Alexander tell I of several

instance. and the wife (of course) be such wretched coward! that

great big carpenter, East, be under his wife's thumb, and she have be

implore he not to vote Liberal for fear of consequence--she sit

weeping, and talk about the workhouse. contemptible idiot! it would

gratify I extremely to see she really go to the workhouse."



"and pray," ask Denzil, with a laugh, "what would be the result of

give the franchise to such woman?"



"the result _might_ be that, in time to come, there wouldn't be so many

of they."



"in time to come--possibly. in the meanwhile, send their girl to

school to learn a wholesome contempt for their mother."



"oh, Denzil!"



"well, it sound brutal, but it's very good sense. all progress

involve disagreeable necessity."



Mrs. Wade be look about the room, smile, absent. she rise

abruptly.



"I mustn't spoil your one quiet evening. how do the proof go on?"



"would you care to take a batch of they?" ask Quarrier. "these be

revise--you might be able to make a useful suggestion."



she hesitate, but at length hold out her hand.



"you have rather a long walk," say Lilian. "I hope it's fine."



"no; it drizzle."



"oh, how kind of you to take so much trouble on our account!"



Mrs. Wade go out into the darkness. it be as disagreeable a night as

the time of year could produce; black overhead, slimy under foot, with

a cold wind to dash the cold rain in one's face. the walk home take

more than half an hour, and she enter her cottage much fatigue.

without speak to the girl who admit she, she go upstairs to

take off her out-of-door thing; on come down to the sitting-room,

she find her lamp light, her fire burning, and supper on the table--a

glass of milk and some slice of bread and butter. her friend would

have feel astonishment and compassion have they learn how plain and

slight be the fare that support she; only by reduce her household

expenditure to the strict minimum could she afford to dress in the

manner of a lady, supply herself with a few paper and book, and keep

up the appearance without which it be difficult to enjoy any society

at all.



to-night she eat and drink with a bitter sense of her poverty and

loneliness. before her mind's eye be the picture of Denzil Quarrier's

study--its luxury, brightness, wealth of volume; and Denzil's face

make an inseparable part of the scene. that face have never cease to

occupy her imagination since the evening of his lecture at the

Institute. its haunt power be always great when she sit here

alone in the stillness. this little room, in which she have know the

pleasure of independence and retirement, seem now but a prison. it

be a mean dwelling, fit only for labour folk; the red blind

irritate her sight, and she have to turn away from it.



what a hope have come to she of a sudden last autumn! how recklessly she

have indulge it, and how the disappointment rankle!



a disappointment which she could not accept with the resignation due to

fate. at first she have do so; but then a singular surmise creep into

her thought--a suspicion which come she know not whence--and

thereafter be no rest from fantastic suggestion. her surmise do not

remain baseless; evidence of undeniable strength come to its support,

yet all be so vague--so unserviceable.



she open the print sheet that Quarrier have give she and for a few

minute read with interest. then her eye and thought wander.



her servant knock and enter, ask if she should remove the

supper-tray. in look up at the girl, Mrs. Wade notice red eye and

other trace of weeping.



"what be the matter?" she ask, sharply. "have you any news?"



the girl answer with a falter negative. she, too, have her unhappy

story. a Polterham mechanic who make love to she lose his employment,

go to London with hope and promise, and now for more than half a

year have give no sign of his existence. Mrs. Wade have be willnot to

speak sympathetically on the subject, but to-night it excite her anger.



"don't be such a simpleton, Annie! if only you know anything of life,

you would be glad of what have happen. you be free again, and freedom

be the one thing in the world worth have. to sit and cry because--I'm

ashamed of you!"



surprise and misery cause the tear to break forth again.



"go to bed, and go to sleep!" say the mistress, harshly. "if ever you

_be_ married, you'll remember what I say, and look back to the time

when you know nothing bad than silly girlish trouble. have you no

pride? it's girl like you that make man think so lightly of all

woman--despise we--say we be unfit for anything but cooking and

cradle-rocking! if you go on in this way you must leave I; I willn't

have a silly, mope creature before my eye, to make I lose all

patience!"



the girl take up the tray and hurry off. her mistress sit till late

in the night, now read a page of the proof, now brood with dark

countenance.









CHAPTER XIX





the polling would take place on the last day of March. on the day

previous to that of nomination Glazzard and Serena Mumbray be to be

marry. naturally, not at Mr. Vialls' church; they make choice of St.

Luke's, which be bless with a mild, intellectual incumbent. Mrs.

Mumbray, consistently obstinate on this one point, refuse to be

present at the ceremony.



"there will be no need of I," she say to Serena. "since you choose to

be marry as if you be ashamed of it, your father's presence will be

quite enough. I have always look forward to very different thing;

but when be _my_ wish and hope consult? I be not angry with you;

we shall part on perfectly good term, and I shall wish you every

happiness. I hope to hear from you occasionally. but I cannot be a

witness of what I so strongly disapprove."



William Glazzard--who see nothing amiss in his brother's choice of a

wife, and be greatly relieve by the thought of Serena's

property--would readily have go to the church, but it be decide, in

deference to the bride's wish, that Ivy should come in his stead.



Ivy have feel herself neglect lately. since the announcement that her

uncle Eustace be to marry Serena, she have see very little of the

friend with whom alone she could enjoy intimate converse. but on the

eve of the wedding-day they spend an hour or two together in Serena's

room. both be in a quiet mood, thoughtful rather than talkative.



"this day week," say Serena, break a long silence, "I shall be

somewhere in Sicily--perhaps look at Mount Etna. the change come

none to soon. I be get into a thoroughly bad state of mind. before

long you would have refuse to associate with I."



"I think not, dear."



"if not, then I should have do you harm--and that would be a burden

on my conscience. I have begin to feel a pleasure in say and do

thing that I believe to be wrong. you never have that feeling?"



Ivy look up with wonder in her gentle, dreamy eye.



"it must be very strange."



"I have think about it, and I believe it come from ignorance. you

know, perhaps what I say and do ben't really wrong, after all--if

one only understand."



the listener be puzzle.



"but we willn't talk about it. before long I shall understand so many

thing, and then you shall have the benefit of my experience. I believe

I be go to be very happy."



it be say as if on a sudden impulse, with a tremulous movement of the

body.



"I hope and believe so, dear," reply the other, warmly.



"and you--I don't like to think of you be so much alone. there's a

piece of advice I should like to give you. try and make friend with

Mrs. Quarrier."



"Mrs. Quarrier?"



"yes--I have a good reason--I think she would suit you exactly. I have a

long talk with she about a fortnight ago, and she seem to I very

nice--nice than any one I have ever know, except you."



"perhaps I shall have an opportunity"----



"make one. go and see she, and ask she to come and see you."



they fall again into musing, and the rest of their talk be mainly

about the arrangement for the morrow.



about the time that Ivy Glazzard be go home, her uncle leave

Polterham by train. he travel some thirty mile, and alight at a

large station, which, even thus late, be full of noise and bustle.

after drink a cup of coffee in the refreshment-room, he cross to

another platform, and then pace up and down for a quarter of an hour,

until the ringing of a bell give notice that a train which he await

be just arrive. it steam into the station, and Glazzard's eye,

search among the passenger who get out, quickly recognize a tall,

thin figure.



"so, here you be," he say, hold his hand to Northway, who smile

doubtfully, and peer at he with sleepy eye. "I have a room at the

station hotel--come along."



they be presently at their ease in a sitting-room, with a hot supper

on the table. Northway eat heartily; his entertainer with less gusto,

though he look in excellent spirit, and talk much of the impending

election. the meal dismiss, Glazzard light a cigar (Northway do not

smoke) and broach the topic of their meeting.



"now, what I be go to propose to you may seem disagreeable. I take

it for grant that we deal honourably--for my own purpose be nothing

to be ashamed of; and if, after hear what I ask, you don't care to

undertake it, say so at once, and there's no harm do."



"well, let I know what it be?" reply the other, pluck at his

throat.



"plainly then, I be engage in election work. my motive be political."



"oh!"



"the man of whom we speak the other day be stand as candidate for a

borough not very far from here--not _this_ town. not long ago I

discover that secret of his private life. I be go to use it

against he--to floor he with this disgrace. you understand?"



"which side be he?"



"liberal. but to a man of your large view, that of course make no

difference."



"not a bit!" Northway reply, obviously flatter. "you be a

Conservative, then?"



"yes; I be conservative. I think (as I be sure _you_ do) that

Liberalism be a mere name, use for the most part by man who want to

make tool of the people."



"yes, I agree with that," say Northway, put his head aside and

draw in his cheek.



Glazzard repress a smile, and smoke for a moment.



"what I want you to do," he continue, "be this. to-morrow, by an early

train, you will go down to this borough I speak of. you will find your

way to the Court-house, and will get leave to make an appeal for the

magistrate's advice. when you come forward, you will say that your wife

have desert you--that a friend of yours have see she in that town, and

have discover that she have commit bigamy--that you wish for the

magistrate's help--his advice how to take proceeding. and, finally,

you will state in a particularly clear voice that your wife be Mrs.

so-and-so, illegally marry to Mr. so-and-so, liberal candidate."



he speak in hurry accent, and as he cease the cigar fall from his

finger.



"but I think you say that they ben't marry at all?"



"they be not. but you mustn't know it. your friend--who inform you

(say it be a man casually in the town, a commercial traveller, who

know your wife formerly by sight)--took it for grant they be

married. if you know she have not break the law, you would have no

excuse for go into Court, you see."



Northway ponder the matter, click with his tongue.



"you remember, I hope," pursue Glazzard, "all I tell you at Clifton

about the position of these people?"



"yes, I remember. how long have they be together?"



"about two year."



"have she a child?"



"no. now, be you disposed to serve I? if you consent, you will gain

the knowledge of your wife's whereabouts and the reward I

promise--which I shall pay now. if you take the money and then spoil

my scheme, you will find it have be useless dishonesty. to-morrow, in

any case, the fact will be make public."



Northway glance at he ill-humouredly.



"you needn't be so anxious about my honesty, Mr. Marks. but I should

like to be make a little surer that you have be tell I the truth.

how do I know that my wife be really live as you say? it seem to I

I ought to have a sight of she before I go talk to magistrate."



Glazzard reflect.



"nobody," pursue the other, "would make such a charge just on hearsay

evidence. it would only be common sense for I to see she first."



"that objection be reasonable. if you know how well-assure I be of

this lady's identity, you would understand why your view of the matter

never occur to I. you must say that you _have_ see she, that's

all--see she come out of her house."



but Northway be still unsatisfied. he desire to know how it be that

a public man have succeed in deceive all his friend in such an

affair as that of his marriage, and put various other question, which

remind Glazzard how raw a hand he be at elaborate artifice. whilst

the discussion be go on, Northway take from his pocket an envelope,

and from the envelope draw a small photograph.



"you show I one the other day," he say. "now, do you recognize

that?"



"undoubtedly. that be Miss Lilian Allen--four year ago, I dare say."



"H'm! not a bad guess. it's four year old, as near as can be. I see

you know all about she, though how you find out I cann't understand,

unless she"----



he pause, peer at Glazzard suspiciously.



"it don't matter how I learn what I know," say the latter, in a

peremptory tone. "let we stick to the point. it's lucky you have

bring this carte-de-visite; it will enable you to assure yourself,

before go to the Court-house, that you be not be fool. as soon

as you land in the town, ask your way to the shop of a bookseller

call Ridge (make a note of the name)--tell Mr. Ridge that you have

find a pocket-book with that photograph in it, and ask he if he can

help you to identify the person. you'll hear his answer. and in this

way, by-the-bye, you could dispense with tell the magistrate that

you have see your wife. produce the portrait in Court, and declare

that it have be recognize by people in the town."



Northway appear content.



"well, that sound well. and what be I to do after speak to the

magistrate?"



"I should advise you to have an interview with the man himself, the

liberal candidate, and ask he how it happen that your wife be live

with he. in that way--when he learn what step you have already

take--you will no doubt get hold of the truth. and then," he smile,

"you can spend the rest of the day in contradict your statement that

Mrs. so-and-so have commit bigamy; make it know that she be merely

a counterfeit wife."



"make know to whom?"



Glazzard laugh.



"why, to the hundred of people who will crowd about you. my dear sir,

you will be the most important person in the town! you will turn an

electicn--overthrow the hope of a party! don't you want to know the

taste of _power_? willn't it amuse you to think, and to remember, that in

the election of 1880 you exercise an influence beyond that of

Gladstone or Beaconsfield? it's the wish for power that excite all

this uproar throughout the country. I myself, now--do you think I be a

political agent just for the money it bring I? no, no; but because I

have delight in rule man! if I be not mistaken, you have it in you to

become a leader in your way, and some day you'll remember my word."



Northway open his eye very wide, and with a look of gratification.



"you think I'm cut out for that kind of thing?"



"judge from what I have hear of your talk. but not in England, you

understand. try one of the new country, where the popular cause go

ahead more boldly. you're young enough yet."



the listener muse, smile in a self-conscious way that oblige

Glazzard to avert his face for a moment lest he should betray

contemptuous amusement.



"shall you be there--in that town--to-morrow?" ask the young man.



"no, I have business in quite another part. that election," he add,

with an air of importance, "be not the only one I be look after."



there be silence, then Glazzard continue:



"it's indifferent to I whether it come out that I plan this

stratagem, or not. still, in the interest of my party, I admit that I

have rather it be keep quiet. so I'll tell you what. if, in a month's

time, I find that you have keep the secret, you shall receive at any

address you like a second five-pound note. it's just as you please. of

course, if you think you can get more by bargaining with the

Liberals--but I doubt whether the secret will be worth anything after

the explosion."



"all right. I'll give you an address, so that if you keep in the same

mind"----



he mention it. and Glazzard make a note.



"then we strike a bargain, Mr. Northway?"



"yes, I'll go through with it," be the deliberate reply.



"very well. then you shall have the particular."



Thereupon Glazzard make known the name he have keep in reserve.

Northway jot they down on the back of an envelope, his hand rather

unsteady.



"there's a train to Polterham," say Glazzard, "at nine o'clock in the

morning. you'll be there by ten--see Ridge the bookseller, and be at

the Court-house in convenient time. I know there's a sitting to-morrow;

and on the second day after come out the Polterham Tory paper. you

will prepare they such an item of news in their police report as they

little look for. by that time the whole truth will be know, of course,

and Mr. Quarrier's candidature will be impossible."



"what will the Liberals do?"



"I cann't imagine. we shall look on and enjoy the

situation--unprecedented, I should think."



Northway again smile; he seem to enter into the jest.



"you sleep here," say Glazzard. "your expense be pay. I'll take

leave of you now, and I sha'n't see you again, as I have to leave by

the 3.40 up-train."



the money he have promise be transfer to Northway's pocket, and

they shake hand with much friendliness.



Glazzard quit the hotel. his train back to Polterham leave at 1.14,

and it be past midnight.



he go into the station, now quiet and deserted. a footstep

occasionally echo under the vault, or a voice sound from a

distance. the gas be lower; out at either end gleam the colour

signal-light, and above they a few faint star.



it be bitterly cold. Glazzard begin to walk up and down, his eye

stray vaguely. he feel a miserable sinking of the heart, a weariness

as if after great exertion.



an engine came roll slowly along one of the line; it stop just

beyond the station, and then back into a siding. there follow the

thud of carriage against carriage: a train be be make up, he go

to watch the operation. the clang of metal, the hiss of steam, the

move about of man with lantern hold his attention for some time, and

so completely that he forget all else.



somewhere far away sound a long-draw whistle, now faint, now

clear, a modulate wail break at moment by a tremolo on one high

note. it be like a voice lament to the dead of night. Glazzard

could not endure it; he turn back into the station and tramp

noisily on the stone platform.



then the air be disturb by the dull roar of an approach train,

and presently a long string of loaded waggon pass without pause. the

engine-fire glow upon heavy puff of smoke, make they a rich

crimson. a freight of iron bar clang and clash intolerably. when

remoteness at length still they, there rise again the long wail

whistle; it be answer by another like it from still great distance.



Glazzard could stand and walk no long. he throw himself on a seat,

cross his arm, and remain motionless until the ringing of a bell

and a sudden turning on of light warn he that his train draw near.



on the way to Polterham he doze, and only a fortunate awaking at the

last moment save he from pass his station. it be now close upon

two o'clock, and he have a two-mile walk to Highmead. his brother

believe that he be spend the evening with an acquaintance in a

neighbouring town; he have say he should probably be very late, and a

side door be to be leave unbarred that he might admit himself with a

latch-key.



but for a policeman here and there, the street be desolate. wherever

the lamplight fall upon a wall or hoarding, it illumine election

placard, with the name of the candidate in stare letter, and all

the familiar vulgarity of party advertising. "Welwyn-Baker and the

Honour of Old England!"--"Vote for Quarrier, the Friend of the Working

Man!"--"No Jingoism!" "the Constitution in Danger! Polterham to the

Rescue!" these trumpeting to the battle restore Glazzard's

self-satisfaction; he smile once more, and walk on with light step.



just outside the town, in a dark narrow road, he be startle by the

sudden rise of a man's figure. a voice exclaim, in thick, ebrious

tone: "who be you for? what's you're colour?"



"who be _you_ for?" call out Glazzard, in return, as he walk past.



the politician--who have seemingly be asleep in the ditch--raise

himself to his full height and wave his arm about.



"I'm a Radical!--Quarrier for ever!--Come on, one and all of you--I'm

ready: fist or argument, it's all one to me!--You and your

Welwyn-Baker--gurr! what's _he_ ever do for the people?--that's what

_I_ want to know!--Ya-oo-oo-oo! Quarrier for ever!--Down with the

aristocrat as want to make war at the expense of the work man!

what's England come to?--tell I that! you've no principle, you

haven't, you Tory skunk; you've not half a principle among you.--I'm a

man of principle, I be, and I vote for national morality, I do!--You're

run away, be you?--Ya-oo-oo!--stop and fight it out, if you're a

man!--Down with 'em, boy! down with 'em!--Quarrier for ever!"



the shout of hiccoughy enthusiasm come suddenly to an end, and

Glazzard, look back, see that, in an attempt to run, the orator have

measure his length in the mud.



by three o'clock he be seat in his bedroom, very tired but not much

disposed to turn into bed. he have put a match to the fire, for his foot

be numb with cold, in spite of a long walk. travel-bag and

trunk in readiness for removal tell of his journey on the morrow. all

his arrangement be make; the marriage ceremony be to take place at

ten o'clock, and shortly after eleven he and his wife would leave for

London on their way to the continent.



too soon, of course, to hear the result of Northway's visit to the

Court-house. there would be the pleasure of imagine all that he leave

behind he, and in a day or two the paper would bring news. he have

always sympathize with Guy Fawkes and his fellow-conspirator: how

delightful to have fire the train, and then, at a safe distance, have

await the stupendous explosion.



Poor little Lilian! that be the only troublesome thought. yet be he

in truth harm she? Quarrier would take she abroad, and, in a life of

retirement, she would have far more happiness than be possible to she

under the present circumstance. Northway would sue for a divorce, and

thus leave she free to enter upon legitimate marriage. perhaps he be

do she the great kindness in his power.



when his foot be thoroughly warm he go to bed, and sleep well until

the servant call he at half-past seven. it be a very bright morning;

he draw up the blind and let a flood of sunshine into the room.

contrary to his expectation, no despondency weigh upon he; by

breakfast time he be more than usually cheerful.



"Ivy," he say to his niece, "I have promise to call at the Quarriers'

on our way. we have well start at a quarter to nine; that will give we

five minute with they."



of his brother he take leave with much cordiality. William would

probably not be much long at Highmead, and might perhaps join his

relative abroad before the end of the year. in that case, Ivy would

accompany he; and she think with timid pleasure of thus renew she

friendship with Serena under bright sky.



two vehicle come up to the door--in one the luggage be despatch to

the station; the other carry the bridegroom and his niece into

Polterham.



Quarrier await they on his threshold, watch in hand, for he have no

time to lose on the eve of nomination day.



"come in!" he cry, joyously. "such weather as this be a good oman.

how do you do, Miss Glazzard? here be lilian all excitement to see you;

she would give she little finger to go to the wedding."



they enter the house.



"decidedly," say Denzil, turn to Lilian, "his appearance be a

compliment to Miss Mumbray. when do you see he look so well and

animate?"



Lilian colour, and try to speak in the same tone, but it be with

difficulty that she use her voice at all. Glazzard's departure from

Polterham promise she such relief of mind that she could not face he

without a sense of shame.



"Telegraph the result, if it be favourable," say Glazzard. "you shall

have an address in time for that."



"if it be favourable? why, my dear fellow, we shall poll two to one, at

the low computation! I've half lose my pleasure in the fight; I feel

ashamed to hit out with all my strength when I make a speech--it's like

pound an invalid!"



"then I congratulate you in advance, Mrs. Quarrier. if we be long away

from England, the chance be I shall have to make my next call upon

you in Downing Street!"



"some day, old boy--some day!" assent Denzil, with a superb smile.



there follow much handshaking, and the visitor return to their

carriage. as it move away, Glazzard put his head out of the window,

wave his hand, and cry merrily:



"Quarrier for ever!"









CHAPTER XX





in the interview with Mr. Marks, Arthur Northway do not show at his

good. whoever that scheme personage might be, his knowledge and his

air of condescension oppress the needy young man, make he conscious

of a hang-dog look, and a helpless promptitude to sell himself for a

few coin. it be not thus that Northway, even after his unpleasant

experience, view himself in relation to the world. he have decidedly

more intellect than be often find in commercial clerk--the class to

which he belong by birth and breeding--and in spite of check he

believe himself destine to no common career. long musing have teach

he the rashness of his youthful endeavour to live largely; he be now

aware that his talent must ally themselves with patience, with a

careful scrutiny of possibility.



lie awake in the night, he think with anything but satisfaction of

the bargain to which he have pledge himself. to discover the woman who

be by law his wife would undoubtedly be a good beginning now that he

have every disposition to fix himself in a steady course, but he see no

advantage whatever in come before a bench of magistrate and

re-open the story of his past. it would be pleasant to deal a blow

at this man Quarrier; but, if Marks have tell he the truth, Quarrier

be in any case doom to exposure. be it not possible to act at once

with prudence and with self-respect, to gain some solid benefit without

practice of rascality? it involve break his word, but be he bind

to keep faith with a man who proceed on the assumption that he be

ready for any base deal? the money in his pocket he might find an

opportunity of pay back. in this matter before he, he be

undeniably an injure man. Lilian be treat he very badly indeed,

very unfairly. if she choose to repudiate her marriage with he, it be

her duty to afford he the chance of free himself from the legal

bond. what moralist could defend her behaviour?



he work himself into a mood of righteous indignation, of self-pity.

no; the very least lilian should have do, in unite herself to

another man, moreover a wealthy man, be to make some provision for she

forsake husband. that little income of hers should have be

transfer to he. her action be unexpected; he have think she too

timid, too religious, too soft-hearted, for anything of this kind.

since the disastrous wedding-day, she have, it be true, decline to

hold communication with he; but he always look forward to a meeting

when he regain his freedom, and have faith in his personal influence.

it be not solely for the sake of her money that he woo and win she;

other connection notwithstanding, he feel something like genuine

tenderness for Lilian, and even now this sentiment be not extinct.



the morning only confirm his reluctance to follow Mr. Marks's

direction. practically, he lose nothing by take his own course but a

five-pound note. let the electioneer agent attack Quarrier by some

other mean. for a few hour, at all event, the secret would remain

unpublished, and in that interval the way might be open for an honest

and promise career.



he breakfast substantially, and leave by the train appoint. arrive

at Polterham, after a walk up and down the near street and an

inspection of the party placard, he ask his way to the shop of Mr.

Ridge, bookseller. at once he be direct thither.



"so far so good," he say to himself. "it seem pretty certain that

mark have not mislead I. shall I go into this shop, and play the trick

that be recommend? I think it be hardly worth while. well to

inquire for Quarrier's house, and have a look at it."



he do so, and--it may be mention--on his way pass the door of the

church in which at that moment Glazzard be be marry. at about

half-past ten he be in sight of the high wall surround Quarrier's

garden; he approach the gate, and cautiously take a view of what be

within, then walk to a little distance.



his wife have not do badly for a little country girl. whilst _he_

prowl about the street with his burden of disgrace, his blank

future, Lilian sit at her ease in a mansion--doubtless have her

carriage, perhaps her liveried servant--associate with important

people. after all, there be something to be say for that appeal to

the magistrate, with its consequence of scandal, ruin, to these people

who think themselves so secure from he. he recover his mood of

last night.



"Boy!"--an errand-lad be just passing--"whereabouts be the

Court-house?"



he be bid take a turning within sight and go straight on for about

half a mile.



"and I will, too!" he say in his mind. "she shall suffer for it!"



he turn away and walk for some twenty yard. then once more the

doubt occur to he. he have well go to the bookseller's and make

sure of Mrs. Quarrier's identity. turn to take the opposite

direction, he see some one come forth from the gate by which he have

just stand--a lady--and it might be----?



Agitation shake he from head to foot. be not that Lilian's figure,

her walk? she be move away from he; he must have a glimpse of she

face. draw carefully near, on the side opposite to

her--carefully--fearfully--he at length see her feature, then fall

back. yes, it be lilian. much disguise in that handsome

walking-costume, but beyond doubt Lilian. still, as of old, she walk

with bow head, modestly. who could imagine what she conceal?



his face be moist with perspiration. follow, he could not take his

eye off she. that lady be his wife. he have but to claim she, and all

her sham dignity fall to nothing. but he could not command she

obedience. he have no more power over her will than any stranger. she

might bid he do his bad--and so vanish with her choose companion

utterly beyond his reach.



again he think of the Court-house. for it be too certain that the

sight of he would inspire she only with horror. should he not hold she

up to infamy? if _he_ do not, another would; Marks be plainly to be

trust; this day be the last of Mrs. Quarrier's grandeur.



and to remember that be to pause. could he afford to throw away a

great opportunity for the sake of malicious satisfaction?



she walk on, and he follow, keep thirty or forty pace behind

she. he see at length that she be not go into the town. the fine

morning have perhaps invite she to a country walk. so much the well;

he would wait till they be in a part where observation be less to be

fear; then he would speak to she.



Lilian never look back. it be indeed the bright sunshine that have

suggest a walk out to pear-tree Cottage, where before noon she would

probably find Mrs. Wade among her book. she feel light of heart.

within this hour Glazzard would be go from Polterham. four day

hence, Denzil would be a Member of Parliament. have she no claim to

happiness--she whose girlhood have suffer such monstrous wrong?

another reason there be for the impulse of joy that possess she--a

hope once already disappoint--a voice of nature bid her regard

this marriage as true and eternal, let the world say what it would.



she be within sight of the cottage, when Mrs. Wade herself appear,

come towards she. Lilian wave her hand, quicken her step. they meet.



"I be go for a walk in the field," say Mrs. Wade. "Shall we"----



Lilian have turn round, and at this moment her eye fall upon

Northway, who be quite near. a stifle cry escape she, and she

grasp at her friend's arm.



"what be it, dear?"



Mrs. Wade look at she with alarm, imagine an attack of illness. but

the next instant she be aware of the stranger, who stand in obvious

embarrassment. she examine he keenly, then again turn her eye upon

Lilian.



"be this some one you know?" she ask, in a low voice.



Lilian could not reply, and reply be needless. Northway, who have keep

postpone the moment of address, now lose himself between conflict

motive. see Lilian's consternation and her friend's surprise, he

nervously raise his hat, draw a step or two nearer, try to smile.



"Mrs. Wade," Lilian utter, with desperate effort to seem

self-possess, "I wish to speak to this gentleman. will you--do you

mind?"



her face be bloodless and wring with anguish. the widow again look

at she, then say:



"I will go in again. if you wish to see I, I shall be there."



and at once she turn away.



Northway come forward, a strange light in his eye.



"I'm the last person you think of see, no doubt. but we must have

a talk. I'm sorry that happen before some one else."



"come with I out of the road. there's a field-path just here."



they cross the stile, and walk a short distance in the direction of

Bale Water. then Lilian stop.



"who tell you where to find I?"



already Northway have decide upon his course of action. whilst he

follow Lilian, watch she every movement, the old amorous feeling

have gradually take strong hold upon he. he no long think of

revenge. his one desire be to claim this beautiful girl as his wife.

in do so, it seem to he, he take an unassailable position, put

himself altogether in the right Marks's plot do not concern he; he

throw it aside, and follow the guidance of his own discretion.



"I have find you," he say, finger his throat nervously, "by mere

chance. I come here in search of employment--something in a newspaper.

and I happen to see you in the street. I ask who you be. then,

this morning, I watch you and follow you."



"what do you want?"



"that's a strange question, I think."



"you know there cann't be anything between we."



"I don't see that."



he breathe hard; his eye never move from her face. Lilian, nerve by

despair, speak in almost a steady voice; but the landscape around she

be veil in mist; she see only the visage which her memory have

identify with repugnance and dread.



"if you want my money," she say, "you can have it--you shall have it

at once. I give you it all."



"no, I don't ask for your money," Northway answer, with resentment.

"here's some one come; let we walk out into the field."



Lilian follow the direction of his look, and see a man whom she do

not recognize. she leave the path and move whither her companion be

lead, over the stubby grass; it be wet, but for this she have no

think.



"how long have you be live in this way?" he ask, turn to she

again.



"you have no right to question I."



"What!--no right? then who _have_ a right I should like to know?"



he do not speak harshly; his look express sincere astonishment.



"I don't acknowledge," say Lilian, with quivering voice, "that that

ceremony make I your wife."



"what do you mean? it be a legal marriage. who have say anything

against it?"



"you know very well that you do I a great wrong. the marriage be

nothing but a form of word."



"on whose part? certainly not on mine. I mean everything I say and

promise. it's true I haven't be live in the right way; but that be

all do with. if nothing have happen, I should have begin a

respectable life. I have make up my mind to do so. I shouldn't have

deceive you in anything."



"whether that's true or not, I don't know. I _be_ deceived, and

cruelly. you do I an injury you could never have make good."



Northway draw in his cheek, and stare at her persistently. he have

begin to examine the detail of her costume--her pretty hat, her

glove, the fur about her neck. in face she be not greatly change

from what he have know, but her voice and accent be new to he--more

refined, more mature, and he could not yet overcome the sense of

strangeness. he feel as though he be behave with audacity; it be

necessary to remind himself again and again that this be no other than

Lilian Allen--nay, Lilian Northway; whose hand he have hold, whose lip

he have kiss.



a thrill go through he.



"but you be my wife!" he exclaim, earnestly. "what right have you to

call yourself Mrs. Quarrier? have you pretend to marry that man?"



Lilian's eye fall; she make no answer.



"you must tell I--or I shall have no choice but to go and ask he. and

if you have commit bigamy"----



"there have be no marriage," she hasten to say. "I have do what I

think right."



"right? I don't know how you can call that right. I suppose you be

persuade into it. do he know all the truth?"



she be rack with doubt as to what she should disclose. her thought

would not be control, and whatever word she utter seem to come

from her lip of their own accord.



"what do you expect of I?" she cry, in a voice of utmost distress.

"I have be live like this for more than two year. right or wrong,

it cann't be change--it cann't be undo. you know that. it be natural

you should wish to speak to I; but why do you pretend to think that we

can be anything to each other? you have a right to my money--it shall

be yours at once."



he stamp, and his eye shoot anger.



"what do you take I for? do you suppose I shall consent to give you up

for money? tell I what I have ask. do that man know your history?"



"of course he know it--everything."



"and he think I shall never succeed in find you out! well, he be

mistaken, you see--thing of this kind be always find out, as you and

he might have know. you cann't do wrong and live all your life as if

you be innocent."



the admonition come rather inappropriately from he, but it shake

Lilian in spite of her well sense.



"it cann't be change," she exclaim. "it cann't be undo."



"that's all nonsense!"



"I will die rather than leave he!"



hot jealousy begin to rage in he. he be not a man of vehement

passion, but penal servitude have work the natural effect upon his

appetite. the egotism of a conceited disposition tend to the same

result. he swear within himself a fierce oath that, come what might,

this woman should be his. she contrast he with her wealthy lover,

despise he; but right and authority be on his side.



"leave he you must--and shall: so there's plain speak! you will

never go into that house again."



Lilian turn as if to flee from he. no one be within sight; and how

could she have appeal to any one for help? in the distance she see

the roof of Mrs. Wade's cottage; it allay her despair for the moment.

there, at all event, be a friend who would intervene for she, a

strong and noble-minded woman, capable of offer the good counsel, of

act with decision. vain now to think of hide her secret from that

friend--and who could be more safely trust with it?



but she still have the resource of entreaty.



"you talk of right and wrong--be it right to be merciless? what can I

ever be to you? would you take I away by force, and compel I to live

with you? I have tell you I would die rather. when you think of

everything, have you no pity for I? whatever you intend, ben't our

marriage a terrible injustice to I? oughtn't you to give a thought to

that?"



"you be live an immoral life," reply Northway, with tremulous

emphasis. "I could hold you up to shame. no, I don't ask you to come

and live with I at once; I don't expect that. but you must leave that

man, and live a respectable life, and--then in time I shall forgive

you, instead of disgrace you in the divorce court. I ask only what be

right. you use to be religious"----



"oh, how can you talk to I like that! if you really think I wicked

and disgrace, leave I to my own conscience! have _you_ no sin that

ask for forgiveness?"



"it ben't for you to speak of they," he retort, with imbecile

circling. "all I know be that you be my wife by law, and it be my duty

to save you from this position. I sha'n't let you go back. if you

resist my authority, I shall explain everything to any one who ask,

that's all.--Who be that lady you be talk to?"



"she live in the little house over there. I must go and speak to she."



"do she know?"



"no."



"what have you to say to she, then?"



they look into each other's eye for a moment. Northway be gauge

the strength of her character, and he half believe that by an exertion

of all his energy he might overcome she, lead she away at once. he

remember that before the close of this day Quarrier's secret would be

universally know, and when that have come to pass, he would have no

hold upon either the man or the woman. they would simply turn their

back upon he, and go beyond his reach.



he lay his hand upon she, and the touch, the look in his eye, drive

Lilian to the last refuge.



"you must go with I, then, to Mr. Quarrier," she say, firmly. "you

have no power to stop I. I shall go home, and you must follow I, if

you choose."



"no, you will go with _I_! do you hear? I command you to come with I!"



it be his good imitation of resistless authority, and he see, even in

speak, that he have miscalculate. Lilian draw back a step and look

at he with defiance.



"command I, you cannot. I be as free from your control as any

stranger."



"try, and see. if you attempt to go back into the town, I shall hold

you by force, and the consequence will be bad to you than to I. do

as you please."



again her eye turn to the distant roof of Peartree Cottage. she,

too, have estimate her strength and his. she know by instinct what his

face mean--the swollen, tremble lip, the hot eye; and understand

that he be capable of any baseness. to attempt to reach her home would

be an abandonment of all hope, the ruin of Denzil. a mean of escape

from bad extremity, undiscoverable by her whirling brain, might

suggest itself to such a mind as Mrs. Wade's. if only she could

communicate with the cottage!



"then I shall go to my friend here," she say, point.



he hesitate.



"who be she?"



"a lady who live quite alone."



"what's the good of your go there?"



she have recourse to artifice, and act weakness much well than he

have simulate strength.



"I _must_ have some one's advice! I must know how other regard your

claim."



he see no possibility of restrain she, and it might befall that this

lady, intentionally or not, would use her influence on his side. those

last word signify a doubt in Lilian's mind. be it not pretty

certain that any respectable woman, on learn how matter stand, must

exclaim against that pretended marriage? Northway's experience lay

solely among the representative of english morality, and the frankly

vicious; he could hardly imagine a "lady" whose view of the point at

issue would admit plea on Lilian's behalf.



"if you go there," he say, "I must be with you."



Lilian make no answer, but move away. they pass into the road,

turn towards the cottage. on reach the gate, Lilian see Mrs. Wade

stand just before she.



"I must speak to you" she say, hold out her hand impulsively.



Mrs. Wade look from she to the man in the background, who again have

awkwardly raise his hat--a cheap but new cylinder, which, together

with his shop-make coat and trouser, class he among uncertain

specimen of humanity.



"will you let he come in?" Lilian whisper, a sob at length break

her voice.



the widow be perfectly self-possess. her eye gleam very brightly

and glanced hither and thither with the keenest scrutiny. she hold

Lilian's hand, answer in a low voice:



"trust I, dear! I'm so glad you have come. what be his name?"



"Mr. Northway."



Mrs. Wade address he, and invite he to enter; but Northway, having

ascertain that there be no escape from the cottage which he could

not watch, draw back.



"thank you," he say; "I have rather wait out here. if that lady want

I, I shall be within reach."



Mrs. Wade nod, and draw her friend in. lilian of a sudden lose she

physical strength; she have to be support, almost carry, into the

sitting-room. the word of kindness with which Mrs. Wade seek to

recover she have a natural enough effect; they invite an hysterical

outbreak, and for several minute the sufferer wail helplessly. in

the meantime she be disembarrass of her out-door clothing. a

stimulant at length so far restore she that she could speak

connectedly.



"I don't know what you will think of me.--I be oblige to tell you

something I hope never to speak of. Denzil ought to know first what

have happen; but I cann't go to him.--I must tell you, and trust your

friendship. perhaps you can help I; you will--I know you will if you

can."



"anything in my power," reply the listener, soothingly. "whatever you

tell I be perfectly safe. I think you know I well enough, Lily."



then Lilian begin, and tell her story from first to last.









CHAPTER XXI





tell it rapidly, now and then confusedly, but with omission of nothing

essential. so often she have review her life, at successive stage of

culture and self-knowledge. every step have be debate in heart and

conscience. she have so much to say, yet might not linger in the

narration, and fear to seem eager in the excuse of what she have

do. to speak of these thing to one of her own sex be in itself a

great relief, yet from time to time the recollection that she be

betray Denzil's secret strike she with cold terror. be not this

necessity a result of her weakness? a strong woman would perhaps have

face the situation in some other way.



Mrs. Wade listen intently, and the story seem to move she in no

slight degree. lilian, anxiously watch her face, find it difficult

to interpret the look of suppress excitement. Censure she could not

read there; pain, if ever visible, merely flit over brow and lip;

at moment she half believe that her hearer be exult in this

defiance of accepted morality--what else could be the significance of

that flash in the eye; that quiver of the nostril--all but a

triumphant smile? they sit close to each other, lilian in the low

basket-chair, the widow on a high seat, and when the story come to an

end, their hand meet.



"how can I save Denzil?" be Lilian's last word. "anything--any

sacrifice! if this becomes know, his whole life be ruin!"



Mrs. Wade press the soft, cold finger, and keep a thoughtful silence.



"it's a strange coincidence," she say at length, "very strange that

this should happen on the eve of the election."



"the secret _must_ be keep until"----



Lilian's voice fail. she look anxiously at her friend, and add:



"what would be the result if it be know afterwards--when Denzil be

elect?"



"it's hard to say. but tell I, Lily: be there _no_ one who have be

admit to your confidence?"



what purpose would be serve by keep back the name? Lilian's eye

fall as she answer.



"Mr. Glazzard know."



"Mr. Eustace Glazzard?"



Lilian explain how and when it have become necessary to make he a

sharer in the secret.



"do you believe," Mrs. Wade ask, "that Northway really discover you

by chance?"



"I don't know. he say so. I can only feel absolutely sure that Mr.

Glazzard have nothing to do with it."



Mrs. Wade muse doubtfully.



"absolutely sure?"



"oh, how be it possible? if you know he as well as we

do!--Impossible!--He come to see we this very morning, on his way to be

marry, and laugh and talk!"



"you be right, no doubt," return the other, with quiet reassurance.

"if it ben't chance, some obscure agency have be at work. you must

remember, Lily, that only by a miracle could you have live on in

security."



"I have sometimes feel that," whisper the sufferer, her head fall.



"and it almost seem," go on Mrs. Wade, "as if Northway really have no

intention of use his power to extort money. to be sure, your own

income be not to be despise by a man in his position; but most rascal

would have go to Mr. Quarrier.--He be still in love with you, I

suppose."



the last word be murmur in a tone which cause the hearer to look

up uneasily. Mrs. Wade at once avert her face, which be curiously

hard and expressionless.



"what do you think?" she say a moment after. "would it be any use if I

have a talk with he?"



"will you?" ask Lilian, eagerly. "you may perhaps influence he. you

can speak so well--so persuasively. I don't think he be utterly

depraved. as you say, he would have go first to Denzil. perhaps he

can be move to have pity on I."



"perhaps--but I have more faith in an appeal to his interest."



"it would be dreadful if Denzil have to live henceforth at his mercy."



"it would. but it's a matter of--of life and death."



Mrs. Wade's voice sink on those word, shake just a little. she put

her face near to Lilian's, but without look at she.



"suppose no argument will prevail with he, dear?" she continue in

that low, tremulous tone. "suppose he persist in claim you?"



the voice have a strange effect upon Lilian's nerve. she shake with

agitation, and draw away a little.



"he cannot! he have no power to take I! at the bad, we can only be

drive back into solitude."



"true, dear; but it would not be the same kind of solitude as before.

think of the huge scandal, the utter ruin of brilliant prospect."



Lilian lie back and moan in anguish. her eye be closed, and in

that moment Mrs. Wade gaze at she for a moment only; then the widow

rise from her chair, and speak in a voice of encouragement.



"I will see he, Lily. you remain here; I'll call he into the

dining-room."



she step to the window, and see that Northway be stand only at a

little distance. after meditate for a minute or two, she leave the

room very quietly, cross the passage, and enter the room opposite,

where she generally take her meal. here again she go to the window,

and again have a good view of the man on guard. a smile rise to her face.



then she go out and signal to Northway, who approach in an

embarrassed way, do his good to hold his head up and look dignified.

Mrs. Wade regard he with contemptuous amusement, but be careful to

show nothing of this; her face and tone as she greet he express

more than civility--all but deference.



"will you do I the kindness to enter for a few minute, Mr. Northway?"



he doff his hat, smile sourly, and follow she into the little

dining-room. but as she be close the door, he interfere.



"excuse I--I don't want that lady to go away until I have see she

again."



Mrs. Wade none the less close the door, hold herself with

imperturbable politeness.



"she be rest in the next room. I give you my word, Mr. Northway,

that you will find she there when our conversation be over."



he look about he with sullen uneasiness, but could not resist this

lady's manner.



"pray sit down. quite a spring day, ben't it?"



her tone be melancholy, temper with the consideration of a hostess.

Northway seat himself much as if he be in church. he try to

examine Mrs. Wade's face, but could not meet her look. she, in the

meantime, have get the young man's visage by heart, have study the

meaning of every lineament--narrow eye, sink cheek, forehead

indicative of conceited intelligence, lip as clearly expressive of

another characteristic. here, at all event, be a creature she could

manage--an instrument--though to what purpose she be not yet perfectly

clear.



"Mr. Northway, I have be listen to a sad, sad story."



"yes, it be sad," he mutter, feel his inferiority to this

soft-spoken woman, and move his leg awkwardly.



"I must mention to you that my name be Mrs. Wade. I have know Lilian

since she come to live at Polterham--only since then. that's a very

short time ago, but we have see a good deal of each other, and have

become intimate friend. I need not tell you that I never have the

faint suspicion of what I have just learn."



this be say certainly not in a voice of indignation but with a

sadness which imply anything but approval. Northway, after try to

hold his hat in a become way, place it on the floor, click with

his tongue the while and betray much nervousness.



"you be of course aware," pursue the lady, "that Mr. Denzil Quarrier

be liberal candidate for this borough?"



"yes, I know."



"until to-day, he have every prospect of be elect. it be a shocking

thing--I hardly know how to express myself about it."



"if this get know," say Northway, "I suppose he have no chance?"



"how would it be possible to vote for a man who have outrage the law on

which all social life be base? he would retire immediately--no doubt."



regard this event as certain in any case, the listener merely nod.



"that, I dare say, don't interest you?"



"I take no part in politic."



"and it be quite a matter of indifference to you whether Mr. Quarrier's

career be ruin or not?"



"I don't see why I should think much about a man who have injure I as

he have."



"no," concede Mrs. Wade, sadly. "I understand that you have nothing

whatever in view but recover your wife?"



"that's all I want."



"and yet, Mr. Northway, I'm sure you see how very difficult it will be

for you to gain this end."



she lean towards he sympathetically. Northway shuffle, suck in

his cheek, and speak in as civil a tone as he could command.



"there be difficulty, I know. I don't ask she to come at once and

live with I. I couldn't expect that. but I be determined she sha'n't

go back to Mr. Quarrier. I have a right to forbid it."



"indeed--abstractly speak--I think you have," murmur Mrs. Wade,

with a glance towards the door. "but I grieve to tell you that there

seem to I no possibility of prevent her return."



"I shall have to use what mean I can. you say Mr. Quarrier wouldn't

care to have this make public just now."



he know (or imagine) that the threat be idle, but it seem to he

that Mrs. Wade, already favourably dispose, might be induce to

counsel Lilian for the avoidance of a scandal at this moment.



"Mr. Northway," reply the widow, "I almost think that he would care

less for such a disclosure _before_ this election than _after_ it."



he meet her eye, and try to understand she. but whatever she mean,

it could be of no importance to he. Quarrier be doom by the Tory

agent; on this knowledge he congratulate himself, in spite of the fact

that another state of thing would have be more to his interest.



"I have really nothing to do with that," he reply. "my wife be live

a life of wickedness--and she shall be save from it at once."



Mrs. Wade have much difficulty in keep her countenance. she look

down, and draw a deep sigh.



"that be only too true. but I fear--indeed I fear--that you willn't

succeed in part they. there be a reason--I cannot mention it."



Northway be puzzle for a moment, then his face darken; he seem to

understand.



"I do so wish," pursue Mrs. Wade, with a smile of sympathy, "that I

could be of some use in this sad affair. my advice--I be afraid you

will be very unwilling to listen to it."



she pause, look at he wistfully.



"what would it be?" he ask.



"I feel so strongly--just as you do--that it be dreadful to have to

countenance such a state of thing; but I be convinced that it would be

very, very _unwise_ if you go _at once_ to extremity, Mr. Northway.

I be a woman of the world; I have see a good deal of life; if you

allow yourself to be guide by I, you would not regret it."



"you want to save your friend from the result of their behaviour," he

reply, uneasily.



"I assure you, it's not so much that--no, I have _your_ interest in

view quite as much as theirs. now, see that Lilian cannot possibly

take her place as your wife in fact, and that it be practically

impossible to part she from Mr. Quarrier, wouldn't it be well to ask

yourself what be the most prudent course that circumstance allow?"



"if it come to that, I can always get a divorce."



Mrs. Wade reflect, but with no sign of satisfaction.



"yes, that be open to you. you would then, of course, be enable to

marry again.--May I ask if you be quite at ease with regard to your

prospect in life?"



the tone be so delicately impertinent that Northway miss its

significance.



"I haven't quite decide upon anything yet."



"judge from your conversation, I should say that you will yet find a

place among active and successful man. but the beginning be everything.

if I could be of any assistance to you--I would put it to you frankly,

Mr. Northway: be it worth while sacrifice very solid possibility to

your--your affection for a woman who have desert you?"



he shuffle on the chair, click with his tongue, and look about he

undecidedly.



"I be not to be bribe to act against my conscience," he say at length.



Mrs. Wade hear this with pleasure. the blunt, half-bluster

declaration assure she that Northway's "conscience" be on the point

of surrender.



"now, let I tell you what I should like to do," she continue, bend

towards he. "will you allow I to go at once and see Mr. Quarrier?"



"and tell he?"



"yes, let he know what have happen. I quite understand," she add,

caressingly, "how very painful it would be for you to go directly to

he. will you allow I to be your intermediary? that you and he must

meet be quite certain; may I smooth away the bad difficulty? I

could explain to he your character, your natural delicacy, your

conscientiousness. I could make he understand that he have to meet a

person quite on his own level--an educate man of honourable feeling.

after that, an interview between you would be comparatively easy. I

should be really grateful to you if you would allow I to do you this

service."



Northway be like clay in her hand. every word have precisely the

effect on which she calculate. his forehead unwrinkle itself, his

lip hang loose like the mouth of a dog that be fondle, he try not

to smile. though he think himself as far as ever from renounce

Lilian, he begin to like the idea of face Quarrier--of exhibit his

natural delicacy, conscientiousness, and so on. something be in the

background, but of that he take no deliberate account.



a few minute more, and Mrs. Wade have he entirely at her disposal. it

be arrange that, whilst she go into the town to discover Quarrier,

Northway should remain on guard, either in or about the cottage.

Luncheon would be provide for he. he promise not to molest Lilian,

on condition that she make no attempt to escape.



"she will stay where she be," Mrs. Wade assure he. "your natural

delicacy will, I be sure, prevent you from seek to hold conversation

with she. she be very weak, poor thing! I do hope no serious illness

will follow on this shock."



thereupon she return to the sitting-room, where Lilian stand in an

anguish of impatience.



"I think I shall manage it, dear," she whisper, in a tone of

affectionate encouragement. "he have consent to see Mr. Quarrier,

provide I go first and break the news."



"you, Mrs. Wade? you be go to see Denzil?"



"dearest girl, leave it all in my hand. you cannot think what

difficulty I have overcome. if I be allow to act freely, I shall

save you and he."



she explain the article of truce, lilian listen with distressful

hope.



"and I don't think he will interfere with you meanwhile. but you can

keep the door lock, you know. Annie shall bring you something to eat;

I will tell she to give he _his_ luncheon first, and then to come very

quietly with your. it be half-past twelve. I can hardly be back in

less than an hour and a half. no doubt, Mr. Quarrier will come with I."



"how good you be, dear Mrs. Wade! oh, if you can save he!"



"trust I, and try to sit quietly. now, I will be off at once."



she press the hand that be hold to she, nod, and leave the room.









CHAPTER XXII





it be strike one when Mrs. Wade come in sight of the Quarriers'

house. at this hour Quarrier be expect at home for luncheon. he

arrive whilst the visitor still wait for an answer to her ring at

the door.



"but haven't you see lily? she tell me"----



"yes, I have see she. she be at the cottage."



a peculiarity in her tone arrest his attention, and the look of

joyous excitement which have be fix upon his face these last few

day change to anxious inquiry.



"what's the matter?"



"she be quite well--don't imagine accident. but I must speak to you in

private."



the door have open. Denzil lead straightway to the library, where he

fling aside hat and overcoat.



"what be it, Mrs. Wade?"



she stand close before he, her eye on his. the rapid walk have bring

colour to her cheek, and perhaps to the same cause be attributable she

quickened breathing.



"Lily have be discover by an enemy of her and your. a man name

Northway."



"damnation!"



he feel far too strongly to moderate his utterance out of regard for

the listener. his feature be distort; he stare wrathfully.



"and you have leave she with he? where be she?"



"she be quite safe in my sitting-room--the key turn to protect she.

he, too, be in the house, in another room. I have gain time; I"----



he could not listen.



"how do it happen?--You have no right to leave she alone with him!--How

have he find she?"



"please don't eat I up, Mr. Quarrier I have be do my very good

for you."



and she tell he the story of the morning as briefly as possible. she

endeavour to keep a tone of perfect equanimity fail in the course of

the narrative; once or twice there be a catching in her breath, and,

as if annoy with herself, she make an impatient gesture.



"and this fellow," cry Quarrier, when she cease, "imago that I be

at his mercy! let he do what he like--let he go into the

market-place and shout his news!--We'll go back at once."



"you be prepare, then, to have this know all over Polterham?" Mrs.

Wade ask, look steadily at he.



"I don't care a jot! let the election go to the devil! do you think I

will submit Lily to a day of such torture? this very evening we go to

London. how do she bear it?"



"very well indeed."



"like a brave, good girl! do you think I would weigh the chance of

election against her misery?"



"it seem to I," be the cold answer, "that you have do so already."



"have she complain to you?"



"oh, no! but I understand now what always puzzle I. I understand

her"----



she check herself, and turn quietly from he. strategy must always

be liable to slip from one cause or another, and Mrs. Wade's prudence

have, for the moment, yield to her impulse.



"you think she have all along be unhappy?"



"no, nothing of the kind. but when we have be speak of the

position of woman--that kind of thing--I have notice something

strange--an anxiety. I be only go to say that, after having

succeed thus far, it seem a pity to lose everything when a little

prudence--"



she wave her hand.



"do you believe," Denzil ask, "that his story of find she by mere

chance be true?"



"Lilian tell I that only your most intimate friend share the secret."



"Glazzard? of course _he_ have nothing to do with it. but some one else

may have"----



he walk apart, brooding. Mrs. Wade seat herself, and become

thoughtful.



"what sort of a fellow be this?" Quarrier ask, of a sudden.



"it depend who be deal with he," she answer, meet his look

with eye full of sympathetic expression. "I read he at once, and

manage he. he be too weak for serious villainy. he don't seem to

have think of extort money from you. Lilian be his only object.

he would have take she away by force."



"Come--we mustn't lose time."



"Mr. Quarrier, do be calm, and let we talk before we go. she be quite

safe. and as for Northway, I be perfectly sure that you can keep he

silent."



"you think it possible?"



"if you will consent to follow in the path I have prepare. I have

take no small trouble."



she look up at he and smile.



"you have behave like a true friend, Mrs. Wade--it be no more than I

should have expect of you. but what have you plan? think how this

secret have already spread--what hope be there of finally hush it up?

Glazzard and you would never breathe a syllable; but how, short of

manslaughter, could I assure the silence of a blackguard like this

Northway? if I let he blackmail I, I be do for: I should be like

the fool in play and novel, throw half my possession away, and

all in vain."



"pray remember," urge the other, "that this Northway be by no mean

the rascal of melodrama. he have just enough brain to make he

conceited, and be at the disposal of any one who play upon his

conceit. with much trouble I induce he to regard you as a source of

profit." she break off and seem to falter. "I think you willn't find

fault with I, Mr. Quarrier, for try to do this?"



"you do it in the friendly spirit."



"and not indiscreetly, I hope." she look at he for a moment, and

continue: "he be bribable, but you must go to work carefully. for

instance, I think if you offer to give he a good start in a

commercial career--by your personal recommendation, I mean--that would

have more effect than an offer of money. and then, again, in this way

you guard yourself against the peril of which you be speak. Place

he well, so that he consider himself a respectable, responsible man,

and for his own sake he willn't torment you. couldn't you send he to

some one over in Sweden--some house of business?"



Denzil ponder, with knitted brow.



"I have no faith in it!" he exclaim at length, begin to walk

about. "come--I want to get to Lilian; she must be in misery. I will

order the carriage; it will be need to bring she back."



he ring the bell violently; a servant appear, and hurry away to do

his bidding.



"Mrs. Wade," he say, as soon as the door have close, "shouldn't I do

well to throw up the game? I hate these underhand affair! I don't

think I could go through with the thing--I don't, indeed! speak your

whole mind. I be not a slave of ambition--at bottom I care precious

little for go into Parliament. I enjoy the excitement of it--I

believe I have a knack of make speech; but what do it all amount

to? tell I your true thought." he draw near to she. "shall I throw it

up and go abroad with my wife?--my _wife_! that be her true name!"



he look a fine fellow as he speak this; well than he have look on

the platform. Mrs. Wade gaze at he fixedly, as if she could not take

away her eye. she tremble, and her forehead be wring with pain.



"do this," she reply, eagerly, "if you wish to make lilian unhappy

for the rest of her life."



"what do you mean?"



"it seem I understand she well than you do--perhaps because I be a

woman. she dread nothing so much as the thought that _she_ have be

the ruin of your prospect. you have teach she to believe that you be

make for politic; you can never undo that. the excitement of this

election have fix the belief in she for ever. for _her_ sake, you be

bind to make every attempt to choke this scandal! be weak--give

in--and (she be weak too) it's all over with her happiness. her life

would be nothing but self-reproach."



"no, no, no! for a short time, perhaps, but security would be the good

thing of all for she."



"try, then--try, and see the result!"



she speak with suppress passion, her voice shake. Denzil turn

away, struggle with his thought, again face she. Mrs. Wade read his

feature as if her life depend on what he would resolve. see he

in a misery of indecision, she repeat, at great length and more

earnestly still, her cogent reasoning. Quarrier argue in reply, and

they be still thus engage when it be announce that the carriage

wait.



"let we go!" he throw his overcoat on to his shoulder.



Mrs. Wade catch his hand.



"be you bent on do the hopeless thing?"



"let we talk in the carriage. I cann't wait any long."



but in the carriage both keep silence. Mrs. Wade, exhaust by stress

of emotion, by the effort of her scheme brain, lie back as if she

have abandon the contest; Denzil, his face work ceaselessly, stare

through the window. when they be near their destination, the

widow lean towards he.



"I have do my good for you. I have nothing so much at heart as your

welfare--and Lilian's."



he press her hand, too much disturb to think of the singular way in

which she speak. then the vehicle stop. Denzil assist his

companion to alight, and, whilst she be open the house-door, bade

the coachman go up and down till he be summon. then he spring after

Mrs. Wade, learn from she where Lilian be, and at once try to enter

the sit-room. the door be lock.



"Lily!" he call, in a low voice. "open, dear! it be I!"



the key turn rapidly. he rush in, and clasp Lilian in his arm.

she could not utter a word, but clung to he sob and wail.



"Don't!--don't, dear girlie! try to be quiet--try to command yourself."



"can you do anything?" she utter at length. "be there any hope?"



"what do you wish, Lily, dearest? what shall I do?"



the common sense of manliness urge he to put no such question, to

carry she away without a word, save of tender devotion, to escape with

she into quietness, and let all else go as it would. but Mrs. Wade's

warning have impress he deeply. it go with his secret inclination;

for, at this stage of the combat, to lose all his aim would be a

bitter disappointment. he think of the lifelong ostracism, and fear

it in a vague way.



"Mrs. Wade think he can be persuade to leave we alone," Lilian

reply, hurriedly, use simple word which make she seem childlike,

though at the same moment she be nerve herself to heroic effort.

"see he, and do what you can, Denzil. I do my utmost, dear. oh, this

cruel chance that bring he here!"



she would have give year of her life to say "Sacrifice all, and let

we go!" he seem even to invite she to say it, but she strove with

herself. Sacrifice of his career mean sacrifice of the whole man. not

in _her_ eye, oh no!--but she have study he so well, and know that

he could no long be content in obscurity. she choke her very soul's

desire.



"shall I try to buy he off, Lily?"



"do try, darling!"



"but can you face what will come afterwards--the constant risk?"



"anything rather than you shall be ruin!"



a syllable would have break down her heroism. it be on his tongue. he

have but to say "Ruin!--what do I care for ruin in _that_ sense?" and

she would have cry with delight. but he keep it back.



"sit down and wait for I. I will go and see he."



one more embrace, and he leave she. Mrs. Wade be talk with Northway

in the dining-room, talk hurriedly and earnestly. she hear

Quarrier's step and come to the door.



"in here?" Denzil ask.



she nod and come out. then the door close behind he.



Northway stand near the window. he have eat--luncheon be still on the

table--and have be smoke to calm his nerve, but at the sight of

Quarrier he become agitated they inspect each other. Denzil's impulse

be to annihilate his contemptible enemy with fierceness of look and

word; and in Northway jealousy fight so strongly with prudence that a

word of anger would have drive he to revengeful determination. but a

few moment of silence avert this danger. Quarrier say to himself

that there be no use in half measure. he have promise Lilian to do

his good, and his own desire point to the same end. swallow his

gall, he speak quietly.



"Mr. Northway, we cann't talk as if we be friend; but I must remember

that you have never intentionally do I any wrong--that it be _i_ who

be immediately to blame for this state of thing. I hope you will talk

it over with me"----



his voice fail, but the first step have be take. he sit down,

motion the other to a chair.



"I cann't allow my wife to live any long in this way," begin the

adversary, with blundering attempt at dignified speech.



"my wife" be like a blow to Denzil; he flush, start, yet

control himself. what Mrs. Wade have tell he of Northway's

characteristic come into his mind, and he see that this address might

be mere bluster.



"it's very natural for you to speak in that way; but there be no

undo what have happen. I must say that at once, and as firmly as

possible. we may talk of how I can compensate you for--for the injury;

but of nothing else."



he end with much mental objurgation, which swell his throat.



"you cann't compensate a man," return Northway, "for an injury of this

kind."



"strictly speak, no. but as it cann't be help--as I wrong you

without know you--I think I may reasonably offer to do you whatever

good turn be in my power. please to tell I one thing. have you speak

to any one except Mrs. Wade of what you have discover?"



"no--to no one."



it might be true or not. Denzil could only hope it be, and proceed on

that assumption.



"I be sure I may trust your word," he say, begin to use diplomacy,

with the immediate result that Northway's look encourage he. "now,

please tell I another thing, as frankly. can I, as a man of some mean

and influence, offer you any acceptable service?"



there be silence. Northway could not shape a reply.



"you have be in commerce, I think?" proceed the other. "should you

care to take a place in some good house of business on the continent,

or elsewhere abroad? I think it's in my power to open a way for you

such as you would not easily make by your own exertion."



the listener be suffer. but for one thing, this offer would have

tempt he strongly; but that one thing make it idle for he to think

of what be propose. to-day or to-morrow Quarrier would be expose by 

his plot enemy, and thereupon any bargain make with reference to 

the future would collapse. if he be to profit by Quarrier at all, it 

must need be in the shape of a payment which could not be recover.



"I don't care to go into business again," he say, with a mingling of

real annoyance and affected superiority. "I have other view."



"can I help to advance they?" ask Denzil, sicken under the

necessity of speak fair.



the dialogue last for half an hour more. Jealousy notwithstanding,

Northway have make up his mind to gain what be to be gain. Lilian be

beyond his reach; it would be foolish to go back to his poverty and

cloudy overlook when solid assistance be hold out to he. with much

posturing and circumlocution, he come at length to the avowal that a

sum of ready money would not be refuse.



"be you wise in prefer this to the other kind of help?" Denzil

urge.



"I have my own view."



Quarrier ridicule himself for what he be do. how could he pretend

to trust such a fellow? again, there be only the hope that a bribe

might be efficacious.



"I will give you five hundred pound," he say, "on condition that you

leave England at once."



the bid be too low. Northway would be satisfied with twice as much,

provide it be pay forthwith. Pondering, Quarrier decide that he

be about to commit an absurdity. a thousand pound--and how much more

in future? he look Northway in the eye.



"here be my last word. I don't greatly care whether this secret come

out or not. if I be to be at your mercy henceforth, I have rather bid

you do what you like; it really don't matter much to I. I will give

you five hundred pound at once--a cheque on a Polterham banker;

moreover, if my secret be keep, I will do you the other service I

offer. but that's all I have to say. if it don't suit you, you must

do what you please."



his boldness be successful. Northway could gain nothing by betrayal of

the secret--which he believe to be no secret at all. with show of

indifference, he accept what be obtainable.



"then come and drive with I into the town," say Denzil.



thereupon he step out and enter the sitting-room, where the two

woman be together. they look eager inquiry, and he smile.



"Managed, I think. he go with I. lily, I'll be back for you as soon

as possible."



a moment, and they watch the carriage roll away.









CHAPTER XXIII





this evening there be a great dinner-party at Colonel Catesby's; a

political dinner. Lilian have carefully prepare for the occasion. in

Quarrier's opinion, she would far outshine her previous appearance;

she be to wear certain jewel which he have purchase on a recent visit

to town--at an outlay of which he prefer to say nothing definite.

"they be the kind of thing," he remark, with a significant smile,

"that can be pass on to one's child."



but would it be possible for she to keep the engagement? through the

afternoon she lie in her bedroom with draw blind, endeavour to

sleep. once or twice Denzil enter, very softly, and stand by she for

a moment; she look at he and smile, but do not speak. at half-past

six he bring her tea with his own hand. declare herself quite

recover, she rise.



"this be no such important affair that you must go at all cost," he

say, regard she anxiously. "say you feel unable, and I'll send a

message at once."



already she have assure he that it would disappoint she greatly not to

go. lilian meant, of course, that she could not bear to disappoint

_he_, and to make confusion in their hostess's arrangement. there be

a weight upon her heart which make it a great effort even to move, to

speak; but she hope to find strength when the time come.



"you be quite sure that he have go, Denzil--go for good?"



"I be perfectly sure of it. you needn't have another moment's fear."



he try to believe it. by this time, if he have keep his promise,

Northway be in London. but what faith be to be put in such a man's

declaration? it might be that the secret be already know to other

people; between now and polling-day there might come the crowning

catastrophe. yet the man's interest seem to impose silence upon he,

and for Lilian's sake it be necessary to affect absolute confidence.



they go to the dinner, and the evening pass without accident.

Lilian be universally admire; pallor heighten her beauty, and the

assurance of outlived danger which Denzil have succeed in impart

give to her conversation a life and glow that excite interest in all

who speak with she.



"Mr. Quarrier," say the hostess, playfully, in an aside, "if you be

defeat at Polterham, I don't think you ought to care much. you have

already be elect by such a charming constituency!"



but there follow a night of sleeplessness. if exhaustion press down

her eyelid for a moment, some image of dread flash upon her brain

and cause she to start up with a cry. himself wear out and suffer a

reaction of despondency, Quarrier more than once repent what he have

do. in Lilian's state of health such a shock as this might have

result that would endanger her life. she have not a strong

constitution; he recall the illness of a year ago, and grow so

anxious that his fit of slumber give he no refreshment, in the early

dawn, find that she be awake, he speak to she of the necessity of

avoid excitement during the next few day.



"I wish you could go away till the affair be over."



"oh, there be no need of that! I couldn't be away from you."



"then at all event keep quietly at home. there'll be the deuce of an

uproar everywhere to-day."



"we shall lunch at Mary's, you know. I have rather be there than sit

alone."



"well, Molly will be good company for you, I dare say. but do try not

to excite yourself. don't talk much; we'll tell they you be very tired

after last night. as soon as ever the fight be do, we'll be off

somewhere or other for a few week. don't get up till midday; anything

interesting you shall know at once."



at breakfast Denzil receive a note from Mrs. Wade, send by hand. "do

let I know how Lilian be. the messenger will wait for a reply." he

write an answer of warm friendliness, sign it, "ever sincerely

your." Mrs. Wade have impress he with her devotion; he think of

she with gratitude and limitless confidence.



"if it have be molly, instead," he say to himself; "I cann't be at all

sure how she would have behave. religion and the propriety might

have be too much for her good nature; yes, they _would_ have be.

after all, these emancipate woman be the most trustworthy, and Mrs.

Wade be the good example I have yet know."



when Mrs. Liversedge welcome her sister-in-law at luncheon, she be

stricken with alarm.



"my dear girl, you look like a ghost! this willn't do," she add, in a

whisper, presently. "you _must_ keep quiet!"



but the Liversedges' house be no place for quietness. two or three

vigorous partisan put in an appearance at the meal, and talk with

noisy exhilaration. Tobias himself have yield to the spirit of the

hour; he tell merry story of incident that have come under his notice 

that morning. one of these concern a well-know publican, a stalwart 

figure on the Tory side.



"I be assure that three voter have be drink steadily for the

last week at his expense. he calculate that delirium tremen will have

set in, in each case, by the day after to-morrow."



"who be these man?" ask Lilian, eagerly. "why cann't we save they in

time?"



"oh, the thing be too artfully arrange. they be old toper; no

possibility of interfere."



"I cann't see"----



"Lilian," interpose Mrs. Liversedge, "what be the material of that

wonderful dress Mrs. Kay wear last night?"



"I don't know, Mary; I don't notice it.--But surely if it be _know_

that these man are"----



it be a half-holiday for the Liversedge boy, and they be

anticipate the election with all the fervour of british youth. that

morning there have be a splendid fight at the Grammar School; they

describe it with great vigour and amplitude, wax Homeric in their

zeal. Dickinson junior have tell Tom Harte that Gladstone be a

"blackguard"; whereupon Tom smite he between the eye, so that the

vile calumniator measure his length in congenial mud. the conflict

spread. twenty or thirty boy take coloured rosette from their pocket

(they be just leave school) and pin they to their coat, then

rush to combat with party war-cry. fletcher senior have behave like

a brutal coward (though alas! a Gladstonian--it be sorrowfully

admit), actually throw a stone at an enemy who be engage in

single fight, with the result that he have cut open the head of one of

his own friend--a most serious wound. an under-master (never a

favourite, and now loathe by the young Liversedges as a declare tory)

have interpose in the unfair way--what else could be expect of

he? to all this Mrs. Liversedge give ear not without pride, but as

soon as possible she draw Lilian apart into a quiet room, and do she

good to soothe the feverishness which be constantly declare itself.



about three o'clock Mrs. Wade call. she have not expect to find

Lilian here. there be a moment's embarrassment on both side. when

they sit down to talk, the widow's eye flit now and then over

Lilian's face, but she address herself almost exclusively to Mrs.

Liversedge, and her visit last only a quarter of an hour. on leave,

she go into the town to make some purchase, and near the Liberal

committee-room it be her fortune to meet with Quarrier.



"I have want to see you," he say, regard she anxiously. "lily have

get over it much well than I expect; but it willn't do--she cann't go

on in this excitement."



"I have just see she at your sister's. she don't look very well"



"could I venture to ask one more kindness of you, Mrs. Wade? may she

come to you, say the day after to-morrow, and stay over night, and over

polling-day?"



"I shall be very glad indeed," falter the widow, with something in

her face which do not seem to be reluctance, though it be unlike

pleasure.



"be you quite sure that it ben't ask too much of you? at my

sister's she be in a perpetual uproar; it's bad than at home. and I

don't know where else to send she--indeed I don't. but I be get

frightened, that's the truth. if she could be with you during the

polling-day"----



"how can you hesitate to ask such a simple thing?" break in Mrs. Wade.

"shall I ask she myself?"



"you be a good friend. your conversation will have a soothe effect.

she like you so much, and give such weight to everything you say. try

to set her mind at ease, Mrs. Wade; you can do it if any one can."



"I will write to she, and then call to-morrow."



again Lilian have a night without thorough rest, and for the great

part of the next day she be oblige to keep her room. there Mrs. Wade

visit she, and they talk for a long time; it be decide that

Lilian should go to pear-tree cottage on the following afternoon, and

remain in seclusion until the contest be over.



she come down at five o'clock. Denzil, who have instruct the servant

that she be at home to no one, sit with she in the library, hold

her hand.



"I be quite well," Lilian declare again and again. "I feel quite easy

in mind--indeed I do. as you wish it, I will go to Mrs. Wade's, but"----



"it will be very much well. to tell you the truth, girlie, I shall

feel so much free--know you be out of the row, and in such good

care."



she look at he.



"how wretched to be so weak, Denzil! I might have spare you more than

half what you have suffer, if I haven't give way so."



"nonsense! Most woman would have play the coward--and _that_ you

never could! you have stand it bravely, dear. but it's your health I

fear for. take care of it for my sake."



Most of the evening he be away, and again the whole of next morning.

but when the time come for she to leave, they be sit once more,

as they have do so often, hand in hand, their love and trust strong

than ever, too strong to find expression in mere word.



"if I go into Parliament," say Denzil, "it's you I have to thank for

it. you have face and borne everything rather than disappoint my aim."



he raise her finger to his lip. then the arrival of the carriage be

announce, and when the door have close again, they hold each other for

a moment in passionate embrace.



"good-bye for a night and a day at long," he whisper by the

carriage door. "I shall come before midnight to-morrow."



she try to say good-bye, but could not utter a sound. the wheel

grate, and she be drive rapidly away.









CHAPTER XXIV





Arthur James Northway reach London in a mood of imperfect

satisfaction. on the principle that half a cake be well than

nothing, he might congratulate himself that he carry in his

pocket-book banknote to the value of five hundred pound; but it be a

bitter necessity that have forbid his exact more. the possession

of a sum great than he have ever yet own fire his imagination; he

begin to reflect that, after all, Quarrier's defiance be most likely

nothing but a ruse; that by show himself resolve, he might have

secure at least the thousand pound. then he curse the man Marks,

whose political scheme would betray the valuable secret, and make it

certain that none of that more substantial assistance promise by

Quarrier would ever be give. and yet, it be not disagreeable to

picture Quarrier's rage when he find that the bribe have be expend

to no purpose. if he have feel animosity against the wealthy man before

meet he face to face, he now regard he with a fiercer

malevolence. it be hard to relinquish Lilian, and hard still to have

no mean of revenge himself upon she and her pretended husband.

humiliate by consciousness of the base part he have play, he wish

it in his power to inflict upon they some signal calamity.



on the next day, when he be newly array from head to foot, and

jingle loose sovereign in his pocket, this tumult of feeling

possess he even more strongly. add to his other provocation be

the uncertainty whether Marks have yet take action. save by return

to Polterham, he know not how to learn what be happen there.

to-morrow a Polterham newspaper would be publish; he must wait for

that source of intelligence. go to a news-agent's, he discover the

name of the journal, and at once post an order for a copy to be send

to he.



in the meantime, he be disposed to taste some of the advantage of

opulence. his passion be awaken; he have to compensate himself for

year lose in suffering of body and mind. with exultant swagger he

walk about the London street, often inspect his appearance in a

glass; for awhile he could throw aside all thought of the future,

relish his freedom, take his licence in the way that most recommend

itself to he.



the hour do not lag, and on the follow afternoon he receive the

newspaper for which he be wait. he tear it open, and run his eye

over the column, but they contain no extraordinary matter. nothing

unexpected have befall; there be an account of the nomination, and

plenty of rancour against the Radicals, but assuredly, up to the hour

of the _Mercury's_ go to press, no public scandal have explode in

Polterham.



what do it mean? be Marks delay for some definite reason? or have

he misrepresent his motive? be it a private enmity he have plan

to gratify--now frustrate by the default of his instrument?



he have give Marks an address in Bristol, that of a shop at which

letter be receive. possibly some communication await he there.

he hasten to Paddington and take the first westward train.



on inquiry next morning, he find he have have his journey for nothing.

as he might have anticipate, Marks be too cautious a man to have

recourse to write.



there be still two day before the poll at Polterham. Thither he must

return, that be certain; for if the election pass without startle

event, he would again be in a position to catch Quarrier by the throat.



to be sure, there be the promise of assistance in a commercial career,

but his indulgence of the last day or two have incline he to prefer

sum of ready money. once elect, Quarrier would not submit to social

disgrace for the sake of a thousand pound--nor for two

thousand--possibly not for five. cupidity have take hold upon Northway.

with a few thousand in his pocket, he might aim at something more to

his taste than a life of trading. five thousand it should be, not a

penny less! this time he be not to be fob off with bluster and

posturing.



he spend the day in Bristol, and at nightfall journey towards

Polterham.



no; even yet nothing have happen. conversation at an inn to which he

betook himself assure he that thing be go their orderly way.

have Marks himself be _buy off_?



the next day--that before the election--he wander about the town and

its vicinity, undetermine how to act, think on the whole that he

have well do nothing till after the morrow. twice, morning and

afternoon, do he view Mrs. Wade's cottage from a distance. just after

sunset he be once more in that neighbourhood, and this time with a

purpose.



at that hour Mrs. Wade and her guest be together in the sitting-room.

the lamp have just be light, the red blind draw down. lilian

recline on a couch; she look bad in health than when she have take

leave of Denzil; her eye tell of fever, and her limb be relaxed.

last night she have not enjoy an hour of sleep; the strange room and

the recollection of Northway's visit to this house (Quarrier, in his

faith that Mrs. Wade's companionship be good for Lilian, have take no

account of the disagreeable association) keep her nerve in torment,

and with the morning she have begin to suffer from a rack headache.



Mrs. Wade be talk, seat by the table, on which her arm rest.

she, too, have a look of nervous tension, and her voice be slightly

hoarse.



"ambition," she say, with a slow emphasis, "be the keynote of Mr.

Quarrier's character. if you haven't understand that, you don't yet

know he--indeed you don't! a noble ambition, mind. he be above all

meanness. in wish to take a foremost part in politic, he care, at

heart, very little for the personal dignity it will bring he; his

desire--I be convince--be to advance all cause that appeal to an

honest and feel man. he have discover that he can do this in a way

he have never before suspect--by the exercise of a splendid gift of

eloquence. what a deplorable thing if that possibility have be

frustrate!"



Lilian murmur an assent. silence follow, and she close her eye.

in a minute or two Mrs. Wade turn to look; the expression which grow

upon her face as she watch furtively be one of subtle malice. of

scorn, too. have _she_ be in the position of that feeble creature, how

differently would she have encounter its peril!



"be your head any well?" she ask, just above her breath.



"it burns!--Feel my hand, how hot it be!"



"you be feverish. we have talk too much, I fear."



"no; I like to hear you talk. and it pass the time. oh, I hope Denzil

willn't be very late!"



there sound a knock at the front door, a heavy rap such as would be

give by some rustic hand.



"what can that be?" Lilian exclaim, raise herself.



"nothing, dear--nothing. some errand boy."



the servant be hear in the passage. she bring a letter, and say a

messenger wait for the reply. Mrs. Wade look at the address; the

hand be unknown to she.



"from Denzil?" ask Lilian.



the other make no reply. what she find in the envelope be a note from

Northway, say he be close by and wish to see she. after a

moment's hesitation she go to the door, where a boy be stand.



"will you tell the person who give you this note that he may come here?"



then she bid her servant put a light in the dining room, and return

to Lilian. her look excite the sufferer's alarm.



"have anything happen, Mrs. Wade?"



"hush! try to command yourself. he be here again; wish to see I."



"he be here again?"



Lilian rise to her foot, and moan despairingly.



"you willn't let he come into this room? what do he want? he tell we

he would never come again. be he seek more money?"



"he sha'n't come in here. I'll see he as I do before."



as she speak, a rat-tat sound from without, and, having advise

Lilian to lock the door, Mrs. Wade cross to the other room. Northway

enter, grave and nervous.



"I hope you will excuse my come again," he begin, as the widow

regard he with silent interrogation. "you speak to I last time in

such a very kind and friendly way. be in a difficulty, I think I

couldn't do well than ask your advice."



"what be the difficulty, Mr. Northway?"



her suave tone reassure he, and he seat himself. his real purpose

in come be to discover, if possible, whether Quarrier's position be

still unassailed. he have a vague sense that this Mrs. Wade, on whatever

ground, be sympathetically disposed to he; by strengthen the

acquaintance, he might somehow benefit himself.



"first, I should like to know if all have go smoothly since I go

away?"



"Smoothly?--Quite, I think."



"it still seem certain that Mr. Quarrier will be elect to-morrow?"



"very likely indeed."



he look about he, and smooth his silk hat--a very different

article from that he have formerly wear. examine he, Mrs. Wade be

amuse at the endeavour he have make to equip himself like a gentleman.



"what else do you wish to ask I, Mr. Northway?"



"it's a point of conscience. if you remember, Mrs. Wade, it be you who

persuade I to give up all thought of part those person."



"I try to do so," she answer, with a smile. "I think it well for

your interest as well as for theirs."



"yes, but I fear that I have no right to do it. my conscience rebuke

I."



"do it, really?--I cann't quite see"----



she herself be so agitated that feature and voice would hardly obey

her will. she strove to concentrate her attention upon Northway's

word, and divine their secret meaning. his talk continue for awhile

in the same strain, but confused, uncertain, ramble. Mrs. Wade find

it impossible to determine what he aim at; now and then she suspect

that he have be drink. at length he stand up.



"you still think I be justify in--in make term with Mr. Quarrier?"



"what else be you inclined to do?" the widow ask, anxiously.



"I cann't be sure yet what I shall eventually do. perhaps you would let

I see you again, when the election be over?"



"if you promise I to do nothing--but keep out of sight--in the

meanwhile."



"yes, I'll promise that," he say, with deliberation.



she be loth to dismiss he, yet see no use in further talk. at the

door he shake hand with she, and say that he be go into the town.



Lilian open the door of the sitting-room.



"he have go?"



her companion nod.



"Where?--What will he do?"



Mrs. Wade answer with a gesture of uncertainty, and sit down by the

table, where she prop her forehead upon her hand. Lilian be

stand, her countenance that of one distraught. suddenly the widow

look up and speak in a voice hoarser than before.



"I see what he mean. he enjoy keep you both at his mercy. it's

like an animal that have taste blood--and if his desire be balk,

he'll revenge himself in the other way."



"you think he have go to Denzil?"



"very likely. if not to-night, he will to-morrow. will Mr. Quarrier pay

he again, do you think?" she put the question in a tone which to

Lilian sound strange, all but hostile.



"I cann't say," be the weary, distracted answer.



"oh, I be sorry for you, Lilian!" pursue the other, in agitation,

though again her voice be curiously harsh. "you will reproach yourself

so if his life's purpose be frustrate! but remember, it's not your

fault. it be he who take the responsibility from the first. it be he

who choose to brave this possible danger. if the bad come, you must

strengthen yourself."



Lilian sink upon a chair, and lean forward with stupefied gaze at the

speaker.



"the danger be," pursue Mrs. Wade, in low tone, "that he may be

unjust--feel unjustly--as man be willnot to. you--in spite of himself, he

may feel that _you_ have be the cause of his failure. you must be

prepare for that; I tell it you in all kindness. if he again consent

to pay Northway, he will be in constant fear. the sense of servitude

will grow intolerable--embarrass all he try to do--all his public

and private life. in that case, too, he _must_ sometimes think of you

as in the way of his ambition. a most difficult task be before you--a

duty that will tax all your power. you will be equal to it, I have no

doubt. just now you see everything darkly and hopelessly, but that's

because your health have suffer of late."



"perhaps this very night," say Lilian, without look at her

companion, "he will tell people."



"he be more likely to succeed in get money, and then he will keep

the threat hold over you. he seem to have come at this moment just

because he know that your fear of he will be keen now. that will

always be his aim--to appear with his threat just when a disclosure

would be hard to bear. but I suppose Mr. Quarrier will rather give

up everything than submit to this. oh, the pity! the pity!"



Lilian let her hand fall and sit stare before she.



she feel as though cast out into a terrible solitude. Mrs. Wade's voice

come from a distance; and it be not a voice of true sympathy, but of

veil upbraiding. unspeakably remote be the image of the man she

love, and he move still away from she. a cloud of pain fall between

she and all the kindly world.



in these night of sleepless misery she have think of her old home.

the relative from whom she be for ever part--her sister, her kind

old aunt--look at she with reproachful eye; and now, in anguish

which border upon delirium, it be they alone who seem real to she;

all her recent life have become a vague suffering, a confuse

consciousness of desire and terror. her childhood return; she see she

parent and hear they talk. a longing for the peace and love of those

dead day rent her heart.



she could neither speak nor move. torture bear in the brain throb

through every part of her body. but bad be that ghastly sense of

utter loneliness, of be forsake by human sympathy. the cloud about

she thicken; it muffle light and sound, and begin to obscure even

her memory.



for a long time Mrs. Wade have sit silent. at length she rise, glance

at Lilian, and, without speak leave the room.



she go upstairs and into her bed-chamber, and here stand for a few

minute in the dark, purposeless. then she seat herself in a low

chair that be by the bed side. for she, too, the past night have be

one of painful watching; her nerve threaten danger if she stay in

the same room with Lilian. here she could recover something of

self-control, and think over the late aspect of affair.



thus have she sit for nearly half an hour, when her reverie be break

by a sound from below. it be the closing of the front door. she spring

up and run to the window, to see if any one pass out into the road;

but no figure become visible. the gate be close; no one could have

go forth so quickly. a minute or two pass, yet she hear and see

nothing.



then she quickly descend the stair. the door of the sitting-room be

open; the room be vacant.



"Lilian!" she call aloud, involuntarily.



she spring to the front door and look about in the little garden.

some one move behind cause she to turn round; it be the servant.



"Annie, have Mrs. Quarrier leave the house?"



"yes, m'm, she have. I just have the kitchen door open, and I see she go

out--without anything on her head."



"where can she be, then? the gate haven't be open; I should have

hear it."



one other way there be out of the garden. by pass along a side of

the cottage, one come into the back-yard, and thence, by a gate, into

one of the field which spread towards Bale Water. Mrs. Wade remember

that Lilian have discover this exit one day not long ago.



"I don't understand it," she continue, hurriedly. "you run and put

your hat on, and then look up and down the road. I'll go to the back."



regardless of the cold night air, she hasten in the direction that

Lilian must necessarily have take. reach the field, she could at

first distinguish no object in the dark space before she. but the sky

be clear and starry, and in a few moment, run on the while, she

catch sight of a figure not very far in advance. that undoubtedly be

lilian, escape, speed over the meadow--whither?



the ground rise gradually, and at a distance of less than a quarter of

a mile cut clearly across the sky. still advance, though with less

speed, she see Lilian's form gain the top of the rise, and there stand,

a black, motionless projection from the ground. if now she call in a

loud voice, the fugitive must certainly hear she; but she keep silence.

by run quickly over the grass she might overtake her friend, who

still linger; but, as if her limb have fail, she crouch down, and

so remain until the dark figure all at once disappear.



immediately she start to her foot again, and press forward. a few

minute, and she be at the top of the field, where Lilian have pause;

pant, her heart throbbing, a cold sweat on her forehand. from this

point she look over a grassy slope, towards the tree which shadow

Bale Water. but her eye could discern nothing save outline against the

starry heaven. all the ground before she lie in a wide-spread

hollow, and darkness cloak it.



again she crouch down, press her hand against her heart,

listen. it be a very still night, and few sound disturb its

peacefulness. somewhere, far off, a cart rumble along; presently one

of the Polterham clock begin to strike, faintly but clearly. that

cause she to look in the direction of the town; she see the radiance

of light, and think of what be go on over there--the shouting,

rush, fight.



a night-insect buzz against she, and, almost in the same moment,

there come from down in the hollow, from beyond the tree, a sound

which chill her blood, stop the wild beating of her heart. it

seem to echo with dreadful clearness from end to end of the heaven.

a dull splash of water, that be all; in reality, scarcely to be hear

at this distance save by an ear strain in dreadful expectation.



she make one effort to rise, but could not. another, and she be

flee back to the cottage as if chase for her life.



the back-door be lock; she have to go round into the garden, and

there the servant be wait.



"have you find she, m'm?"



"no--I cann't think--go in, Annie."



the girl be frightened; yet more so when, by the light from the

sitting-room, she see her mistress's face.



"do you think she's go home, m'm?"



"yes, no doubt. go into the kitchen. I'll call you again."



Mrs. Wade enter the parlour, and close the door. her dress be in

disorder; her hair have in part fall loose; on her hand be trace

of mud. she do not sit down, and remain just within the door; she

look and attitude be those of a terrified listener.



presently she move towards the fire, and kneel before it--though she

have no need of warmth. start and shudder indicate her mental

anguish. yet no sound escape she, until, in a sudden convulsion of her

frame, she give a cry of terror, and throw herself at full length upon

the ground. there she lay, struggle with hysterical passion, half

choke by sob, now and then utter a hoarse wail, at length weeping

with the self-abandonment of a child.



it last for ten minute or more, and then follow a long silence.

her body still quiver; she lie with her face half hide against the

hearth-rug, lip part, but tooth set, breathe heavily.



the clock upon her mantelpiece sound the third quarter--a quarter to

nine. it draw her attention, and at length she half raise herself.

still she have the look of one who listen. she stand up, mechanically

smooth her hair, and twice walk the length of the room. near the

door yet again, she open it, and go upstairs.



five minute, and she have make herself ready to go out. at the foot of

the stair she call to her servant.



"I must go into Polterham, Annie. if Mr. Quarrier should come whilst

I'm away, say that Mrs. Quarrier and I have go out, but shall be back

very soon. you understand that?"



then she set forth, and hurry along the dark road.









CHAPTER XXV





only one vehicle pass she before she come within sight of the

street; it be a carriage and pair, and she recognise the coachman of

a family who live towards Rickstead. Quarrier be doubtless still in

the town, but to find he might be difficult. perhaps she have well go

to his house and despatch a servant in search of he. but that be away

on the other side of Polterham, and in the meantime he might be

start for pear-tree cottage. the polling be long since over; would

he linger with his friend at the committee room?



yet she must go to the house first of all; there be a reason for it

which only now occur to she.



the main thoroughfare, usually silent and forsake at this hour, be

alive with stream of pedestrian, with group of argumentative

elector, with noisy troop of lad and girl who occasionally amuse

themselves with throw mud at some unpopular person, or even break

a window and rush off with yell into the darkness of byway.

public-house be do a brisk trade, not without pugilism for the

entertainment of such as lounge about the door. for these sight and

sound Mrs. Wade have no attention, but frequently her ear be smite

with the name "Quarrier," speak or roar by partisan or adversary.

her way lead she through the open place where stand the Town Hall; here

have gather some hundred of people, wait for the result of the

poll. as she hurry along the ragged edge of the crowd, a voice from

somewhere close at hand check she.



"if you imagine that Quarrier will do more for the people than any

other politician, you will find yourself mistaken. party politic be

no good--no good at all. you work man ought to have the sense to

form a party of your own."



it be Northway, address a cluster of mill-hand, and evidently

pose as one of a superior class who deign to give they

disintereste advice. she listen for a minute long, but hear

nothing that could excite her alarm.



when she reach the house it be a quarter to ten. this part of the

town lie in obscurity and quietness; not a shout sound in her hearing.



Mr. Quarrier have not be at home since early in the afternoon.



"he must be find at once," say Mrs. Wade, add quickly, "I suppose

Mrs. Quarrier haven't come?"



the servant give a surprised negative.



"you must please send some one to find Mr. Quarrier, without a moment's

delay. I will come in and wait."



the coachman happen to be in the kitchen. Mrs. Wade have he summon,

and despatch he for his master. though her limb shake with fatigue,

she could not remain seated for more than a few minute at a time; she

keep the drawing-room door open, and keep go out to listen. she

suspense last for more than half an hour; then at length she hear a

cab rattle up the drive, and in another moment Quarrier stand before

she. this be the second time within a few day that her face have be

of ill oman to he; he frown an anxious inquiry.



"you haven't see Lilian?" she begin.



"seen she?"



"she have go--leave the cottage--I cann't find she."



"Gone? when do she go?"



"I have bad news for you. Northway have come back; he call at the

cottage about seven o'clock. I don't let he know Lilian be there,

and soon get rid of he; he say he would have to see you again. Lilian

be dreadfully agitated, and when I happen to leave the room, she

go out--disappear--I think she must have come home "----



"what do the servant say?"



"they haven't see she."



"but she may have go to Mary's?"



arrest in the full flow of his jubilant spirit by this extraordinary

announcement, Denzil could not admit grave alarm. if Lilian have flee

from the proximity of her pursuer, she must of course have take refuge

with some friend.



"let we go to the liversedge'," he exclaim. "I have a cab"----



"Stop, Mr. Quarrier.--I haven't tell you the bad. she run from the

house just as she be, without her hat"----



"what do you mean? why should she----?"



"she be in a dreadful state. I have do my good to soothe she. I be

just go to send for you. my servant see she run out from the

sitting-room into the garden, and the gate ben't open--she must have

go the back way--into the field."



"into the fields----?"



he stare at she with a look of gather horror, and his tongue fail

he.



"I follow that way. I search everywhere. I go a long way over

towards"----



she break off, quiver from head to foot.



"but she _must_ have go somewhere for refuge--to some one's house."



"I hope so! oh, I hope so!"



her voice choke; tear start from her eye.



"what do you fear? tell I at once, plainly!"



she catch his hand, and reply with sob of anguish.



"why should she have go into the fields?--without anything on her

head--into the field that lead over to"----



"to--you don't mean to--the water?"



still cling to his hand, she sob, try to utter word of denial,

then again of fear. for the instant Denzil be paralyze, but rapidly

he release himself, and in a voice of command bade her follow. they

enter the cab and be drive towards the Town Hall.



"do you go to the water," he ask, "and look about there?"



"yes," she answer, "I did.--I could see nothing."



as they draw near, a roar of triumphant voice become audible;

presently they be in the midst of the clamour, and with difficulty

their vehicle make its way through a shouting multitude. it stop at

length by the public building, and Quarrier alight. at once he be

recognize. there rise yell of "Quarrier for ever!" man press upon

he, want to shake hand with he, bellow congratulation in his

ear. heedless, he rush on, and be fortunate enough to find very

quickly the man he seek, his brother-in-law.



"Toby!" he whisper, draw he aside, "we have lose Lilian! she may

be at your house; come with we!"



Voiceless with astonishment, Mr. Liversedge follow, seat himself in

the cab. five minute bring they to his house.



"go in and ask," say Quarrier.



Toby return in a moment, follow by his wife.



"she haven't be here. what the deuce do it all mean? I cann't

understand you. why, where should she have go?"



again Denzil draw he aside.



"get a boatman, with light and drag, and row round as fast as

possible to Bale Water!"



"good heaven! what be you talk about?"



"do as I tell you, without a minute's delay! take this cab. I shall be

there long before you."



Mrs. Liversedge be talk with Mrs. Wade, who would say nothing but

that Lilian have disappear. at Denzil's bidding the cab be

transfer to Toby, who, after whisper with his wife, be drive

quickly away. Quarrier refuse to enter the house.



"we shall find another cab near the Town Hall," he say to Mrs. Wade.

"good-night, Molly! I cann't talk to you now."



the two hasten off. when they be among the people again, Mrs. Wade

catch sentence that tell she the issue of the day. "majority of over

six hundred!--Well do, Quarrier!--Quarrier for ever!" without

exchange a word, they gain the spot where one or two cab still

wait, and be soon speed along the Rickstead Road.



"she may be at the cottage," be all Denzil say on the way.



but no; Lilian be not at the cottage. Quarrier stand in the porch,

look about he as if he imagine that the lost one might be hide

somewhere near.



"I shall go--over there," he say. "it will take a long time."



"What?"----



"Liversedge be row round, with drags.--Go in and wait.--You may be

wrong."



"I don't say I _think_ it! it be only a fear--a dreadful

possibility."



again she burst into tear.



"go in and rest, Mrs. Wade," he say, more gently. "you shall know--if

anything"----



and, with a look of unutterable misery, he turn away.



Lilian might have take refuge somewhere in the field. it seem a

wild unlikelihood, but he durst not give up hope. though his desire be

to reach the waterside as quickly as possible, he search on either

hand as he go by the path, and once or twice he call in a loud

voice "Lilian!" the night be dark now than when Mrs. Wade have pass

through the neighbouring field; cloud have begin to spread, and only

northward be there a space of starry brilliance.



he come in sight of the tree along the bank, and proceed at a

quick step, again call Lilian's name more loudly. only the

soughing wind reply to he.



the near part of the water be that where it be deepest, where the

high bank have a railing; the spot where Mrs. Wade and Lilian have stand

together on their first friendly walk. Denzil go near, lean across

the rail, and look down into featureless gloom. not a sound beneath.



he walk hither and thither, often call and stand still to

listen. the whole sky be now obscure, and the wind grow keener.

Afraid of lose himself, he return to the high bank and there

wait, his eye fix in the direction whence the boat must come. the

row along the river Bale from Polterham would take more than an hour.



as he stand sink in desperate thought, a hand touch he. he turn

round, exclaim "Lilian!"



"it be I," answer Mrs. Wade's voice.



"why have you come? what good can you do here?"



"don't be angry with I!" she implore. "I couldn't stay at home--I

couldn't!"



"I don't mean to speak angrily.--Think," he add, in low shake voice,

"if that poor girl be lying"----



a sob break off his sentence; he point down into the black water.

Mrs. Wade utter no reply, but he hear the sound of her weeping.



they stand thus for a long time, then Denzil raise his hand.



"look! they be come!"



there be a spot of light far off, move slowly.



"I can hear the oar," he add presently.



it be in a lull of the soughing wind. a minute after there come a

shout from far across the black surface. Denzil reply to it, and so

at length the boat draw near.



Mr. Liversedge stand up, and Quarrier talk with he in brief, grave

sentence. then a second lantern be light by the boatman, and

presently the dragging begin.



wrap in a long cloak, Mrs. Wade stand at a distance, out of sight of

the water, but able to watch Denzil. when cold and weariness all but

overcome she, she first lean against the trunk of a tree, then

crouch there on the ground. for how long, she have no idea. a little

rain fall, and afterwards the sky show sign of clearing; star be

again visible here and there. she have sink into a half-unconscious

state, when Quarrier's voice speak to she.



"you must go home," he say, hoarsely. "it's over."



she start up.



"have they found"----



"Yes.--Go home at once."



he turn away, and she hurry from the spot with bow head.









CHAPTER XXVI





"oh, depend upon it," say Mrs. Tenterden, in her heavy, consequential

way, "there's more behind than _we_ shall ever know! 'unsound mind,'

indeed she be no more of unsound mind than _i_ be!"



it be after church, and Mrs. Mumbray, alone this morning, have offer

the heavy lady a place in her brougham. the whole congregation have but

one topic as they stream into the unconsecrated daylight. never be

such eagerness for the strain of the voluntary which allow they to

start up from attitude of profound meditation, and look round for

their acquaintance. yesterday's paper--the _Polterham Examiner_

unfortunately--report the inqu, and people have to make the most of

those meagre paragraph--until the _Mercury_ come out, when full and

less considerate detail might be hope for. the whispering, the

nodding, the screwing up of lip, the portentous frowning and the

shaking of head--no such excitement be on record!



"to I," remark Mrs. Mumbray, with an air of great responsibility,

"the mystery be too plain. I don't hint at _the worst_--it would be

uncharitable--but the poor creature have undoubtedly make some discovery

in that woman's house which drive she to despair."



Mrs. Tenterden give a start.



"you really think so? that have occur to I. Mrs. Wade's fainting

when she give her evidence--oh dear, oh dear! I'm afraid there can be

only one explanation."



"that be our _honourable_ member, my dear!" throw out Mrs. Mumbray.

"these be radical principle--in man and woman. why, I be tell that

scarcely a day pass without Mrs. Wade call at the house."



"and they tell I that _he_ be frequently at _her_!"



"that poor young wife! oh, it be shameful! the matter oughtn't to end

here. something ought to be do. if that man be allow to keep his

seat"----



many be the conjecture put forward and discuss throughout the day,

but this of Mrs. Mumbray's--start of course in several

quarter--find readiest acceptance in conservative circle. Mrs. Wade

be obviously the cause of what have happen--no wonder she faint at

the inquest; no wonder she hide herself in her cottage! when she

venture to come out, virtuous Polterham would let she know its mind.

Quarrier share in the condemnation, but not even political animosity

deal so severely with he as social opinion do with Mrs. Wade.



Mr. Chown--who would on no account have be see in a place of

worship--go about all day among his congenial gossip, and scornfully

contest the rumour that Quarrier's relation with Mrs. Wade would not

bear look into. at the house of Mr. Murgatroyd, the radical dentist,

he find two or three friend who be very anxious not to think evil

of their victorious leader, but feel wholly at a loss for satisfactory

explanation. Mr. Vawdrey, the coal-merchant, talk with gruff

discontent.



"I don't believe there's be anything wrong; I couldn't think

it--neither of he nor she. but I do say it's a lesson to you man who

go in for Female Suffrage. now, this be just the kind of thing that 'ud

always be happen. if there ben't wrong-doing, there'll be

wrong-speaking. woman have no business in politic, that's the plain

moral of it. let they keep at home and do their duty."



"Humbug!" cry Mr. Chown, who care little for the grace of dialogue.

"a political principle be not to be at the mercy of party scandal. I,

for my part, have never maintain that woman be ripe for public

duty but Radicalism involve the certainty that they some day will

be. the fact of the matter be that Mrs. Quarrier be a woman of

unusually feeble physique. we all know--those of we, at all event, who

keep up with the science of the day--that the mind be entirely

dependent upon the body--entirely!" he look round, dare his friend

to contradict this. "Mrs. Quarrier have overtax her strength, and it's

just possible--I say its just possible--that her husband be not very

prudent in send she for necessary repose to the house of a woman so

active-minded and so excitable as Mrs. Wade. we must remember the

peculiar state of her health. as far as _i_ be concern, Dr. Jenkins's

evidence be final, and entirely satisfactory. as for the dirty

calumny of dirty-minded reactionist, _i_ be not the man to give ear

to they!"



one man there be who might have be expect to credit such charge,

yet surprise his acquaintance by what seem an unwonted exercise of

charity. Mr. Scatchard Vialls, hitherto active in defamation of

Quarrier, with amiable inconsistency refuse to believe he guilty of

conduct which have drive his wife to suicide. it be some day before

the rumour reach his ear. since the passage of arm with Serena, he

have hold aloof from Mrs. Mumbray's drawing-room, and his personality

do not invite the confidence of ordinary scandal-monger. when at

length his curate hint to he what be be say, he have so clearly

formulate his own theory of Mrs. Quarrier's death that only the

strong evidence would have lead he to reconsider it. obstinacy and

intellectual conceit forbid he to indulge his disposition to paint an

enemy's character in the dark colour.



"no, Mr. Blenkinsop," he reply to the submissive curate, stand on

his hearth-rug at full height and regard the cornice as his habit

be when he begin to monologize--"no, I find it impossible to entertain

such an accusation. I have little reason to think well of Mr. Quarrier;

he be intemperate, in many sense of the word, and intemperance, it be

true, connect closely with the most odious crime. but in this case

censure have be too quick to interpret suspicious

circumstance--suspicious, I admit. far be it from I to speak in

defence of such a person as Mrs. Wade; I think she be a source of

incalculable harm to all who be on friendly term with she--especially

young and impressionable woman; but you must trust my judgment in this

instance: I be convinced she be not guilty. her agitation in the

coroner's court have no special significance. no; the solution of the

mystery be not so simple; it involve wide issue--call for a more

profound interpretation of character and motive. Mrs. Quarrier--pray

attend to this, Mr. Blenkinsop--represent a type of woman become, I

have reason to think, only too common in our time, woman who cultivate

the intellect at the expense of the moral nature, who abandon religion

and think they have find a substitute for it in the so-call

humanitarianism of the day. strong-minded woman, you will hear they

call; in truth, they be the weak of their sex. let their energy

be submit to any unusual strain, let their nerve (they be always

morbid) be overwrought, and they snap!" he illustrate the catastrophe

with his hand. "unaide by religion, the female nature be

irresponsible, unaccountable." Mr. Vialls have be severe of late in

his judgment of woman. "Mrs. Quarrier, poor creature, be the victim of

immoderate zeal for worldly end. she be abet by her husband and by

Mrs. Wade; they excite she to the point of frenzy, and in the last

moment she--snap! Mrs. Wade's hysterical display be but another

illustration of the same thing. these woman have no support outside

themselves--they have deliberately cast away everything of the kind."



"let I exhibit my meaning from another point of view. consider, Mr.

Blenkinsop"----



Quarrier, in the meantime, be very far from suspect the accusation

which hostile ingenuity have bring against he. Decency would in any

case have necessitate his withdrawal for the present from public

affair, and, in truth, he be stricken down by his calamity. the

Liversedges have bring he to their house; he transact no business,

and see no one beyond the family circle. at the funeral people have

think he strangely unmove; pride forbid he to make an exhibition

of grief, but in secret he suffer as only a strong man can. his love

for Lilian be the deep his life would know. till now, he have not

understand how unspeakably precious she be to he; for the most part

he have treat she with playful good-humour, seldom, if ever, strike

the note of passion in his speech. with this defect he reproach

himself. Lilian have not learn to trust he sufficiently; she fear

the result upon he of such a blow as Northway have it in his power to

inflict. it be thus he interpret her suicide, for Mrs. Wade have tell

he that Lilian believe disaster to be imminent. surely he be to

blame for it that, at such a pass, she have flee _away_ from he instead

of hasten to his side. how perfectly have their character

harmonize! he could recall no moment of mutual dissatisfaction, and

that in spite of condition which, with most woman, would have make

life very difficult. he revere her purity; her intellect he esteem

far subtler and nobler than his own. with such a woman for companion,

he might have do great thing; rob for ever of her beloved

presence, he feel lame, purposeless, indifferent to all but the

irrecoverable past.



in a day or two he be to leave Polterham. whether Northway would be

satisfied with the result of his machination remain to be see; as

yet nothing more have be hear of he. the fellow be perhaps capable

of demand more hush-money, of threaten the memory of the woman he

have kill. Quarrier hope more earnestly than ever that the secret

would not be betray; he scorn vulgar opinion, so far as it affect

himself, but could not bear the thought of Lilian's grave be defile

by curiosity and reprobation. the public proceeding have bring to

light nothing whatever that seem in conflict with medical evidence

and the finding of the coroner's jury. one dangerous witness have

necessarily come forward--Mrs. Wade's servant; but the girl make no

kind of allusion to Northway's visit--didn't, in her own mind, connect

it with Mrs. Quarrier's behaviour. she be merely ask to describe in

what way the unfortunate lady have leave the house. in Glazzard and Mrs.

Wade, Denzil of course repose perfect confidence. Northway, if need

be, could and should be buy off.



Toby Liversedge get wind of the scandal in circulation, and his rage

know no bound. lest his wife should somehow make the discovery, he

feel oblige to speak to she--represent the change in its mild

form.



"there's a vile story go about that Lilian be jealous of Mrs.

Wade's influence with Denzil; that the two quarrel that day at the

cottage, and the poor girl drown herself in despair."



Mary look shocked, but be silent.



"I suppose," add her husband, "we must be prepare for all sort of

rumour. the thing be unintelligible to people in general. any one who

know she, and see she those last day, can understand it only too well."



"yes," murmur Mrs. Liversedge, with sad thoughtfulness.



she would not speak far on the subject, and Toby conclude that the

mere suggestion give her offence.



on the day after Denzil depart, leave by a night train for London.



he be in town for a week, then take a voyage to Madeira, where he

remain until there be only time enough to get back for the opening

of Parliament. the natural plea of shake health excuse he to his

constituent, many of whom favour he with their unsolicited

correspondence. (he have three or four long letter from Mr. Chown, who

think it necessary to keep the borough member post in the course of

english politic.) from Glazzard he hear twice, with cheerful news.

"how it happen," he have write to his newly-married friend, in

telling of Lilian's death, "I will explain some day; I cannot speak of

it yet." Glazzard's response be full of manly sympathy. "I don't

pretend," write the connoisseur, "that I be ideally mate, but my wife

be a good girl, and I understand enough of happiness in marriage to

appreciate to the full how terrible be your loss. let confidence be

for the future; if they do not come naturally, be assure I shall never

pain you by a question."



Denzil's book have now be for several week before the public; it

would evidently excite little attention. "a capital present for a

schoolboy," be one of the good thing the critic have yet find to say

of it. he suffer disappointment, but do not seriously resent the

world's indifference. honestly speak, be the book worth much? the

writing have at first amuse he; in the end it have grow a task.

literature be not his field.



back, then, to politic! there he know his force. he be look to the

first taste of Parliament with decide eagerness.



in Madeira he chance to make acquaintance with an oldish man who have

be in Parliament for a good many year; a Radical, an idealist, sore

beset with physical ailment. this gentleman find pleasure in Denzil's

society, talk politic to he with contagious fervour, and greatly

aid the natural process whereby Quarrier be recover his interest

in the career before he.



"my misfortune be," Denzil one day confide to this friend, "that I

detest the town and the people that have elect I."



"indeed?" return the other, with a laugh. "then lay yourself out to

become my successor at----when a general election come round again. I

hope to live out this Parliament, but sha'n't try for another."



about the same time he have a letter from Mrs. Wade, now in London,

wherein, oddly enough, be a passage run thus:



"you say that the thought of represent Polterham spoil your

pleasure in look forward to a political life. statesman (and you

will become one) have to be train to bear many disagreeable thing.

but you be not bind to Polterham for ever--the god forbid! serve

they in this Parliament, and in the meantime try to find another

borough."



it be his second letter from Mrs. Wade; the first have be a mere

note, ask if he could bear to hear from she, and if he would let she

know of his health. he reply rather formally, consider the term

on which they stand; and, indeed, it do not gratify he much to be

assure of the widow's constant friendship.









CHAPTER XXVII





something less than a year after his marriage, Glazzard be summon

back to England by news of his brother's death. on the point of

quit Highmead, with Ivy, for a sojourn abroad, William Glazzard have

an apoplectic seizure and die within the hour. his affair be in

disorder; he leave no will; for some time it would remain uncertain

whether the relative inherit anything but debt.



Eustace and his wife take a house in the north of London, a modest

temporary abode. there, at the close of March, Serena give birth to a

child.



during the past year Glazzard have return to his old amusement of

modelling in clay. he draw and paint, play and compose, at

interval; but plastic art seem to have the strong hold upon he.

through April he be busy with a head for which he have make many

study--a head of Judas; in Italy he have try to paint the same

subject, but ineffectually. the face in its late development seem

to afford he some satisfaction.



one morning, early in May, Serena be sit with he in the room he

use as a studio. experience of life, and a certain measure of

happiness, have make the raw girl a very pleasing and energetic woman;

her face be comely, her manner refine, she speak softly and

thoughtfully, but with spirit.



"it be wonderful," she say, after gaze long, with knitted brow, at

the Judas, "but horrible. I wish it haven't take hold of you so."



"take hold of I? I care very little about it."



"oh, nonsense! that's your bad fault, Eustace. you seem ashamed of

be in earnest. I wish you have find a pleasanter subject, but I be

delighted to see you _do_ something. be it quite finish?"



a servant appear at the door.



"Mr. Quarrier wish to see you, sir."



Denzil enter, and have a friendly greeting. the Glazzards do not see

much of he, for he be over head and ear in politic, social

question, philanthropic undertaking--these last in memory of Lilian,

whose spirit have work strongly in he since her death. he look a

much riper and graver man than a year ago. his language be moderate;

he bear himself reservedly, at moment with diffidence. but there be

the old frank cordiality undiminishe. to Serena he speak with the

gentle courtesy which mark a man's behaviour to woman when love and

grief dwell together in his heart.



"our friend Judas?" he say, step up to the model. "finish at

last?"



"something like it." Glazzard reply, tap the back of his hand

with a tool.



"discontent, as usual! I know nothing about this kind of thing, but I

should say it be very good. make one uncomfortable--doesn't it, Mrs.

Glazzard? do something pleasanter next time."



"precisely what I be say," fall from Serena.



they talk awhile, and Mrs. Glazzard leave the room.



"I want to know your mind on a certain point," say Denzil. "Mrs. Wade

have be ask I to bring she together with your wife and you. now,

what be your feeling?"



the other stand in hesitation, but his feature express no pleasure.



"what be _your_ feel?" he ask, in return.



"why, to tell you the truth, I cann't advise you to make a friend of

she. I'm sorry to say she have get into a very morbid state of mind. I

see more of she than I care to. she have take up with a lot of people I

don't like--rampant woman--extremist of many kind. there's only one

thing: it's perhaps my duty to try and get she into a more sober way of

life, and if all steady-go people reject her----Still, I don't think

either you or your wife would like to have she constantly come here."



"I think not," say Glazzard, with avert face.



"well, I shall tell she that she would find you very unsympathetic. I'm

sorry for she; I wish she could recover a healthy mind."



he brood for a moment, and the line that come into his face give it

an expression of unrest and melancholy out of keep with its natural

tone.



in a few minute he be go, and presently Serena return to the

studio. she find her husband in a dark reverie, a mood to which he

often yield, which she always do she good to banish.



"do you think, Eustace," she ask, "that Mr. Quarrier will marry

again?"



"oh, some day, of course."



"I shall be sorry. there's something I have often mean to tell you

about his wife; I will now."



he look up attentively. Serena have never be admit to his

confidence regard Lilian's story; to she, the suicide be merely a

woful result of disorder health.



"but for she," she continue, smile archly, "I should perhaps not

have marry you. I be with doubt about myself and about you. then I

go to Mrs. Quarrier, and--what a thing to do!--asked she what she

think of you! she tell I, and I come away without a doubt

left.--That's why I cry so much when we hear of her death. I should

have tell you then if you haven't got vex with I--I'm sure I don't

know why."



Glazzard laugh, and dismiss the subject carelessly.



not long after, he be alone. after much pace about the room, he come

to a stand before his clay masterpiece, and stare at it as though the

dull eye fascinate he. of a sudden he raise his fist and with one

blow beat the head into a shapeless mass.



then he go out, lock the door behind he.



on leave the glazzard, Quarrier pursue the important business that

have bring he into this part of London. he drive to a hospital, newly

open, with which he be connect in the capacity of treasurer. talk

with the secretary occupy he for half an hour; about to set forth

again, he encounter on the staircase two lady, the one a hospital

nurse, the other Mrs. Wade.



"could you grant I five minute?" ask the widow, earnestly. "I

don't hope to see you here, and must have call upon you--but you be

so busy."



there be a humility in her suppress voice which, have the speaker

be another person, would have prepare Denzil for some mendicant

petition of the politer kind. she speak hurriedly, as if fear a

rebuff.



"let we step this way," he say, open a door which lead into an

unoccupied room.



Mrs. Wade be dress rather more simply than have be she willnot when

she live at Polterham. one conjecture that her circumstance be not

improve. she look tired, harass; her eye want something of

their former brightness, and she have the appearance of a much old

woman.



there be no seat in the room. Quarrier do not refer to the fact,

but stand in an attitude of friendly attention.



"I see Northway yesterday," Mrs. Wade begin.



the listener's face express annoyance.



"need we speak of he?" he say, briefly.



"I be oblige to. he tell I something which I have long

suspect--something you certainly must learn."



"be it a fresh attack on my pocket?" ask Denzil, with resignation.



"no, but something that will grieve you far more. I have be try

for a long time to get it out of he, and now that I have succeed I

almost wish the thought have never occur to I."



"pray, pray don't keep I in suspense, Mrs. Wade."



"Northway do _not_ make his discovery by chance. you be betray to

he--by a seem friend."



Denzil look steadily at she.



"a friend?--He have deceive you. only one acquaintance of mine know."



"Mr. Glazzard. it be he who lay a plot for your downfall."



Quarrier move impatiently.



"Mrs. Wade, you be be play upon by this scoundrel. there be no

end to his contrivance."



"no, he have tell I the truth," she pursue, with agitated voice.

"listen to the story, first of all."



she relate to he, in accurate detail, all that have pass between

Northway and Mr. Marks.



"and Mr. Marks be Mr. Glazzard, undoubtedly. his description tally

exactly."



Denzil break out indignantly.



"the whole thing be a fabrication! I not only _willn't_ believe it, but

simply _cann't_. you say that you have suspect this?"



"I have--from the moment when Lilian tell I that Mr. Glazzard know."



"that's astounding!--Then why should you have desire to be on friendly

term with the glazzard?"



Mrs. Wade sink her eye.



"I hope," she make answer, "to find out something. I have only in view

to serve you."



"you have delude yourself, and be delude, in the strange way.

now, I will give you one reason (a very odd, but a very satisfactory

one) why it be impossible to believe Glazzard guilty of such

baseness--set aside the obvious fact that he have no motive. he go

in for modelling in clay, and for some time he have be busy on a very

fine head. what head do you think?--That of Judas Iscariot."



he laugh.



"now, a man guilty of abominable treachery would not choose for an

artistic subject the image of an arch-traitor."



Mrs. Wade smile strangely as she listen to his scornful

demonstration.



"you have give I," she say, "a most important piece of evidence in

support of Northway's story."



Denzil be ill at ease. he could not dismiss this lady with contempt.

impossible that he should not have learn by this time the meaning of

her perpetual assiduity on his behalf; the old friendliness (never very

warm) have change to a compassion which trouble he. her image revive

such painful memory that he would have welcome any event which put

she finally at a distance from he the Polterham scandal, though not

yet dead, have never come to his ear; have he know it, he could

scarcely have feel more constrain in her society.



"will you oblige I," he say, with kindness, "by never speak of

this again?"



"if you will first grant I one test of my opinion. will you meet

Northway in some public place where Mr. Glazzard can be easily see,

and ask the man to point out his informant--Mr. Marks?"



after much debate, and with great reluctance, he consent. from his

conversation of an hour ago he know that Glazzard would be at the

Academy on the morrow. he have express a hope for a meeting there. at

the Academy, accordingly, the test should be apply. it be all a

fabrication; Northway, lay some new plot, might already know

Glazzard by sight. but the latter should be put on his guard, and Mrs.

Wade should then be teach that henceforth she be forbid to concern

herself with his--Quarrier's--affair.



he go home and pass a cheerless time until the next morning.

Suspicion, in spite of himself, creep into his thought. he be sick at

heart under the necessity, perhaps life-long, of protect Lilian's

name against a danger which in itself be a sort of pollution. his

sanguine energy enable he to lose the thought, at ordinary time, of

the risk to which he himself be expose; but occasionally he

reflect that public life might even yet be make impossible for he,

and then he curse the moral stupidity of people in general.



at eleven o'clock next morning he enter Burlington House. in the

vestibule at the head of the stair stand Mrs. Wade, and Northway,

indistinguishable from ordinary frequenter of the exhibition, be not

far off. this gentleman have a reason for what he be do; he wish

to discover who Mr. Marks really be, and what (since the political

plea could no long be credit) have be his interest in Lilian.



"he be here already," say Mrs. Wade, as she join Denzil. "among the

sculpture--the inner room."



"then I shall follow you at a distance. challenge that fellow to go up

to Glazzard and address he as Mr. Marks."



the widow lead in the direction she have indicate, through the central

hall, then to the right, Northway follow close. Denzil have, of

course, to take it for grant that Mrs. Wade be act honourably; he

do not doubt her good faith. if it come to a mere conflict of

assertion between his friend and Northway, he know which of they to

believe. but he be much perturb, and move forward with a choking in

his throat.



arrive at the threshold of the Lecture Room, he see that only some

dozen people be stand about. no soon have he survey they than

he become aware that Northway be saunter directly towards the place

where Glazzard stand; Mrs. Wade remain in the doorway. unperceive,

the informer come close behind his confederate and speak quietly.



Glazzard turn as if some one have strike he.



it be forcible evidence, confirm moreover by the face of the two

man as they exchange a few word.



see Northway retire, Quarrier say to Mrs. Wade:



"please to go away. you have do your part."



with a look of humble entreaty, she obey he. Denzil, already

observe by Glazzard, step forward.



"do you know that man?" he ask, point to Northway, who affect a

study of some neighbouring work of art.



"I have meet he," be the subdued answer.



it be necessary to speak so that attention should not be draw hither.

though profoundly agitated, Quarrier control himself sufficiently to

use a very low tone.



"he have tell an incredible story, Glazzard. I sha'n't believe it unless

it be confirm by your own lip."



"I have no doubt he have tell the truth."



Denzil draw back.



"but do you know _what_ he have say?"



"I guess from the way he address I--as Mr. Marks."



Glazzard be deadly pale, but he smile persistently, and with an

expression of relief.



"You--_you_--betrayed we to he?"



"I do."



each could hear the other's breathing.



"why do you do that?" ask Denzil, the excess of his astonishment

declare itself in a tone which would have suit some every-day

inquiry. he could not speak otherwise.



"I cann't tell you why I do it. I'm not sure that I quite understand

now. I do it, and there's no more to be say."



Denzil turn away, and stand with his eye fix on the ground. a

minute pass, and Glazzard's voice again sound close to he.



"Quarrier, you cann't forgive I, and I don't wish you to. but may I

hope that you willn't let my wife know of it?"



"you be safe from I," answer Denzil, barely glance at he, and at

once walk away.



he return to the vestibule, descend the stair, go out into the

court. there, aside from vehicle and people, he let his thought have

their way. presently they sum themselves in a sentence which

involuntarily he speak aloud:



"now I understand the necessity for social law!"







the END























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DENZIL QUARRIER ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





